ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-18-PT13-2028-U1	Dear colleagues, I invite you to take up seats in the Chamber so that we can begin the second extraordinary sitting of the Saeima on 18 December 2019. The agenda shall consist of the transmission of draft laws to the commissions and the first reading. The Saeima's Bureau proposes that the draft law on "Amendments to the Ports Act" presented by the Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy Commission be referred to the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy, stating that it is the Commission responsible. Do Members object to a draft law being passed on to the Commission? Mrs. Liepaja, you'll talk... on the procedure. Please turn on the microphone for Linda Liepiņš.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-18-PT13-2028-U2	Given that we have received literally 15-20 minutes back from these two draft laws... There is also the Minister of Transport and the Commission responsible as rapporteurs. Perhaps one of the commissions could at least be asked to talk about the urgency required and about the draft law itself... either a minister or a commission representative. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-18-PT13-2028-U3	So, colleagues, we are now deciding on the referral. I see that the Member has applied to speak about it. ‘ For” applied to speak Member Krišjānis Feldmans.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-18-PT13-2028-U4	Dear President of the Saeima. Dear colleagues, There is therefore now a question of handing over the draft law on ‘Amendments to the Ports Act’ (No. 531/Lp13) to the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy. I would, of course, have explained the situation more fully when looking at the draft law at first reading, when a longer debate is possible... So I draw attention to the fact that yesterday evening the Cabinet of Ministers received two draft laws – the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Ports” and the draft law “Amendments to the Freeport of Ventspils Law”. And they are related not only to each other, but also to the well-known decision taken by the Foreign Asset Control Office of the United States Treasury on 9 December 2019 to impose sanctions on a Latvian oligarch, as well as to the legal person under his control at that time - the Freeport of Ventspils Authority. So we had a wide-ranging debate last week about what I would call... the first phase where it was necessary to strengthen this, well, management... Management in Free Ports of Riga and Ventspils. And today we are going through the second phase of the last week, when we will form a new stock company within the framework of risk management measures, which will take over... Initially it will operate in parallel, but over time it will take over the functions of the Freeport of Ventspils. In fact, it will be a new legal entity with another registration number and similar. Well, in fact, we are dealing with crisis management in an emergency. So please also remove (Interim.) ... to refer the draft law to the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy. Request to support this referral to the Commission And later on...
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-18-PT13-2028-U5	Thank you. Do Members object to a draft law being passed on to the Commission? ( Interface: ‘ Yes! ’ ) So we have to vote. Please call me! We will vote in favour of handing over to the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy of the draft law "Amendments to the Law on Ports", which states that it is the committee responsible! Please vote mode! Please get the result! -69, against -23, refrains - not. The draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Saeima Bureau proposes that the draft law “Amendments to the Freeport of Ventspils Law” presented by the Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy Commission be referred to the Economic, Environmental and Regional Policy Commission, stating that it is the committee responsible. ‘ For” applied to speak Member Krišjānis Feldmans.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-18-PT13-2028-U6	Yes, dear colleagues! As I mentioned in the previous draft law, this package of draft laws consists of two laws. This is the second draft law – “Amendments to Ventspils Freeport Law” (No. 532/Lp13). This is also therefore specific to the port and will provide for (and precisely on the same case) the establishment of a new public limited liability company - a non-autonomous public limited liability company. Request to support the referral of the draft law to the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-18-PT13-2028-U7	Do Members object to a draft law being passed on to the Commission? There is no objection. The draft law has been passed on to the Commission. On the agenda - examination of draft laws. Draft Law ‘Amendments to the Law on Ports’, first reading. On behalf of the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy, Member Krišjānis Feldmans.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-18-PT13-2028-U8	So let's go to the first reading. A little bit about the bill. As we know, the Freeport of Ventspils is now a derived public person and has established the performance of the United States... So the execution sanctions, given that this port is now, for many years, the actual presence of Aivars Lembergs... Well, you could even say in possession. But in this case, I would like to point out that this draft law, which is also available to Members, provides for the creation of a new public limited liability company, which will be called ‘the port of Venta’. It will be an unprivailable public limited liability company that will carry out this... “in a slow spirit” will take over these functions, which are currently performed by the Freeport of Ventspils Authority... I would like to put the words'slow in spirit' on track, because there really is a crisis situation right now and everything needs to be done as soon as possible. Thank you to the Latvian Government, who... So we work together... also the Minister of Transport, thank you to him. Decisions have already been made in the government yesterday, binding... related decision... It then establishes this public limited liability company as soon as possible. The Register of Enterprises is registered in order to be able to start a full-time job. That's briefly about this bill. I see there is a debate, but before that... before then, of course, the Commission has already examined this bill this morning and is asking for it to be declared urgent.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-18-PT13-2028-U9	Dear colleagues, The Commission is asking for the draft law to be declared urgent and we must vote on it. Please call me! We will vote for the urgent recognition of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Ports”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The draft law has been declared urgent. Let us start a debate. The name of the Minister of Transport to Far Linkaith.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-18-PT13-2028-U10	Hello, colleagues! I must apologise for making it difficult for you once again to deal with the situation of the management of the port of Ventspils and with the question of how we can deal with US sanctions in the fastest and most determined way... the situation created by sanctions. As far as the draft law on ports is concerned last time, I mentioned that the regulation we adopted last time may not be enough, and you too... I remember Dana Reizniece-Ozola and Maris Kučinskis also mentioned that this solution may not be enough, and indeed it is. Having analysed the developments, we have concluded that in order to ensure continuous work of entrepreneurs working at the Freeport of Ventspils, there is no doubt that one of the entrepreneurs working in the port of Ventspils is subject to a sanction regime, additional actions are needed. That is why we have chosen to set up a new legal entity, which will in no way be linked to persons subject to US sanctions and which will be a point of contact for both ship agents, terminals and companies working in this area in order to carry out... to receive port charges to make other payments, which, as I have already said, is free from the effects of sanctions. We also work in parallel with the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. We are in constant contact with the relevant U.S. authorities to remove the name “Ventspils Port” from the sanction database, in particular, from the list of sanctions, which we consider to be unjustified, and thus to remove any concern to ship agents about the possibility of entering the port and unloading or loading the cargo into the sanctioned person's list. I call on you to deal with this event with your responsibility. This is an extraordinary situation, and many of these technical issues we are trying to deal with in the course of work, so I allow that there may still be some inaccuracy in this regulation, too. We will do this during our work and, if necessary, we will come to you for help and clarification. Request to support – both urgency and concrete solution in both laws: not only in port law, but also in law on Freeport of Ventspils. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-18-PT13-2028-U11	Thank you. The name is Mr. Janis Wuzan.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-18-PT13-2028-U12	Hello, colleagues! There was really little time to get acquainted with the two draft laws that we are looking at in this sitting. But I tried to do it. And there are some things I want to talk about. I would like to say straight away that I will support the further progress of this draft law, but also in the light of what the Minister has just said, I still see that, with regard to the capital companies currently working in the port of Ventspils, with these amendments to the port law and also the Freeport of Ventspils law, not everything is done in the way that should be done to prevent cash flows and also work in those industrial companies that are in the port of Ventspils. Because the bill speaks... Both draft laws talk about what is related to the admission of ships, to the fees of ships, and I admit that their cases will be arranged more or less successfully with these amendments, but when we talked last week about the draft law "Amendments to the Law on Ports", I told you that the Freeport of Ventspils is essentially a third of the territory of Ventspils city and there are many innovative companies created in the last 20 years. At the time, I named those companies, and I will not repeat them today. But the problem is that for these companies also some cash flows pass through the Freeport of Ventspils administration. Production facilities are leased, and various other operations are carried out. If I look... I'll talk right away about both draft laws... If I look at the draft law that is "Amendments to the Ventspils Freeport Law" - there is a provision to rule out Article 18. Perhaps you have not had an interest or you have not read what it is about. And the story is about it. I will try to quote the article as precisely as possible: “The Freeport Authority, in accordance with the procedure laid down by the Cabinet of Ministers, is entitled to issue a general (non-preferential) certificate certifying the production or processing of goods in a licensed capital company, as well as a certificate certifying that goods transported through the territory of a licensed capital company in a free port have not been processed in that territory.” This is directly linked to the idea of a free-port as such that the function of a free-port is essentially to facilitate the production of goods manufactured from imported raw materials for export. And one law takes such a norm out, the other law does not find anything that would deal with these issues, and it makes me concerned that it is simply forgotten in that bill. But if you take care of it, it should be done as rationally as possible. The second thing that really makes me concerned, which I have been talking about last week, is the form, the legal form, in which it has been decided to build this new port managing body. The choice is a capital company, but a capital company is a type of economic activity where the main objective, as stated in the Commercial Law (although it is unpopular despite being State-owned), is to generate profits. And if profits are made, then there is always a question of distribution of these profits. The current form of Ventspils Freeport Authority was a derived public person, provided that all earned remains there and is used for infrastructure development. And its infrastructure in such a formation really needs to be constantly restored and cared for. As I myself am a ventspils, I am very well aware of the problems and concerns of Ventspils residents related to these issues. This applies not only to Ventspils, but also potentially to Riga and Riga port, because where coal is being transhipped, there is coal foaming and someone has to make sure that appropriate filters are applied and that environmental risks are eliminated. Wherever there are, let us say, transhipments of petroleum products or transhipments of ammonia, sometimes leaks occur, there must be adequate safety services at the highest level of readiness, which cares for different types of security, public reporting and, in principle, for dialogue with the population. Because the citizens of Ventspils, living in such an environment, even though many measures have been taken in the last 20 years, many measures to improve this ecological situation, and what the port of Ventspils was 20 years ago, cannot be compared to what it is today, but some burdens are. And that means that this is a kind of... a public limited liability company... national public limited liability company - it seems to me, however, that it is perhaps unthinkable and, to be honest, I would like to hear why it was chosen. Why could it also not have been possible if it had already been necessary to establish this new legal arrangement, why could not, in this case, be another public person derived from the State? And try something in this way to figure out... Perhaps if these two draft laws were to be read in more detail, there would be many more things worth talking about, but I very much hope that the commission that will see these draft laws, although they are urgent, will go into the heart of the matter and try to do the best possible. Here, in this situation, it must probably be said that there is a proverb that does not change horses to the move. In this case, the trailer has started to drive over... for the transfer... Good luck with the overturning of that trailer! We in the Group of the Greens/Family Union have now also supported the referral of this draft law to the commissions, and I think that, most probably, we will also support its adoption at first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-18-PT13-2028-U13	The name is Digit Schmidt.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-18-PT13-2028-U14	Dear colleagues, Ladies and gentlemen! Since the Minister of Justice, Mr. Bordāns, has announced or confirmed, in fact, that the Freeport of Ventspils has been included on the specified list, thanks to the government of the Republic of Latvia, and it has been possible only to this government (in fact, the Prime Minister is not talking about this as a problem, as he says, but as an opportunity), then we are in a situation that is... still described in the Latvian Criminal Law, and its substance is very short. I'll read it. ‘ For activities or omissions aimed at undermining the activities of the financial system, industry, transport, agriculture, trade or other economic sectors, as well as institutions or organisations with a view to harming the Republic of Latvia.’ In the criminal law, this is Article 89 of Chapter X, entitled ‘Injury’. And, of course, the law also lays down a penalty. This ‘sanction with deprivation of liberty for a period of between five and twelve years, confiscation of property or without confiscation of property’. So, I think, it would be wiser to start amending this law, at least to reduce the penalties, but it will not work retroactively. If we believe that we are still in a legal state... if we think... And one thing I wanted for Far Linkait... why... Yes, it is good that you acknowledge that the problem is more than eight representatives to withdraw four of the list, the rest to leave, yes. That is where we are, and that would be what certain authorities who are taking care of the rule of law in the country should now do. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-18-PT13-2028-U15	Name to Member Vjačeslav Dombrovskis.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-18-PT13-2028-U16	Dear colleagues, I really smile a lot at the speed with which this is happening - I have such a right, because I remember quite a lot from 2011 in this story. Here's the whole of those amendments... I can understand it all on one condition: if our government, Prime Minister or Foreign Minister has been told clearly by the U.S. Party: “You have to do this and that and if you do it, the sanctions will be removed within a reasonable time.” I define a "reasonable term" as at the end of January at the latest. I believe that if... I don't know if it's... We haven't seen the Prime Minister. And I believe that the Prime Minister should have come here to the Saeima Tribunal and say that he has full confidence that these amendments will remove its sanctions. He hasn't done it. I don't know if it was because he didn't have time or any other reason. But if, with all these amendments, the US does not remove the Freeport of Ventspils, I think, at the latest on 15 January, from the list of sanctions, it will be a huge outfall for you, the government. This will simply mean that you don't really know what you're doing, that you don't have any real communication with allies. Go on. If we are talking about corruption in ports, the draft laws state that corruption has been found in ports. Today, the Prime Minister said on television: “The port has corruption – both in the Freeport of Ventspils and in the Freeport of Riga.” I think you know something about the port management model. There are councils, there are eight on the councils - four are representatives of municipalities, and four are delegated representatives of your government. In the last year - only your governments, no ZZS is there. Decisions shall be taken by a simple majority. It is impossible to make any decision in any port with only four votes, only - five! This means there are only three options. Either a representative of your government... and its ministries are if I remember correctly, VARAM, Transport, Finance and Economics. Either one of your government representatives has been directly involved in this corruption in Riga and Ventspils... Option 1. Option 2: He saw it, he did it! By the way, everyone else saw and quieted. That means participation. Option 3. That's incompetent! There was a vote on something, a participation in something, and a lack of understanding. I understand that, tomorrow, all government representatives in all ports will be made redundant. I don't see it in any way, as you could. Because that means they either took part or saw and kept silent. I also hope that you have documentary... if it's not that you can documentaryly prove that these people have been reporting to you lately... ministries. Did your representative report corruption, Mr. Linkaita? Do you have documentary evidence of this? That's very good. I hope that Mr Pouce too. We will ask for them. Go on. Date of designation referred to A very similar move came from the Reform Party at that time. Proposal for reform of port management At those times, unlike these times, those who were in the Reform Party stood up for - what do you call it? - "evidence-based policy". They didn't talk about it. They did it, ordered... I personally convinced the Prime Minister of that time to order a whole World Bank study. 100,000 lats... That time. There was a big discussion. Several discussions on whether to change this governance model to capital companies and so on. The Reform Party lost. You think why? The ZZS was not in the coalition of that time. There was a Unity and a National Association. If we had the support of Unity and National Union, then it is likely that this port management model would have been changed as early as 2011. I can, of course, ask a rhetorical question: which has made the National Union and the Unity change their views on port management since... What was the position of these parties in 2011? Well, as I said, the question is probably rhetorical, but if any of the Unity or National Alliances would like to come now and explain how it... Please! Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-18-PT13-2028-U17	The name of Member Janis Wuzan for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-18-PT13-2028-U18	Colleagues! One more thing. Minister Linait said when he spoke about these amendments that the Latvian Government is currently doing everything possible for the Ventspils Freeport in its legal form, as it is today, to try to get... in folk language speaking, get out of the list of global Magnitsk. I went on the Internet a little bit yesterday, I found a global list of Magnitskys, and I found the corresponding records relating to 9 December this year. I can assure you that I found both a natural person and four legal entities on this list, but on the same website I also found information about the usual practice of the US Treasury Foreign Asset Control Office itself... how it recommends taking action to delete these records. And its order is that you have to turn to a reasoned application, a written application that they promise to examine, at the earliest within 90 days. So the usual practice is that... They don't say that it can't be faster, but that it usually does not happen before three months. It is also one of the reasons why I believe that indeed, well, this question we have to deal with right now, that we cannot wait for 90 days, but at the same time I have a question: whether this written application, given that the natural person from the Freeport of Ventspils administration is away, and three other representatives of Ventspils municipalities are out of the Freeport Authority Board... Has the Government already addressed this application in the US Treasury Foreign Asset Control Office? Is there anything else to be expected? And is that even going to happen? That is the parallel question that I would also like, if not immediately, to receive an answer within at least the next few days. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-18-PT13-2028-U19	Name to Member Janis Urbanovich.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-18-PT13-2028-U20	Minister! I also want to take advantage of the opportunity that you are here and you need something from the Saeima. Perhaps you will give me, like Mr Vucana, an answer to one question that makes me anxious (Dep. S. Riekstins: “You need to come to the commission! The Minister would have answered!” ), and that is, is there something that has been done, that it has been clarified if it will not make our biggest friends and advisors, and the introductions of sanctions, let us say, angry at us that we are currently cheating so hard because - what are we doing? We do not change content. All the same people from government will do it. We're talking about Ventspils. We're just gonna change the card. It will not be “Ventspils port”, but “Ventspils port”. It looks very much like that, forgive disgust, embarrassment, because, in my opinion, those who are encouraged to act from us are, of course, encouraged from the government to act so drasticly against our ports (and especially the Ventspils port), they already know their content, and they do not feel that the name of the Freeport of Ventspils is bad. Rather, it is content that they urge us to turn to. At the moment, we only make some form. Will it not be that we're going to get another kick for trying to cheat? Thank you, Minister.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-18-PT13-2028-U21	Name to Member Ivars Zarins.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-18-PT13-2028-U22	Hello, colleagues! I very much hope that the changes following this decision will be legal and justified. And to be sure of this, we will ask the government to submit these evidence, so let us turn to the port of Ventspils, to the port of Riga, so that it is clear, first, about this corruption and, second, that it is certain that in the future these people who have been involved in corruption in any way - whether they have implemented it or not - will not work in these port administrations. Otherwise, it will be understood that this is another unlawful, unfounded decision taken by the State. I very much hope that this will not be the case. And I very much hope that what is now written in the law, as if by the way, that this newly created entity will be irreconcilable, that it really means that this entire scheme is not being prepared for someone, perhaps not completely known to the private investor, who will come in and begin to privatise what the Saeima is currently preparing. And that's why I'd call... Why such concerns... Why do such concerns arise? Let me explain. Because in this bill, it's very vaguely said. This is simply not a legally defined term ‘non-autonomous public limited liability company’. What does that mean? What does that mean? Is this... is it at all unprivailable or cannot the majority of it be privatised? It's not clear. The reason can therefore be that it is perhaps simply a cover, which is created by saying that it is irrevocable, and therefore all further actions that may be related to privatisation would be with the text: “What are you... What are you worried about? We are already doing this, not to privatise it, because it is unprivailable.” And after everything is ready for this privatisation, it would be said: ‘ Oh, yes, well, well, we'll change this now... “ For, as we know, the law of procedure can be changed one day from white to black. On the other hand, if this really is not true, colleagues, it is not, and your intentions are indeed true and true, that it is unpopular, then I would call for us to write exactly the same clear wording on this non-privatisation, as is the case with Latvenergo, where it is very clear what it means "unpopular state capital company". And I call on you, colleagues, to support such a proposal as well. Let us be very clear about what that means! Otherwise, what you are doing at the moment, you, on the contrary, say that you are going to privatise it all, so you need this cover. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-18-PT13-2028-U23	The name of Member Linda Liepiņš. ( Interface: “We can do everything in our country! ” (See the box below.)
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-18-PT13-2028-U24	Dear colleagues! I will vote against. But I would also like to explain in a few words why I will vote against. Ventspils Freeport was included in this list together with Lembergs. As for Lemberg, I think there are few questions in society, and Mr Lembergs' actions would probably be very difficult for the people of Latvia. But the inclusion of these four companies raises many different questions. And, of course, we can already think that the goal justifies the funds, but I think this will not be the case. And here we see a number of draft laws that are passed through the monkey's speed, adding: “We have to save!” But this situation... I have not taken part in these situations, that then something needs to be saved in creation and I think... I would like to hope that it will be possible to learn more about the visit to the United States of America by Bordan and the UK. And about what was then this real subject of conversation here. Therefore, I do not feel responsible for the fact that, because of the situation created by some government representatives, the coalition partners, I should now participate in some kind of rescue work. Well, the house is burning, then, the coalition, delete it! Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-18-PT13-2028-U25	Name to Member Aldi Gobzem.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-18-PT13-2028-U26	Hello, colleagues! I would, of course, like to start with a remark that may not be allowed by many, but I will. It is clear that Aivars Lembergs must look in the mirror and draw conclusions on what is happening here today. But he doesn't have to be the only one. This mirror, in which Aivars Lembergs will be watching, must also look at the Unity. Let me explain. We have to sort out the financial sector, which is out of hand. I want to remind you what we have been Minister for Finance for 10 years... from which lot. If you don't remember, I will name this party. This Party shall be referred to as the Unity. Who have we been Prime Ministers for these 10 years when we have had an unsubstantiated financial sector? And I have to remind you once again that basically the Prime Ministers for these 10 years have been one of Unity. Let us now talk about corruption. Aivars Lembergs is involved in corruption, and probably if he is tried, that could be the case. Let that be established by the judgment! But a much more important question is: what did Aivars Lembergs corrupt? That's what? Yours? Are those in power for those 10 years? I would like to remind you that we have been monitoring the home system for 10 years. On 12 March 2009, Linda Mūrniece became Interior Ministers of the “New Time” and Unity. But the only thing Linda Murniece fought with was Hosam Abu Mary’s yellow press, not corruption. Who was the minister after Linda Mūrniece... Minister for the Interior... It was Aigars Stokenberg. I'll remind you of the party. CONNECTION! What was the Minister for the Interior from 25 October 2011 to 23 January this year? Richard Kozlovskis, who sits in the hall of Unity. I am sorry, CONNECTION, how have you been fighting this corruption for these 10 years if we are, in fact, on the sanctions list as a country today? Maybe you and Aivars Lemberg need to look in that mirror? The mirror must also look at Juta Strike, by the way. And I'll remind you. Juta Strīķe worked as a leading position in the Corruption Prevention and Combating Bureau for the period 2004-2014 – 10 years. And for 10 years this corruption has not been combated in the Freeport of Ventspils. How, then, did that come to pass? As it has happened then, we have one on the list who has corrupted, but those who have been corrupted are not on the list and are still in power. The problem with ports is a problem that will not only be felt by the Ventspils citizens in their wallets and not only by the whole Latvian society, but not only by the whole transit sector, which should also be discussed by the Minister of the Interior. How will it refer to the railway? And it will refer to the railway! He should go down to the platform and be responsible for saying that we will release a large number of railway workers next year. It would be right and courageous to say it, because it will be! We say today that we will save the port of Ventspils, so that a friend of Jaunupa will work there instead of Lembergs, and then there will be no corruption. This is the rescue plan that is currently being implemented. And that's all, nothing more. There's no other plan! The question of ports, which is on the agenda today... Of course this needs to be addressed, and I will also vote in favour. But on the issue of ports, there is a second, much more important issue, which is not placed on the agenda, which is not placed on the agenda by either the Prime Minister's Unity Party or the UKP, which is in fact a subsidiary of the Unity, or everyone else. And the problem is that, with ports on this agenda, there must be a question - who have then been the politicians and who are the politicians who have been corrupt for many years? I have no doubt that we will find this list of politicians in the ranks of the parties in power today. But we're not going to do that, are we? Because it's no longer relevant. Even society will forget that. But this is the most important issue, because it is likely that we will not succeed in the short term (and this must be said fairly to the public). Our cargo volumes will fall, because no adequate international transport... or, whatever the businessman may not want to risk his business while the port's name is on the sanctions list. Dear Coalition! If you are about the rule of law, then maybe you also have, especially the Head of the Legal Commission for Juta Strike, to read the Article of the Criminal Law, which is called “Emergence”, and to analyse whether there is any reason to write an application (including from the coalition, from Members of the Saeima) in this case in order to check whether there is any harm to the state of Latvia in this case. I don't mean to cover the corrupt, but specifically to uncover the corrupt. Because it also means that we are talking about only one pensioner, Lemberg, but not talking about politicians who have been corrupted all these years and who are then in the air of the lamb and tell them how they are fighting corruption. That is the most important issue! This should be decided today and discussed today from the Saeima Tribunal. Thank you. (Applause)
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-18-PT13-2028-U27	The name to the Member Digim Schmit for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-18-PT13-2028-U28	Colleagues! Once again, I... Yes, let's put it down, and I myself will put the question aside: who is responsible for this situation? For it is in the interests of Latvia, the state, it is in the public interest of Latvia to resolve this issue as quickly as possible. I'll talk about this for a few minutes. In my opinion, as we also saw, previous decisions to remove the municipality... is not sufficient. And that... it is not a criticism, I see, it is indeed an extraordinary situation, and I also see today, that real understanding of what is then the steps that must be taken to level up the situation is not clear to us... I have a great suspicion that this is also not a recommendation to re-appoint an institution in another name, in this way. That's it, I think... our national speciality, resulting from insolvency proceedings and the liquidation of businesses, that we will call it differently, that we will be young and clean and that everyone will respect it. The biggest problem is that, because we personally do not believe that this decision or any other decision that we have made or are about to make will really correct the situation, then how can we expect that these decisions will be relied on by the so-called so-called so-called "donors", anyone who works in the Freeport of Ventspils right now and who is clear... 30 days... That's less... to terminate this relationship by 9 January. Why do we imagine if the largest insurance companies have called to stay away, so to speak, this port... Why do we think that someone will trust that our decisions are right now in this regard. This is not criticism. I didn't really criticise Far Linkait, specifically him... I really think he's trying to do everything he's supposed to do right now. But if we really want to do something, this is... And I... I've also seen for 90 days if, it's technically, we don't have 90 days, just we don't have it. I am sorry, this is a political issue. This is a question of our allies or allies. I think that if we really have an ally, and I hope it is, he certainly does not want to harm the Latvian economy, the Latvian state. Because that's how we're hurting our security, too. In this way, we can in absolute numbers... our contribution to NATO budget will also be reduced next year. So what should be done to the Prime Minister, the President, the Minister for Foreign Affairs - they should be sitting in Washington at the moment, waiting for the reception at Donald Trump and dealing with this issue exactly at that level. Because, like us or don't like Donald Trumps, it's the level at which this issue can be resolved quickly. And it won't take 90 days... And the 9th of January is still a long date. Just that's what we have to do now! It is not to be thought that we will resolve this issue in this way or in this way! Even if we are legally right, no one will have believed us by 9 January. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-18-PT13-2028-U29	The name of the Minister of Transport to Far Linkait for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-18-PT13-2028-U30	Colleagues! If we were to work with such an arrangement in the government that we would not be able to save the port, we would rather have to go home and give others the opportunity to do so. We are working on the facility to maximise all the risks associated with this particular situation, so that we can ensure normal economic activity in the port as soon as possible. I can assure you that our diplomatic services are in day-to-day contact with the US, where information is exchanged. This is a two-way process - we are talking about what we have done and we are getting back opinions on whether there is a need to do something else. And that also results in these additional decisions that we need. As regards the Freeport of Ventspils administration and the new structure, it is our duty to ensure that this new legal structure does not have any influence on the previous persons. That means we make it out of a completely white leaf, with absolutely other people. Also, when we take over our commitments, we will assess each contract separately, whether there are any problems there. Thus, we do our utmost to prevent any suspicion of shadow to the port of Ventspils and to remove the port of Ventspils from this list of sanctions as soon as possible. For certain details. Tomorrow is a meeting of the Committee on Petitions, where I have to go and tell you in detail, and I will also try, as much as my confidentiality allows, to tell you in detail. Regarding the comments made by Mr Wuzan. Yes, they are justified. And we are also currently working with the Legal Bureau of the Saeima on the text to include everything that you mentioned, including in the new draft law for second reading. Thank you. (Applause)
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-18-PT13-2028-U31	The name to Member Aldi Gobzem for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-18-PT13-2028-U32	I think... That is my conviction: Latvia is on the eve of the crisis. And not on the eve of some kind of crisis, crisis, but on the eve of a serious economic crisis. Today, there is reason to believe that the state budget can also fail. And it is right today that the most visible politicians, who have power at state or municipal level, should not be dealt with with with recordings in social networks or with pictures in social networks, but should do an active job. And with active work, I don't mean just political tourism trips with selfies in the end of these trips. Today, Prime Minister Kariņa has to be in the United States, as my colleague has already said, and convinces strategic partner both in terms of port and Moneyval that Latvia has no and no place on black and grey lists. It must hire lobby firms, use personal contacts or citizenship of another country like Prime Minister Kariņš. And if necessary, he must fall in front of Donald Trampa, as Daniel Pavlut did last week in this building, this hall, in front of Erika Pucken, to get the corresponding vote. ( Internouncing call.) This should be done cunningly and determinedly and done for the benefit of the state of Latvia. ( Internouncing call.) Today, the Minister for Economics, Nemir, and the Minister for Transport, Linkaith, must be at the disposal of the largest transit partners abroad and not destroy the transit sector. With a picture of driving on a train wagon, or taking and taking and taking pictures in a working group, or changing the name of a port to a ‘port of Venta’ or a ‘port of cardboard’, whatever... It doesn't matter. Today, we have to be the largest cooperation partners abroad and we have to convince ourselves that we have to bring cargo to Latvia. Has Minister Linkait done this? I have strong doubts about this. Today the Minister of Justice Bordan and the Minister of Foreign Affairs, Mr. Rinkēvičs, must be in the relevant financial institutions and make sure that Latvia's financial sector is clean and that the legal environment is secure. And not to knock a glass of wine on a foreign trip to the opera or to the White House, but if necessary, then you have to put all the other sticking, pouring and any skills that these gentlemen possess. And it must also be done to make our economy grow next year, not to fall. Today, the President of Latvia Egils Levit should not plan constitutional think tanks, theoretical discussions on the interpretation of the Constitution... The President of Latvia must also plan visits to where our economy can grow today. If these actions are not carried out, there will be an economic crisis in Latvia - and it will be in the near future. That's why my questions... and my actions would be carried out by the decisive public officials in power. I hope you will listen to what the opposition also tells you. There is no need to think that the creation of a single new institution will solve this problem. We have to stop, I'm sorry, be local patriotic for the pope. We need to defend our country internationally and to defend it in a cunning way, and we need to defend it in the interests of all citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-18-PT13-2028-U33	Name to Member Daniel Pavilut.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-18-PT13-2028-U34	Hey, colleagues, again! I must admit that I am truly happy to listen to the calls from opposition colleagues to Prime Minister Kariņš to go somewhere, work and deal with the crisis. I understand, logically, that both Mr. Schmidt, as the first signatory, and Mr. Gobzem, who is probably there, in the signatory's ranks, were... I don't remember... This means automatic withdrawal of their signatures for the request of the mission to Mr Kariņš and his whole office, which we have on the agenda tomorrow. ( Internouncing call.) Yeah, well, you see, he has to go and work, and he has to deal with the crisis. That's right! Well, then your signatures don't count anymore. You know that. Colleagues! I want to talk a little bit about port reform now. You see, this situation that has developed is nothing new to us either in the sense that Latvia, as a state, as a parliamentary republic, has historically had almost all the signs of a seized state - the characteristics of a corrupt, oligarch-controlled, seized state. Neither is it a secret that for many years... I have also had the opportunity, personally, almost 10 years ago, to participate in various-level discussions on the need to reform the ports of Latvia, which operate as a country in an opaque, incomprehensible and inconceivable way that does not meet international standards. That is why this crisis is indeed a gift, as an opportunity for us to finally resolve long-term pains. Both cleanse the Latvian public administration, cleanse the state of Latvia from the influence of oligarchs, and finally break this hurting node - with port management. In my view, the amendments proposed today to the Ports Act are a step forward, first of all, to tackle the crisis in order to prevent Latvia's economy from suffering more than it has already been. Secondly, a step towards a conceptual solution to port reform, with which the Ministry of Transport... Remember, a week ago... I hope the memory has not yet disappeared... On 1 July the Ministry of Transport gave the mandate (with the relevant amendments to the Ports Act) to come to the Ministry of Transport with a conceptual solution to port reform. Finally, to ensure that both these crisis measures and port reform as a whole are in line with the decisions we have taken here in the Saeima on the management of state-owned and public-owned companies (in line with the best international standards, OECD standards and those on which listed companies operate at the best exchanges in the world). In the commission responsible... There will be a need for improvement, which we were talking about this morning. A number of areas have been identified for both functions and transitional provisions... with regard to compliance with the rules on the management of public individuals, which we have decided on here this spring. So the task is clear to us. I call on you to move towards this, and I call for you to support the proposed draft laws. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-18-PT13-2028-U35	Name to Member Vjačeslav Dombrovskis for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-18-PT13-2028-U36	Dear colleagues, Here are some calls... then why some people have signed up to the request for a commission, someone's in touch with the ports... and so on. I call on you, colleagues, to look at such a bigger picture. From day one, Karina's government set us as its absolute top priority - what? Moneyval grey list. All that needs to be done is not on that grey Moneyval list. As long as... What hasn't been done! New jobs created by public administration, at least 17 million... even more... awarded. So many laws have been amended! Presumption of legal innocence - off! And now the whole irony of this situation that someone might even laugh about... All this more than a year... Fight to avoid entering Moneyval's blacklist... And that blow, that black list, comes from some completely different side! Isn't that something that the government, Karin's government, deserves? Does this have nothing to do with government action? Well, colleagues, this is even... it's difficult to describe it with words. To say that failure means not to say anything. For that, Mr. Pavilut, for... Well, what I see as a clear incompetent... because to get into this extended Magnitsk list... Your nearest ally puts one of your biggest ports on the blacklist! If this is not a clear lack of competence of the government, I do not know what it is. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-18-PT13-2028-U37	I closed the debate. On behalf of the commission, is there something to add?
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-18-PT13-2028-U38	On behalf of the Commission, I would like to point out, first of all, that until last Thursday there was indeed a model on the boards of these ports - in the ports of Riga and Ventspils - where there are already four people from municipalities and four appointed by the Cabinet of Ministers. And it ended with Imants (Dep. Mr Ločmele-Lunova: "For the Commission!" )... I'm telling you, until last Thursday. And then it was changed. And it's proof that it doesn't really mean that one of the Cabinets of Ministers has been a corrupt... Because after 25 years Imants Sarmulis was replaced (interim: "For the Commission!" ), which in fact led the Freeport of Ventspils. That's... This means that the decision taken by this Saeima on Thursday is... was justified. I am commenting on behalf of the Commission. Sounded like some manipulation... Secondly. It's really very... Thank you for your constructive suggestions. I can assure you that already now the Legal Bureau has been working - since this morning's meeting of the Committee on Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy - on the development of proposals, because this... of course, both draft laws are likely to be improved also here in the Saeima. And we're about them... We will therefore consider these proposals at the next meeting of the Committee on Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy, of course. And it should be noted that this is exactly what is said in the bill: that this is an unprivailable public limited liability company... a public limited liability company. ( Internouncing call.) It is another question - was it a port actually, de facto, privatised. It's different! But now it's written into the law. The opposite process is going on: we are finally handing over to the people of the port. I call for support at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-18-PT13-2028-U39	Please call me! We will vote on the draft law on First Reading Amendments to the Law on Ports! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The draft law at first reading has been supported. Please specify the deadline for the submission of proposals and the time for examination at the Saeima sitting.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-18-PT13-2028-U40	The deadline for submitting proposals is 14.10 today.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-18-PT13-2028-U41	So the deadline for submitting proposals is 14.10 on 18 December 2019.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-18-PT13-2028-U42	Second reading - 18 December this year, that is, today, in an extraordinary sitting. ( Milestones.)
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-18-PT13-2028-U43	So consideration - in extraordinary session of the Saeima on 18 December 2019 if the committee asks for it.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-18-PT13-2028-U44	Yeah.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-18-PT13-2028-U45	Thank you. ( Milestones.) Draft law “Amendments to Ventspils Freeport Law”, first reading. On behalf of the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy, Member Krišjānis Feldmans.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-18-PT13-2028-U46	Yeah, so we're taking the second draft law to this draft law... the two draft laws package. Many things have already been presented in the first draft law. I'm not going to repeat it. In fact, the commission is asking... asks, of course, to declare this draft law urgent.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-18-PT13-2028-U47	Please call me! We will vote for recognition of the draft law “Amendments to Ventspils Freeport Law” as urgent! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The draft law has been declared urgent.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-18-PT13-2028-U48	Yeah. And now the Commission is asking for support at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-18-PT13-2028-U49	Let us start a debate. Name to Member Aldi Gobzem.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-18-PT13-2028-U50	A moment ago, Daniel Pavlut got into the tubby and said that we had lived in a busy country. Remember, huh? It was... that's the text from Daniel Pavilut's side. And then I have a question for a former Minister for Economics, Daniel Pavilut - the capture of that state at the time when you, Mr Pavilut, were Minister for Economics and got a silver medal in the issue of OIC permits... then the state was not captured? For a while, this grabbing was stopped? Was it stopped at the time when Artis Kampars, who is the owner of the Unity, issued the most OIC permits and received a gold medal? Did the existing Minister for Agriculture, Mr. Gerhard, win the bronze medal at that time? Then it must have been that country. Similarly, your coalition representative, Arvil Asheraden - OIC, is in honor of six, in connection with the issue of permits. But I realize to grab the country... when you are in power and steal, I apologize, the people of Latvia through the OIC - it is not captured. I think you need to be correct and tell the public all the information in which the country has been seized and in which the country has not been seized. And the same applies to ports where your party member places one of the best friends as the biggest port specialists. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-18-PT13-2028-U51	I closed the debate. Is there anything to add on behalf of the Commission? ( Internouncing call.) The debate is closed. Or commissions... The procedure?
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-18-PT13-2028-U52	I think everything has already been said.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-18-PT13-2028-U53	Just a minute! On the procedure. Please turn on the microphone for Liepiņš! ( Internouncing call.)
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-18-PT13-2028-U54	I would like to talk about the procedure. On the previous draft law, however, I had a proposal to make that instead of 14.10 p.m., there was a deadline for submission, but for even shorter periods. But now I would call for a procedure. Five people in the Bureau. Please don't touch it! If one of the Members in the Chamber wants to speak about the procedure, you should see it. Thank you. (Applause)
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-18-PT13-2028-U55	You could, Mrs. Liepiņa, raise your hand, you could also put forward a proposal with a green leaf if this was not possible electronically. You have the opportunity to stand up and express your desire to speak very clearly. ( Milestones.) So is there anything to add on behalf of the Commission?
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-18-PT13-2028-U56	No, no. I can say a second time, everything has already been said. Please support at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-18-PT13-2028-U57	Mr. Krauze wants another procedure... Please turn on the microphone for Mr. Krauze. For the procedure!
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-18-PT13-2028-U58	I have a question. Since this issue, however, involves the creation of a new national capital company, the relevant article of the Rules of Procedure must be observed, but I do not see the opinion of the Minister of Finance. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. I. Zarins: “Ai, ai, ai!” (See the box below.)
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-18-PT13-2028-U59	Dear colleagues, That is a matter for the Commission. Please address this in the committee responsible. ( Milestones.) So let's vote on the first-reading bill. Please call me! We will vote for the draft law “Amendments to Ventspils Freeport Law” at first reading! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 69, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The draft law at first reading has been supported. Please set a time limit for the submission of proposals and the time for examination at the Saeima sitting.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-18-PT13-2028-U60	The deadline for tabling the proposals for second reading is 18 December this year, today at 2.30 p.m. ( Internouncing call.)
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-18-PT13-2028-U61	So the deadline for submitting proposals is 14.15 on 18 December 2019. And consideration of the Saeima sitting?
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-18-PT13-2028-U62	And the second reading - the Saeima's extraordinary sitting on 18 December this year.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-18-PT13-2028-U63	Thank you. Review - Saeima, December 18, 2019 in the third extraordinary session. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A. Gobzems: “On procedure! Mrs. Mourniece, I stand up!” ) Please turn on the microphone for Aldis Gobzems, who wants to talk about the procedure!
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-18-PT13-2028-U64	Thank you, Mrs Mourniece, I shouldn't have gone on the table! But, as far as the procedure is concerned, the proposal is to look at this draft law at an extraordinary sitting, but, as we can see, such extraordinary sittings are not present. So how can you look... Is that so? How can we decide to consider something if there is no such sitting at all? ( Milestones.)
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-18-PT13-2028-U65	Yeah, thank you. So the Commission is committed to looking at this bill and, as we understand it, will ask for a third extraordinary sitting to be held today. ( The drug is noise. Depp. A. Gobzem: “How did you understand that?” ) So today - the third extraordinary sitting. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A. Gobzem: “Did you confess it?” ) Thank you. So the agenda has been examined. We have to register. Please call me! Please register the Members! Time for notifications. The name is Mr. Janis Wittenberg.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-18-PT13-2028-U66	Colleagues! I invite the members of the Commission on Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy at 14.45 p.m. Then let us look at the matter, and let us ask the Saeima to convene an extraordinary sitting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-18-PT13-2028-U67	Name to Member Juris Rancan.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-18-PT13-2028-U68	Colleagues from the Commission for Defence, Home Affairs and Prevention of Corruption! I call five minutes after this sitting to our joint sitting! Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-18-PT13-2028-U69	Name of the Saeima Secretary Maria Golubeva. The results of the registration.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-18-PT13-2028-U70	Not registered: Artuss Kaimiņš, Lubova Švecova and Viktors Valainis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-18-PT13-2028-U71	Thank you. I closed the second extraordinary sitting of the Saeima on 18 December 2019.
