ParlaMint-LV_2019-04-25-PT13-533-U1	Good morning, dear colleagues! I invite you to take a seat in the Chamber so that we can start the sitting of the Saeima on 25 April 2019. First of all, the amendments tabled to the agenda of the sitting approved by the Saeima Bureau. The Commission of Human Rights and Public Affairs is asking to include in the agenda the draft law “Amendments to the law “On the preservation, use and fact of cooperation of persons with the establishment of the KGB””. Are Members opposed to this amendment of the agenda? There is no objection. The order of business has been amended. Members Kols, Kalniņš, Cabanov, Girgen and Voika are asking for the draft law on the Protocol on the accession of the Republic of North Macedonia to the North Atlantic Treaty to be included on the agenda of the sitting. Are Members opposed to this amendment of the agenda? There is no objection. The order of business has been amended. The Commission is asking for the draft law “Amendments to the Law on the Prevention of Money Laundering and Financing of Terrorism” to be included on the agenda of the sitting. Are Members opposed to this amendment of the agenda? There is no objection. The order of business has been amended. The Commission on Defence, Home Affairs and the Prevention of Corruption is asking for the draft law “Amendment to the Law “On State Secret” to be included on the agenda of the sitting. Are Members opposed to this amendment of the agenda? There is no objection. The order of business has been amended. The Budget and Finance (Tax) Commission is asking for the draft law on insurance and reinsurance distribution to be included on the agenda of the meeting. Are Members opposed to this amendment of the agenda? There is no objection. The order of business has been amended. The Budget and Finance (Tax) Commission is asking for the draft law Amending the Insurance and Reinsurance Act to be included on the agenda of the sitting. Are Members opposed to this amendment of the agenda? There is no objection. The order of business has been amended. The Budget and Finance (Tax) Commission asks for the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Taxes and Fees” to be included on the agenda of the sitting. Are Members opposed to this amendment of the agenda? There is no objection. The order of business has been amended. Reports by the Saeima Bureau on draft laws submitted. The Saeima Bureau proposes that the draft law “Amendments to the Code of Administrative Violations of Latvia” presented by the Cabinet of Ministers be referred to the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission, as well as the Legal Commission, stating that it is the committee responsible. Do Members object to the referral of the draft law to the commissions? There is no objection. The draft law has been passed on to the commissions. The Saeima Presidium proposes that the draft law “On Amendments to the Satversme of Ventspils University College” presented by the Cabinet of Ministers be submitted to the Education, Culture and Science Commission, stating that it is the committee responsible. Do Members object to a draft law being passed on to the Commission? There is no objection. The draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Saeima Presidium proposes that the draft law “Law on the processing of personal data intended for the protection of the judiciary” submitted by the Cabinet of Ministers be referred to the Legal Commission, stating that it is the committee responsible. Do Members object to a draft law being passed on to the Commission? There is no objection. The draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Saeima Bureau proposes that the draft law on co-financing services presented by the Cabinet of Ministers be referred to the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission, stating that it is the committee responsible. Do Members object to a draft law being passed on to the Commission? There is no objection. The draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Saeima Bureau proposes that the draft law “Amendment to the Law of the Financial and Capital Market Commission” presented by the Cabinet of Ministers be referred to the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission, stating that it is the committee responsible. Do Members object to a draft law being passed on to the Commission? There is no objection. The draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Saeima Presidium proposes that the draft law presented by the Cabinet of Ministers “Amendments to the Law on the Prevention of Money Laundering and Financing of Terrorism” be referred to the Commission for Defence, Home Affairs and Prevention of Corruption, establishing that it is the committee responsible, as well as the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission. Do Members object to the referral of the draft law to the commissions? There is no objection. The draft law has been passed on to the commissions. The Saeima Bureau proposes that the draft law “Amendment to the Law on Consumer Protection” presented by the Cabinet of Ministers be submitted to the Committee on Budget and Finance (tax) as well as to the Commission on Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy, stating that it is the committee responsible. Do Members object to the referral of the draft law to the commissions? There is no objection. The draft law has been passed on to the commissions. The Parliamentary Bureau proposes that the draft law “On the Protocol on the Accession of the Republic of North Macedonia to the North Atlantic Treaty” presented by the Cabinet of Ministers be referred to the Foreign Affairs Commission, stating that it is the committee responsible. Do Members object to a draft law being passed on to the Commission? There is no objection. The draft law has been passed on to the Commission. On the granting of leave. For unpaid leave granted to Member Uldis Budriks on 11 April this year. For unpaid leave granted to Member Uldis Budriks on 11 April this year. The Saeima Bureau has received an application from Member Ulda Budrik requesting him to be granted unpaid leave on 11 April this year. The Saeima Bureau has granted leave and shall inform the Saeima thereof. On the agenda - Election, approval, appointment, dismissal or dismissal of officials, expression of trust or distrust. The decision ‘On the approval of Ilonas Ozoliņa-Kliviņa as a district (city) court judge’. On behalf of the Legal Commission, Mr Valery Agešin, Member.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-04-25-PT13-533-U2	Good morning, dear colleagues! At the meeting of the Legal Commission on 9 April, the draft decision ‘On the approval of Ilona Ozoliņa-Kļavina as a judge of a district (city) court’ was considered. Members of the Commission have unanimously supported the draft decision. On behalf of the Legal Commission, I call on Ilona Ozoliņa-Kļaviņa to approve the judge of district (city) court without any limitation of his term of office. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-04-25-PT13-533-U3	Please call me! We will vote for the draft decision on the approval of Ilonas Ozoliņas-Kļaviņas as a district (city) court judge! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 84, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Decision adopted. On the agenda - examination of draft laws. Draft Act ‘Amendments to the Energy Efficiency Act’, second reading. The draft law has been declared urgent. On behalf of the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy, Mr Daniel Pavluts.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-04-25-PT13-533-U4	Hello, colleagues! At the previous sitting of the Saeima, I already explained the substance of this draft law. I will remind you very briefly today. So we are trying to resolve this situation - in the previous parliamentary term and in the previous government, a new energy efficiency regulation was pushed forward and the obligation for large electricity consumers to take energy saving measures. The deadline for submitting energy audits and launching savings measures was set. If this was not done, the duty was calculated. However, a number of operators have done so late, and we are now trying to amend this law in order not to punish those operators who, although late for good reasons, have fulfilled this obligation and would not have them pay the energy efficiency levy to take these measures again. In fact, it was unanimously supported by Members at first reading. In the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy, we have examined the draft law for the second reading. Proposals were received from the Minister of Economics and the Ministry of Finance, and we came to a common denominator. So it's 1. - a proposal from the Minister for Economic Affairs. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-04-25-PT13-533-U5	Let us start a debate. The name is Mr. Janis Wittenberg. Member Wittenberg doesn't want to debate... However, they want to. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. J. Vitenbergs: “On the draft law in general!” ) It is not possible to debate the draft law as a whole. We can only debate proposals. So on proposal 1, the name of Member Janis Wittenberg.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-04-25-PT13-533-U6	Colleagues! Please support this proposal and the draft law as a whole, because this will bring us against our entrepreneurs. We must not make entrepreneurs feel as if they were punished for their already fulfilled obligation. Latvia's economy is based on our entrepreneurs, and we must be able to stretch a helping hand. It is encouraging entrepreneurs to become more energy-efficient, but new initiatives need to create flexible conditions that better match the business environment. The primary objective of the energy efficiency levy is to promote energy efficiency and ensure control of the implementation of the energy management system, rather than punishing those economic operators who have complied with the statutory obligation. Support and assistance for Latvian entrepreneurs is and will be one of my main goals, leading the Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy Commission. Finally, the myth must be broken that the state is not helping but hindering the development of entrepreneurship. Thank you. (Applause)
ParlaMint-LV_2019-04-25-PT13-533-U7	I closed the debate. I understand that the debater is in favour of the legislative proposal 1. Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-04-25-PT13-533-U8	Thank you. 2. - a proposal from the Minister for Economic Affairs. Partly supported, included 3. - the Commission's proposal. After consulting the Ministry of Finance on the basis of a proposal made by it, the procedure for making contributions or repaying this levy from the Energy Efficiency Fund has been adjusted if this is to be done in accordance with this draft law. Since proposal 2 has been partly supported and included 3. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-04-25-PT13-533-U9	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-04-25-PT13-533-U10	And finally 3. - the proposal of the committee responsible, which, as I have already mentioned, brings together the proposals of the Ministry of Economic Affairs and the Ministry of Finance through an agreement.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-04-25-PT13-533-U11	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-04-25-PT13-533-U12	Please support the draft law at second, final, final reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-04-25-PT13-533-U13	Please call me! We will vote in favour of the draft law on Amendments to the Energy Efficiency Act, second, final, final, reading! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The law is passed.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-04-25-PT13-533-U14	Thank you, colleagues.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-04-25-PT13-533-U15	On the agenda - draft law “Amendments to the Law on Declaration of Residence”, third reading. On behalf of the National Administration and Municipal Commission - Member Eriks Pucens.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-04-25-PT13-533-U16	Hello, colleagues! In the Commission of Public Administration and Local Government we worked with the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Declaration of Residence”. Nine proposals have been submitted to the Commission. 1. is the proposal of the Minister of Justice Jānis Bordāns. Partly supported and included 4. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-04-25-PT13-533-U17	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-04-25-PT13-533-U18	2. is a proposal from the Legal Office. Supported, included 4. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-04-25-PT13-533-U19	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-04-25-PT13-533-U20	3. is a proposal from the Legal Office. Supported, included 4. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-04-25-PT13-533-U21	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-04-25-PT13-533-U22	4. is a proposal of the Commission of State Administration and Local Government. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-04-25-PT13-533-U23	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-04-25-PT13-533-U24	5. is the Ombudsman's proposal. There is no support in the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-04-25-PT13-533-U25	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-04-25-PT13-533-U26	6. is the proposal of the Minister of Justice, Jānis Bordāns. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-04-25-PT13-533-U27	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-04-25-PT13-533-U28	7. - a proposal from the Minister of Justice, Mr. John Bordan. Partly supported, included 8. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-04-25-PT13-533-U29	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-04-25-PT13-533-U30	8 / 8 - A proposal from the Commission of Public Administration and Local Government. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-04-25-PT13-533-U31	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-04-25-PT13-533-U32	9. - A proposal from the Commission of Public Administration and Local Government. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-04-25-PT13-533-U33	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-04-25-PT13-533-U34	Please support the draft law at third, final, final reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-04-25-PT13-533-U35	Please call me! We will vote in favour of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Declaration of Residence” in the third, final, reading! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The law is passed. On the agenda - draft law “Amendments to the Road Traffic Law”, third reading. On behalf of the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy – Member Jānis Vitenbergs.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-04-25-PT13-533-U36	The Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy has examined and prepared for consideration by the Saeima at the third reading of the draft law “Amendments to the Road Traffic Law”. Three proposals were received. 1. - A proposal from the Ministry of Agriculture. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-04-25-PT13-533-U37	The proposal of Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Agriculture, Grassberg...
ParlaMint-LV_2019-04-25-PT13-533-U38	Mr Grassberg's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-04-25-PT13-533-U39	... is supported. Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-04-25-PT13-533-U40	Thank you. 2. - a proposal from the committee responsible. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-04-25-PT13-533-U41	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-04-25-PT13-533-U42	3. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-04-25-PT13-533-U43	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-04-25-PT13-533-U44	Request to support the draft law at third reading
ParlaMint-LV_2019-04-25-PT13-533-U45	Please call me! We will vote in favour of the draft law "Amendments to the Road Traffic Law" in the third, final, final reading! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. The law is passed. On the agenda - draft law “Amendments to the law “On holidays, memories and celebrated days”, first reading. On behalf of the Commission for Human Rights and Public Affairs, Member Dagmara Beitnere-Le Galla.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-04-25-PT13-533-U46	Good afternoon, dear colleagues, Madam President of the Saeima. I would like to report on a not so much important but important decision to the economy, which was taken by the Commission on Human Rights and Public Affairs as days of celebration and memory. We debated... And this is the first reading... We debated changes that would be in our calendar. The proposal came from the Cabinet of Ministers, which was also supported by the Ministry of Justice, that corporate holidays should be removed from the memory and holidays. In other words, we refuse 17 May - Day of Firefighters and Rescuers - to be included in the calendar at the memory and to be celebrated days... It is also about June's third Sunday - Medical Workers' Day, October's first Sunday - Teachers' Day... Because we put these questions... with the decision of the Cabinet of Ministers, the... holidays of occupations. In other words, they will not be in the calendar, but the Cabinet will determine these days, will regulate these issues. We have been discussing a proposal that has been under way since 2012... It is proposed that the Museum of Writing and Music should mark May 13 as the Day of the State Language. There was a discussion about whether this day could be called the Latvian Language Day. It should be borne in mind that there are two more days in the year marked internationally, namely in February - the Day of Born Language, celebrated by certain circles, which are usually schools and literary communities, and at the end of September is the European Day of Modern Languages. There was a proposal to celebrate National Language Day on 13 May, because it is Jura Alunan's birthday. Juris Alunāns is one of the first beginners of our modern Latvian language. Discussions were also about how we could capture Latvia's history of the 21st century - 13 May to mark Latvian Day as one option, and another option is to mark State Language Day on February 18, while remembering our referendum in 2012. These questions are open. Philologists also expressed their views, and discussions will continue. This is the first reading. There was also a proposal to change the name of the day of events to be celebrated on August 23, because August 23 is called the Day of Remembrance for the Victims of Stalinism and Nazism. During the discussions we talked about the fact that the modern history of Latvia in 1989 made the whole world the day of the Baltic Way. And there was also a proposal to give up so many days of memory of the victims in a calendar, but to rename this day as the day of memory of the Baltic Way, given that this year we will celebrate a very round, large anniversary of these days of memory. It was also a question of whether the nation should remember the day it was occupied for a long time, 17 June. Perhaps this day should also be taken out of the calendar so that we are not among the nations that mark too many commemorative days with sulphur flags lowered. These are some impressions from the discussions in the Commission, and the question is open. We will continue to work on this draft law after the first reading. And the date until which proposals can be submitted is 7 May.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-04-25-PT13-533-U47	Please call me! We will vote for the first reading of the draft law “Amendments to the Law “On Holiday, Remembrance and Markable Days””! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 88, for - no, for - 1. The draft law at first reading has been supported. The deadline set by the Commission for the submission of proposals is 7 May this year. Thank you. Consequently, the deadline for the submission of proposals is 7 May this year. On the agenda - draft law “Amendments to the law on the out-of-court recovery of debts”, second reading. On behalf of the Legal Commission, Member Aivars Geidan.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-04-25-PT13-533-U48	Good morning, dear colleagues! Presidium! Resurrection! We worked in the Legal Commission on the draft law on ‘Amendments to the Law on Out-of-court Recovery of Debt’. Three proposals were received for the second reading. 1. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-04-25-PT13-533-U49	Partly supported, included in proposal 2.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-04-25-PT13-533-U50	I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-04-25-PT13-533-U51	Members share the Commission's view.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-04-25-PT13-533-U52	2. - The legal commission's proposal. The Commission held extensive discussions on the wording of the proposal together with the Ministry of Economic Affairs, the Consumer Protection Centre, the Ministry of Justice and the Ministry of Health. The Commission, after hearing the parties involved, decided that the amount of the fines was applied and the proposal was supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-04-25-PT13-533-U53	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-04-25-PT13-533-U54	3. - a proposal from the Legal Bureau for the entry into force of the draft law. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-04-25-PT13-533-U55	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-04-25-PT13-533-U56	On behalf of the Legal Commission, I call on Members to support the draft law at second reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-04-25-PT13-533-U57	Please call me! We will vote in favour of the draft law on Amendments to the Law on Out-of-court Recovery! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 89, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. The draft law at second reading has been supported. Please set a deadline for the submission of proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-04-25-PT13-533-U58	The deadline for submitting proposals is 24 May this year.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-04-25-PT13-533-U59	Thank you. The deadline for submitting proposals is 24 May this year. On the agenda - draft law “Amendment to the Ministry of the Interior system institutions and officials in prison management with special service grades in service law”, second reading. Member of the Commission for Defence, Home Affairs and Prevention of Corruption Juris Rancāns.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-04-25-PT13-533-U60	Good morning, colleagues! No proposals have been received for the draft law “Amendment to the Ministry of the Interior System Authorities and Administration of Prisons with Special Service Steps in the Law on Service Progress”. I call for support for this draft law at second reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-04-25-PT13-533-U61	Please call me! We will vote for the draft law “Amendment to the Ministry of the Interior System Authorities and Prison Administration Officers with Special Degrees of Service in the Law on Service Progress” at second reading! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 89, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. The draft law at second reading has been supported. Please set a deadline for the submission of proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-04-25-PT13-533-U62	The deadline for submitting proposals is April 30.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-04-25-PT13-533-U63	Thank you. The deadline for submitting proposals is April 30. On the agenda - draft law “Amendments to the Law on the National Armed Forces”, second reading. On behalf of the Commission on Defence, Home Affairs and Anti-Corruption - Member Raimonds Bergmanis.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-04-25-PT13-533-U64	Good morning, colleagues! The Commission on Defence, Home Affairs and Prevention of Corruption works with amendments to the Law on the National Armed Forces. Three proposals have been made: 1. is the proposal of the Legal Office. This is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-04-25-PT13-533-U65	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-04-25-PT13-533-U66	2. is a proposal from the Legal Office. It is supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-04-25-PT13-533-U67	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-04-25-PT13-533-U68	3. is also a proposal from the Legal Bureau, which is supported by the Commission. Please support me.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-04-25-PT13-533-U69	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-04-25-PT13-533-U70	Please support at second reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-04-25-PT13-533-U71	Please call me! We will vote for the draft law “Amendments to the Law on the National Armed Forces” at second reading! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The draft law at second reading has been supported. Please set a deadline for the submission of proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-04-25-PT13-533-U72	The deadline for the submission of proposals for third reading is 9 May this year.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-04-25-PT13-533-U73	Thank you. The deadline for submitting proposals is 9 May this year. On the agenda - draft law “Amendments to the Law “On the Divestment of Real Estate for the Installation of the State Border Strip of the Republic of Latvia and the Russian Federation””, first reading. On behalf of the Legal Commission - Member Jānis Butāns.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-04-25-PT13-533-U74	Dear colleagues, During the meeting of the Legal Commission on 10 April, the draft law “Amendments to the Law “On the Expropriation of Real Estate for the Installation of the Border Strip of the Republic of Latvia and the Russian Federation” was reviewed. The draft law provides “to dispose of real estate or part thereof from land owners located at the external land border of the State in order to mark in nature the state border zone of the Republic of Latvia, the border zone and the external land border with the Russian Federation”, as well as to install “state border lanes, border bar and border indication signs and informational indications, subject to the relevant delegation”. The Legal Commission has supported the first reading of the draft law. I call on my colleagues to support the draft law.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-04-25-PT13-533-U75	Please call me! We will vote for the first reading of the draft law “Amendments to the Law “On the Divestment of Real Estate for the Installation of the State Border Strip of the Republic of Latvia and the Russian Federation”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. The draft law at first reading has been supported. Please set a time limit for the submission of proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-04-25-PT13-533-U76	The deadline for submitting proposals is April 30.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-04-25-PT13-533-U77	Thank you. The deadline for submitting proposals is April 30. On the agenda - draft law “Amendments to the Road Traffic Law”, first reading. On behalf of the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy – Member Jānis Vitenbergs.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-04-25-PT13-533-U78	In the Commission, we have examined the draft law ‘Amendments to the Road Traffic Law’ drawn up by the Ministry of Transport (No. 209/Lp13) and concluded that all norms of this draft law were included in the draft law “Amendments to the Road Traffic Law” (No. 176/Lp13). It's a bill that we supported in the Saeima some time ago. The Commission therefore requests that the draft law ‘Amendments to the Road Traffic Law’ be rejected (No. 209/Lp13) at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-04-25-PT13-533-U79	Please call me! Vote on draft law on amendments to the Road Traffic Law (No. 209/Lp13)! Please vote mode! The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. Mr Strike shows a green card. Sub-words: “Red! Red!’ ) Please see the result. -18, against -72, refrains - not. Draft law has been rejected. ( The head of the sitting was knocked down with a hammer.) On the agenda - Draft law on amendments to the Immigration Law, first reading. On behalf of the Commission for Defence, Home Affairs and Anti-Corruption - Member Edwin Šnore.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-04-25-PT13-533-U80	Hello, colleagues! We are working on the draft law on ‘Amendments to the Law on Immigration’ (No. 244/Lp13).
ParlaMint-LV_2019-04-25-PT13-533-U81	Just a minute! Please wait, Mr. Schnore. Colleagues! The Saeima sitting, please... The rapporteur reports the bill in the tribunal.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-04-25-PT13-533-U82	So “Amendments to the Immigration Law”, which offers to allow foreign students studying in Latvia to work at the same time as studies for 40 hours a week. The Commission has received opinions on this draft law from five ministries. The Ministry of Education and Science objected to the further progress of this draft law, stating that quality full-time colleges and bachelor level studies are incompatible with full-time work, as well as emphasising that already now foreigners are allowed to work for 40 hours a week. It is also allowed for bachelor’s students during the study vacation. A similar reasoning was provided by the Ministry of Economics, which acknowledged that the proposed solution does not have a significant impact on economic development. The Ministry of Finance opposed the further progress of the draft law, indicating that it could contribute to increasing illegal employment. The Ministry of the Interior also objected to the draft law, stressing that the proposed solution could create safety risks, and only the Ministry of Welfare stated that it does not object to the induced increase in the number of hours. To sum up all the arguments for and against, the Commission decided to reject the draft law.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-04-25-PT13-533-U83	Thank you. Let us start a debate. The name is Digit Schmidt.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-04-25-PT13-533-U84	Good afternoon, dear colleagues! Ladies and gentlemen! I will not repeat everything I said last time. Just a few comments on what Mr Schnores just said about the quality of education. I understand that we care very much about the quality of education of foreign students. But, as you know, Latvian students will be allowed to work full time, it doesn't matter to us. But the fact that foreigners will be able to work is a very striking question for us. The second is the increase in the shadow economy. It is a fantastic opinion that, by allowing us to legally pay taxes, we are multiplying the shadow economy. Fantastic proposal and comment! Third, the Ministry of the Interior is concerned about security threats. And that, by the way, is very serious. So if we can work for 40 hours instead of 20, we will face an increased security risk. In fact, it is some kind of full recognition of impotence, because it actually means that the authorities responsible for issuing temporary residence permits... further control, i.e. whether students are studying and legally residing in Latvia... Full recognition that it cannot be controlled. And then we have very serious questions. It is just as good for anyone who has entered here with a visa or without a visa, not to mention a temporary stay permit, perhaps, as you say, is not under control either. And finally, I... That's the coincidence. Yesterday members of the Sustainable Development Commission visited Poland, met representatives of various commissions and the Polish Chamber of Commerce and Industry. And I know... Given that Poland currently has a party called Law and Justice, which I understand is a very close partner to the National Association... Well, in any case, I am calling for an example of how the state should be led and what the national position should be, to go to Poland, as it is said, and to talk about these issues, namely not only about how foreign students are admitted, but also about how labour shortages are dealt with. In order to work in 16 professions, people from certain countries do not need to obtain work permits at all. Talk about what it means to open up a start-up company and get a residence permit in Poland! In fact, the Schengen visa holder can start working in these 16 professions without delay and legally. Examination of the residence permit within three months. Of course, there is also a possibility that someone may not accept it. Yeah. And, you know what's different... Is that so? I am not the “Law and Justice” of the Polish party, as the follower and supporter say, I have different political views, but for one thing I agree - irrespective of which party led Poland for the last 30 years - their economic achievements are those that can only be learned from. And that's the difference... They also call themselves nationalists, conservatives and so on. The difference between the Poles and us is that Polish nationalism is manifested, not by talking about the Second World War and its consequences, but... Polish nationalism means strengthening your country's economy and ensuring its growth. You don't have to divide society and scare us with some bad foreign students who, you see, can destroy Latvia's security! Thank you. (Applause)
ParlaMint-LV_2019-04-25-PT13-533-U85	Name to Member Janis Dombrava.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-04-25-PT13-533-U86	Indeed, strengthening the economy is essential. And the economy can be strengthened by raising productivity, going to the process of increasing automation, robotisation, increasing salaries for people working in Latvia, not, hindering progress, influxing unskilled labour into the Latvian economy that hit prices, wages and everything else. We are now seeing simple facts. There are universities in Latvia that specialize in foreign students, who are by nature fictitious universities, which, if they close one day, open the next day under another name; their only aim is to trade in students' visas in essence. Those universities that are qualitative - they oppose these amendments. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. L. Liepiņa’s intermediate call.) For example, Riga Technical University. Experts, including experts from the State Security Service, note that there are significant security threats. More recently, the Estonian Security Service also came up with a similar assessment for foreign students. The risks associated with student migration and the real problems are very serious, it notes the Estonian Security Service. They inform that, in their mother tongue, these students are informed, not about training in Estonia, but about how they can make use of the possibility of entering the Schengen area, moving between different Schengen countries and starting work. The Estonian Security Service also points out that students are recruited to work in an unskilled capacity. Their work has little added value. And this runs counter to the objectives that Estonia has set itself with regard to migration policy and which are, by nature, very similar to Latvia's objectives. In particular, they want to attract top-level specialists, scientists and IT experts (the Head of the sitting knocks down with a hammer.) , rather than unskilled labour. But yet... These very rational arguments, which come from different competent institutions in Latvia and outside Latvia, can be mentioned, but it is worth everyone to open an annotation of this draft law, which I think is absolutely... Either, perhaps not by the nightmare, but by one of the nightmares I have seen over many years. I will quote two sentences that are written in this statement: “Mostly students work much more than is allowed by law, but only the permitted working time is reflected in employers’ accounts. The number of foreign students illegally employed is so high that it is more logical to regulate so that they can work legitimately than to control businesses that do not respect these restrictions." The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. L. Liepiņa: “What exactly are you surprised about?” ) That the legislator... is able to bring amendments to the Saeima law, which says that the laws may not be respected, that there is a norm... the legislator... Don't report these businessmen who illegally employ foreign students, fake accounting... but instead try to subjugate the regulation to the offenders. Indeed, such a cynical attitude towards the rule of law is rarely seen. After this logic, the next step could be that we introduce some special conditions for those who do not respect work... overtime, we introduce additional conditions for those who, for example, employ children 10 hours a day, we introduce something else... Perhaps, for example, Mrs. Liepiņa would also like to offer... we are introducing the principle that giving bribes is legal, because many do so. We introduce the principle that pigs may be given, because many give bribes. This has been the logic of the draft law. I really call for this draft law to be rejected. We can talk about immigration policy and, in particular, how to attract highly qualified specialists to Latvia in those sectors where this is necessary. But we do not open up simply the additional attraction of unskilled labour in our economy. This will not contribute to economic progress.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-04-25-PT13-533-U87	The name to the Member Martyn Stackey.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-04-25-PT13-533-U88	Madam President of the Saeima. Honourable Members! Yes, it was a very interesting meeting where quite a large number of participants were invited. There were quite a number of businessmen and representatives of trade and employers' organisations, if I don't be mistaken, representatives of five ministries, universities. There was an exchange of views between the ministries. There were two ministries that were not opposed and two that were against. Higher education institutions were also opposed, but businessmen were, of course, supportive. I was able to ask questions, and I was also looking for answers to four questions before deciding on this proposal. The first question was: how then is this student working? There are no such statistics. What we know - 60 percent of Latvian students work full-time. If we assume that 60 percent of foreign students work, they could be about two and a half thousand. Then there was the question: can students really go here and not learn? The universities confirmed that if the students do not attend lectures and cannot pass the session, they are deducted. If they are deducted, they must leave the country within three days. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. R. Kols: “It’s at state universities! It's not in everyone!” ) Then there was also the question of whether it really was beneficial to work here. I knew some universities. For example, at the Riga Technical University Latvian students pay for computer system studies 1200 euros, foreign students from third countries - 3500 euros, so three times more. Similarly, with regard to engineering and mechanical engineering, where there are many students - 1350 euros for local students, 2970 euros for foreign students. In medicine even more. There, EUR 3600 is paid by local and EUR 12 000 by foreign students studying in English. And then I asked universities how many foreign students are there at present, and how many more you can still take, can they really drive here endlessly? Currently, about 11 percent of foreign students are in universities and the number of paid students could be increased to 20 percent. If we assume that there would be twice as many such students, that is, five thousand employees, it is not a significant number of Latvian security, but it is a significant number of Latvian entrepreneurs. You're meeting businessmen, and entrepreneurs tell you they don't have a job. Maybe this time we listen to what business people say. I am asking for support for this proposal. (Applause)
ParlaMint-LV_2019-04-25-PT13-533-U89	The name of the Member, John Isal.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-04-25-PT13-533-U90	Good morning, colleagues! The argument that Latvian students also work full-time work – 40 hours is expressed in discussions about this proposal in society as well as from this platform. Yeah, that's right. But these are the same people we need to give education even if this means they have acquired this higher education on the knapi four. For foreign students who are travelling to Latvia to study, however, I would like us to attract excellence rather than people who may be coming here to work more than to study. I therefore call for this draft law to be rejected. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-04-25-PT13-533-U91	The name to the Member Digim Schmit for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-04-25-PT13-533-U92	A very brief comment. Jānis Dombrava talked about the fact that entrepreneurs should pay employees good wages and promote productivity. I am sorry that the National Association has participated in all governments (and the Minister it nominated - particularly actively) in drafting the regulations of the Cabinet of Ministers... to make us the worst country in the Baltics in terms of competitiveness. Our energy prices for producers exceed Lithuanian prices by 40 per cent. And that's what you deserve. We have the highest taxes on labour on workers - your merit. And you don't have to be ashamed to climb into the barn and talk about wages and productivity?Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Someday you should put your eyes down and keep quiet. (Applause)
ParlaMint-LV_2019-04-25-PT13-533-U93	Name to Member Ilmar Duritis.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-04-25-PT13-533-U94	President-in-Office of the Saeima, very much. Dear Members, I see no reason why we should reject this bill. Because if these people want to study in Latvia, they have found a place of study, have passed strict immigration control and have arrived in our country, then why should they be subject to other rules on working in our country? I call for these amendments to be strongly supported and for these people to be allowed to work in the same way as students in Latvia, so for Latvian students, 40 hours of work week. Moreover, it must be borne in mind that very many of these foreign students work for 40 hours not during normal working hours, but... Let us say, this is a shift work that really is compatible with the study. Why not let these people also earn extra - extra! - the means to enable them really to continue their studies? The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. R. Col’s intermediate call.) Because, as you know, the study process is not cheap. More. It’s absolutely wrong. — Dep. J. Saalnieks: “We don’t need mediocre!” )... It is not the right argument that these people will just come to study here, leave their studies and continue to work here. As Mr Staķis said, there is a system in universities: if a student leaves his studies, then the university reports to the appropriate institution, and the individual is identifiable, all this is manageable. So that I call on Members to support this draft law, do not reject it. Thank you. (Applause)
ParlaMint-LV_2019-04-25-PT13-533-U95	Name to Member Vjačeslav Dombrovskis.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-04-25-PT13-533-U96	Dear colleagues, I will be very brief. There is much talk about the economy and so on. You all want to live up to the promises made to your constituents, right? Their promises require money, but at least this year they did not have money. I think it will not be for next year either. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. R. Colla and D. R. Amber intermediates.) Now think about something else. According to the European Commission's forecasts, the number of Latvians will decrease by one percent each year over the next 20 years. The working population will fall by 1.6 percent each year. By putting such a rating in the world on countries that are depopulation, Latvia is second. And now we are talking about an absolute economic ABC. What do you think of a foreign investor... you all talk about attracting foreign investments... Which foreign investor will show an interest in investing in the country, which is forecasted to reduce the working population by 1.6 percent each year? Who? Think of which of the local entrepreneurs working for exports will compete in terms of wages if the working population is constantly declining? Next question. Who will pay pensions to pensioners, older people, if the working population is steadily declining? Will the members of the National Alliance do so from... ( Not clear.) How so? I like you or not, but attracting foreign students and, consequently, future work so that these people stay here to work, earn money and also help pay pensions for our pensioners, is perhaps one of the ways we can ensure the viability of our country. Think about it, especially the National Union. In the same Poland as Mr. Schmitt talked about, where we were with Members yesterday... I think that Poland is a very national country, which did not pose a major problem for them: to increase the number of labour immigrants to five per cent of the total population over a few years. Are they not concerned about the interests of their country? Is Poland unsuccessful in terms of economic development? ( Interface: “Polish is 98 percent in Poland! ” ) Think and support! Thank you. (Applause)
ParlaMint-LV_2019-04-25-PT13-533-U97	The name of the Member, John Adamson.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-04-25-PT13-533-U98	Highly honored Presidium! Dear colleagues, When we looked at this draft law at the Commission on Defence, Home Affairs and Prevention of Corruption, I also asked a number of questions of my interest, which, unfortunately, I did not receive a reply. What were these questions? First. What number of students are we talking about? How many foreign students are working at the moment, how many are not working? Or any of the institutions that have already been mentioned here - five ministries, many non-governmental organisations and so on... Does anyone have any information we're talking about at all? What is being discussed? Next question. How many foreign students currently work 20 hours, and does anyone have data on how many students violate the norms of this law? There is no answer. It should be noted that the Ministry of Economics presented us with interesting data, one of which was that we currently have vacancies for 23 thousand jobs. Another question I asked was: do all officials, representatives of ministries have any information about how many state and municipal employees work for the second, third and fourth jobs they receive? Are there any records? No, it's not. Does anyone have records, how many students study in Latvian... Latvian citizens study abroad, what do they do there and how many of them return? And why are these students, who study there to stay, fighting in the West and creating working conditions to tame them to that system? Even when we study in foreign military schools, we often remain in service in the army or in the fleet where they have received education. Next question. Yes, universities, especially RTU, objected to these amendments. But the question I asked is this: what quality of education do we even discuss if there are no lectures in many universities on Fridays and Mondays? Tuesday, Wednesday, Thursday - two three lectures. The question is, what are students doing in the rest of the time? And it's not just foreign students. First of all, it affects our students, the quality of our people's training. And do we really have to avoid the possibility that, in the future, students who meet different criteria could stay with their brains here in our country? Unfortunately, these questions... I did not receive an answer to any of these questions. And to be honest, I don’t see why I should vote against. On immigration policy. Dear National Union! As a result of your activity, we have lost one and a half billion investments through temporary residence permits. — Dep. R. Col’s intermediate call.) 9.1 billion of non-residents' money located in Latvian banks. And we believe that no damage to national interests has happened to the national economy?Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The question is, if we continue to do so, where will we be? I call for support for the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-04-25-PT13-533-U99	Name to Member Rihard Cole.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-04-25-PT13-533-U100	Dear President of the Saeima. Dear and honourable colleagues! There may need to be some clarification here. At the moment, its rhetoric from the troupe, from several speakers, has said that... Well, there's the impression that foreign students are already prohibited to work in Latvia. Let us be clear. It's allowed 20 hours a week... And we should talk... Why increase by another 20 hours, compare it to the normal working time in Latvia within a week on working days... it's set - 40 hours a week... But here should perhaps be some clarification. And should also dispel concerns of foreign students. We are not talking here about citizens of the European Union or citizens of the European Economic Area for students (they have the right to study here, to work in the same way as any citizen of the European Union); we are talking about third-country nationals. Third-country nationals subject to these restrictions. And these are objective reasons. I myself have studied abroad (not in the European Union, but outside the European Union) and there are very strict requirements for you to provide specific funding, to show that your bank account has the means to ensure your stay during your studies in the country in question. If you can't show that amount, you don't get a student visa. So I have a question: how do we also see it? And here they have already objected... I admit that these are state universities which oppose such a... that private universities, of course, want to regulate as softly as possible and more widely as possible. And if we're still talking about this employment, obviously most of the sector... It will be a service sector where these foreign students will be employed for 40 hours in addition. What do we see? What are the reports from the State Language Centre? That there are a number of violations. It is about violations of the Law on State Language, that neither the rotten word in the state language is able to communicate with clients in specific, let's accept, food, institutions. So what do we provide here? We are weakening the role of the state language in the country as a whole - also with the presence of foreign students. And the end. The previous speaker, Mr Adamson, said that Mondays and Fridays are free in universities, but on Tuesdays and Thursdays there are studies. What can these students do for the rest of the time? I have not received education in the days of the Soviet Union, when perhaps I had to sit between Monday and Friday from 9 a.m. to.... ) even on Saturday, as I have been told here. Today, the approach to higher education is different. The student himself works with himself, he carries out analytical and research work outside of studies. And that's the basis of how to develop the abilities that aren't just a man's robot, but he's perfecting himself outside of the study period. Total elementary - high school is not a secondary school. In high school, of course, you're going to take it with you, and you're going to be an adult in high school. And I think that there is no need for the kind of approach that existed in the Soviet Union. In my opinion, the current employment framework for 20 hours per week is optimal. I also believe, of course, that much closer supervision should be carried out both as to how students are selected and how they are attending the studies, how successful, how unsuccessful, how many of them complete the studies that they have begun here in Latvia. So that I call for this particular amendment to the law to be rejected. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-04-25-PT13-533-U101	Name of Member Anita Muižniece.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-04-25-PT13-533-U102	Hello! In this debate, it has been made clear that, in fact, in connection with this draft law, we are talking not about education, but about employment. And if we want to allow students to work 40 hours a week, which is full-time working time, we can't talk about the fact that a residence permit can be justified by the study. In this case, licences should be issued on an employment basis and completely other amendments should be made, but these amendments would not be necessary. The OECD study on foreign labour attraction in 2016 also shows that most Member States do not allow students to exceed 20 hours of work, which... and the minimum 15 working hours are respected in several countries. This is only evidence of primary education and not of work. That must also be the case in our country, so I call for it not to be supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-04-25-PT13-533-U103	Name to Member Aldi Gobzem.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-04-25-PT13-533-U104	Hello! I think we need to start with a couple of logical questions and corresponding answers to these questions. The great concern is that the Latvian language will disappear. And then, of course, there's a question where it could disappear or where it's the most disappearing? Does the Latvian language disappear in Latvia, or does the Latvian language disappear when people leave Latvia, which is one of the poorest countries in Europe? The answer is very simple: the Latvian language disappears by emigrating Latvian families and giving birth to children abroad... which starts to speak English, and so on. The second thing is the question: what number are we talking about? To understand, there are about... I will not tell you from my head, but together with all our local students about 80,000 students. 80-85 thousand. Foreign students out of these 80 thousand have about seven percent, which is about five thousand people. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. R. Col’s intermediate call.) About five thousand people are worried. The question is, whether five thousand students who have received... who are officially located in Latvia and who have apparently been tested as non-hazardous persons may in some way threaten Latvia? I guess you can't. The third key issue that society also needs to understand is that any student of the European Union can work full-time in Latvia. Thus, for example, a Turkish from Germany can work full-time in Latvia, but a Turkish from Turkey, who has received a legal residence permit in Latvia and has been subjected to these security checks, cannot do so. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. R. Col: “But there’s a logic!” ) The question is very simple: can a person who has passed all security checks and has received a legal residence permit in Latvia threaten the state of Latvia? The next thing that matters. We are talking - and it is also mentioned in the government declaration - that we want our country to become competitive so that our education becomes competitive. And then, of course, the next question is whether Latvian education can be competitive if we do not allow legally existing people in Latvia to work? The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. R. Kohl: “This is world practice.” ) What I want to say is a very simple answer. How does this happen at the moment? In current circumstances, those who are not allowed to work... they're already doing the same thing. It is simply within the shadow economy. Those who want to find a way to work illegally for more than 20 hours... Let us admit honestly that these people also work for more than 20 hours. They will do nothing in the Latvian economy. But this attitude actually only increases the shadow economy. What is the result? Our country has low competitiveness. In our country, there is no system to tempt you to study here, which could leave you both in tax and study costs. Because about five thousand people - it's not a competitive student size, compared to any university in a developed European country or a world country and so on. These, in my opinion, are quite logical and sufficient arguments that the policy of the former National Alliance, when it comes to protecting Latvia, has actually led to Latvia's protection going in the opposite direction. More and more people are leaving Latvia, more and more students of Latvia (Intersage.) leaves Latvia and does not return. The competitiveness of Latvia, as my colleague Didzis Šmits has already pointed out, is decreasing because we have the highest electricity prices and the most expensive labour taxes. And in fact, this policy does not lead to us becoming a competitive and interesting country in which our people would like to return and in which they would like to study abroad, and in which they would like to develop business, but on the contrary - we are beginning to destroy. This proposal completely clear and unambiguously undermines the existing shadow economy and does not, in fact, give rise to any safety concerns... any possible damage to safety. And by the end. Latvian universities do not have to fight against legal or illegal immigration. Latvian universities must fight only for the quality of education. Legal or illegal immigration must be combated solely by an immigration service. This is just an issue for the immigration service. Hence, the argument that a fictitious person is studying something means that the competent authorities who have issued a permit have not carried out the appropriate checks. And that's all. I call for this proposal to be supported. (Applause)
ParlaMint-LV_2019-04-25-PT13-533-U105	The name to the Member is Att Zakaitistov. ( Internouncing call.)
ParlaMint-LV_2019-04-25-PT13-533-U106	While you let me talk, you have to talk. Here, I think two very important things are collapsing. These things may be more, I am less, but in the future this House will speak. On the one hand, it is immigration, which is an important issue for the survival of the majority of the nation, and the feeling that the majority of the nation could be threatened. On the other hand, it is employment, and it is also a fundamental thing, because employment creates wealth and our people want to be rich. In my opinion, we should look together for a criterion to distinguish between issues that are immigration issues and those that are employment issues. If I should offer such a criterion, then can I count it? At a time when a certain problem can be expressed with figures, we can very well predict what will happen, we can very well predict how people will act. Thus, at a time when it can be expressed with figures, I think it is employment. If it cannot be quantified, it is immigration and a threat to the nation. This is the case where very clearly this problem can be analysed with figures, and I think it is an employment issue. I therefore call for this to be supported and for our economy to grow. (Applause)
ParlaMint-LV_2019-04-25-PT13-533-U107	Name to Member Raiv Dzintar.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-04-25-PT13-533-U108	Dear Chairman of the Saeima. Dear colleagues, Just a few accents. Three things I want to draw your attention to. On several occasions there was an argument - the interests of the university and the education system in Latvia, and that is true. It is logical that Latvian higher education institutions compete for attracting foreign students; I think this will be demonstrated by every university representative. However, I call on each of us to ask why, in that case, the largest Latvian universities (the Riga Technical University was mentioned here, but I can also refer to the rector of the University of Latvia who has named this proposal absurd) do not support this proposal? At the same time, universities are those that should be fighting to the greatest extent if this really was a proposal that helps to attract high-quality foreign students. They should first say, 'Yes, we support this!' But they say, “No, there’s something wrong!” This is because foreign students who really follow the goal of providing and helping... developing a high-quality education system, attracting people to other roads. We hear about good examples of Latvian universities looking for cooperation partners in the United States, creating joint programmes, excellent offer, attracting foreign lecturers, competing for quality of education. This is the development of higher education. On the contrary, the green light will be given to educational institutions, including private ones, to give additional motivation to compete in this market with a completely different offer. Not education, but the possibility of circumventing employment standards, which is written in the Immigration Act. Therefore, please remove this argument and do not plead support for higher education. If the university representatives, the management says that this is not the case, then let us listen to them! Secondly. There was a reference... Mr Dūris mentioned to the security services that the security services are under very strict control. But several debates have already taken place... you have probably not heard that the security services are the ones that are alarming about this situation. That here lies in fact (Dep. L. Liepiņa’s intermediate call.) ... Yes, even about KaPo, but I don't know, you can also talk to representatives of the Latvian security authorities - what is what they control? They can monitor compliance with certain criteria to the extent that their resources generally allow them to do so. At best, check if there is any known link with security threats when it comes to terrorism, the criminal world, but they cannot control... and they do not have to do it, it would be absurd if they looked at the extent to which students are here for learning purposes, not whether our employment standards are being circumvented. It can't be controlled by security authorities who don't have to... and, unfortunately, there are no other effective mechanisms for controlling this. And finally, the third thing. Immigration policy It seems to me that, often in this debate, we feel that the issue is being very simplified by the idea of 'for' or 'no' immigration. Even the National Association, which is, of course, more sceptical in these... Any immigration issue... We want to set seven times and only cut, neither are we ready to answer with "yes" or "no", "for" or "no" in these questions. These are complex, multifaceted issues. And, of course, we have to discuss the high-rewards... high added value in sectors where we have a real shortage of labour, where we cannot produce enough high-quality specialists, and we need to think about specific instruments to address these issues. But we... This is therefore a protest, first and foremost, against the problem of immigration methods, and therefore not against the fact that immigration policy in general has issues to deal with, but against a particular method, because this is actually a circumvention of the law by the back door, not a solution to the problem. The law is quite unfair bypassing the back door. I call for us to stick to the Commission's proposal and vote 'no'. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-04-25-PT13-533-U109	The name to the Member Atm Lejny.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-04-25-PT13-533-U110	The Office, colleagues! I call on you to think responsibly about this proposal, very responsibly. And I agree with my colleague who said that this issue is an issue of employment, not an issue of education. Please take into account what has happened in other countries of the European Union and what political response these countries have subsequently experienced! I would also like to answer a question that was completely wrong here. To the allegations that more than goes back from Latvia. It's completely wrong! ( Internouncing call.) You're going less, you're going much less. And there's a lot more of our compatriots in here. We have not yet achieved what Estonia has already achieved - half a half. ( Internouncing call.) Please don't stop! Half for half. Estonia is now returning more than leaving. And in Sweden the same thing. In Sweden, 75 thousand returned two years ago - the so-called real Swedes. So it's normal to leave and come back. But our task is to... And I think we're going to do it in two years, that we're going to get back as much as we're going. And I think it will happen when our salary, the average salary, reaches 1500 euros per month. Then it will! For no matter where you go in Latvia, in rural and regional areas, everyone says: “The question is how big an average salary is here.” And that's what matters. We're going to that side now. Now you're saying there's a shadow economy. Is it our task, then, to promote the informal economy? We all know that they're working, as they say here, more than 20 hours a week, and that's the shadow economy. Well, then tell me, please... How can the Member say that we need to work in the shadow economy?Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, You don't need to! And we have success. Look at what is happening on construction sites! We have very successfully reduced the shadow economy on construction sites, as it is, by 30 percent, if? Or 34 percent. It is possible - it is possible! - fight against the shadow economy. So please don't excuse that we need them for us... as a labour force only because they will still work in the shadow economy. That is not the logic, and that is not what we should think. You know, I live next to a private school that is visited by so many foreign students. And, you know, one day can't go in there anymore - on every floor, on every floor, there's a tournament ( well, what's at us is at the door, where you have to go with a special card, with a scheme). And you know why? I ask, “Why are you introducing it here?” It turns out that those students' houses... that they don't live there for two students... Those who study, 10! And no one knows what they are. We heard from the three-- We don't know who they are. So we justify one law, not knowing who all those who come here are. At the same time, I would like to tell you that more and more of these countries are rejecting. Because their interests are not so much to study, but work and then forgive me, go to Germany, to Poland and Sweden... with which we will have problems later. They're coming from you! Why have you not obeyed the law? Why don't you have stricter laws? That is how we have problems with them. They disappear suddenly, and we have to pay for sending them back. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. (D. Schmit’s intermediate call.) It seems to me that some good here have business interests that they hire. Excuse me! Please think about what we're doing here! Redirect... reject and direct to the draft employment law!
ParlaMint-LV_2019-04-25-PT13-533-U111	The name to Anda Chakša.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-04-25-PT13-533-U112	Hello, colleagues! Dear President of the Saeima. I think there are some questions in the Saeima that make so many speakers... Remember, shooting 16-year-olds... Then what was our next question... Is that so? It's funny. (See the box below.) Curumination has been, dog tipping... These questions are of great interest. Just a question: what are we discussing? The question is whether we are talking about equal opportunities for all students. If we cannot solve the issue and understand what to do with it, maybe we ask another question, we do not allow to work for all our Latvian students. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. R. Coll: “These are third-country nationals, Mrs. Chaksh!” ) Why are we talking about one student being able to work (Dep. S. Riekstins: “What about butter!” ), but you can't? Then we ban everyone from working! The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. R. Kols: “But these are third-country students!” ) Let all sit and learn! We are on the other side! And in order not to try to solve some other problems through students right now, I have a request to look at this issue so that all students have equal opportunities. All the arguments have already been put forward by the previous speakers, and I do not think that it is about the work of students that some concerns about immigration, which is regulated and monitored, need to be addressed. I think it is important that all students have equal opportunities regardless of where they come from if they study here. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. R. Kohl: ‘Teaching to work, if?’ ) We then adopt a consistent decision as legislator in a broad context. Thank you. (Applause)
ParlaMint-LV_2019-04-25-PT13-533-U113	The name of Member Arthur Tom Plesh.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-04-25-PT13-533-U114	Hello, dear colleagues! I just want to mention what we are all well aware of. However, we live in a global world (interruption: “We live though!” ), and in general there will be no way back. If we want to think about Latvia's future, about Latvia's competitiveness, about increasing productivity, which we talk so much about... we also compete for talents on the international stage... about attracting and retaining talent here... In the face of increased competition for attracting talent in the world, we need to compete, think about different tools to attract and retain students. Of course, this is ensuring and increasing the quality of higher education. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. J. Iesalnieks: “University is against!” ) It is also about various other ways of attracting and keeping students here. I don't want to mention this example, but now... Estonia, of course, again... the neighbouring country attracts students from Europe, from abroad who are not members of the European Union, and there is no limit to how many hours they want to work there. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A. Interdependence of the Muižniece.) They are quite conscious of themselves, can plan their working hours in such a way that they can study fully and work together. So, I think, colleagues, let's look at Latvia in the future, think about Latvia, think about how to attract and retain those students who feel belonging to Latvia who know Latvian and have felt that they are living here. Let us look responsibly and support this proposal! Thank you. (Applause)
ParlaMint-LV_2019-04-25-PT13-533-U115	Name to Member Ivar Pug.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-04-25-PT13-533-U116	Hello, colleagues! Ladies, gentlemen! Let us look at this problem from a different perspective. There's a good saying, don't do what you don't want to do for you. The question to those who say that this draft law should be rejected is that if your friends, family, acquaintances, who study abroad, received the same rejection and could not work during their studies (Dep. R. Col: “Yes, I got it! I told you!” ) how would you feel? The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. Col: “I felt right. This is their right!” ) You specifically... You know, in your own experience... But, I understand, you're the only one... I therefore call for support for this draft law. (Applause)
ParlaMint-LV_2019-04-25-PT13-533-U117	Mrs Petraviča, will you have seven minutes to debate? The name of Member Ramona Petraviča.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-04-25-PT13-533-U118	Dear President of the Saeima. Dear colleagues, We are all aware of the lack of labour for our entrepreneurs. Entrepreneurs are constantly waiting for government solutions, action to improve this situation. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. J. Kursīte-Pakule: “What about working?Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, “ By allowing 40 hours of work, we will only reduce the shadow economy and even reduce labour shortages, especially in sectors such as catering and hotel business, where these foreign students work mostly. And somebody may work for 25 or 30 hours. ( The box “Let me have 60! ”) ; “80!” ) It is not said that they will all work for 40 hours. But we will have come to business and solved the problem. Perhaps there must be permanent obstacles to entrepreneurship, and obstacles to students? If they are able to combine work with training, why not allow it? If our students can, can foreign students not? You have to stop being afraid of your shadow and be afraid of others. We cannot live as a reservation and try to survive. Thank you. (Applause)
ParlaMint-LV_2019-04-25-PT13-533-U119	Name of Member Inese Lībiņš-Egner. I understand that it will be enough for a debate to be held in six minutes, huh?
ParlaMint-LV_2019-04-25-PT13-533-U120	Yeah, thank you. Dear colleagues, A lot of emotions from this pub. But it must start with the fact that there is, of course, a satisfaction that the subject of immigration by the Saeima will not be taboos, as we can see at the moment. Indeed, we will address this distressing problem - and we will address it based on arguments and based on solutions that are sustainable. There was also a great deal of emotion about the fact that students cannot be divided by stereotypes, by origin, by nationality, by skin colour, and that everything can only be joined. And we are not talking at this point about a short-term solution for those students who are already in Latvia and whose examination has been carried out in relation to whether or not there are possible security risks. But we're talking about the future. And I invite you to listen to the facts and figures that have not come from this platform. In particular, the number of refused visas in 2017 (I am referring specifically to students' visas) is 22 percent... 22 percent. The number of refused visas in 2018 is 34 %. This year, by March, the number of refused visas has already reached 42 percent. And the reasons for refusals, as can be found in contact with consular officers, are inconceivable. The forms of document counterfeiting are inconceivable. False birth certificates, fake identity cards, fake school certificates of general education... some kind of formation. Our consular staff, who have already been strengthened, are trying to catch all of this. We don't have security staff in consular services, nor any other... immigration agency staff. Let us land and look at reality. Let us consider the principles behind the issuing of study visas. They are students' visas; they need to make sure first of all that they really meet those requirements so that they can obtain higher education at all. ( Inspiration: “Who betrays? ”) ) If we open these locks without (Dep. I. Zarins: “What are the locks?Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, What will change?’ ) in-depth studies to 1st September, then by nature those students who really deserve to study in Latvia will not be able to obtain a study permit before 1st September. A large number of students already do not get a permit at the beginning of the semester just because of the malpractice students. Quite simply, the number of these applications is such that it is not possible to examine them. Universities in Latvia are very different, and unfortunately it is a reality. It is also one unmade work to be done in this Saeima. And by all means... I really... Many teachers in several universities, those we represent, do not support these amendments. It is not supported because there are indecent universities in Latvia which do not deal with the provision of higher education services, but only provide a diploma or an immigration cover. And if we want to deal with it (Minimum saying, "How did you allow this to happen, the New Unity?" ) can be done on the basis of normal studies. This solution is very fast and easy, but it is not in life. We can certainly find a normal, good solution and listen to the objections of the security services. I do not think that the objections of the security services are emotional and that it would not be worth listening to. I cannot support this draft law. I believe that the intentions and objectives are very good, but - not with such a solution, colleagues! I really believe that by thinking and working a little more, we can find a normal solution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-04-25-PT13-533-U121	The debate will continue after the break. Please call me! Please register the Members! Time for notifications. Name of Member Janina Kursīte-Pakulė.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-04-25-PT13-533-U122	Dear colleagues, Commission of Mandates, Ethics and Applications, 10 a.m., 10.40 a.m., on the Commission's premises.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-04-25-PT13-533-U123	The name of the Member, Martin Bondar.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-04-25-PT13-533-U124	Dear colleagues, Dear colleagues, The Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission is sitting right away, on a break, so that we are looking at some of the issues that need to be addressed next Thursday. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-04-25-PT13-533-U125	Name to Marija Golubeva, member of the Saeima Secretary, for the results of the registration.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-04-25-PT13-533-U126	Not registered: Sergey Dolgopolov, Ojārs Ēriks Kalniņš, Ivan Klementjevs, Vladimir Nikonovs.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-04-25-PT13-533-U127	Thank you. Interruption until 11 a.m. ( Interruption) ( Interruption)
ParlaMint-LV_2019-04-25-PT13-533-U128	Dear colleagues, We're continuing the Saeima sitting after a break. On the agenda: draft law on amendments to the Immigration Law. We are continuing the debate. The name of the Member, Martin Bondar.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-04-25-PT13-533-U129	Colleagues! I fully understand those colleagues who, however, want to limit their working hours to students from other countries, because if they work so much, then it could be that they earn more than 20 hours and then... then the economy in Latvia would heat up. And we can no longer allow the economic upheaval in Latvia. But, believe me, the economy in Latvia is stronger than we, here on Jēka street, when we sit, think. It will also last if these students work 40 hours a week. I therefore call for support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-04-25-PT13-533-U130	The name of the Member Anita Muižniece for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-04-25-PT13-533-U131	Good afternoon, colleagues! Mr Bondara, thank you for your understanding. Mrs Lībiņa-Egnere, thank you for the facts. I would like to respond a little bit by fact to the previous speakers. For example, you pointed out, Mrs Petraviča, that we should give these people the opportunity to combine work with learning. We do not at any time prevent this possibility completely, but we should remind ourselves: if we really want to think in the long term, it should be remembered that a happy and healthy person needs not only work and not only education but also recreation, time for himself and peace. And to carry out high-quality studies and indeed learn - unfortunately this cannot be achieved by working for 40 hours. Once again, I would like to remind you that the arguments in support of the amendments are built on the benefits for employment and the economy, not on improving the quality of education, and should not be seen in the context of this draft law. In response to some of these misinterpretations, it is also worth mentioning that restrictions on the employment of foreign students exist not only between European countries, but also in other countries. In France, Germany, Austria, Luxembourg, the Netherlands, Denmark and Switzerland, the number of hours allowed for the employment of foreign students is less than 20 hours, while the 20 hour limit is set by Belgium, Ireland, the United Kingdom, Greece, Italy, Latvia, Norway, Australia, Canada, Mexico, Korea, New Zealand and also by the USA. In Turkey, mentioned by Mr Dūris, as in Finland and Hungary, this threshold is just over 20 hours, i.e. 23-24 hours per week. Also, recent studies on how learning changes show that full-time students spend time in learning have grown from an average of 32 to 37.6 hours per week in the last years. But how to add a 40-hour working week? How does it go hand in hand with quality, competitive and long-term education? The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. L. Liepiņa: “Latvian students... ") I call once again on colleagues to think in the context of education, not about how to employ cheap workers from third countries.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-04-25-PT13-533-U132	Name to Member Janis Dombrava for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-04-25-PT13-533-U133	Thank you to the previous speaker. Indeed, I can say that, in the debate today in the Saeima, too, there have been very, very many folly from this tribunal. Mr Adamson said that closing the temporary residence permit programme, in which temporary residence permits were traded on the left, had caused economic losses of EUR 1.5 billion. That's total stupid! Instead of this programme, a first housing purchase programme was established. At the moment, the construction industry goes to the cave and there are no problems. ( The box “Yes! ”) ) One of the biggest muldons in this Saeima - Mr Gobzem - has once again tried to oppose this thesis that everything is bad in the country and to say that emigration is huge and growing. On the contrary, Mr. Gobzem! At the time when the National Association became a government party in 2011, emigration was 39,000 people who left Latvia. In 2017, the number of these visitors decreased to 17 thousand. The exact data for the past year are not yet available, but over many decades the historical lowest level of travelers has been reached. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. L. Liepiņa: “That’s because there’s no one to drive anymore! Everyone's gone!” ; dep. S. Riekstins: “You are still!” ) A number of CPV LVs and Development/Par! Members said that educational institutions can deduct students who do not study... but he's learning. Yeah, you can do that. But are all interested in doing so? Of course not. If it is an educational institution that deliberately works for the sale of student visas, it is not interested in deducting the student. Even if he doesn't learn. He can be given... For example, he can be transferred to another study program where he is fictitiously continuing his studies, and so he can continue this circus for many years, with a fictitious preservation of the student’s visa. Arthur Tom Pelles said that in this way we have the opportunity to attract professionals. What kind of professionals? What kind of professionals?Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Get off the talents! Yes, the talents of dishwashing. Guests. I would understand if there were a proposal to make it possible for these bachelor's students to work, for example, only in the information technology sector, where we have a shortage of labour. Identify specific high value added sectors in which these students could work, somehow combining working time with training. But no! This is not the case. The proposal is essentially to promote employment in low value added sectors. I really don't want that way... By unwittingly liberalising employment policy, we will not only contribute to Latvia's economic development, but will slow down it directly. We will slow down further market alignment. We will slow down the increase in wages for our working people. This will, of course, encourage people to continue their journey away from Latvia. If we remain firm against the lobbying of some unscrupulous entrepreneurs, then I think the market itself will sort out: only those entrepreneurs who are truly able to offer competitive services and products that are able to provide workers with decent pay will remain in the sector (interim.) , and it will immediately promote re-migration, return to Latvia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-04-25-PT13-533-U134	The name to Member Karin Scratch.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-04-25-PT13-533-U135	Hello, Madam President. Good afternoon, dear colleagues! I am delighted with the broad debate and the emphasis on the importance of nationalism for our nation. The indignation of the national issue and anxiety is of weight. If we are a national state, then the highest positions of the state should also be directed towards national-minded persons who should be concerned about the future of Latvia and not those who have been given from the supporters of the immigration process, also known as sorosites. Why are these aspects not taken into account when it comes to senior officials? Why is it acceptable to move such persons to the highest position if we see clearly that this is one of the founding members of the Soros Foundation? So where are national values and patriotism here and, after all, the unification of the people, not division? I have a big misunderstanding about what's happening in the Saeima. Why is there a debate on the issue of about two and a half thousand students who have left the immigration control services? Should we not control and stop accredited universities trading in education and strengthen the capacity of immigration control services to carry out their duties? Is the country, once again, not meeting its direct responsibilities and putting all its responsibilities on the citizens' shoulders? Is there no current doubleness here from the National Association? Please, let us be consistent! And please support this proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-04-25-PT13-533-U136	The name to Member Aldi Gobzem for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-04-25-PT13-533-U137	This is a dedication to Mrs. Muižniece: “When the spirit has slowed you down, when you left for yourself a burden, one thing is the means: Work.” That's what our great people's poet, Rainis, said. ( Intercretion: “He was wrong! ” ) He described it very precisely. The countries named by Mrs. Muņi, where there are some restrictions, are a very good example of a comparison... Let us take the example of the Netherlands, whose territory is actually a third smaller than Latvia, but whose gross domestic product amounts to 826 billion (Interdependence.) - unlike Latvia, the relatively small amount of gross domestic product. And the answer to the question of why there is such a gross domestic product is work. ( Insight: “What is the connection?Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, “ The second thing I want to say. National associations of all the ideas that are, in fact, anti-national interests mean, by their very nature, understanding national interests, not beyond kebab. Kebb is the border of how far the National Union understands. (Applause) I will give you one example. A third-year student from India, a talent who knows, for example, the IT sector and works for example, at the company Mikrotik. He is only allowed to work for 20 hours. The question is very simple: will this student, who is only allowed to work in Latvia for 20 hours in the IT sector, not be bought by Apple, and will this issue of gross domestic product not move from Latvia anywhere else? Another point that is very much to be said in this regard is the argument. What, then, is the main argument? In fact, the main argument is the Latvian language, which actually disappears abroad and is not what we are talking about. In Latvia, large foreign companies have long spoken not in Latvian but in English, because owners of these companies, such as banks, do not understand Latvian. And employees speak English. Well... The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A. Interdependence of the Muižniece.) Another important point in the same context, which should be said and emphasised, is that the national association's idea of work is, in principle, comparable to Mr Dombrava's proposal on how to deal with problems in the health sector, namely that we can solve problems in the health sector by moving working hours from morning to evening. That is what Mr Dombrava said in the relevant Commission where this issue was dealt with. It was at the Commission for Sustainable Development. To close this idea, I want to say... Another theme that came from Mrs Muižniece, why should not be supported. Because students have to study. I'm sorry, then we don't allow Latvian students to work because they have to study to make them smarter. Why do we allow Latvian students to work? You want them to be stupid? But for foreign students, we'll just make them study, so that they're smarter? And the last one I want to say. In our country... our discussions mainly concern minor issues that are not in any way related to the development of national economic interests. (Applause) Our Parliament's biggest debate is how to chim dogs or how to walk in a hundred-year-old... in some fragrants, or (interim.) ... For example, allow or prevent a 16-year-old from going hunting with Dad or Mom using a weapon. Our parliamentary discussions are never about issues that affect the country's economic development, children's future and improving competitiveness, so that Latvia becomes, for example, the 10th richest country in the world. Thank you. (Applause)
ParlaMint-LV_2019-04-25-PT13-533-U138	Name to Member Alexander Kirštein.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-04-25-PT13-533-U139	Dear President, Honourable Members! I'm surprised that so little we listened to what Member Lībiņa-Egnere said. Forty per cent refusals to students. ( Independence: “42! ” ) Forty-two, yes? Well, you're gonna be... Now it's 50. ( Interface: “It’s not students! ” ) It is catastrophic if people mostly from Central Asia, the former Soviet republics... with purchased diplomas, without knowledge, but with rich parents, ride fun to spend time and obtain residence permits in the European Union. We know all this. Do we need students from European Union countries, such as German students at Riga Stradins University, or will we continue the policy with these, say, imported students from former Soviet republics? Very rightly, the question was asked: does Latvia lack the labour force as a country, a new European Union country with a modern and dynamic economy? There's a lack of jobs. What kind of jobs are lacking? Today, those who went to Riga saw what was going on if they collapsed... Well, don't come down, but there's a half-head of the Deglav Bridge. Problems with the Brass Bridge, too. Everyone can see on the Internet that such a bridge was built in China in 48 hours. You can still find someone who has not seen... Well, as an architect, I've met... The 80-storey hotel was built in 24 hours... Will these students replace professional builders from Turkmenistan? Will they solve its problems? It may be that there are very professional programmers. The IT sector was mentioned here. Yes, we must increase the number of these students. We're short of six thousand. But at the same time... Don't come to us from Turkmenistan, that is, from Turkmenistan, neither from Tajikistan... But, I know, people from Spain, from Italy, are working for us, for example, because salaries in Latvia are competitive. And obviously that direction is some kind of... I'm salty. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. R. Lochmele-Lunova: “This is xenophobia!” ) How can we find a solution to this problem? It's not with this cowardly law. Now the Immigration Act is like a lavish dec. ( Insight: “It’s not the only one! The budget law was the same!’ ) We correct it three to four times a year and fasten it all the time. I think there is only one way out here: we need to introduce a new concept: "contract workers". The principle is very simple - there is a contract, there is an entry, there is an entry, there is an entry, there is money, there is an exit. No one would object if we concluded a contract, let us say to a Chinese construction company that they built a new Bridge of Deglav in two days and leave. Or, for example, within a month, the North Line is built. The Riga City Council has enough money. The tunnels, if anyone doesn't know, are being built in about a month's time... Under the Daugava... So here in Riga, for 30 years, we've been in the North Overlay... We can take over the experience... These issues have already been resolved. In the United Arab Emirates, some 17... 18 percent of citizens currently live... The skyscrapers are being built, for example, by Christians in the Philippines. No problem! Finish the job, see you! No integration, no family, nothing more. A precise contract is concluded: how many hours work, what pay. These issues should be addressed in the following way: If we cannot take some radical decision at the moment, such as resolving once and for all the labour shortages that we have, for example in construction, with regard to highly qualified welders, we need some embarrassment with Polish companies who get permits there, but... Well, they're mostly Ukrainian... I think their resources will also come to an end, because in Poland salaries are the same as we do... And they also got permissions, let's say, to travel to the European Union for just three months... But there they can also get these work permits. So obviously the way out is elsewhere. We need to think about how we want to improve this law significantly so that once and for all this problem can be resolved and how to incorporate this new chapter - the chapter on contract workers - into what we want to do. We also have seasonal workers. There's no problem there. Farmers make a contract in the summer, come from Moldova or Ukraine, read berries, and leave. And that's the solution! Not to lie down with fake certificates, bought, put people in here... We also need to resolve the issue of cat universities, which, unfortunately, still have a great deal to do, despite various changes in education and science ministers. We have not yet succeeded. We need to be honest: we have not managed to solve this problem so that, let us say, these "cash-flowers" are replaced by highly professional educational institutions. If this had already been done, then, honourable colleagues, we should not argue here how... whether it would be necessary for those 20 hours or 40 hours... There are these problems now. And we have precisely defined them. Then we work seriously on real proposals that resolve this issue in a substantial way about the lack of manpower, rather than making some kind of correction that, behold, these people will solve something, and then they will not lie down here... There you go, there you go! Let us not yet have a law when we have 60 percent refusals. I call for this to be rejected. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-04-25-PT13-533-U140	The name is Sandy Riekstin.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-04-25-PT13-533-U141	Hello, colleagues! I will finally agree with Mr Gobzem, who is no longer in the Chamber, that we are spending energy here for nothing and so on. He just forgot to add that he was the leader, the biggest debater so far, but... Okay. We have forgotten what these amendments are about. What we've never heard! I listened carefully and wanted to hear some figures, some mathematics. I didn't hear it. I heard 1-2.5 thousand existing workers... by nine percent, we'll get a thousand people... I'm saying something about that. What is the number of vacancies now in the country? You called these numbers, and you opposed me. The last number of vacancies, if not mistaken, was 13,000. All right, there is more than half of the long-term vacancies that these amendments do not solve. The first two vacancies... In addition, many vacancies, such as drivers and auxiliary workers, are among the leaders. How will we deal with this with these amendments? Nothing! Absolutely nothing! And then now... What do we want? Do we want to tackle this as if we were businessmen, or do we want to help universities earn? What do we want to solve? I am sorry to know the figures, and I do not really understand the reasoning. First of all, no one is allowed to work - let's start with it. Let's finish the rhetoric that there's a ban here! The fact that our students are allowed to work more is normal. Because Mother, having received 500 euros in rural areas, unfortunately cannot help her child who is studying in Riga. He has to work. How does this work in rural areas where there is no unemployment and where there are no people working? — Dep. Mr Stepanenko's intermediate call.) even elemental... - Any tractor? At the same time, they are taught how to develop their businesses, even though there is no computer at home. We need to solve our own problems once and then think about the Indians and everyone else. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. Mr Stepanenko's intermediate call.) Don't, Mrs Stepanenko, yell! The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. J. Stepanenko: “But Mom will not get those 500 euros! You haven’t increased your pensions!” ) Really? Therefore, my fellow Members, I can assure you that after some time, if we accept this, we will run ourselves, correct and take to heart all that has developed. I call for this draft law not to be supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-04-25-PT13-533-U142	Name to Member Ivars Zarins. ( Insight: “OIC! OIC!’ ) Council Regulation (EC) No 1257/96 of 20 June 1996 concerning humanitarian aid (OJ L 163, 2.7.1996, p. 1).
ParlaMint-LV_2019-04-25-PT13-533-U143	Hello, colleagues! I am listening to the Members of the National Alliance, and I think there is a saying about the felling of wood and the wise doing that you are currently doing. Now in turn. I understand that it is very important for you, as policy implementers of the Kremlin in Latvia, to maintain national divisions here, so that society is as divided as possible, so that aliens integrate as much as possible into our society, so that Latvians feel as dangerous as possible, inconvenient in their own country. And that is why it is so important for you to achieve such a regulation that does not allow for normal integration. If you are concerned about the requirements regarding the Latvian language, then I have a question: do you accept it... if everything you're doing here... because you set out requirements for the Latvian language, how it should be used in the work, in the work ads... that again there are requirements for the Latvian language? The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. R. Kols: “It’s a regulation in force!” ) So do you now acknowledge that all of this on your part was pointless political training? It shows you your inability and incompetentness to take care of Latvian - I understand that. If we continue to talk about everything that came out about universities and similar things... Excuse me, the New Conservative Party, who is the Minister for Education and Science? Who is responsible for ensuring that the system of university accreditation is adequate to ensure that it works in accordance with the principles that our country needs? Who is responsible for this? Also the question for you, the National Association. You have been in the government for all these years. You could have arranged it a long time ago. And now we hear... suddenly you start telling me... Well, it was funny at all... on visa issues. I literally imagined that students from all over the world have learned - eu, guys, now in Latvia will be able to work for 40 hours instead of 20! All to Latvia! We're going there! This will be the reason why demands everywhere in the world will suddenly increase. (Applause) All students in the world will now think about how to break into here and how to paint our officials so that they can only take advantage of this opportunity. It's just funny! It's the greatest demagogy! Go on. There was also talk about the fact that we need excellent students. I understand that I fully agree that we need excellent students, that we need to think about people who could build a high value-added economy here. But what have you done to make this happen? Once again, I have a question for both the National Association and the Unity, which has been for many years in the Ministry of Education and Science - where is the necessary funding for higher education? I remember how, before the elections, we sat with you in the same hall at the Riga Technical University, as you all said with foam on your lips: as soon as the new parliament, we will provide the necessary funding for higher education. I also offered that... Let's set up here... It could be one of the consensus... one such political united motive for all our parties... As we did with the defence budget at the time - we said it should be two per cent of GDP, and we did - similarly, we need to say, with regard to higher education and science, what funding should be, and then to be targeted and also done. Where are your promises? The current lie champions! You are the real, true champions of lies! You're acting like Gebels, who also told me that it was necessary, above all, to lie - to lie all the time. And if you lie all the time, then in the end everyone will believe you. That's what you're doing. ( Internouncing call.) If you have someone... And I'd like to hear from you too... If you are talking about the need for solutions for a high value-added economy - where are they? Tell me how you will attract these people! Let's say, you're worried about Latvian. I'm worried about it, too. But you tell me an even better solution: how can we ensure that people who come here integrate and learn Latvian, if not through such a mechanism, namely higher education and the parallel possibility that they do something in our society? This is, in my opinion, one of the most perfect, one of the most optimal models of how to do it. Or maybe you... Is that so? How do you imagine that? Perhaps you are going to organise Latvian language courses somewhere abroad and invite those students who want to go here to Latvia - those outstanding students? You're going to force them first to learn Latvian... “Then you will go here, and then you will be able to learn and work here!” That's the mechanism you want... Do you think you can offer? You have no money even to teach Latvian here. If there were no Riga City Council making Latvian language courses (Noise in the hall. Thank you. (See the box below.) In Riga, no one would be able to learn Latvian at all. Imagine... Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. You are even more regrettable about Latvian! You are even more regrettable than the Riga City Council, your despised Riga City Council! You can't even do that! Go on. You're in principle... You behave like Buratino, you have the logic of Buratino: just find a field of monks, there you will plant money, and there it will grow, and all you will have. That is the logic that you are trying to sell to all of us, the whole society of Latvia, for a long time, and to say that this is the right solution! In essence, what you're doing... you treat the Latvian people in the same way as the American colonizers against the Indians. Colonizers came there and said: “We will take care of you, and we will make a reservation for you, where you will be able to live free from the real world, to walk with your spears. and your feathers... “
ParlaMint-LV_2019-04-25-PT13-533-U144	Go back to the amendments to the law!
ParlaMint-LV_2019-04-25-PT13-533-U145	I am talking about this too, that is precisely the substance of the amendments to the law...
ParlaMint-LV_2019-04-25-PT13-533-U146	Amendments to the law, please!
ParlaMint-LV_2019-04-25-PT13-533-U147	Don't stop me, I'm basically talking! I mean, I mean, I mean, I mean, I mean, I Noise in the hall.) So... So what do I mean by that? That's what you're trying to tell us now, that all we have to do for us Latvians if we want to keep our Latvians... You simply offer to be isolated from the challenges of the outside world. That's impossible! ( Milestones.) The challenges of the global world will pass through, and migration will pass through. If we want to save our own country, our own people, then we should be prepared - we need to have an answer on how we can address these global challenges. The only way we can deal with them is not to make a reservation here, where people will degrade... It is very necessary for you, you need Latvians to be degraded, weak, threatened, because then they will need defenders like you. That's how you... You play on the sentiment of the Latvian nation to provide for yourself an elite. It's your policy, your Kremlin's policy! Because that is what the Kremlin needs to break down in such a way that the company is divided here and that part of the society is at risk. There you go! That's why... That's why you're here. You also oppose this proposal. Because it would be normal for you to come with real solutions. You mentioned the first housing program. But do you know how it is financed, how it could be created at all? Thanks to temporary residence permits! Because the money that came from temporary residence permits was earmarked for the first housing programme. And why was it ripped down? Because you ruined this residence program. Once again, you are acting contrary to the interests of Latvian people, Latvian families, thus bulging the funding. Now you have to look for it in the budget. This is how you care about the interests of Latvian people, Latvian families. You are simply incompetent hypocrites who can get out of this pub, tell stories of all kinds of stupidity and danger, because it's the only thing you know. This is very important for you, because otherwise there will simply be no room on the political stage. Colleagues, I call for support for these amendments and for them to go further. Thank you. (Applause)
ParlaMint-LV_2019-04-25-PT13-533-U148	Name of Member Dagmara Beitner-Le Galla.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-04-25-PT13-533-U149	Dear colleagues, Today, there are so many arguments heard that we will drown the arguments at sea. I come here for two reasons. First. My daughter studied in Germany. There entrepreneurs follow national legislation very closely, and indeed - 20 hours, no more. That would be a good faith that should be established for all economic operators. We are beginning to build a country with a fair attitude. The second reason I come here and take your time with my opinion - I come as a university teacher and I want to witness, pray and appeal to you, especially at the “Development/About!” awareness, conscience, intelligence and understanding of this issue. As a teacher, I would like to say to you: Latvia must progress towards excellence in studies, whether they are students from other countries, regardless of... but as a teacher, it is not possible to combine modern, high-quality studies with full-time work for 40 hours a week. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. R. Lochmele-Lunova: “Do not allow students to work at all!” ) Please consider this question. I am speaking on behalf of two Latvian universities. (Applause)
ParlaMint-LV_2019-04-25-PT13-533-U150	Name to Member Daniel Pavilut.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-04-25-PT13-533-U151	Dear Chairman of the Saeima. Members of the Bureau! Colleagues! It seems that the intersessional break known as Easter Holidays has proved to be useful. We are vigorful and ready to debate and debate. I believe that this debate is really necessary and necessary. You'll agree, it's mature. Maybe they're not even mature. I tend to agree with those colleagues who have discussed this issue today as an issue of labour market, labour access, economic development and immigration policy, to a lesser extent higher education, quality or control. I'm sorry... and here all those present in the hall, especially those in previous terms, have to share responsibility for the actual situation in the labour market in Latvia regarding immigration policy and labour availability. In fact, serious discussions... and, exceptionally, I have to agree with Mr Kirštein on immigration policy; I never expected this to happen, but indeed a serious discussion about a new type of immigration policy in Latvia has gone by. We have, in fact, had an emergency policy, and we are pretending not to see things about which, for example, we could all read in free time. ‘ Delfos’ appeared to have been an article on the rapid increase in the number of illegal employment of immigrants, which is fighting the border guard, which is fighting the State Labour Inspectorate and other services. This is the result of our policy so far. Colleagues! I draw your attention to the fact that we are looking at the draft law at first reading. First reading! We have not yet had the opportunity to make further proposals; we will be able to do all of this. As far as I am aware, the Commission responsible, the Commission on Defence, Home Affairs and the Prevention of Corruption, has decided yesterday to offer a long time-frame for tabling proposals, several months for us to be able to analyse this issue thoroughly, thoroughly and, at the same time, the coalition parties to carefully assess immigration policy throughout its entire scope. The coalition must debate immigration policy. All - Conservatives, Liberals - together, in the common interest of Latvia. I call on all of this and also on us today to support this specific proposal for 40 hours before 20 hours at first reading. I invite everyone to talk about immigration policy in Latvia seriously in the interests of Latvia. (Applause)
ParlaMint-LV_2019-04-25-PT13-533-U152	The name is Mr. Janis Wuzan.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-04-25-PT13-533-U153	Good afternoon, dear colleagues! I really decided not to come to talk, but Mr. Pavilut spoke to me. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. I. Zarins: “You are no longer in a coalition!” ) Yes. Why did I come to the podium right now? This is not just a coalition issue. Immigration policy is a question for all of us Members, so when the coalition decides on it, please do not forget that there are parties that are not currently in a coalition and for which immigration policy is just as important! As I also represent the higher education sector, and I am still a professor of higher education, as many people here are, and I face both Latvian students and foreign students on a daily basis, I do not want to say that this question about 20 or 40 hours would be, let's say, at least a really burning question at the state university. Of course, there are sectors... and here, as one of the sectors, I would like to mention the IT area in which I have studied. And I've been working for more than 20 hours during my studies, starting with the third course, because it was just the offer. To combine work and training, if any, and to combine learning with work on the relevant subject - yes, it was a wonderful opportunity to complement yourself as a professional. And probably, if I hadn't had that opportunity, then my life, my career would have been quite different. There is also this possibility for modern students in certain fields, where there are adequate scientific institutes at universities, where there are micro-collectives, where professors look at smart heads and try to involve them from the second or third course, but usually in the fourth course... But let's not talk about the Masters... Full - time students are those who work. Do not forget that students, in the sense of our legislation, are both students in bachelor's programmes, those in master's programmes, and those in full-time doctoral programmes. In each of these stages of study, the completion of studies and the connection of study work with practical, say, life, with the practical needs of the economy... it is different from these educational stages. And I can agree that it is probably really desirable that sufficient time be devoted to learning. This is why many countries also have such limitations. But I can say from my foreign, say, practice, from the experience I have gained during the periods I have spent abroad that I have encountered these restrictions on immigration in terms of opportunities for work and that it has always been linked to the desire to protect the labour market of my country by providing certain categories of people of the country with the opportunity to get to, say, the appropriate working positions. And here I have to go back to what Mr Pavļuta said - and some others have also mentioned this case today - that when we talk about the Immigration Law, which is indeed, as Mr Kirštein said, is like a salaped lupat decter now, we have to be aware that in these years of Latvia's independence we have been on the street, but basically we have to talk about a thoughtful migration policy. Estonia was mentioned. I have talked to those people already 15 years ago who were then working on a smart migration policy in Estonia (if I am not mistaken, 2002, 2003), which very much covered precisely the migration of students to the Republic of Estonia and thus their possible stay in work there. There those issues were discussed, it was decided which professions could be discussed, which were not. At the end of the day, there is indeed this relatively liberal attitude towards involving students in the labour market. These cases must be discussed in each country. We have today, in the very long time devoted to these amendments to the law and to this debate, experienced a wide range of areas that are directly and indirectly linked to migration policy. And, in my opinion, the opening of the law to talk about it in a wider context... If it really is that there will be a sufficiently long period of time for both discussions and for the submission of proposals for second reading, the draft law is, in my opinion, acceptable. I will also vote in favour of amendments to the immigration law at first reading, but not because of these 20 or 40 hours, but because I believe that a broader debate is needed. Thank you. (Applause)
ParlaMint-LV_2019-04-25-PT13-533-U154	I closed the debate. On behalf of the Commission, what is to be explained?
ParlaMint-LV_2019-04-25-PT13-533-U155	Hello, colleague, one more time! I would like to say very briefly, one more time, that the Commission rejected this draft law. Having listened to this debate, I would like to mention very briefly two things that have to a large extent distinguished the reasons why the committee voted so. First. We took into account the existing regulation. I understood from the debate that one another may not really know what it is. So Masters' students, who are those qualified students, can already work for 40 hours. This also applies to doctoral students. I repeat: they can work for 40 hours now. This proposal concerns bachelors, third-country students, who can work for 20 hours, but the proposal is 40 hours. And that was rejected by the commission. That is first. And then. In the Commission, we listened to different views, but we paid very much attention to the educational institutions whose work is to provide an education service, which is also an export product of Latvia, which I am talking about here. These representatives said that they would be more competitive and their business, that entrepreneurship would be better and that it would certainly be more acceptable for them if students were not able to work for 40 hours, but would remain subject to previous regulation. So these were the moments we took into account when rejecting the bill. I call on you, too, to reject this.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-04-25-PT13-533-U156	Please call me! We will vote in favour of the first reading of the draft law on "Amendments to the Law on Immigration"! Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about - 55, it's 35, it's not. The draft law at first reading has been supported. Please set a deadline for the submission of proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-04-25-PT13-533-U157	The deadline for submitting proposals is three months.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-04-25-PT13-533-U158	What about that? July 25th? ( Insight: “Let it be! ”) ) Council Regulation (EC) No 1257/96 of 20 June 1996 concerning humanitarian aid (OJ L 163, 2.7.1996, p. 1).
ParlaMint-LV_2019-04-25-PT13-533-U159	Yeah.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-04-25-PT13-533-U160	Thank you. The deadline for submitting proposals is 25 July this year. On the agenda - draft law “Amendments to the Law on Credit Information Offices”, second reading. On behalf of the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy, Member Armands Krauze.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-04-25-PT13-533-U161	Hello, colleagues! The Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy has examined and prepared for consideration at the Second Reading of the Saeima’s Meeting the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Credit Information Bureaus”. Nine proposals were received by the Commission. These are all proposals from the Minister for Economic Affairs. Proposal No 1. The Commission is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-04-25-PT13-533-U162	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-04-25-PT13-533-U163	Proposal No 2 The Commission is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-04-25-PT13-533-U164	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-04-25-PT13-533-U165	Proposal No 3. The Commission is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-04-25-PT13-533-U166	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-04-25-PT13-533-U167	Proposal No 4. The Commission is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-04-25-PT13-533-U168	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-04-25-PT13-533-U169	Proposal No 5 The Commission is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-04-25-PT13-533-U170	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-04-25-PT13-533-U171	Proposal No 6 The Commission is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-04-25-PT13-533-U172	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-04-25-PT13-533-U173	Proposal No 7. The Commission is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-04-25-PT13-533-U174	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-04-25-PT13-533-U175	Proposal No 8. There is no support in the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-04-25-PT13-533-U176	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-04-25-PT13-533-U177	And Proposal 9. The Commission is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-04-25-PT13-533-U178	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-04-25-PT13-533-U179	Please support the draft law at second reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-04-25-PT13-533-U180	Please call me! We will vote for the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Credit Information Offices” at second reading! Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about - 86, it's against and refrains from - it's not. The draft law at second reading has been supported. Please set a deadline for the submission of proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-04-25-PT13-533-U181	The deadline for submitting proposals is 9 May this year.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-04-25-PT13-533-U182	Thank you. The deadline for submitting proposals is 9 May this year. On the agenda - draft law “Amendments to the Railway Law”, second reading. On behalf of the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy, Member Sandis Riekstins.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-04-25-PT13-533-U183	Good afternoon! We have received nine proposals for the second reading. All nine have been received from the Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Transport, Jānis Butāns. Proposal No 1 - Commission supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-04-25-PT13-533-U184	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-04-25-PT13-533-U185	Proposal No 2 - supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-04-25-PT13-533-U186	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-04-25-PT13-533-U187	Proposal No 3 - supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-04-25-PT13-533-U188	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-04-25-PT13-533-U189	Proposal No 4 - Commission supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-04-25-PT13-533-U190	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-04-25-PT13-533-U191	Proposal No 5 - Commission supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-04-25-PT13-533-U192	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-04-25-PT13-533-U193	Proposal No 6 - Commission supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-04-25-PT13-533-U194	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-04-25-PT13-533-U195	Proposal No 7 - Commission supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-04-25-PT13-533-U196	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-04-25-PT13-533-U197	Proposal No 8 - Commission supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-04-25-PT13-533-U198	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-04-25-PT13-533-U199	And also Amendment 9 - the Commission has been supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-04-25-PT13-533-U200	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-04-25-PT13-533-U201	Please support the draft law at second reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-04-25-PT13-533-U202	Please call me! We will vote in favour of the draft law amending the Railway Law at second reading! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 88, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. The draft law at second reading has been supported. Please set a time limit for the submission of proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-04-25-PT13-533-U203	May 9, this year.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-04-25-PT13-533-U204	Thank you. The deadline for submitting proposals is 9 May this year. On the agenda - draft law “Amendments to the law “On the preservation, use of documents of the former State Security Committee and the fact of cooperation of persons with the establishment of the KGB”, first reading. On behalf of the Commission for Human Rights and Public Affairs, Mr Andrejs Judine, Member.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-04-25-PT13-533-U205	Dear colleagues, Before the first reading, the Commission of Human Rights and Public Affairs examined the draft law “Amendments to the law “On the preservation, use and fact of cooperation of persons with the establishment of the KGB””. In 2013, the Saeima... It's 11. The Saeima had a lot of discussions about how to deal with KGB documents, and there was an opinion - either to destroy or to make public. And 11. The Saeima decided to publish the documents, stating that the documents would be examined at the outset and that they would then be published. Last year, the law was amended to provide for the transmission of documents to the State Archives and the procedure of publication. But this year we discovered that not all KGB documents were published. And unfortunately, the wording of the current law is not clear enough. On the one hand, Article 7.2 refers to separate filings... and, at the same time, paragraph 8 of the first paragraph of this Article states that the CPVO's operational and operational files, filings and other PSC documents are to be published. In particular, it has been said, on the one hand, that cartons are to be published, without specifying what their cartons are, but there are also separate cartons mentioned... This makes the application of the rule very difficult. And we invited representatives of the archive to the committee meeting, who explained that in their opinion they could not publish all the materials. In this context, a proposal has been drawn up to resolve the problems and the Commission considers that amendments can be adopted quickly, i.e. as a matter of urgency. So on behalf of the Commission, please support the urgency of the draft law and support the draft law at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-04-25-PT13-533-U206	Let us therefore first vote on the urgent procedure. Please call me! We will vote for recognition of the draft law “Amendments to the law “On the preservation, use and recognition of documents of the former State Security Committee and the fact of cooperation of persons with detection of the KGB”” as urgent! Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about - 86, it's against and refrains from - it's not. The draft law has been declared urgent. Please call me! We will vote for support for the first reading of the draft law “Amendments to the law “On the maintenance, use of documents of the former State Security Committee and the fact of cooperation of persons with detection of the KGB”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about - 86, it's against and refrains from - it's not. Please set a time limit for the submission of proposals and the time for consideration at the sitting of the Saeima.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-04-25-PT13-533-U207	We will wait until 30 April and consider the draft law at second reading on 9 May.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-04-25-PT13-533-U208	Thank you. Deadline for the submission of proposals - 30 April this year, consideration at the sitting of the Saeima - 9 May this year. On the agenda - draft law “Amendments to the Law on the Prevention of Money Laundering and Financing of Terrorism”, first reading. Member of the Commission for Defence, Home Affairs and Prevention of Corruption Juris Rancāns.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-04-25-PT13-533-U209	Good afternoon, colleagues! At the meeting of 23 April this year, the Commission for Defence, Home Affairs and Corruption Prevention has examined the draft law “Amendments to the Law on the Prevention of Money Laundering and Financing of Terrorism”. The draft law has been drafted by the Cabinet of Ministers and is designed to reinforce the requirements in this sector. First, the amendment introduces the remaining provisions of the AML 5 Directive against the use of the financial system for money laundering or terrorist financing. Secondly, shortcomings need to be clarified in the Law on Prevention of Money Laundering and Financing of Terrorism. Pursuant to the conclusions of the 5th round of the Moneyval mutual evaluation report on the effectiveness of the Latvian system for the prevention of money laundering and terrorism, the plan for preventing the money laundering and financing of terrorism is implemented by the law for the period until 31 December 2019. The aim of the Action Plan is to strengthen the capacity to combat money laundering, terrorist financing and proliferation of weapons of mass destruction, to reduce the overall risks of money laundering and terrorism by ensuring compliance with international obligations and standards in the field of crime money laundering and terrorism prevention and promoting public security, competitiveness of the economic environment and credibility of Latvian jurisdiction. The draft law aims to ensure accurate data identification, introduce a mechanism that will allow better identification of politically significant persons, and improve the State Revenue Service database. The draft law specifies the category ‘suspicious transactions’ by removing the concept of ‘unusual transactions’. The draft law provides for the addition of the concept of "propagation" as well as the regulation of its financing. The range of entities to be notified of suspicious transactions will also be extended - suspicious transactions will also need to be reported to insolvency administrators in the future. Taking into account the functions of insolvency administrators in insolvency proceedings, it is proportionate and justified to establish that insolvency administrators are entities of the system in order to ensure that funds obtained through insolvency proceedings are not legalised. In order to ensure compliance with the requirements of the law, as well as the mechanisms for applying sanctions to insolvency administrators, the responsibilities of the supervisory and control authority will be delegated to the association “Association of Certified insolvency process administrators of Latvia”. On the other hand, the application of sanctions against insolvency administrators will be carried out by the Control Service. The system for detecting true beneficiaries has also been improved. The Register of Enterprises will be able to facilitate the work of law enforcement authorities by disclosing information and identifying the beneficial owner in public registers. There is also a ban on maintaining anonymous safes in credit institutions and clearer requirements for cooperation with high-risk third countries through customer in-depth research. In addition, the draft law changes the current name of the anti-money laundering service to the Financial Intelligence Service without the use of the abbreviation “Control Service”. This is done with the aim of ensuring an internationally common practice and understanding between Member States of the functions of anti-money laundering services. The following term is also used in the names of foreign institutions. The Commission has supported the draft law and is asking the Saeima to adopt it at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-04-25-PT13-533-U210	Please call me! We will vote for the first reading of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on the Prevention of Money Laundering and Financing of Terrorism”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about - 83, it's against and refrains from - it's not. The draft law at first reading has been supported. Please set a deadline for the submission of proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-04-25-PT13-533-U211	The deadline for submitting proposals is April 30.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-04-25-PT13-533-U212	Thank you. The deadline for submitting proposals is April 30. On the agenda - draft law “Amendment to the Law “On State Secret”, first reading. Member of the Commission for Defence, Home Affairs and Prevention of Corruption Juris Rancāns.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-04-25-PT13-533-U213	Dear colleagues, At its meeting on 23 April, the Commission supported the draft law “Amendment to the Law “On State Secret” drafted by the Cabinet of Ministers. The draft law is necessary to supplement the list of officials of the Council of the Financial and Capital Market Commission in the Law “On State Secrets” by establishing that these are persons who by their post have access to the state secret and the right to use it for the performance of their duties. The draft law provides for the members of the FCTC to have full access to information prior to taking decisions, including information received from security authorities or relevant services and institutions of other countries. This will allow the follow-up of potential risks and threats that could adversely affect financial stability or the fight against money laundering and the financing of terrorism and proliferation. The Law of the Financial and Capital Market Commission also provides for the inclusion of appropriate regulation, which provides that a person who meets the requirements laid down by laws and regulations may be the chairman and member of the Board of the FCMC in order to obtain a special authorisation for access to state secrets. On behalf of the Commission, I call for support for the draft law at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-04-25-PT13-533-U214	Please call me! We will vote for the draft law “Amendment to the Law “On State Secret” at first reading! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 87, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The draft law at first reading has been supported. Please set a deadline for the submission of proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-04-25-PT13-533-U215	The deadline for the submission of proposals for second reading is 30 April this year.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-04-25-PT13-533-U216	Thank you. The deadline for submitting proposals is April 30. On the agenda - draft law on insurance and reinsurance distribution, third reading. On behalf of the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission, Member Atis Zakaistovs.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-04-25-PT13-533-U217	We are working on the draft law on insurance and reinsurance distribution. 37 proposals were submitted for the third reading. 1. - a proposal from the finance minister, Mr Reira. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-04-25-PT13-533-U218	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-04-25-PT13-533-U219	2. - a proposal from the finance minister, Mr Reira. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-04-25-PT13-533-U220	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-04-25-PT13-533-U221	3. - a proposal from the finance minister, Mr Reira. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-04-25-PT13-533-U222	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-04-25-PT13-533-U223	4. - Mr. Plesh's proposal. Partly supported 5. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-04-25-PT13-533-U224	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-04-25-PT13-533-U225	5. - a proposal from the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission, the Responsible Commission. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-04-25-PT13-533-U226	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-04-25-PT13-533-U227	6. - a proposal from the finance minister, Mr Reira. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-04-25-PT13-533-U228	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-04-25-PT13-533-U229	7. - a proposal from the finance minister, Mr Reira. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-04-25-PT13-533-U230	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-04-25-PT13-533-U231	8 / 8 - a proposal from the committee responsible. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-04-25-PT13-533-U232	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-04-25-PT13-533-U233	9. - Mr. Valaiņa's proposal. Partially supported, included 10. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-04-25-PT13-533-U234	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-04-25-PT13-533-U235	10............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - a proposal from the committee responsible. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-04-25-PT13-533-U236	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-04-25-PT13-533-U237	11. - a proposal from the finance minister, Mr Reira. Partially supported, included 12. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-04-25-PT13-533-U238	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-04-25-PT13-533-U239	12. - a proposal from the committee responsible. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-04-25-PT13-533-U240	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-04-25-PT13-533-U241	13. - a proposal from the finance minister, Mr Reira. Not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-04-25-PT13-533-U242	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-04-25-PT13-533-U243	14............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - a proposal from the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission, the Responsible Commission. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-04-25-PT13-533-U244	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-04-25-PT13-533-U245	15............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - a proposal from the committee responsible. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-04-25-PT13-533-U246	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-04-25-PT13-533-U247	16. - a proposal from the committee responsible. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-04-25-PT13-533-U248	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-04-25-PT13-533-U249	17. - a proposal from the finance minister, Mr Reira. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-04-25-PT13-533-U250	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-04-25-PT13-533-U251	18. - a proposal from the finance minister, Mr Reira. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-04-25-PT13-533-U252	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-04-25-PT13-533-U253	19. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-04-25-PT13-533-U254	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-04-25-PT13-533-U255	20............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - a proposal from the finance minister, Mr Reira. There is no support in the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-04-25-PT13-533-U256	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-04-25-PT13-533-U257	21............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - a proposal from the finance minister, Mr Reira. There is no support in the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-04-25-PT13-533-U258	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-04-25-PT13-533-U259	22. - a proposal from the finance minister, Mr Reira. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-04-25-PT13-533-U260	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-04-25-PT13-533-U261	23............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - a proposal from the committee responsible. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-04-25-PT13-533-U262	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-04-25-PT13-533-U263	24. - a proposal from the finance minister, Mr Reira. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-04-25-PT13-533-U264	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-04-25-PT13-533-U265	25. - a proposal from the finance minister, Mr Reira. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-04-25-PT13-533-U266	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-04-25-PT13-533-U267	26. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-04-25-PT13-533-U268	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-04-25-PT13-533-U269	27. - a proposal from the finance minister, Mr Reira. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-04-25-PT13-533-U270	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-04-25-PT13-533-U271	28. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-04-25-PT13-533-U272	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-04-25-PT13-533-U273	29. - a proposal from the finance minister, Mr Reira. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-04-25-PT13-533-U274	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-04-25-PT13-533-U275	30. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Supported by changing the numbering of points accordingly.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-04-25-PT13-533-U276	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-04-25-PT13-533-U277	31. - a proposal from the committee responsible. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-04-25-PT13-533-U278	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-04-25-PT13-533-U279	32. - a proposal from the finance minister, Mr Reira. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-04-25-PT13-533-U280	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-04-25-PT13-533-U281	33. - a proposal from the committee responsible. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-04-25-PT13-533-U282	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-04-25-PT13-533-U283	34. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-04-25-PT13-533-U284	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-04-25-PT13-533-U285	36. - a proposal from the finance minister, Mr Reira.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-04-25-PT13-533-U286	Proposal No 35.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-04-25-PT13-533-U287	35. - a proposal from the finance minister, Mr Reira. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-04-25-PT13-533-U288	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-04-25-PT13-533-U289	36. - a proposal from the finance minister, Mr Reira. Partially supported, included 37. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-04-25-PT13-533-U290	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-04-25-PT13-533-U291	37. - a proposal from the committee responsible. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-04-25-PT13-533-U292	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-04-25-PT13-533-U293	Please support the draft law at third reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-04-25-PT13-533-U294	Please call me! We will vote in favour of the draft law on insurance and reinsurance distribution in the third, final reading! Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about - 86, it's against and refrains from - it's not. The law is passed. On the agenda - draft law “Amendments to the Insurance and Reinsurance Act”, third reading. On behalf of the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission, Member Atis Zakaistovs.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-04-25-PT13-533-U295	In the Commission, we have examined the third reading of the draft law on Amendments to the Insurance and Reinsurance Act. We received six proposals. 1. - a proposal from the committee responsible. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-04-25-PT13-533-U296	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-04-25-PT13-533-U297	2. - a proposal from the finance minister, Mr Reira. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-04-25-PT13-533-U298	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-04-25-PT13-533-U299	3. - a proposal from the finance minister, Mr Reira. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-04-25-PT13-533-U300	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-04-25-PT13-533-U301	4. - a proposal from the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission, which is also the committee responsible. Supported by changing the numbering of the following articles accordingly.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-04-25-PT13-533-U302	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-04-25-PT13-533-U303	5. - a proposal from the finance minister, Mr Reira. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-04-25-PT13-533-U304	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-04-25-PT13-533-U305	6. - a proposal from the committee responsible. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-04-25-PT13-533-U306	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-04-25-PT13-533-U307	Please support the draft law at third reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-04-25-PT13-533-U308	Please call me! We will vote in favour of the draft law “Amendments to the Insurance and Reinsurance Act” third, final reading! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 88, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. The law is passed. On the agenda - draft law “Amendments to the Law on Taxes and Fees”, second reading. Member of the Commission for Budget and Finance (Tax) Mārtiņš Steins.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-04-25-PT13-533-U309	Hello, honourable Speaker of the Saeima! Colleagues! In the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission we have examined 65 proposals for second reading. 65 proposals have been submitted in order to improve the regulation of the electronic time record system and the common electronic time record database. 1. - the proposal of Finance Minister Reira. Supported by changing the numbering of the following articles accordingly.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-04-25-PT13-533-U310	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-04-25-PT13-533-U311	2. - the proposal of Finance Minister Reira. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-04-25-PT13-533-U312	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-04-25-PT13-533-U313	3. - the proposal of Finance Minister Reira. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-04-25-PT13-533-U314	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-04-25-PT13-533-U315	4. - the proposal of Finance Minister Reira. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-04-25-PT13-533-U316	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-04-25-PT13-533-U317	5. - the proposal by the Minister for Finance, Dana Reizniece-Ozola. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-04-25-PT13-533-U318	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-04-25-PT13-533-U319	6. - the proposal of Finance Minister Reira. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-04-25-PT13-533-U320	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-04-25-PT13-533-U321	7. - the proposal of Minister for Finance Reizniece-Ozola. Not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-04-25-PT13-533-U322	Let us start a debate. Name to Member Krišjānis Feldman.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-04-25-PT13-533-U323	Hello! Before I start, I would like to ask for permission to unite both times.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-04-25-PT13-533-U324	Are Members opposed to merging the two times of the debate? There is no objection.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-04-25-PT13-533-U325	This proposal, Proposal 7, is a bright illustration of how the champions of lies work. And to understand this political action a little bit better, I need to give you an insight into history. On 3 April 2019 we adopted the 2019 budget, which is the largest in the history of the country, by 400 million more than the 2018 budget. I have no doubt that in the years to come... that these records will continue to be corrected. Many ask: where are these 400 million left? I can give you a few examples of where they have gone. I think many of you may not know that. Nine million are paid by judges and prosecutors in accordance with the judgment of the Constitutional Court. Five million have been paid for increasing long-term salaries of employees of social care centres since 1 April of this year, where salaries increase by 140 euros per month. Incidentally, thank you to Juris Jušas for speaking on this issue. 10 million for indexation of pensions and provision of benefits to the spouse of the deceased pensioner. ( Internouncing call.) I am simply referring to the proposal... I'll be right back to that proposal... One million for adoptors. Three million medicines for patients with rare diseases. Didn't you have to do that? Three million benefits for disabled people since childhood. Five million - children... The maintenance guarantee fund. 60 million - protection budget to meet the two-percent criterion. 41 million - for the payment of service allowances for persons working for institutions of the Ministry of the Interior. Yeah, we stood up for it. 88 million for wage increases for healthcare workers. We financed the increase of the unlimited minimum from 200 euros to 230 euros and pensions from 250 euros to 270 euros. It could continue to call... ( Milestones.) But, as you can see, many of these things that I mentioned are those that the champions of lies had written in the law before the Saeima elections without any cover for the moment when the elections took place. And more. I also know that, for example, the Minister for Education and Science, Ilga Šuplinska, is fighting very hard to come up with an acceptable school network change plan in mid-May and to prove that there is a need to be a wage supplement for teachers from 1 September. She's fighting. ( Internouncing call.) Seven out of nine million have already been found.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-04-25-PT13-533-U326	I am sorry, Mr Feldman, this amendment imposes restrictions on the use of cash. Please speak on the subject. On the proposal!
ParlaMint-LV_2019-04-25-PT13-533-U327	Yeah... I'm sorry... I'll get... I'll get there, yeah. And, of course, there's a lot... People have questions: what are you doing there? ( Insight: ‘ Theme speaks! ’) ) Why... Where is “3 × 500”? And like... And this one. Noise in the hall.) ... and this proposal... and this proposal... I said where is... And this proposal... You know, I was a big... I was like déj? It feels like you're looking at it... And this proposal is about banning cash... this by Dana Reizniece-Ozola. I think I must be nice... Because it can't be because... I remember clearly that, on 21 March this year, Armands Krauze... He's sitting right here... put forward a completely opposite proposal that the cash limit should be raised to 20 minimum monthly salaries. ( Milestones.) I'm "for"! No, well, let's stay! (Applause) Let it stay 7200... I think it can be! ( Internouncing call.) And then I got it. Then I got it! The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. I. Zarins: “At last! I promised, I didn't understand! I finally got it!” ) It is the game of the champions of lies - before the elections, to make one proposal and, when all of it is set aside, to remain in opposition: it is necessary to lam a coalition which, by the way, corrected. These were also slipping into the budget. This one slipped into the budget. And we corrected, remember? We corrected together. ( Internouncing call.) Then came Armands Krauze and lingered us for several... more proposals were, at least three... "Breath, madness, you are addressing personal freedoms here, and the European Commission has not even planned any such. How can you do that?’ And we listened, of course, to us working constructively, eliminating the problem that Dana Reizniece-Ozola had left behind. Now we see - this is hypocrisy to the highest extent, one proposal before the elections, one after the elections - the other so that we can only come to the tribunal and llamas. ( Milestones.) Therefore, I call on you not to support either this or other proposals from the champions of lies. (Applause)
ParlaMint-LV_2019-04-25-PT13-533-U328	Name to Member Viktor Valain.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-04-25-PT13-533-U329	Hello, honourable Speaker of the Saeima! Colleagues! I find it difficult to understand what it was just like, but the order is already that the Saeima Members decide, and also the ministerial proposals are not always supported. You too, I think, will experience such a situation more than once, including from your ministers and from your government, which submitted this budget, which was then corrected by the Saeima Members. You too, like us. But about the budget. If we start talking about the budget, then I would like to say one very important thing about the budget you voted on... Now it's your budget. At the moment, the absorption of the European Union's structural funds is at risk in a very large amount, because this budget did not take into account the situation with regard to regional projects. You know, we voted on the budget on 3 April, but already on 4 April the borrowing opportunities for the regions were exhausted. This is a new policy. I believe that solutions to such issues need to be found as quickly as possible. What you have just said about the proposal in question is already the essence of the work of the Saeima Members: to correct, to put forward proposals. However, at the time we examined the budget, the only ones who submitted something and the only ones who debated something from this tribunal were the opposition. There were also some minimal coalition proposals, but most of them were opposition only. We didn't expect anything from the coalition. It was even more ridiculous when the coalition essentially defended the request made by the Prime Minister's resignation: only the opposition spoke, but the coalition could not tell any blues to defend its Prime Minister. This, in my opinion, is not really acceptable, because what is it about democracy when it comes only to the opposition? So, colleagues, think about these things too.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-04-25-PT13-533-U330	Name to Member Aldi Gobzem.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-04-25-PT13-533-U331	Krišjānis Feldman's vocabulary collection to any question under consideration - "3 × 500", lies champions, cardboard. (Laughter) Thank you very much. Depp. S. Riekstins: “ Nice, Aldi! That's great! You can better!” ) Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-04-25-PT13-533-U332	Name of Member Dana Reizniece-Ozola.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-04-25-PT13-533-U333	Madam President of the Saeima. Colleagues! Krišjānis Feldman really has more bile than understanding. What he was talking about here (Intellects.) , there was nothing to do with the proposal in question. The specific proposal is that cash transactions should be limited from EUR 7200 to EUR 3000 in one or more payments made by private individuals. I still think so and support my proposal, but each Member can assess whether it is worth walking with suitcases and buying products or services in cash. As you walk with the suitcases, it is usually unlikely that you will be able to explain where the money comes from. And I call for support.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-04-25-PT13-533-U334	I closed the debate. Is there anything to be explained in the name of the commission? On the debate that was in the Commission maybe if? The debate in the Commission on this proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-04-25-PT13-533-U335	Yeah. In the Commission, the 7th proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-04-25-PT13-533-U336	Do Members want a vote? Mrs. Reizniece-Ozola, are you asking for a vote on this? Please call me! We will vote in favour of 7. - the proposal submitted by Finance Minister Dana Reizniece-Ozolas! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 7, for - 68, for - 7. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-04-25-PT13-533-U337	8 / 8 - the proposal of Minister for Finance Reizniece-Ozola. Not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-04-25-PT13-533-U338	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-04-25-PT13-533-U339	9. - the proposal of Minister for Finance Reizniece-Ozola. There is no support in the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-04-25-PT13-533-U340	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-04-25-PT13-533-U341	10............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - the proposal of Finance Minister Reira. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-04-25-PT13-533-U342	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-04-25-PT13-533-U343	11. - the proposal from Member Svekov. There is no support in the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-04-25-PT13-533-U344	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-04-25-PT13-533-U345	12. - a proposal from the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-04-25-PT13-533-U346	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-04-25-PT13-533-U347	13. - the proposal of Finance Minister Reira. Partially supported, included 15. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-04-25-PT13-533-U348	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-04-25-PT13-533-U349	14............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - The proposal from Member Bondar. Partially supported, included 15. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-04-25-PT13-533-U350	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-04-25-PT13-533-U351	15............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - a proposal from the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-04-25-PT13-533-U352	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-04-25-PT13-533-U353	16. - The proposal from Member Bondar. Partly supported, included 43. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-04-25-PT13-533-U354	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-04-25-PT13-533-U355	17. - The proposal from Member Bondar. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-04-25-PT13-533-U356	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-04-25-PT13-533-U357	18. - the proposal of Finance Minister Reira. Not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-04-25-PT13-533-U358	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-04-25-PT13-533-U359	19. - the proposal of Finance Minister Reira. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-04-25-PT13-533-U360	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-04-25-PT13-533-U361	20............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - the proposal of Finance Minister Reira. Partially supported, included 22. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-04-25-PT13-533-U362	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-04-25-PT13-533-U363	21............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - the proposal of Finance Minister Reira. Partially supported, included 22. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-04-25-PT13-533-U364	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-04-25-PT13-533-U365	22. - a proposal from the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-04-25-PT13-533-U366	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-04-25-PT13-533-U367	23............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - the proposal of Finance Minister Reira. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-04-25-PT13-533-U368	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-04-25-PT13-533-U369	24. - The proposal of the Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Economic Affairs. Not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-04-25-PT13-533-U370	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-04-25-PT13-533-U371	25. - the proposal of Finance Minister Reira. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-04-25-PT13-533-U372	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-04-25-PT13-533-U373	26. - The proposal of the Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Economic Affairs. Not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-04-25-PT13-533-U374	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-04-25-PT13-533-U375	27. - the proposal of Finance Minister Reira. There is no support in the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-04-25-PT13-533-U376	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-04-25-PT13-533-U377	28. - the proposal of Finance Minister Reira. Partially supported, included 29. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-04-25-PT13-533-U378	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-04-25-PT13-533-U379	29. - a proposal from the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-04-25-PT13-533-U380	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-04-25-PT13-533-U381	30. - the proposal of Finance Minister Reira. Supported by changing the numbering of subsequent parts accordingly.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-04-25-PT13-533-U382	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-04-25-PT13-533-U383	31. - The proposal from Member Bondar. Partially supported, included 34. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-04-25-PT13-533-U384	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-04-25-PT13-533-U385	32. - the proposal of Finance Minister Reira. Partially supported, included 34. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-04-25-PT13-533-U386	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-04-25-PT13-533-U387	33. - The proposal from Member Bondar. Partially supported, included 34. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-04-25-PT13-533-U388	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-04-25-PT13-533-U389	34. - Commission proposal. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-04-25-PT13-533-U390	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-04-25-PT13-533-U391	35. - the proposal of Finance Minister Reira. Partially supported, included 36. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-04-25-PT13-533-U392	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-04-25-PT13-533-U393	36. - Commission proposal. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-04-25-PT13-533-U394	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-04-25-PT13-533-U395	37. - the proposal of Finance Minister Reira. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-04-25-PT13-533-U396	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-04-25-PT13-533-U397	38. - the proposal of Finance Minister Reira. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-04-25-PT13-533-U398	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-04-25-PT13-533-U399	39. - the proposal of Finance Minister Reira. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-04-25-PT13-533-U400	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-04-25-PT13-533-U401	40. - the proposal of Finance Minister Reira. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-04-25-PT13-533-U402	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-04-25-PT13-533-U403	41. - the proposal of Finance Minister Reira. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-04-25-PT13-533-U404	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-04-25-PT13-533-U405	42. - the proposal of Finance Minister Reira. Partly supported, included 43. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-04-25-PT13-533-U406	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-04-25-PT13-533-U407	43. - Commission proposal. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-04-25-PT13-533-U408	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-04-25-PT13-533-U409	44. - the proposal from Member Svekov. Not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-04-25-PT13-533-U410	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-04-25-PT13-533-U411	45. - the proposal of Finance Minister Reira. Partially supported, includes 46. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-04-25-PT13-533-U412	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-04-25-PT13-533-U413	46. - a proposal from the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-04-25-PT13-533-U414	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-04-25-PT13-533-U415	47. - the proposal of Finance Minister Reira. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-04-25-PT13-533-U416	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-04-25-PT13-533-U417	48. - The proposal of the Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Economic Affairs. Not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-04-25-PT13-533-U418	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-04-25-PT13-533-U419	49. - the proposal of Finance Minister Reira. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-04-25-PT13-533-U420	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-04-25-PT13-533-U421	50. - The proposal from Member Bondar. Partially supported, includes 46. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-04-25-PT13-533-U422	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-04-25-PT13-533-U423	51. - The proposal of the Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Economic Affairs. Not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-04-25-PT13-533-U424	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-04-25-PT13-533-U425	52. - The proposal of the Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Economic Affairs. Not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-04-25-PT13-533-U426	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-04-25-PT13-533-U427	53. - the proposal of Finance Minister Reira. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-04-25-PT13-533-U428	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-04-25-PT13-533-U429	54. - the proposal of Finance Minister Reira. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-04-25-PT13-533-U430	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-04-25-PT13-533-U431	55. - The proposal of the Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Economic Affairs. Not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-04-25-PT13-533-U432	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-04-25-PT13-533-U433	56. - The proposal of the Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Economic Affairs. Not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-04-25-PT13-533-U434	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-04-25-PT13-533-U435	57. - the proposal of Finance Minister Reira. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-04-25-PT13-533-U436	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-04-25-PT13-533-U437	58. - the proposal of Finance Minister Reira. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-04-25-PT13-533-U438	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-04-25-PT13-533-U439	59. - The proposal of the Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Economic Affairs. Not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-04-25-PT13-533-U440	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-04-25-PT13-533-U441	60. - the proposal of Finance Minister Reira. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-04-25-PT13-533-U442	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-04-25-PT13-533-U443	61. - the proposal from Member Svekov. Not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-04-25-PT13-533-U444	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-04-25-PT13-533-U445	62. - a proposal from the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-04-25-PT13-533-U446	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-04-25-PT13-533-U447	63. - The proposal from Member Bondar. Not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-04-25-PT13-533-U448	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-04-25-PT13-533-U449	64. - the proposal of Finance Minister Reira. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-04-25-PT13-533-U450	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-04-25-PT13-533-U451	65. - the proposal of Finance Minister Reira. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-04-25-PT13-533-U452	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-04-25-PT13-533-U453	Please vote in second reading!
ParlaMint-LV_2019-04-25-PT13-533-U454	Please call me! We will vote for the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Taxes and Fees” at second reading! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 88, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. The draft law at second reading has been supported. Please set a deadline for the submission of proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-04-25-PT13-533-U455	Deadline for submission of proposals - 2 May.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-04-25-PT13-533-U456	The deadline for submitting proposals is 2 May this year. Colleagues, the agenda of the sitting has been examined. The questions put by Members. Members Zarins, Lochmele-Lunova, Kabanovs, Kucins and Cilevičs submitted the question ‘On the decision on closing the Deglav Bridge’, which we refer to the Minister for the Interior for their response. Please call me! Please register the Members! Time for notifications. Dear colleagues, This month's 60th anniversary was celebrated by our fellow Member Andris Kazinovskis and by our colleague Ivars Zarins. We welcome them! (Applause) Dear colleagues, please. Now, please! Tomorrow, the Youth Saeima will be working in the meeting room. We invite you to follow the Youth Saeima. Please take your belongings, because tomorrow there will be new Members here in your places. Name to Member Martin Stein.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-04-25-PT13-533-U457	With the accession of the Speaker of the Saeima, I call on all Members to be present or live. Society as a whole can also follow. 9. The 100 members of the Youth Saeima will be active tomorrow to get to know the specifics of the legislator's work. The central theme is “Young man. Latvia. The European Union’. Be active! Be a good example for youths! And by the morning!
ParlaMint-LV_2019-04-25-PT13-533-U458	Name for Maria Golubeva to read the results of the registration.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-04-25-PT13-533-U459	Not registered: Sergey Dolgopolovs, Gatis Eglitis, Ojārs Ēriks Kalniņš, Ivan Klementjevs, Armands Krauze, Vladimir Nikonovs and Julija Stepanenko... Yes.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-04-25-PT13-533-U460	Thank you. I'm closing the sitting.
