ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-07-PT13-2017-U1	Good morning, dear colleagues! Please take your seats! The Saeima started its sitting on 7 November 2019. Changes to the agenda submitted. The Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy asks for the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Tourism” to be put on the agenda. Are Members opposed to this amendment of the agenda? There is no objection. The order of business has been amended. The Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy asks for the draft law “Amendments to the Forest Law” to be put on the agenda. Do Members have objections? There is no objection. The order of business has been amended. The Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy asks for the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Tourism” to be put on the agenda. Do Members have objections? ( Interface: “No! ”) ) There are no objections. The order of business has been amended. The Budget and Finance (Tax) Commission requests that the draft decision on the approval of Kristīne Chernobyl-Mežmale as a member of the Board of the Financial and Capital Markets Commission be put on the agenda. Do Members have objections? There is no objection. The order of business has been amended. On the agenda - examination of draft laws. Dear colleagues, we are starting to examine the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Public Administration Structure”. On behalf of the National Administration and Municipal Commission - Member Daniels Pavļuts. On behalf of the applicants.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-07-PT13-2017-U2	Dear Member of the Speaker of the Saeima. Honourable Members! Dear Members, Good morning! We, together with colleagues who have signed a group of Members with this draft law - Janis Dombrava, Inese Iksten, Reinis Znotiņa, Anda Chakša - and other colleagues with whom we have worked at the E-government Sub-Commission - have prepared an amendment package in the law. All three draft laws... Now in turn. It is a draft law “Amendments to the Law on State Administration Structure”, a draft law “Amendments to the Law on Disclosure of Information” and a new draft law “E-government law”, which will be discussed by Jānis. Our aim is to take a broad step forward in order to modernise eGovernment in the Republic of Latvia. In fact, for many years, we have experienced some undervalued complexes in front of our northern neighbours. I will also talk about other countries and other nations and national facilities where digital transformation and e-government have moved faster. Well, we'd like to take part in this, as we say, in the race to participate and to improve legislation in our country in a targeted way, to build a more modern and, as we say, such a world... Regulation on eGovernment, tailored to the needs of the 21st century. We begin this package by means of the draft law on "Amendments to the Law on Public Administration Structure". The law on public administration equipment, as we know, defines exactly the way in which public administration is set up, what are the basic principles according to which public administration in Latvia functions. Now in this law, we are strengthening - with a whole new chapter, with a number of new terms - the way in which services operate within public administration, within public administration. Because the element of modern governance is that public administration not only provides services to the public but also internally... are internal services. For example, further centralisation of support functions requires the provision of services between institutions. These are the things that are regulated by this law. We have also proposed a norm in this draft law on how innovation activities in public administration are implemented, how internal functions and service provision are improved, as well as the fact that the state administration implements support functions primarily on the basis of centralisation, combining similar functions. That is our proposal. We invite you to see and debate today... To debate the whole package of these eGovernment reforms peacefully at the Saeima. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-07-PT13-2017-U3	Thus, the draft law “Amendments to the Law on the Structure of the Public Administration” presented by the Members Daniels Pavļuta, Jānis Dombrava, Inese Ikstena, Reinis Znotiņa and Anda Čakša is submitted to the Commission of the State Administration and Local Government, stating that it is the committee responsible. ‘ Against” has applied to speak... ( Milestones.) The procedure... Please turn on the microphone for Janis Dombrava.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-07-PT13-2017-U4	Dear Saeima! Given that these draft laws on eGovernment are related to each other, it would be a request for this draft law as the responsible commission to determine the Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy Commission, and the National Administration and Local Government Commission as the co-responsible.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-07-PT13-2017-U5	Thank you. Do Members have objections? No objections? Thus, the draft law was passed on to the Commission of Public Administration and Local Government, as well as to the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy, stating that the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy is the Commission responsible. Thank you. The Parliamentary Bureau proposes that the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Disclosure of Information” presented by Member Arthur Tomas Plesa, Inese Ikstena, Jānis Dombrava, Daniels Pavļuta and Anda Čakša be referred to the Commission of State Administration and Local Government. Do Members have objections? Member Dombrava... The procedure? Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-07-PT13-2017-U6	As with the previous draft law, this would also be the request to refer to the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy as the responsible and the Commission for Public Administration and Local Government as the co-responsible Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-07-PT13-2017-U7	Do Members have objections? ( Interface: “No! ”) ) No objection? Thus, the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Transparency” has been passed on to the Commission of Public Administration and Local Government, as well as to the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy, stating that it is the committee responsible. Thank you. The Parliamentary Bureau proposes that the draft law “E-governance Law” presented by the Member Jānis Dombrava, Daniels Pavļuta, Reinis Znotiņa, Anda Čakša and Inese Iksten be referred to the Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy Commission, stating that it is a committee responsible. ‘ For” applied to speak Member Jānis Dombrava. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-07-PT13-2017-U8	Dear Saeima! So often, the Saeima talks about redistributing existing scarce resources for the benefit of the Saeima, while the adoption of these draft laws will allow for more economic management of existing resources and will create the possibility for the state to earn more money. Less - technical, bureaucratic work, more - automated data processing, user-oriented public administration and new business opportunities in the private sector. The long-term impact on the budget is positive and can be measured in many millions of euros. How is economy going to work? Building and maintaining ICT is not a cheap joy. At the moment, everyone is doing everything, as a result of which many things are expensive or created in poor quality and unnecessary. In future, ICT architecture will be organised, which institutions will maintain servers, which will develop projects, and which - will maintain the developed projects. A single national ICT governance will be created. In future it will not be that one specialist will do all the work in the Ministry: at the same time he will create many millions of euro projects, organise the specifications of procurement, follow the development of the project, take care of “irons” and maintain the product after its development. In future, it will not be the case that the authorities will not communicate with each other and each of them for a large amount of money will develop the same solution. For example, if a single national authority has purchased a module of the payment system, it will be made available to all institutions in the future. In future, the country will not develop solutions that are already available on the market, but will adapt the useful solutions to our needs. Dear Saeima! I can't guarantee that Latvia will develop... that the large data processing industry worth many million euros will develop in Latvia. This will depend on entrepreneurs and their initiative, but for our part we will have done everything to enable them to make excellent products and to conquer the world markets with these products. The major benefit of this change will be society. Finally, people will not have to search for information on institutions' websites, laws or brochures, they will not need to knock from the office to the office, looking for help or writing applications. There will not be any need to drill through portals like Latvia.lv, and between many services they need. In the near future, automated systems will help citizens. Depending on the life situation in which a person has come, he will receive for the state and local government... information on the aid proposed by the State and the municipality. It'll just be left to draw a bunch to the services he wants to get. For example, the Population Register will provide information that a child has been born in the family. At the moment, this family will receive an automatic, but at the same time individualised, letter so that a person can declare the child’s place of residence. Depending on this choice, where he has declared the child’s place of residence, he will be offered close-to-air kindergartens, where he will be able to apply in the children’s queue. He will also have the opportunity to note which benefits he wishes to receive and which time limits for parental leave. You will be able to immediately note the relief he wants for a child. If, for example, this is the third child in the family, the person will have the opportunity to apply for family relief immediately. Such individualised communication on the national side will be extended to different living situations. For example, a person acquires a disability. Does a man set up a business? At that point, the state will give him easy-to-understood support immediately, at the time when it happened. I would like to thank all the Members who participated in the e-government sub-committee for drawing up these draft laws. I would also like to thank VARAM's staff involved in this development process. I call for support for the draft e-government law and for it to be passed on to the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy. (Applause)
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-07-PT13-2017-U9	Thank you. The draft law on e-government law has been passed on to the Commission. Turn on the microphone, please! On the procedure - Member Daniel Pavlut.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-07-PT13-2017-U10	Thank you. Dear colleagues, Like my colleague Dombrava has already mentioned the previous two draft laws, I would urge you to do the same. Thus, in addition to the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy, which is proposed here as the committee responsible, we invite you to define the Commission for Public Administration and Local Government as the co-responsible commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-07-PT13-2017-U11	Do Members have objections? There is no objection. The draft law ‘E-government Act’ has been passed on to the commissions. The Saeima Presidium proposes that the draft law “Amendment to the Law of the Land Guard of the Republic of Latvia” presented by the Cabinet of Ministers be referred to the Commission for Defence, Home Affairs and Prevention of Corruption, stating that it is the committee responsible. Do Members have objections? There is no objection. Draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Saeima Presidium proposes that the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Electronic Communications” presented by the Cabinet of Ministers be referred to the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy, stating that it is the committee responsible. Do Members have objections? There is no objection. Draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Saeima Presidium proposes that the draft law presented by the Cabinet of Ministers “Amendments to the law “On National Referendum, Legislative Proposal and the European Citizens’ Initiative” be referred to the Legal Commission, stating that it is the committee responsible. Do Members have objections? There is no objection. Draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Saeima Presidium proposes that the draft law “Amendments to the Law on the Movement of Arms” presented by the Cabinet of Ministers be referred to the Commission for Defence, Home Affairs and Prevention of Corruption, stating that it is the committee responsible. Do Members have objections? There is no objection. Draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Saeima Bureau proposes that the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Waste Management” presented by the Cabinet of Ministers be referred to the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy, stating that it is the committee responsible. Do Members have objections? There is no objection. Draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Saeima Presidium proposes that the draft law “Amendment to the Law on Territorial Development Planning” presented by the Cabinet of Ministers be referred to the Commission of the State Administration and Local Government, stating that it is the committee responsible. For the Commission... No, no? No, no? ‘ For” applied to speak Member Arthur Tom Ples. Please! The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. S. Riekstin’s intermediate call sign.)
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-07-PT13-2017-U12	That's what you have to say, Sandy, it is. Good morning, colleagues! Since planning documents determine the development of the municipality in the medium and long term, it is important to take into account the decisions of the national level in the drafting of these documents (in this case, in this context, - the time schedule and progress of administrative territorial reform) and to draw up the relevant planning documents in coordination with national decisions. The draft law “Amendment to the Law on Territorial Development Planning” provides for the procedure for drawing up new territorial development planning documents within the framework of administrative territorial reform. In this period of reform, in 2020 and 2021, territorial development planning documents shall be drawn up accordingly after the entry into force of the Law on Administrative Territorial Reforms, and the preparation of local government territorial development planning documents for the new division shall be approved by the municipal council elected in 2020. ... In municipal elections in 2021. During the transition period... At the same time, it is important to note that in order to ensure the successful implementation of investment projects in municipalities, both in existing and new territories... Amendments... are being developed... or extend... existing strategy... the local authorities... as well as the duration of the development programme and spatial planning, as well as the development of new local plans and detailed plans. In this sense, municipalities can also continue working on their documents during this period until the law on administrative territorial reform has entered into force. So, colleagues, I call on us to support and work on the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-07-PT13-2017-U13	Mr. Viktors Valainis has applied for a speech.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-07-PT13-2017-U14	Hello, high-ranking head of the sitting! Colleagues! I think that this bill is wrong in its essence. Spatial development planning - it is not a document that is being drafted in a few months. These are documents that have been working on for years in normal circumstances. But if we look at these documents in Latvia... their importance, then I have to admit that these documents are still not being fully used in Latvia. That makes sense... They were historically introduced mainly for one reason: simply to learn the European Structural Funds. This was the main reason why they were introduced mass in municipalities and why they started to be used. I believe that the meaning and nature of these documents are not merely the basis for the draft fund, without which money cannot simply be invested in territories. I believe that the meaning and nature of these documents are such that every year, too, the municipal budget is drawn up on the basis of these documents. And I'm so glad it's very... more and more... many municipalities that form their annual budget directly on these strategies. Each row is based on one of the strategy points of the Development Programming Documents. In my opinion, a great deal of errors - and I also think that the unthinkable investments that take place in our territories in local governments - are mainly due to the fact that these plans may not have been fully developed or that these plans violate some of the principles that have been incorporated there. However, in my opinion, VARMA should not delay the development of these plans at this point in time, but rather create uncertainty in everything related to the development of these plans (and this is what is really being created by this draft law), but rather to encourage more use of these plans. The State Audit Office has also recognised the fact that it is the other way round – to encourage these plans to really be developed... so that not only the funds are based on these ideas of the future, but that these plans are documents used in everyday work. We are doing this right now, but I must also return to the funds. We see what is happening at a time when there is a very high level of crowding-up of fund investments - the adoption of such a draft law represents a great deal of risk. First of all, the risk that nothing will change in the future - after 2020. Also, all investments will be based on the strategies set out in these documents, and they will reflect all regional investments. And if these documents are not ready, if they are postponed, the implementation period will also be postponed. If we adopt such a law, I think we have a very high risk that future fund investment programmes will start not in 2020 but in 2021, but will happen at the earliest, in 2024 and 2025, and we will come back to the situation where we are today, when huge investment volumes are concentrated in the same period, the construction of real estate is the same as the design bubble. I think this draft law... It will indeed, by its very nature, also have to be addressed by the commission responsible. I think that the draft law should not go further. Today I would call for support for 'no'. I am absolutely convinced that this will bring nothing to Latvia's development. On the other hand, very many things are involved in this draft law, and they need to be assessed and understood in substance. At the moment, there is a political setting. We don't need to plan, let's plan in new areas. We need to plan! We also need to plan now. At the moment, I do not see how this draft law could be supported. And also the risks that might arise from the adoption of such amendments, in my opinion, the VAR has not yet fully understood. I call for a 'no' vote!
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-07-PT13-2017-U15	Please call me! We will vote in favour of handing over the draft law “Amendment to the Law on Territorial Development Planning” to the Commission of the State Administration and Local Government, establishing that it is the committee responsible! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 48, for - 11, for - 19. Draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Saeima Presidium proposes that the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Corporate Income Tax” presented by the Cabinet of Ministers be referred to the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission, stating that it is the committee responsible. Do Members have objections? There is no objection. Draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Saeima Bureau proposes that the draft law “Amendments to the Postal Law” presented by the Cabinet of Ministers be referred to the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy, stating that it is the committee responsible. Do Members have objections? There is no objection. Draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Parliamentary Bureau proposes that the draft law “On amendments to the Statute of the International Criminal Court of Rome” presented by the Cabinet of Ministers be referred to the Foreign Affairs Commission, stating that it is the committee responsible. Do Members have objections? ( Interface: “No! ”) ) There are no objections. Draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Saeima Bureau proposes that the draft law “Amendments to the Maritime Code” presented by the Cabinet of Ministers be referred to the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy, stating that it is the committee responsible. Do Members have objections? There is no objection. Draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Saeima Presidium proposes that the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Electronic Media” presented by the Cabinet of Ministers be referred to the Commission for Human Rights and Public Affairs, stating that it is the committee responsible. Do Members have objections? There is no objection. Draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Saeima Bureau proposes that the Member Rihards Kola, Jānis Dombrava, Raivja Dzintars, Ritvars Jansons and Ināra Mūrniece’s draft law “Amendments to the Law “On Holiday, Remembrance and Markable Days” be referred to the Commission for Human Rights and Public Affairs, stating that it is the committee responsible. ‘ For” applied to speak Member Richard Kohl.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-07-PT13-2017-U16	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, Dear Members, honourable Members, On Monday we celebrate a centenary for the iconic moment in our history: 11 November 1919 - the day when the newly formed Latvian army won Bermont's troops here in Riga. It was a crucial moment for the whole country to be freed from invaders. For years it has been a day when many candles are lighted all over Latvia, when we honor Latvian soldiers, defenders of our country, our temporary heroes and fighters for freedom. In 1919, many were volunteers. Young people, including minors, under-armed. But they also stood up against Bermont, and conquered, and fought against themselves, and against us. I think it also conquered its place in our historical memory and, today's assessment, to say so, its place in our calendar. In the 21st century, no war broke out on our earth. Today Latvian soldiers stand watch not only for the freedom of their people, but also in other parts of the world defend the ideals of our country, our fundamental values. November 11 is also their day. The impact of the 1919 heroic stories goes far beyond the events of that time. It is a story about ourselves, our country and what values we embody and what kind of people we honor - brave, honest, self-despite, knowledgeable. The public has already made 11 November a holiday - public parade is happening everywhere in Latvia. These are one of the greatest celebrations that gather hundreds of thousands of people. That is only right: to make these important celebrations already in society official, to reflect the reality we live in in our laws and in our lives. After all, on the morning of 11 November 1919, calls were made in all the churches of Riga and people were happy to come out, laugh, rejoiced and applauded. It was a celebration for them. This is not a new proposal. Even in the previous parliamentary term there was consensus and necessary support, but then the question was left and 13. The Saeima did not take over the bill. As usual, we persevere again, however, on 11 November to make an official holiday - the day of our nation's victory. In view of employers' concerns and doubts, 1 May would be a day in the future rather than an official holiday. For those who try to argue that 1 May is important, because when the fishing season begins, the warm time... and not yet, please don't! You know, however, that public holidays are not usually determined on the basis of weather or hobbies. On Monday, thousands of candles will light up in the memory of Latvian freedom fighters - those who bought the independence of our newly established country with their own blood, who gave up everything so that our red-white flag could spread every corner of our land, so proudly reminding that this is a sovereign, independent and strong country of Latvia. It must be taught at home, in the family. It must be taught and told at school. This must also be properly assessed and told in the country. There are wonderful traditions in schools that involve raising awareness of the importance of 11 November, and I call on schools to continue with these traditions and to focus on these topics already at the beginning of November, and to organize the usual events a day before, hopefully, official holidays. On 11 November we will celebrate the past and the present. All who link their lives and future to Latvia... Just as we relied on our freedom fighters, it is today counting on everyone who will protect, honor and build our country in the future. Colleagues! I call on you to support the referral of the draft law to the Commission. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-07-PT13-2017-U17	“Pret” has applied to speak to Member Nikolai Cabanov.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-07-PT13-2017-U18	Dear President, Dear colleagues, Colleagues historians from the National Association! Thank you for your proud words about the Latvian army! I can only agree with your assessment of the importance of Lāčplēsis Day and the need to make a fair note of it. It seems to me that the Latvian army not only played a major role in strengthening Latvia's state in the past, but also today, it protects our independence and will strengthen it with our allies in the future. Still! You see what's happening at the Saeima building right now. There are thousands of people who are not satisfied with their working conditions. Medicals are protesting against government action on working conditions, fair pay. I feel it is also necessary to mark May 1 as a celebration of the working people. May 1 is not just an international day... Working holidays, but also the Constitution of Latvia... Date... and not just because it was by accident... 90 years ago, but also because the colour of the Latvian flag is red... with a white horizontal stripe. That means that the left ideas, the work ideas... was the very foundation of Latvia. And I think I don't need to forget about May 1. Thank you. Please do not support the proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-07-PT13-2017-U19	Please call me! We will vote for the handover of the draft law “Amendments to the Law “On Holidays, Remembrances and Markable Days” presented by the Member Rihards Kola, Jānis Dombrava, Raivja Dzintars, Ritvars Jansons and Ināra Mūrniece to the Commission on Human Rights and Public Affairs, which states that it is the committee responsible! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 43, for - 29, for - 5. Draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Saeima's Bureau proposes that the Member Gata Eglišs, Janina Kursīte, Ilze Indriksone, Aleksandra Kirštein and Daniel Pavlut's draft law on Amendments to the Law on State Funded Pensions be referred to the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission, stating that it is the committee responsible. Do Members have objections? There is no objection. Draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Saeima Bureau proposes that the draft law on “Amendments to the Law on Tourism” presented by the Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy Commission be referred to the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy, stating that it is the committee responsible. Do Members have objections? There is no objection. Draft law has been passed on to the Commission. Dear colleagues, The Commission is asking for this draft law to be passed on to the Saeima at first reading without re-examination by the committee responsible. Do Members have objections? There is no objection. The order of business has been amended. Election, approval, appointment, dismissal or dismissal of officials, expressions of trust or distrust. The next item is the draft decision on the approval of Kristīne Chernobyl-Mežmale as a member of the Council of the Financial and Capital Markets Commission. On behalf of the Commission for Budget and Finance (Tax) - Member Iveta Benhena‐Beeken.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-07-PT13-2017-U20	Good morning, colleagues! The draft decision ‘On approval of Kristīne Chernobyl-Mežmale as a member of the Board of the Financial and Capital Markets Commission’ was discussed at the Budget and Finance (Tax) Commission of the Saeima. Please have your vote. The Commission was... If you listened, then... the draft decision was examined and supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-07-PT13-2017-U21	Please call me! We will vote on the draft decision submitted by the Budget and Finance (Tax) Commission on the approval of Kristīne Chernobyl-Mežmales as a member of the Council of the Financial and Capital Markets Commission! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 59, for - 3, for - 18. Decision adopted. Congratulations! The next item is "Provision of draft legislation". Draft law “Amendments to the Law on Payment Services and Electronic Money”, second reading. Recognised as a matter of urgency. On behalf of the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission, Member Gatis Eglitis. Draft law at second reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-07-PT13-2017-U22	Dear colleagues, The Budget and Finance (Tax) Commission met on 5 November and examined the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Payment Services and Electronic Money” at second reading. One proposal was received, and it comes from the Minister of Finance Reira. It's clear... as regards the issuing of an alert and the penalties imposed on payment service users. This proposal was supported by the Commission. I invite you to support the draft law at second, final, reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-07-PT13-2017-U23	Please call me! We will vote in the second, final reading of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Payment Services and Electronic Money”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 76, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The law is passed. Draft law ‘Amendments to the Railway Act’, third reading. On behalf of the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy, Member Sandis Riekstins.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-07-PT13-2017-U24	Hello, colleagues! We examine the draft law “Amendments to the Railway Law” at third reading. The draft law was drafted by the Ministry of Transport to ensure administration and public order in the railway sector. Taking into account that the Latvian Code of Administrative Violations expires, the draft law provides for supplementing the Railway Law with the norms resulting from those articles of the Latvian Code of Administrative Violations, which provide for penalties for violations in the field of maintenance and use of railway traffic. No proposals were received for the third reading. Please support the draft "Amendments to the Railway Act" at third, final, final reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-07-PT13-2017-U25	Please call me! We will vote in favour of the draft law "Amendments to the Railway Law" in the third, final, final reading! Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about - 80, it's against and refrains from - it's not. The law is passed. Draft law “Amendments to the Law on Aviation”, third reading. On behalf of the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy, Member Krišjānis Feldmans.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-07-PT13-2017-U26	Good morning, dear Member of the Speaker of the Saeima. Dear colleagues, The Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy has examined and prepared for consideration at the meeting of the Saeima at the third reading of the draft law “Amendments to the Law “On Aviation”. The draft law was drafted by the Ministry of Transport and was designed to expand the range of owners, real beneficiaries and employees of aviation companies whose reputation would need to be verified. No legislative proposals were received for the third reading. On behalf of the Commission, I ask you to support the draft law at third, final, reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-07-PT13-2017-U27	Please call me! We will vote for the draft law “Amendments to the Law “On Aviation” in the third, final reading! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 73, against and refrains. The law is passed. Draft law “Amendments to law on the privatisation of land in rural areas”, third reading. On behalf of the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy, Member Arthur Rubik.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-07-PT13-2017-U28	Good morning, colleagues! We work with document number 1601 ‘Amendments to the law on the privatisation of land in rural areas’. For the third reading, the commission responsible drew up one proposal which is technical and supported it.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-07-PT13-2017-U29	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-07-PT13-2017-U30	On behalf of the Commission, please support the draft law at third, final, reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-07-PT13-2017-U31	Please call me! We will vote for the draft law “Amendments to the law on the privatisation of land in rural areas” in the third, final reading! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 78, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The law is passed. Draft law “Amendments to the Law on Support for Unemployed and Labour Seekers”, third reading. On behalf of the Commission for Social and Labour Affairs - Member Ieva Krapāne.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-07-PT13-2017-U32	Hello! The Commission for Social and Labour Affairs prepared and examined draft law “Amendments to the Law on Support for Unemployed and Work Seekers”. One proposal was received by the Commission, which was also supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-07-PT13-2017-U33	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-07-PT13-2017-U34	On behalf of the Commission for Social and Labour Affairs, please support the draft law at third, final reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-07-PT13-2017-U35	Please call me! We will vote in favour of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Support for Unemployed and Labour Seekers” in the third, final reading! Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about - 80, it's against and refrains from - it's not. The law is passed. Draft law “Amendments to the Law on the Movement of Seeds and Varieties”, third reading. On behalf of the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy, Member Janina Kursīte.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-07-PT13-2017-U36	Hello, colleagues! We work with the draft law “Amendments to the Law on the Movement of Seeds and Varieties”. No proposal has been received for the third reading, and I therefore ask on behalf of the Commission to support the draft law at third, final, reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-07-PT13-2017-U37	Please call me! We will vote for the draft law “Amendments to the Law on the Movement of Seeds and Varieties” in the third, final reading! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 76, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The law is passed. Draft law “Amendments to the Law on the Movement of Energy Drinks”, third reading. On behalf of the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy, Member Atis Lejiņš.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-07-PT13-2017-U38	Dear Bureau! Colleagues! Well, I'm standing in front of you for the last time... in the context of the draft law amending the Law on the movement of energy drinks. There are no new proposals, although it was interesting that the police had reservations in the debate about our wording that they imposed a fine on the employees of the legal entity - the sellers and so on. They did not like something there, but after discussions with the Legal Bureau, they admitted that the wording was good enough. I call on you to support the draft law at third, final, reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-07-PT13-2017-U39	Please call me! We will vote in favour of the third, final reading of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on the Movement of Energy Drinks”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 78, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The law is passed.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-07-PT13-2017-U40	Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-07-PT13-2017-U41	Draft law “Amendments to the Plant Protection Law”, third reading. On behalf of the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy, Member Krišjānis Feldmans.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-07-PT13-2017-U42	The Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy has examined and prepared for consideration by the Saeima at the third reading of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Plant Protection”. Taking into account the necessary amendments regarding the decoding of the Latvian administrative infringement system and the determination of violations in sectoral laws, the draft law was drafted by the Ministry of Agriculture and prepared to regulate administrative liability in the field of plant protection and plant quarantine from 1 January 2020. Two proposals were received for the third reading of the draft law. The proposal is a editorial proposal from the committee responsible. It provides for clarification of the competence of the State Plant Protection Service in administrative infringement proceedings. The proposal is supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-07-PT13-2017-U43	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-07-PT13-2017-U44	The proposal is a editorial proposal of the committee responsible, which provides for clarification of the competence of the administrative commission or sub-commission of the municipality police and municipality in administrative infringement proceedings. The proposal is supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-07-PT13-2017-U45	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-07-PT13-2017-U46	All the proposals have therefore been examined. On behalf of the Commission, I ask you to support the draft law at third, final, reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-07-PT13-2017-U47	Please call me! We will vote in favour of the third, final reading of the draft law on plant protection law! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 78, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The law is passed. Dear colleagues, Members have received a request from Daniela Pavļuta, Ērika Pucena, Juta Strīķe, Raivja Dzintars and Ainars Latkovska to announce a break in agenda item 25 by noon 20.30. )... 10.30 a.m. I'm sorry until 10.30. ( Internouncing call.) Do Members have objections? ( The ring of noise.) There is no objection. “ Yes, ” he said. Just a statement of reasons! What is the motivation? Is there no work to be done?’ ) So... And? Let's vote! Please (Noise) ... Please call me! Please vote mode! Please get the result! ( Milestones.) No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, ( Internouncing call.) The proposal is accepted. Draft law “Amendments to the Law on Electronic Documents”, second reading. On behalf of the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy, Mr Daniel Pavluts.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-07-PT13-2017-U48	Good morning, dear colleagues, again! The Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy has examined the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Electronic Documents” before the second reading. No proposals were received. The purpose of the draft law is to make amendments to the Law on Electronic Documents regarding actions in case of termination of the operation of a reliable certification service provider, insolvency and revocation of the approval of an operation. It's a bill... Article 22 of the current law. I repeat: no proposals were made for the second reading. The Commission was supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-07-PT13-2017-U49	Please call me! We will vote for the second reading of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Electronic Documents”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about - 80, it's against and refrains from - it's not. The draft law was approved at second reading. Please set a deadline for the third reading of the proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-07-PT13-2017-U50	The deadline for the submission of proposals for third reading is 14 November this year.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-07-PT13-2017-U51	Consequently, the deadline for the submission of proposals is 14 November this year. Thank you. Dear colleagues, dear colleagues, Interruption until 10.30 a.m. Please check-in mode! Name of the member of the Saeima Secretary, Maria Golubeva, for reading the results of the registration.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-07-PT13-2017-U52	Not registered: Aldis Adamovičs, Aldis Blumbergs (Interface: ‘ Yes!’ )... Is, Ilmārs Dūritis, Inese Ikstena, Artuss Kaimiņš, Aleksandrs Kiršteins, Armands Krauze, Anita Muižniece, Ināra Mūrniece, Igors Pimenovs, Dana Reizniece-Ozola, Andris Skride and Ivars Zariņš.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-07-PT13-2017-U53	Thank you. Interruption until 10.30 a.m. ( Interruption)
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-07-PT13-2017-U54	Dear colleagues, Please take your seats! Dear colleagues, Members Daniels Pavļuts, Raivis Dzintars, Juta Strīķe, Ainars Latkovskis and Ēriks Pucens have submitted a request - a break of the sitting of 7 November until 10.50. Name of the notification to Member Juris Rancan.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-07-PT13-2017-U55	Hello, colleagues! I invite you to this break all to the opening of the photo competition exhibition on Lāčplēsis Day theme.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-07-PT13-2017-U56	Do Members object to the adversarial of the adversarial? ( Milestones.) Members have reservations. Please call me! We will vote for the Member Daniela Pavļuta, Raivja Dzintars, Juta Strīķe, Ainars Latkovska and Ērika Pucken's application on the parliamentary sitting on 7 November until 10.50! Please vote mode! Please get the result! -63, against -9, refrains - not. Withdrawal period until 10.50 a.m. ( Interfaces: “Registration! ”) ) No registration required. Not required. You don't have to register. Thank you. ( Interruption)
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-07-PT13-2017-U57	Honourable Members! Hello! We're continuing the Saeima sitting after a break. On the agenda - draft law on administrative territories and settlements, first reading. On behalf of the National Administration and Municipal Commission - Member Arthur Toms Ples.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-07-PT13-2017-U58	Hello, fellow Members, again! On 21 March 2019, the Saeima adopted a decision ‘On the continuation of administrative territorial reform’, which decided to continue the administrative territorial reform initiated in 1998 by ordering the Cabinet of Ministers to draft a law on administrative territorialisation following a conceptual report on the preparation of the administrative territorial breakdown and consultations with local governments in accordance with Article 5 of the European Charter for Local Government and to submit to the Saeima by 1 December 2019. In its decision, the Saeima defined, as the objective of the reform, the creation of areas of administrative capacity for economic development with local authorities that are able to ensure that they fulfil the autonomous functions laid down by law in a comparable quality and accessibility manner and provide high-quality services to citizens at reasonable costs. As indicated, maintaining the administrative territorialisation of existing 119 local authorities will remain a challenge for the development of the functioning of the public administration system and for ensuring the well-being of the population in the future. In particular, failing to implement this reform and strengthening the capacity of municipalities will not create better conditions for economic development and ensuring the quality of life of citizens. Likewise, the rational use of state budget funds will not be ensured and there will not be any possibility to significantly reduce the administrative and bureaucratic burden on the entire public administration system. It should also be noted that there will be no territorial platform for the development of an effective public administration system, including the implementation of reforms of other urgent sectors, since the territorial division of the state has an impact not only on the local government but also on the other public administration and the services it provides to citizens. The development of the territory of many municipalities will still not be planned in conjunction with regional and national development centres, where higher economic activity is created. At the same time, this concerns the establishment of an effective network of education, health, social assistance, roads and transport and municipal infrastructure. It should also be noted that many municipalities will still not be able to set up highly professional structures, balancing the ratio of service costs to quality, and a number of municipalities will remain disproportionate in terms of population. Thus, a model of 39 administrative territories is proposed according to the criteria for the establishment of administrative territories set out in the draft law. It should be noted that in this draft law, the types of administrative territories have been preserved unchanged from the law in force, that is, the cities of the republic are preserved, and the municipalities, which are divided into territorial units - as districts in the cities and municipalities in the parishes - are also preserved. In addition, the draft law does not provide for a change of regulation concerning the settlement of settlement status issues and the current order of the address system. The draft law also incorporates regulation, which is based on the precedent of the Law on Administrative Territories and Populations adopted in 2008, that the new territorial division is determined in time, although in this case the Central Electoral Commission in 2021 municipal elections could be declared in the new administrative territories specified by the law and that institutions could carry out appropriate preparations before the elections. With the entry into force of this Law, cities and municipalities of the Republic will continue to perform their functions and tasks in accordance with the procedure laid down in regulatory enactments until the first meeting of municipal councils elected in the municipal elections in 2021, which shall be convened in accordance with the procedure laid down by this Law on 1 July 2021. With the first session of the newly elected municipal councils in the municipal elections in 2021, the powers of all former municipal councils will be terminated. The new municipality municipalities will be the successors of finance, property, rights and liabilities of the local authorities included in the respective municipality. The draft law also provides for establishing the status of the city for Iecava and Koknese. Iecava and Koknese municipality municipalities have submitted to the Ministry of Environmental Protection and Regional Development appropriate documents in accordance with the procedure laid down by regulatory enactments to initiate the change of the status of settlement from the village to the city. It should also be noted that in order to ensure geographical unity of the territory of Olaine Municipality, the transitional provisions of the draft law provide for the solution of this issue by implementing amendments to the border between Olaine Municipality and Ķekava Municipality. The draft law contains a number of other issues to ensure the full administrative implementation of the territorial reform. This draft law was reviewed by the Commission of Public Administration and Local Government on 29 October and was approved for the first reading after the discussions. I invite you to support it!
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-07-PT13-2017-U59	Thank you. Let us start a debate. Name of Minister of Environmental Protection and Regional Development Juris Pucem.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-07-PT13-2017-U60	Very honourable Speaker of the Saeima! Highly honored Saeima! On 21 March this year, the Saeima gave an task to the Cabinet of Ministers to develop a proposal for administrative territorial reform, in fact to continue the administrative territorial reform which had already started 20 years ago. With this submitted draft law, we have basically fulfilled the task assigned to the Cabinet of Ministers - to submit a new draft law “Law on Administrative Territories and Populations” by December of this year, 2019. How did we reach this proposal so far? On 10 April this year, following the task assigned by the Saeima, the Ministry of Environmental Protection and Regional Development published a proposal on what could be an administrative territorial division. On the basis of this proposal, on which an active discussion started, an information report was prepared and discussed in accordance with the procedure set out in the Cabinet Order. The information report was discussed and supported at the Cabinet of Ministers meeting on 14 May (with extensive discussions during the Cabinet meeting). This information report gave the task to our Ministry - Ministry of Environmental Protection and Regional Development - to launch consultations with Latvian municipalities on the model of administrative division prepared. Such consultations took place from May 28, this year (started in Preili) until August 2, this year (completed in Daugavpils). A total of 30 consultations were held with members of all the municipalities involved. 114 elected members of the local government were present, with a total of less than a thousand members. In parallel to this process, dozens more meetings with individual municipal members, local government leaders, officials, residents, business associations and civil society took place throughout the summer of 2019. A meeting with the residents is also held in the Ministry from July. These will be, for example, the following week - in Paradise, the coming week - in Aglona. I have made it a priority to give citizens the opportunity to meet and obtain explanations from a representative of the government in every region where our offer will not have a new administrative centre. Such a calendar is prepared and will be provided. On the basis of the proposals received during the consultation process, we have responded to the proposals, comments, objections expressed by each municipality of Latvia during this period, and the draft conceptual report of the Cabinet of Ministers was prepared. This conceptual report was endorsed by the Cabinet on 17 September this year. On the basis of a conceptual report, the Cabinet of Ministers supported this draft law at its meeting on 15 October this year. In both cases there were discussions in the Cabinet meeting. In both cases, these documents were prepared and examined and opinions were received from institutions, subject to the regulations of the Cabinet of Ministers' Rules of Procedure roll. That's about the process. But why are we in the process of administrative territorial reform at the moment? The previous municipal reform, adopted at the end of 2008, which came into force with the 2009 municipal elections, established a model for local government breakdown, primarily characterised by vast heterogeneity. Even if we ignore the fact that... Of course... and the specifics of Latvian settlement are such that Latvia has one large, very large, relatively large city for Latvia, and we look only at the municipalities of the municipality, without taking into account the city of the large city or republic... We have a smaller municipality with a thousand inhabitants, the largest municipality with a population of 34 thousand. Difference between the smallest and the largest municipality - 34 times... in a situation where we have absolutely the same functions. If we divide the municipalities into three groups, there are 60 municipalities who do not meet the criteria of the existing law on the establishment of the municipality. Of these, 38 do not meet the criterion of least... the number of inhabitants in that territory. The second group is those with a population of between 4 and 10 000; there are about 35 municipalities. And the rest are municipalities that are bigger... municipalities of more than 10 000 inhabitants. Quite evenly distributed... breakdown of municipalities by population. But the trend is that we are constantly increasing the number of municipalities with a population of less than 4 thousand, while the number of municipalities with a population of more than 10 thousand is in fact stable. Thus, there is an increasing inequality of opportunities between municipalities – more and more municipalities, whose budgetary opportunities, resources, human resources to attract employees to provide functions are very limited so as not to say that they are not there, while the number of municipalities, whose opportunities are multiplying and which have the possibility to attract good personnel to ensure the development of their territories is in fact static, constant and unfortunately only one part of the territory of Latvia is covered. The rest of Latvia is gradually lagging behind. The existence of this classification has been one of the reasons why inequalities in the accessibility and quality of the services provided by the municipality are increasingly dramatic and growing. This difference in availability and quality is hidden, and we are all hidden together. The state and municipal authorities, by adopting many laws and regulations, where we have defined the tasks to be carried out by municipalities, do not, as far as possible, define precisely what can then be done. Functions are not quantified, they are mostly described in general terms, allowing local authorities to choose the extent to which this function is to be provided. Yes, it is also important from the point of view of subsidiarity, but at the same time, in most cases it actually leads to the fact that municipalities cannot provide their services because there are no resources available for such functions. Highly honored Saeima! We also have independent calculations performed by the Bank of Latvia when analysing municipal budgets. The calculations published in June this year show that... If we... if we do not change anything and do not take any steps, then, despite inflation at 2018 prices, within 10 years, municipal maintenance expenditure, regardless of inflation, regardless of wage growth, just because... I mean... The average drop is... especially in small municipalities, the maintenance costs of municipalities will increase by EUR 120 million, unless any changes are made to the way maintenance is provided and the methodology used. This is a huge challenge. And EUR 120 million - that is, in fact, the amount of funding which corresponds to about the amount that all municipalities together, from their own resources, are diverting to the development of their functions. In fact, within 10 years, we will transfer this funding completely to the maintenance costs and no possible function in the development municipality will happen if there is no change. There are also other calculations. The same calculations of the Bank of Latvia... What happens if the average region had a population of 20,000. And that's... the method by which these indicators are obtained is quite simple. They look at the structure of expenditure for municipalities, which is about 20,000 inhabitants, and compare it with other municipalities, which are smaller. Most - an absolute majority - Latvian municipalities currently have fewer than 20 thousand inhabitants. The savings in municipal budget expenditure in 2018 prices would then be approximately 190 million euros. Of course, this will not happen on its own, and it is clear that this savings mainly take place at the expense of efficiency by reducing the number of employees employed in municipalities, by making it more effective when deciding how to provide municipal functions in the future in a more efficient way. Of course, it will not be easy, but an alternative to it is actually the endlessft of the future of the population, saying that they do not have to have part of the services provided by municipalities simply because they live in a politically built region with a population that does not meet the criteria laid down by law. Is this offer, what we have presented, the only possible one? In our offer, more than 30,000 inhabitants will live in the middle region. Currently there are 6 thousand inhabitants in the middle region. This is a significant change, of course. But this is not the only possible offer. First of all, the Cabinet of Ministers and the Ministry were limited by our joint commitment, and also by the Saeima, to reform by 2021 elections. A year before the elections... good practice of organising elections, and also practical considerations to do so - all the essential rules relating to elections must be in force. So, in fact, for the preparation of the reform, for consultation and for the adoption of the law, it was less than one and a half years. Now it's about half of this time, nine months. So the reform had to focus on what has been done in the past, on the data that the government already has at its disposal with which it was able to work. That's what we did. And the basics of this reform are, in fact, two. First. As a criterion for establishing municipalities, we used administrative centres, which have been established for a long time in Latvian law, the Saeima decisions and the National Development Plan. In particular, national and regional development centres called 21 + 9... As municipal centres, as such economic... development units that ensure the development of the surrounding area... The studies and data we have commissioned show that these development centres have, in fact, not changed to a significant extent since the decision to establish them was taken. The only significant change (and it is also visible in this offer) is, of course, related to the territory that is commonly called Pierīga, namely the historical district of Riga, where settlement in the last 20 years has, of course, changed significantly... and there has also been a significant change over the last 10 years: the population has increased. In addition, new settlement centres have emerged, where the population is also growing. This gave us an additional task, which is also evident in this proposal - to resolve the administrative territorial division, the division of municipalities, precisely in Pärīga. Secondly. The reform should also be based on the criterion of how to calculate a sufficient population for the municipality at such centres. There is no one number, there is no one formula in the world to calculate it. Countries that have implemented administrative territorial reform... There are not too many countries, but those who have done so... democratic countries, because in authoritarian countries, these reforms usually take place differently and cannot be called municipalities that are being built... but those countries that have implemented it usually use the most cost-intensive municipal function and determine the formula for calculating the population. So just before, literally not long ago, last year, Estonia completed the reform in this way. In this way, I believe that the best administrative territorial reform has been implemented - in Denmark, with the largest, most important in terms of costs, function and calculation of aid. This is also a function where... In fact, Latvia is the only place where the law sets quantitative criteria for the provision of municipal functions. The only one! There's no other one. And it's general education. Implementation of general education. In Latvia, the number of pupils in secondary school classes has been determined, minimum reception... available in specified areas. It's possible to figure out... It is quite easy to calculate the minimum population to be in the area. This is not the only completed work in terms of regional development or administrative territorialisation. Currently, the discussion of the Latvian Government is being submitted and is in fact coming to an end to submit an information report on the second level of territorial governance in the Cabinet of Ministers. With this report, we will also present it to the Saeima. We will have fully fulfilled the task given by the Saeima in its decision of March this year. We offer Latvia to finally take a decision and to build a second level of territorial governance, not as an elected local government, but as a common institution of the state and local government, which, by its nature, is now a... The regions of planning are also the functional derived public entities in this legal capacity. It is a joint function of the state and local authorities - a mechanism of realisation. The creation of a joint body will enable the regional level to address the development challenges that major municipalities might not be able to carry out in the future, as well as to carry out national functions at regional level more effectively. Next week, the government in Alūksne will look at another work in our ministry, namely regional development guidelines, in its meeting of departure. Where we have proposed a new approach to how public resources will be available to regional development. Part of the resources will not be allocated through a competitive procedure organised by the national authorities to all municipalities, but will be allocated directly to the needs of regional development for joint projects, joint activities, where this unit, which would be formed at the second level of territorial governance, will then also be implemented. This draft law “Law on Administrative Territories and Accommodations” is a proposal of the Cabinet of Ministers for administrative territorial reform. It is thought out, it is weighed, and it is in the interests of Latvian citizens. The Saeima has every right to take it and to amend it, to make it better if there are proposals to achieve this result. My call to the very honourable Saeima is to fulfil it with due responsibility, including listening to those whom I have not succeeded in persuading in this half-year marathon, but at the same time not to delay. This reform must take place. Without administrative territorial reform, many other reforms will not be possible. Without an administrative territorial reform, citizens will have worse services in the future... and is often not available. Without administrative territorial reform, there will be less development in Latvian regions. With administrative territorial reform, it will be our ability to provide a balanced and high-quality public service to all citizens of Latvia. I call for support for this draft law at first reading. Thank you. (Applause)
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-07-PT13-2017-U61	Thank the Minister. Member of the Group of the Greens/ Farmers' Union, Viktors Valainis.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-07-PT13-2017-U62	Hello, honourable Chairman of the Saeima, colleagues, again! I have needed several years, which I have really gladly spent together with local government members, presidents, ministerial officials, local government officials and non-governmental representatives in Riga and regions, Jelgava and Jēkabpils... working together to understand what the municipality is, its role in society, its role in the democratic system. The Union of Greens/Farmers is undoubtedly a party... an association of parties with the largest representation in regional governments. In a democratic, legal state, it is not possible for the Saeima and the government to manage the territory fully without the participation of local governments. Local identity, local values and traditions... It is the power closest to the everyday life of every citizen, the power that serves the people of a given territory within its remit and society as a whole. These responsibilities delegated by the central authority to local authorities... local, local, power to organise the needs and interests of society shall be transferred as close as possible to the population itself. The draft law proposed today violates these principles. As I mentioned before the law was passed to the Saeima, I think it is a brother. And the reason for this stump is my incomprehensible arrogance. We are voting today on a draft law that we know little about. It is not possible to understand from this the opinion of municipalities. There are 16 letters from local governments in the Commission, a schedule for visits by the Minister, but no feedback. Everyone has been heard. I believe that any democratic boundaries have been violated in the process. That is why, outside the Saeima today, we see the consequences of this hearing, to which only the Minister responsible is to blame. Today, colleagues, you will be voting in favour of a bill that is not prepared in a hurry. It would not be acceptable to have been prepared in a hurry. That is not the case! Time was enough. However, it is prepared for poor quality only because the map is drawn in the offices of the Old Riga Old Manier, without respecting the real conditions, without consulting the population. The only changes that have been made are political. And that has nothing to do with the many criteria that have been called for. In the Commission too, when we looked at this issue, which will certainly have an impact on the further development of Latvia as a whole, the conceptual decision had one and a half hours - such a decision! I think that's a little bit too little. And especially here, too, many began to promise... different information... And yet so much we want to expect from the municipalities... But already after the vote, the finger-pointing began. And I no longer expect answers on the substance. I believe that the task given unanimously by the Saeima has not been fulfilled. The cat is offered in a bag. And unfortunately, it will be the Saeima who will have to fix this brother. This is still accompanied by an information campaign, which I cannot call an information campaign, but just a political campaign. The Saeima Commission addressed KNAB yesterday to evaluate this campaign. Quite simply, you are talking about high standards, but you are showing the highest shame. You are introducing a new standard. The new Conservative Party, you too, could take this standard as an example for yourself. Minister Bordāns has mentioned that there will be a new institution - the Court of Economic Affairs. Well, then take the money from the state budget, as Mr. Puce did, and start “on Latvian Television” and inform other public media that this economic court will solve all the problems of the court – as Puce does right now. This campaign is not an information campaign, but simply a political campaign on taxpayers' money. I certainly believe that children do not have more important things than getting good and high-quality education. Changes are needed in order for the education system to be well accessible in the future. But it is therefore not necessary to mix the meaning and nature of municipalities. They are two interrelated, but different things, to be dealt with together, but to everyone looking at individually. It's confused here, it's very unsuccessful. This bill conceals the fact that its leaders have a strategic plan to leave about 130 schools in Latvia. It is assumed that in Latvia there will be... Latvia will have a successful country if there is one school for 15 thousand inhabitants. Continued with this means the liquidation of two thirds of Latvian schools. That's the thing... regularisation of matters on which the Prime Minister spoke at the budget vote a week ago. They were experts' findings 25 years and more ago... who keep holding on to them. There were other solutions that had already been incorporated 10 years ago into the legislation. Unfortunately, no one did... and created many of the problems we are facing today - that what we expect from municipalities is too much... but today we are offered an old model based on ideas. Are you sure that by closing two thirds of Latvian schools... that it is the key to Latvia's prosperity? That is what this draft law contains in its very basic form - it is in this draft law. In addition, 36 regions now have under 4 000 inhabitants. They are not mystical regions; they are also the people who live in them. And in 42 districts there are less than 10,000 inhabitants. These are the regions that are at risk of losing their identity and becoming an outskirt. Colleagues! These are almost 400 thousand inhabitants of Latvia, which will be affected by these changes most directly and most rapidly. And I do not think that these changes will be positive. But I think about how these processes have progressed in the past. Time has passed since the previous reform. From more than 500 municipalities, the Saeima came to 119. The reform created large areas where the population did not have its own social-territorial identity, a united identity of culture and a sense of territory. These were places where there was no ability and energy to fight for the creation of their own identity and the cell of society. Ten years have passed. And if you look at the map we see today? We see Kandava with a clear idea to be part of the Kurzeme space. Alsunga - completely its own Suiti culture space. Dundaga is an ancient and powerful raid. Even today, the small milk cooperative in Dundaga is firmly opposed to market pressure to maintain its identity. Nica, Rucava, Priekulė, Rūjiena, Burtnieki, Smiltene, Līvāni, Ozolnieki - absolutely nothing new public space has been created in the territory of simple Latvian working villages. An thumb - a force that protects and fights for its own identity. Rauna and Priekuļi - the intellectual center of agriculture with a history of 150 years. Sigulda finally gained a clear vision and a public agreement on the strategy and the way forward. The result of this reform - whether it is an identified or unidentified by-product - is the disappearance of the still preserved identities, the expansion of diversity in non-personal administrative overloads - of the same size and shape. Administrative structures with service delivery procedures - is it a municipality, colleagues, what are you dreaming so much about? Perhaps it is, but is it what everyone understands with the word “municipality”? Will it be a human-elected area and, above all, a human-led area? The lost Cesvaine and Lubāna, flattened with Viļāni and Kārsava, declassified Dagda and Aglona, taken away from Selija Ilūkste, printed in the outskirts of Zemgale Kandava, Latgale Krustpils and Zemgale Jēkabpils, the lost Aknieste and Viesīte, and the damaged Jaunpils, which has been the centre of knowledge of Kurzeme culture and agriculture for so long. Jelgava - all Zemgale's economic engine and knowledge centre, Zemgale's power. Now it's just the region. I would like to mention that yesterday the President of Latvia held a joint meeting of the Council of the Latvian Municipal Union and there was a large majority vote against (but indeed with a large majority), the Council of the Latvian Municipal Union decided to ask the Saeima not to support this draft law at first reading. I think that a reform of governance is needed, not a reform of local governments. That is what is needed. People are excluded from building their administration in many everyday areas, but public administration is reforming self-government, centralising it in principle and moving it even further away from decision-making. It offers districts with customer service centres and project attraction structures, as was the case in the Soviet centers with designated state... procedures for obedient... managers. In the past, they were called executive committees, and that was certainly not democracy. Colleagues, I still believe that this draft law has been drawn up in poor quality. Colleagues, this will be our responsibility: further this draft law is designed to really serve the people of Latvia. At the moment, I call for this draft law not to be supported and returned to the Cabinet of Ministers to recast it. If this is not done, colleagues, we have a lot of discussions ahead of us. — Dep. E. Zālīte-Gross: “What is bad?” ), there will be a great deal of meetings not only here in the Saeima, but also to visit the regions, and this map must be made in a way that meets the interests of the people, not the functions of government administration. I mean, I mean, I mean, I mean, I mean, I Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-07-PT13-2017-U63	Name to Member Andris Kazinovskis. ( Milestones.)
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-07-PT13-2017-U64	Dear Chairman of the Saeima. Dear colleagues, Minister! I hope that we all want this positive result in the process of administrative territorial reform. But there are a number of measures, a number of steps to be taken. Yesterday, the Commission of the State Administration and Local Government supported the fourth strategic objective in the National Development Plan. This implies regional development. I would like to thank all the Members who supported the fourth strategic objective. Thank you to Janīna Kursīte–Pakulė, thank you Aldis Adamovičas, Karina Sprūdė, Erikas Pucens, Arthur Tom Ples, Dace Bluke, Reginas Ločmelė–Lunova, Sergey Dolgopolova, Viktoras Valainis, Uldis Budrikis, Inga Goldbergas. We signed a letter today, sent it to the National Development Council and the Transparency Coordination Centre. This is the first step in regional development. The second step. Yesterday, at the meeting of the Commission on Sustainable Development, after discussions, the conclusion was actually reached... Commission President Vjačeslav Dombrovskis concluded that in the context of the National Development Plan, not only the sectoral (sectoral) aspect should be envisaged, but also the regional aspect – specific objects, specific business development and measures should be envisaged in the regions. This is the second step. Thank you also to the representatives of this committee who took part in the discussion yesterday - Janis Dombrava, Janīna Kursīte, Edmunds Teirumnieks, Ivars Zariņš, Didzims Šmits and others. What will that do? This will make it possible for us, perhaps in the next programming period, in the next seven years, to be able to invest these funds in specific regions, both from the European Union's structural funds and from the country. But for this to happen, a third step must be taken. The third step is the creation of national administrative regions based on planning regions. The proposal that has been tabled and is being called upon by the new Conservative Party and that must be carried out at the same time as local administrative reform - the creation of five administrative regions of public administration. The administration would be carried out, in our view, in such a way that in each of these regions we would probably have to appoint a head of administration in the Saeima, which would also be a representative of the Cabinet of Ministers, as well as representatives of local governments and representatives of ministries. This would enable these regions to make these real plans, plans. Also in these seven years. It could even be one... Currently, the only and main function - to develop and implement this plan in this area. We would not recognise Latvia after seven years. This would allow the whole territory to develop in a planned, useful way, not as yet - chaoticly... Step five... I'm sorry, step four. These regional plans, five, must be part of the common national development plan. In the National Development Plan... of course, we must add these important measures and objects to the country, megaprojects... And the whole set of these plans would then also form the main development document of our country. This package could then be followed by the relevant experts from the Ministry of Finance, the Ministry of Economics, the Centre for the Coordination of the Reconnaissances with the European Commission on getting certain structural funds into our country and opportunities. That is the fifth step. Here are five steps. Then this local administrative reform in the area acquires a completely different view, a completely different meaning. I would also like to thank the members of the Latgale Subcommittee, who have, in particular, already expressed their support for the creation of these five administrative regions. Members elected from Latgale - Mārtiņš Bondars, Edmunds Teirumnieks, Janīna Kursīte, Jānis Dūklavs, Janīna Jalinska and others. Thank you. I think that this opportunity would give Latvia a real, first, economic breakthrough after the next programming period and, second, a balanced development throughout Latvia. Many municipalities also ask for this. We need to hear that. Thank you. (Applause)
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-07-PT13-2017-U65	The name is Digit Schmidt.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-07-PT13-2017-U66	Dear colleagues, Ladies and gentlemen! I hope we're all aware of... if not, then I hope that we will realise that the decisions that we will actually take on this issue are, at least in my opinion, the most important ones that this parliamentary term will take. And I hope that, at least on this issue, we can forget some kind of political colour, mutual opposition and position debate and, differently, come from the common interests of the country. For what decisions we will take in this regard will mean what kind of Latvia will be and how it will develop in decades - long after we all have finished our political course. Now, a little bit, everything in a row. Mr Pliesa rightly said that we decided to continue the administrative territorial reform of 1998. And if we look at this year 1998, and also years after, what was then the main work that has not been done, which has still not been done... in all the Saeima that came, all the political parties, again - there is no “color” here... The work that has not been done is that we did not create a second-level territorial division. I stress the administrative territorial division, not the municipalities. This would be the next debate. We broke down the second level in Latvia with a big blink - districts - committed and entered into the law that we would create instead (at that time they were called counties), but we did not do so. In two words - what consequences has it had now in Latvia? The consequences are twofold. If we look at the local authorities, especially the smaller municipalities, then, as Mr Puce rightly emphasised, very many are unable to fulfil the functions delegated to them by law. And since there was no second level where municipalities would go and solve their problems at this level, they remained only one level, namely this House - Parliament. There were no other levels. And everyone, as he taught, as he could, tried to scare his interests through the parliament. We're very good... By the way, this can be seen very well in earlier decisions, let us say, when there were MEPs' quotas: a roof put on someone, a swimming pool built for someone, something else... And I will not blame the municipalities. They did not have this second level at which to deal with these issues. They had to come here and plunder the interests of their constituents, as anyone understood. It was one problem from the municipal side of looking. In turn, if we look from the state side to the territory of Latvia... We created... the fact that we did not have a statutory 2nd level administrative breakdown card, but that it was absolutely necessary for public administrations, because it is clear that they could not plan their functions in the same way on 119 local government units. These, by the way, will not be able to reach 39 - that is clear too. Each national authority drew up its own drawing, given that such a single card did not exist. No one can be blamed for anything. They did what they had to do. They had to plan their functions in some way. 32 cards were created for us: firefighters - their own, food and veterinary service - their own, state environment service - their own, emergency medical help service - and so on. 32 different cards! Only a few of them coincided - mostly the institutions that were under the authority of one ministry tried to draw something similar. As a result, let's say businessman in Paradise... For example, a businessman or any other person goes to Ventspils with one certificate, after the other certificate goes to Tukums... after the fourth, to Talsi, huh? We created huge chaos. And I say once again, no government institution can blame it. What should we do now - today and in the coming months? What should be done step by step? This second level allocation should finally be agreed. There are two and... What's very interesting, then? If we look at these 32 cards... There's nothing completely new to figure out... In those 32 cards... isn't there already... No silly people, they really tried to plan logically. They have two trends. About half of the maps draw Latvia in five parts ( plus minus), i.e. in a regional context... And great. Others draw around ten units... I mean, that was the idea of the Countys... I mean, around the cities of the republic... That's also logical. Each of these steps has the pros and cons. But we have to decide what the level 2 administrative breakdown is. First of all, what's the map? Are they five - regions and Riga... four regions and Riga. Is that ten... Ventspils, Liepaja, Jelgava, Valmiera, Rēzekne, Jēkabpils, Daugavpils, Riga... and so on. In both cases, there are issues. If we create around ten units... around the so-called cities of the republic, we will have at least two issues. What are we doing with Jurmala - is Jurmala present near Riga or separately? And we'll have an objective problem with Madona... In Gulbene County, where two like... each is too small to be separate, but very similar. This is, of course, a matter to be addressed. On the other hand, if we are talking about five entities, which is a very reliable and realistic scenario, we will have an objective problem in determining administrative centres. So, for example, we take Kurzeme: what will be - Liepaja or Ventspils? This is not an insurmountable problem. This is, of course, a logical problem. It will simply be such a problem, and we should decide on it. So step No. 1. We should agree on the second breakdown, namely five or ten models... relative. Item No 2. The administrative centre should be defined in one or the other model we choose. Item No 3. The functions to be performed at the second level and those to be performed at the first level should be determined. At a time when this is clear to us, only then can we understand what the first level is. If, for example, we leave only social and cultural functions at first level... Well, like... then Alsunga Municipality has an absolute place to be. If we transfer more serious functions down - education and so on - then, of course, Alsunga region is too small - objectively. But this cannot be said today before we have agreed on those functions. And here I, as I say... what I would like to say about... Mr. Pouce. I would like to express and appreciate this conclusion and, in fact, the suggestion that the second... The second level must be. Thank you for that. We're not starting with this, but we're getting to it. Where would I say what I do not agree with? In my opinion, it is precisely that approach, the method, that we first draw the first level before we agree what will be done in the second. We cannot objectively draw the first before the second. Finally, I would like to say in relation to today... own, personal decision: I do not consider it appropriate to return this bill back to the government, because the government has now done its views and work. We have no reason to believe that, I don't know, in a month or two, the government will bring something fundamentally different, or... Where we see, let us say, problems must obviously be solved here. It will be a huge job, complicated, I hope... and I would like to congratulate Mr. Kazinovsky, who... I think we have approaches in common, we can argue -- five or ten -- that's... and this should also be the subject of a dispute. We can argue about administrative centers, we can argue about functions, their quality also here in this house, do and get to the best solution. Personally, I'm a flexit. I think it would be better ten, but I know that Mr Kazinovsky thinks five. Well, let's have a debate, and I... Make sure I'm five, I won't sleep cross rails if. So it's a job that we have to do here, and I also hope that... Another important thing. Maybe it's only at first reading... Juris Puce here is one. It is not the reform of Juris Pouce in either positive or negative sense, it is the overall reform of our country, and I hope that sometime there will also be... All the ministers were supposed to be here! Well, at least the Prime Minister was supposed to be here. I hope that the Prime Minister also understands that this is a fundamental question of how Latvia will develop in the future. And one more thing I want to add. I said this earlier, I would like to emphasise it again. We need to understand another important thing. We're... It is not necessary to place all expectations in a single decision. If we look... I already mentioned Finland. Not the number of municipalities (which is 314!) Defining the level of education in Finland... In a three-way world. This was determined by considerations other than the number of municipalities. Similarly, we will not rapidly increase the birth rate from the fact that we will only change the map, but many other things will not happen, as evidenced, for example, by this very Gulbene region, which is as if the perfect region in the new map for the eleventh year. Therefore, we should not deceive ourselves and society that it is a magic wand, but it is, of course, an absolutely essential prerequisite for us to put our entire administration and local authorities in order, and there will always be a question of compromise. We must not exclude people from the right to decide, and at the same time we need effective governance. The state and the right of self-determination are congregate and they are congregate at this second level. Is the second level finally elected or not - it is another debate. Both themes have pluses and minuses. Finland, for example, has a five-level administrative breakdown. The election is only the first. There are countries in which you also wish a second. There are countries like Poland, which I think has shown very clearly how well this country is developing regionally... on roads. In Poland, the second level is elected, but at the same time there is a representative of the state, the ridiculed Prefect, and this cooperation between the elected authority and the state representative creates the best solutions. When we, the Commission for Sustainable Development, were on a visit to Poland and talked about this, I had a question: “But how... What if the elected authority, let us say, is political in one colour, but the government is different and appoints a representative?’ The Poles said: “You know, we once thought it would be a fundamental problem. It turned out quite the contrary, because then this elected and appointed authority must agree.” And the debate on regional development, which must be carried forward to the government and the Seimas, is precisely creating better quality solutions. Often, regions where there has been this defeating of the opposition and position in one... have given better quality decisions than when the decision-makers have been in the same "color"... Because in one “color”... sometimes criticism of your own decisions disappears. This one, too... Here, too, I am absolutely flexibly, I do not believe that there is an absolute truth that we need a second level municipality. But what is definitely absolute truth is that we need the second level at which these things come together, and we can finally develop our country smoothly, but above all to growth. To conclude, I would really like to emphasise once again that I hope that we can at least forget some kind of disagreement on this issue and understand that what we are deciding on... will depend on how our children and grandchildren will live in the coming decades. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-07-PT13-2017-U67	The name is Mr. Janis Cielen.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-07-PT13-2017-U68	Dear Chairman of the Saeima. Minister! Colleagues! The new Conservative will support the draft law on administrative territories and settlements - the implementation of administrative territorial reform - but will at the same time call for the creation of operational regions, as our colleague Andris has already mentioned. This should be based on the current planning regions, giving them functions that can only be carried out qualitatively in larger areas. For example, health, public transport, education and other functions could be transferred to the regions, the fulfilment of which would be much better if the surrounding regions were to cooperate together. But it is clear that we need to move towards the creation of strong municipalities, because at present municipalities are too small and too many. I will give you an example. I have been working for two years as a member of the Beverina District (a relatively small region with a population of 3 000, which is next to Valmiera) and saw how difficult it is for a small municipality that needs to provide a large staff structure. Workers do not have an incentive remuneration, so a large part do not have the motivation to make their job well. In addition, it is proportionate for a small municipality... major expenditure on maintenance and remuneration of the administration. Many of the inhabitants of Beverina Municipality work in Valmiera, where they use various services, and return after work. At present Valmiera has already flooded surrounding regions. So it can also be understood that we can understand the people who ask why it is based on their shoulders - to maintain the availability of a wide range of services and infrastructure, but that the surrounding inhabitants of the municipalities only use it. And here's the question: why do two separate municipalities need to be made? It should also be noted that digital opportunities for communication with the municipality are rapidly evolving and many issues can be dealt with remotely, i.e. electronically. Here is an example: Three years ago, the Rural Support Office accepted paper-based area payment applications, but has now moved only to electronic submission, which has all been successfully adapted and satisfied. As a result of the reform, it will be possible to better plan the services provided so that they can be made available to all citizens of the new county. The functions of the municipality will be fully ensured throughout the territory of the municipality. The new conservative party has met with many residents of Latvian municipalities and has discussed administrative territorial reform. I want to highlight the meeting with the inhabitants of Rūjiena municipality, entrepreneurs who are against the merger with Valka. The Russians are not opposed to the reform. They believe that mergers are necessary, but only with Valmiera, with which they are now much together. In turn, Valmiera and surrounding regions have also expressed their wish that they should be connected to Valmiera by Rūjienas and Naukšensi regions. It would also not change the number of new sites. I and the New Conservative also believe that the case of Rūjiena and Naukšens is something that should be considered. Thank you. (Applause)
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-07-PT13-2017-U69	Name to Member Armand Kraus.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-07-PT13-2017-U70	Hello, colleagues! I hear we say: 'We are not opposed to reform'. Of course, we are not opposed to reform as such. And I think even in this regard, our classic Rainy, who has said, “There will be something that will change.” and, therefore, it is clear that we need to change, go with time and reform is needed. Only the question is some reform. Is it hasty? Is it a person who is not spoken and debated with the people and where the interests of the people are not taken into account. I have also just heard, yes, that on the Rujien side, on many other sides, people think differently than this offer. I therefore feel that we need to talk about the interests of citizens today, and also in the context of this reform in general. I heard... I listened carefully to the Minister. He is now speaking, but when he was here, he said - the municipality, the municipality, the municipality. Why are we talking about municipalities all the time? Basically, the municipality must serve the population. Of course, the municipalities are different - larger and smaller, and it is important for us to ( Dep. ( See K. Feldman's Intersense.) citizens will receive the relevant services. I'd like to... even the figures mentioned by the Minister, if there were 30 meetings. Yes, members can be heard at 30 meetings, local government leaders can be heard, but people cannot be consulted fully. Let us remember what the municipality means at all. It's the government itself. It is an imaginary model of the population itself and not of the coalition. Look at other places in Europe. This is not about functions and what ensures... how large companies provide services to citizens. This is about whether citizens living in municipalities can participate in their own decisions. Go to Germany, look at Italy, there are municipalities where, I don't know, there are a few hundred people. Of course, there are no Members who receive salaries there, and neither do they need to receive salaries. But if people come together, they can decide for themselves what will happen in the local village. What looks like in the context of this reform... we are going further to larger centres, we are building larger municipalities. Yes, from a management point of view, it is right, but from the involvement of citizens in political processes and from the representation of citizens... This is wrong if we distance citizens from power. Here I would also like to agree, by the way, to Mr Kazinovsky, who talked about two levels. He has long spoken about those two levels, and others too. Yes, of course, one of the solutions is also the two-level municipalities. That second level is where various economic issues, major regional and local development issues are addressed. But once again I remind you that citizens themselves must have the right to decide what is going on in the small designated village, the small designated district or the parish. And that is not actually guaranteed by this reform. It reduces the participation of citizens. Another important thing is that we represent all the people of Latvia here and also, in a way, those values that are enshrined in the Constitution. And if we talk about our cultural and historical space, we saw - out today there were suiti. Yes, the parishes in Suiti have already been divided into a previous reform, and I have considered that the previous reform was a failure. But I see that this reform will also fail. If we want to keep an identity, a cultural and historical space, even if we talk about Suiti, then we need to think about other mechanisms, how we will not destroy what was important to the Latvian people, and that after 20, 50 or 100 years there will be Suiti wives who will be able to come down here and sing something. By the way, I should've gone listening. I understand that the New Conservative was afraid to go out. Others went out, and the minister went out. If we talk about cultural history, let us look, for example, at the seeds. Yeah, you can say... What is Selya? But it's our history, it's traditions. And why don’t we listen to what the regions of Selijah themselves want? Let's go! Let’s let the regions of Selijah set up their own large region, where they maintain these traditions. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. S. Riekstins: “How - did the people not vote? You know what?Oh, no, no, “ But I would like to... see where also one testicle woke up and could go, by the way, about them too. But I thought I could finish... ( Milestones.)
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-07-PT13-2017-U71	Keep going! Interferences shall be allowed during the sitting. Colleagues, let us continue the debate from the parliamentary tribunal. Interdependences are permitted, but they must not interfere with the debate.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-07-PT13-2017-U72	Yes, observe the standards of politeness. ( Internouncing call.) And... The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. J. Strikķe: “Don’t talk to the grass!” ) I'm not talking to the grass, I'm... ( Internoint.) Medicines cause noise.)
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-07-PT13-2017-U73	Colleagues! Please, calm down! We are continuing the debate. Allow the Member to speak in the floor! The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. Feldman: “We let!” ) Council Regulation (EC) No 1257/96 of 20 June 1996 concerning humanitarian aid (OJ L 163, 2.7.1996, p. 1).
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-07-PT13-2017-U74	Well, see! It seems to me that this “new Communist” party really hasn’t gone to the districts (Interview.) and met with the population. But... All right. So to say, God with them! I would like to remind you of this. Ministers - in fact not only ministers, but all coalitions - old, old anecdotes that are certainly old like the world - about three letters, you know. In particular, when the coalition began to work, they left three letters to them and said: “When you have difficult times, you have to open one by one.” Of course, the coalition Members and Ministers have already opened their first letter a long time ago. And what did that first letter say? ‘ Take all charges to the previous one.’ They have done so successfully - to the previous government, to the ZZS. But, you see, that's the time of something... Well, he could have lasted a long time and didn't open that second letter. They have already opened the second letter. And the second letter stated: “Train reforms.” Yes, reforms are now going on after a full programme. But do you know what the third is? You haven't done that, but I'll tell you who's the third. The third letter reads: “Send three letters.” ( Internoint.) Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-07-PT13-2017-U75	Name of Member Maria Golubeva.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-07-PT13-2017-U76	President-in-Office of the Saeima, very much. Dear colleagues, I would like to thank the opposition Member who called for Finland and its excellent level of education in the debate, but did not mention that a few years ago it was found that there was one country that had reached Finland in these international education ratings... A OECD PISA comparative study comparing the performance of very many pupils objectively in education. That is, the country that reached Finland is our neighbour, Estonia. How could Estonia be so high compared to the world's most advanced countries? This was due to Estonia’s intelligent investment in its school network, in its renewed school network, after successful municipal reform many years ago. Yeah, colleagues, in a small number... Reasonable local authorities, which pool resources and think strategically about their own development, are able to reach a favourable and country-friendly compromise on the school network. Such a compromise is very, very necessary for us in Latvia. I am not a digital man, but I would like to call one figure today - EUR 280. What do you think that is? It is the average salary for a teacher in one municipality of Latvia. I will not name this region as I do not think it would be fair to other regions. But what about the statistics that were called from the head of the municipality at one of the committees in the Saeima? How could one teacher in one district have such an average salary with us? This is because teachers are employed at levels of 0.3, 0.4 or 0.5. And how realistic can we hope that a teacher can achieve excellent quality and provide children with support so that they can then become the most competitive workers in the world and Europe, if this teacher connects a job in three schools to 0,2 loads in the various localities, areas? It's simply impossible. And so that we finally achieve this much-needed network of schools, which would be sensible and in the interests of citizens - not just for the preservation of some jobs or some institutions, but for the interests of pupils and their parents, to have a high-quality primary school closer to home, to have a good primary school somewhere in a reasonable distance and to have excellent secondary schools for all in the centres... It's real. In Estonia it is. We need this reform so that we can finally set up a platform on the basis of which we put this network in order. Unfortunately, we do not have another way to do this. And I've heard the alarm from my parents, I get a lot of letters in Facebook and elsewhere. People write: “But what about the small school that helps my child, such as those with autistic spectrum disorders, to get to the best support specialists and teachers, because in my city, unfortunately, no school wants to take my child against them?” And, my fellow Members, yes, this is a terrible situation, but will we solve this situation by simply keeping all the small schools with 0.3-spoken teachers indefinitely? But no! We will simply arrange an education system in such a way that attitudes change dramatically in those city schools. So that no one can afford to accept a child with autistic spectrum impairments because of their rating. There are solutions to all these painful issues, but they are not simply to keep the status quo at any cost because it is beneficial to someone individually. Finally, on identity. Colleagues, I would not agree with the argument that by combining regions we put local, strong identities at great risk, which is the pride of Latvia. I love Suiti wives too. But, for example, tell the people of Cannonciems... to the few left... that identity is lost if the regions are merged. That's not the case! Identity lives through the centuries when there are people who care about identity. And I'm sure Alsunga's identity will not disappear anywhere. I am convinced of this and think that this will prove true. Thank you. (Applause)
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-07-PT13-2017-U77	Name to Member Raimond Bergman. ( Internouncing call.)
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-07-PT13-2017-U78	President-in-Office of the Saeima, very much. Minister! Members! Hello! The Declaration by the Government of Prime Minister Kariņš mentions the strengthening of state security as the second of all the priorities listed. Nulle, as in the approved Prime Minister's report, has taken precedence over what has been done and what has been planned by the Saeima, and security is no longer just the seventh of the actuals. However, the aforementioned report reads (quot): “Security continues to be one of the priorities of the Latvian government. The concept of national security has been developed and approved, which identifies the most current threats to Latvia and the priority directions for addressing them. There will continue to be a comprehensive strengthening of national defence to ensure and” - I stress! - "coordinated national military and civil protection and the resilience and functioning of the state and society during the crisis and war." End of quote. Yes, this speech will probably differ from the other speeches of my colleagues, because I will not criticise, I will not teach anyone to live, but I will ask questions, to which I, as a member of the Saeima, as a Latvian citizen, as a family man and a patriot of this country, would like to receive answers. Does the term ‘comprehensive national protection’ not become a short-lived saying that it is a modern one, without real understanding of its content and original purpose, just like the terms ‘sustainable development’, ‘uncomprehensive justice’, which have entered our daily rhetoric, but which most do not understand what it is meant to mean? The security and defence situation is changing very rapidly. This is also confirmed by the content of the current national defence concept, the National Development Plan, the concept of National Security, which I have already mentioned. It is only logical that the security chapter runs across every sector - from health, economy, education to defence, home affairs, justice and even finance. All sectors must be able to work together in partnership with each other, to ensure that the security of society as a whole - it is also wealth and state growth. So what about interinstitutional planning and cooperation in the context of administrative territorial reform? In his report, the Prime Minister referred to the military and civil defence of the State and the stability and functioning of the state and society during the crisis and war. In terms of security and defence, the winner can only be the one who sees the risks, who has understood the risks and has done so in good time, and not the one who starts thinking about the risks only when it comes to them. Thank God, I am not talking here about war, but I will ask a purely practical question: will administrative territorial reform and the new regulation guarantee us a “coordinated state military and” - I stress! - "civil protection and the sustainability and functioning of the state and society in a crisis" situation? Will we be able to coordinate all the services involved in crisis situations in a unified and appropriate manner with the new administrative division? Whether VARAM in its presentation, folding the color of the various 27 services... regional administrations and operating maps have assessed how logically and transparently, in line with the new territorial division of administrative territorial reform, to structure their work as well? I would like to name only a few: State Fire and Rescue Service, State Police, Emergency Medical Assistance Service, State Labour Inspectorate, Food and Veterinary Service, National Health Service, Nature Conservation Agency and so on. There is no doubt that the most effective aid in a crisis situation is aid given in good time. Local governments are those who are there, at people, on the ground, and are able to respond most quickly when necessary. But has anyone assessed the actual role of municipalities in civil protection? And now a practical question: Mr Adamson: “We do not have a civil protection plan!” ) would it not be logical, efficient and economical to plan the work of these services and the coordination between them according to the new administrative division? Say: “It can already be done afterwards.” Of course! I am only concerned that, given the current functioning of these services in the regions, it would perhaps be logical to take this into account, on a case-by-case basis, in order to save the lives of the population, to protect their homes from fires, floods, storms or even to react in good time to the frozen roads? Planning and ensuring civil protection, when necessary, is what citizens expect from the state and local authorities. Has anyone suspected that we do not have a civil protection plan in the country at the moment, as you said, Mr Adamson? This would certainly be support for both citizens and, by the way, municipalities. Would it not have been logical, through one major reform known as administrative territorial reform, to carry out it as a major cross-sectoral reform, logically putting together the functions of state and local authorities to complement each other and not just counting on paper? Because in a crisis situation, all of us can lose. Let it not end: by combining the two video reels available in the public space in which the Minister for Environmental Protection and Regional Development expresses himself, we hear: “Please! We have a place to ignore.” Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-07-PT13-2017-U79	It's been six minutes before the break. Mr. Dombrava, will you have enough six minutes? Name to Member Janis Dombrava.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-07-PT13-2017-U80	Dear Saeima! Administrative reform is a truly emotional issue for many, both for those who will be most directly affected by this decision on how the local map will be drawn up, for those who are concerned about their identity, and for those who live in smaller villages, small towns and fear that the decision will distance themselves from them. At the moment, I think it is also important to note that the communication that has been with citizens and municipal Members should be improved. The smaller the municipality is, the worse the municipality is, or the bigger the municipality is, the better. We have this negative example that the largest municipality is causing us the greatest headache because it is poorly managed. At the same time, there are outstanding examples where municipalities with a population of 5 thousand, often a smaller population, are able to show good results with the very strong management of the council. The question is: do we need to increase the size of municipalities? I think the answer to many is clear that - yes. Similar as it was before 2009, when the Parish level had to deal to a large extent with both economic issues, business development issues and education issues. The scale was too small, even after the 2009 reform. We see regions that are still too small in scale, and this must be increased. At the same time, there are other issues where we need to increase this scale even further, that is, the size of the regions. And there we can discuss whether they are 10 regions or 5 regions, as others insist. In my view, it would be enough for three regions. Then we could also tackle the civil protection challenges highlighted by Mr Bergmanis very effectively. Thus, Riga and the nearby Pierīga as one region that is the most populated territory of Latvia, and the rest of Latvia are divided into two parts along the Daugava. In this way, we gain a very logical civil protection plan, we get an opportunity to develop infrastructure and many other things. Talking about first level municipalities... A great many errors were made in 2009. In many places, the boundaries of the parish were totally illogical for political reasons. For example, the parish of Jaunauce was not connected to the municipality of Auce, where they would have a distance of 15 kilometres to the center, but they were connected to the municipality of Saldus, where the distance is 40 kilometres. The residents of the sculpture go through a private area and see: sudden changes in municipal signs, or even (The Head of the Sitting knocks down with a hammer.) For example, when residents walk from Jelgava to Ozolnieki... to the feet - two kilometres, but it will already be a completely different region. Another point is that, as part of this reform, we also need to look at areas of low population density where a different approach must be applied. We cannot expect that development opportunities will be the same in the centre of Latvia and in the border area of Latvia or in certain places of Latvia, where due to different natural circumstances there is very low population density. If Canada has not managed to solve these problems in a different way than through state aid, I doubt that Latvia will be able to create another unique model in this respect. It is important for us to understand, even before the law is adopted, what functions will then be, how the elections will take place in these new territories. But the most important question is: how will people's lives change? We have talked about economic issues, but as a man on a practical level... living in a small town or village in a much larger region... How will he be able to make street lighting shine or develop? How can we make sure that the devastation is deepened? How to make public transport accessible?... And many other practically economic issues, where we also have to look at how this power is close to the population to address the big issues of business development, education issues and the smallest issues at the same time. I invite you to support the draft law at first reading and work closely on the second reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-07-PT13-2017-U81	Colleagues! Let us continue with the debate after the break. Please call me! Please check-in mode for Members! Name for Maria Golubeva, member of the Saeima Secretary, to report on the results of the registration.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-07-PT13-2017-U82	Not registered: Aldis Adamovičs, Inese Ikstena, Artuss Kaimiņš, Aleksandrs Kiršteins, Romanas Naudiņš, Edvins Šnore, Jānis Tutins and Ivars Zarins.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-07-PT13-2017-U83	Thank you. Interruption until 1 p.m. ( Interruption)
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-07-PT13-2017-U84	Dear colleagues, We are continuing the debate after a break. Name to Member Maris Kučinskis.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-07-PT13-2017-U85	Dear President, Honourable Members! Sir, A little look at history or... Why are we sitting here today and when we could be... Latvia would have gone another way... This is the total amount of This was, of course, the biggest solution in the early 1990s, when the executive committees of districts and cities and municipalities became local authorities. At that time, Lithuania chose to define districts as municipalities. We and Estonia also put... We put emphasis on the city and parish executive committees. Of course, from today's point of view, it is absolutely clear: if it were a Lithuanian option, we would probably not sit here today. The scenario would have been different. But at the same time... of course, it's easy to criticise, but look at that time as well... One of the arguments was the presence of the People's Front in more parishes and small towns. It was a different moment, and so I think let's leave it alone. But why am I telling you that? I'm telling you this because until today... Since Latvia created more than 500 municipalities, however, such or different development has taken place. And it's been like... whatever the number of municipalities and municipalities... most of the... like with the State Revenue Service track from the tram stop to the building itself, because you can make what beautiful paths you want around, but the man goes where he goes. And the economic rule has done its own. And from the moment that there were a lot of municipalities in Latvia, all... There's been a lot of change. Another point worth mentioning is certainly that, thanks to our complex reform processes, we have written, I think several thousand promotions - both bachelor's, master's and doctor's degree. If Latvia had done it like Lithuania, then there would simply have been nothing to write. But we're here where we are. And my biggest criticism to the current process is that the card, if it could be said, did not answer many questions and did not follow what I called the State Revenue Service's toll - that much has changed during this time. People have adapted to one centre or another. Of course, there has been a huge outflow from Latvia, but... there is more positive than negative... But also on... regarding the added value of Riga... because probably many... would have gone even further. But there's a lot of concentration. Unfortunately, we have not managed to find effective instruments, with the exception of recent large-scale support for at least large cities to keep jobs there. And where there are jobs, they have done their job, and people from the parish in turn are going for work in search of these centers. At the moment, I can mention some of those absurd things that... I've always said... How are you going to drive Rūjien, Mr. Pouce, to Valka now? Now how you're going to banish the Rumen's people... Is that so? Two thirds probably, or half at all, have never been in Valka, except for those who once... even after the butter they drive elsewhere... When we went from Valmiera to Valga... So it's... Once again, there are some aspects that have changed. And you can't... or... Second argument - An example of the thumb. And those communities that have formed... We forget the municipalities for one moment because the municipalities are elected... or, if it wasn't there, then... Listen, if the residents in that place... in which they have formed their own community, their sense of belonging to it or not. And if you talk to the Ischile people, you'll hear a terrible despair that they'll be driven to Ogri now by power... I'm not going to tell you how, but... But there are many very big aspects that need to be taken into account. And that's why I very much hope that... I very much hope for quality work because I participated in the previous reform. Of course, its reform was not perfect, but... Don't forget that number, from 530 to 119. However, it was a step forward. Now, Mr. Puce comes with a great deal of stuff to give... That's what I'm saying, on my head. But if there's a high-quality discussion, if we look at what we're doing... without emotions... What the municipalities say... If the Saeima also allows experts to work and looks pragmatically at it, we can carry out this reform... could also lead to the end. If we get into the field, then it will be very difficult. I am talking about this before the reform begins and, of course, I will remind you of my experience with the previous reform. At that time, too, from the Cabinet of Ministers... Reform came, but there was a debate here. There were not only discussions here. Mrs. Kursīte started a good song in this room, "Despite, my great sorrow," and, I remember, in committee sittings, Members said: "Freedom to Baltinava!" , and Baltinava gained freedom. So that all this is still before the debate. The reason I'm here right now is... I will not hide, I am concerned by what is standing on the table for every Member. We, every party, regardless of the position we are in today - in a coalition or opposition - have delegated our experts, those who understand something from local governments and who also want to create something stronger and better and to improve legislation within the Commission of Public Administration and Local Government. But what's put on the table looks... I'm not gonna hide, I'm a little insane. Looks like there's... Put those that are less into it, because... who do not understand anything from those things, so that they keep strictly to these municipalities, so that they can then vote by a majority, and all right. My call is not to make this process undemocratic because... There may be more... I think that municipalities are very mobile and can organise something. Today, I think it was amazingly fast its organization and local authorities still... very many came, but very many did not come. So that's my call... I believe and I know... I think you will be voting in favour of the first reading and the next time. But... that there really would be a debate here as a parliament, as a parliamentary republic, and that all models would be re-evaluated here. His cards... I don't know if Mr. Pieķis is still working for VARAM, but I know that another 10 years ago he had something... at least 50 different cards. To draw a map is one thing, but life still demands to explain why and what everyone will do. And, after all, what we did not debate today, including myself, about the functions of the municipalities. Thank you. (Applause)
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-07-PT13-2017-U86	Name to Member Martin Stein.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-07-PT13-2017-U87	Hello, honourable Speaker of the Saeima! Minister! Colleagues! Colleagues! Resurrection! The draft law “Law on Administrative Areas and Accommodations” is about changes. The positive changes Latvia needs. Inequality exists in almost every area that is compared. I would like to highlight the inequalities that currently exist in Latvian municipalities in three areas: working with young people, civic participation and entrepreneurial capacity. The information on municipalities collected by the Ministry of Education and Science shows that, although the Youth Law has already been in force in Latvia since 2009, all municipality work with young people still, after 10 years. Some municipalities do not care about their young people. In ten municipalities there is still no staff assigned to work with young people. I will not mention today which parties manage most of these municipalities. You're definitely touching. ( Interface: “ZZS! ” Thank you very much. In many municipalities there are already full-time employees working in the field of education, social affairs, and development issues. There is even a case that the tomb manager is entrusted with carrying out a youth work. That is, of course, better than nothing, but normally it is not. Larger municipalities will open the way for real teams of youth professionals, youth workers, groups of professionals to discuss, argue, explore and act for young people, and will be able to strengthen the development of local youth organisations. In most of Latvia there are no youth organisations, because there is no supportive environment. Larger municipalities will have the resources to provide full-time specialists, not part-time, quarter-time or 10 percent employees... working with young people to fulfil existing responsibilities. Larger municipalities will have the opportunity to provide adequate funding. Data from the Ministry of Education and Science show that in Latvia there is a significant difference in understanding how to do work with young people and how to finance it. Currently, in the municipal section, the funding per young person is so varied and volatile that... varies from EUR 2 per young person to up to EUR 80 per young person. This is a huge inequality in such a small country as Latvia, which currently has fewer than 250,000 young people. Every young person who stays and works in Latvia is important to us. The municipal reform will result in an increase in the total available financial resources for municipalities, which will lead to a shift of funding towards youth work and help to reduce inequalities in funding to one young person. Young people are an important part of society and it was important for municipalities to invest in young people yesterday. However, given that capacity has not been able to do so, it is important to do so today and tomorrow. The main challenges for the development of youth work at municipal level are recruitment, qualifications, additional education and long-term employment. The exchange of youth professionals in municipalities is very high. The municipal reform will enable municipalities to select and attract qualified staff and pay them adequate remuneration. For civic participation and municipal support to non-governmental organisations. Promoting a strong civil society is not only a national challenge. It is a task for municipalities to support their community organisations. It is through civil activity, the promotion of public participation, greater support for non-governmental organisations that can strengthen the preservation of local culture, and the strengthening of local identity. Direct support to local non-governmental organisations can improve the quality of municipal decision-making processes. Some municipalities certainly do not want to discuss with NGOs at all, because... they do not even discuss in their meetings of the Council. But it is important for us to improve the quality of municipal decision-making. And reform is a means of achieving this. At present, there are very different support systems in Latvia. The possibility to start NGO project competitions deserves non-governmental organizations in all... in all regions, not just the rich. All municipalities in Latvia need to significantly stimulate the participation of citizens in different ways, but it is not possible with 119 different models, but with the fact that the availability of financial, material and other resources varies greatly between Latvian municipalities. A recent study by the Latvian Rural Forum “The current environment to stimulate and support the activities of civil activities and NGOs in Latvia” shows that 82 percent of municipalities have financed NGO project competitions, 18 percent have not. In competitions organised by Latvian municipalities, a wide variety of maximum funding amounts - from 200 euros to 20 thousand euros - are available to non-governmental organisations and informal population groups. Similarly, the number of projects varies from one supported project per year to over 100 supported projects per year. Can this inequality really be recognized as a normal phenomenon? I don't think so. Local government reform is needed to strengthen civil society in local communities. Moreover, it has been observed and research has also shown that Latvian municipalities mostly support such activities as providing transport for excursions of seniors and other groups of society, pay for their collective national costumes, but much less organises such project competitions to strengthen their non-governmental organisations, which would be able to help improve the quality of decision-making, which would be able to participate in municipal advisory councils, which would also express critical opinions. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. D. Interdependence of Reizniece-Ozola.) NGOs who speak, argue and write opinions in municipalities have more interference than a constructive partner. This approach must be changed. If there were strong NGOs in the regions, then perhaps local government violations such as those just discovered by the State Audit Office would not exist in Garkalne district, because NGOs could identify the shortcomings in due time. In the study, some local authorities point out that NGOs are also granted various reliefs for the rental of premises, as well as real estate tax discounts. But why is such aid not available in all municipalities? The municipal reform will help to ensure this. I see that it is precisely through the support of local community civil participation, with greater support for municipal non-governmental organisations, that the preservation of local culture, the strengthening of local identity... and support for local community projects. This morning, literally, I have just read Inese Vaivare, an active NGO activist, in Facebook, and I fully join in the fact that local identity arises not when the municipality has its own building board, accountant, form, but in other ways, for example, by organising fair NGO project competitions, where all NGOs can start and not just those closest to local power. The identity of the place is not administrative, but cultural. There are already many parishes and villages that develop and maintain it and do so independently of administrative management. There are many excellent community projects and much more needs to be supported. It is an opportunity for people to build their own environment. The municipality must provide libraries, cultural institutions... provide funding for initiatives by local communities, less efficient bureaucracy must be maintained. I think it is very important that Rūjiena is Rūjiena and Alsunga is Alsunga, but the reform is not about the name, but how we put money together, so that it is better for everyone in Latvia to be able to take initiatives, not just a few. We are about Latvia, where there is an opportunity for all. Another thing I want to touch on is the ability of municipalities to promote entrepreneurship. One of the autonomous functions of the municipality is to promote economic activity in the territory and to care for reducing unemployment, and to promote the development of the business environment. The use of various support instruments is closely linked to the capacity of the municipality, i.e. whether the municipality has a dedicated unit or at least a business specialist. What does the data show? There are currently no such units or specialists in 27 municipalities who would be responsible for business issues. They are also not the only responsibilities for a number of business specialists, and only in 60 municipalities it is a basic task for the specialist concerned. Well like in the youth field and in others, this approach of imposing different responsibilities on one employee in order to ensure full-time, is wrong and is completely wrong in the long term. Business grants are located only in 71 municipalities, 48 are not. That municipalities provide premises for entrepreneurs and rent discounts - such support is even less in the number of municipalities. There are more ones that do not exist. I believe that larger and stronger municipalities will have more capacity. Local government reform is very much needed in Latvia, and this is not just a reform on a map, and this reform is at last essential. Thank you. I support the reform of the municipalities and call for support for this draft law at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-07-PT13-2017-U88	Name to Member Sergey Dolgopolov.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-07-PT13-2017-U89	Dear colleagues, I am not going to promote either 'for' or 'no' reform, but I would like to express a few reflections on what we are discussing today. First. Whether there is support for the planned reform in municipalities, society, country. Undoubtedly, reform - yes! The planned reform - no! Why? In my view, this depends very much on what we mean by reform. Everyone puts their content in this concept. But if we're talking about reform... In any case, reform is what concerns the system. Local governments are an integral and highly autonomous part of public administration. Thus, with just one aspect of activity, we are touching the entire public administration, and so this resonance is enormous. The municipal aid reform as such. Of course - yes. For I think it is understandable that no municipality is interested in living at the expense of the municipal financial equalisation fund, walking with a stretched hand, asking for funds from the government, from Parliament for any solution. Undoubtedly, this is the case. Systemic changes. Systemic changes would be if we started talking about the autonomous functions of municipalities today. Unfortunately, the Ministry, proposing this legislative option, intends to submit - at the beginning, if I am not mistaken, in the government and then in Parliament - amendments or new law on municipalities only in March next year. But what autonomous functions will be depends to a large extent on what old or new municipalities will be able to do and will not be able to do. That is first. Secondly. The criteria included in the draft law that we are looking at today are very conditional. Well, let's say, population. Here are some examples. Let's say, Norway's experience. There are municipalities with a few hundred inhabitants on the territory. Is that a criterion? No criteria. We have heard about the example of Estonia today. Structures such as our municipalities... Estonia has 64 sites. That means... Despite the fact that the population is much smaller, the number of municipalities is much higher than planned. Thirdly. If we are also talking about indicators such as, say, the existence of an administrative centre and so on, and so on - all that is laid down in the law, here ultimately appears in a single end product called the "administrative territorial division card", where... which may use very different criteria, including the same, but not named in the law itself, in order not to create the situation that the Minister has spoken about, that today the criteria that are contained in the existing law do not meet the absolute majority of municipalities. Why make such a law? Now I am more serious about the offer that we have today. Yes, of course - large municipalities can be stronger. Not always, but can. But what proves this today that it really is and will be? Today we have a territorial model of 39 elements. Each element is a separate project. And so each of these projects must be seen in the ministry section... to put it more correctly, in a section of the Cabinet of Ministers. Individually, because exactly then... should be assessed and shown to citizens, existing municipalities, what part of the gross domestic product will be created in the area under development under the management of the new municipality. What will be the overall budget available for the combined municipalities? What recommendations could be made to the development model of the combined municipalities? This is extremely important because it cannot be done in a race, a combination. It needs to be prepared before the new municipalities, whether they're 39 or 49... so that they have a starting position today. And finally. By the way, it would not be wrong to look at the experience that we already have. Let's say, Gulbene. It brings together a former area of the district, and I think that there is no major change there. But for all these years since its creation, it has always been a beneficiary of a community finance equalisation fund, not a donor. Why? What hindered such a link between the government and the municipality to show as an example that, here’s a vot, this is the model that a larger municipality is actually stronger? The last one. You see, this has already been mentioned today. The need for a harmonised model in local and public administration structures. It would therefore be important today that every ministry, including the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, the Ministry of the Interior and others, has developed its own road map for each of the 39 or other elements that will appear on the administrative breakdown map. Why is this important? For if, let us say, we cannot know how the departments of the home system in the new municipalities will look like, what will we do with those municipalities where the local police have been set up? It is a question of the law “On Police” and, therefore, a question of competence of the Ministry of the Interior. What are the recommendations? Either build a local government police everywhere, or strengthen order police functions, units and so on. A number of things have already been mentioned here - firefighters, health care, social services and so on, and still. It is not and cannot be separated from the life of municipalities. This work must therefore come from the ministry. Consequently, in my view, it would be important what, by the way, the municipalities are also proposing - that a reform committee be set up under the leadership of the Prime Minister. It is vital that this work be fruitful. And then you could also think about whether we should create a separate commission at the Saeima or still take that discussion to a different extent. I therefore think that today, at first reading, we should support the reform... the reform offer as such, but certainly there is a very serious, very constructive discussion and also clarification... It is necessary to clarify the answers to the questions that have been raised today in the debate and on which I have also just spoken. Thank you. (Applause)
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-07-PT13-2017-U90	Name to Member Andris Kazinovskis for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-07-PT13-2017-U91	Dear Members, Perhaps I was still able to complement my speech in advance... There was also a little discussion with my colleague, so I would like to say the following. First. It is necessary to thank the Commission of Public Administration and Local Government, which is in practice supporting this issue of administrative territorial reform, in particular - the need for level two management regions. This letter has also been signed by Inga Goldberga, the head of the commission. Secondly. When discussing the regional plans that I mentioned... Before the elections, I was very sympathetic with the KPV LV proposal... They insisted that it would be necessary to achieve production in areas or even in municipalities where there is no developed production. If there are such regional plans, then it is really possible. National and European Union structural funds would be invested in a planned way, and this proposal would be implemented. Go on. The number of regions is under discussion. Well, that's a long question. And once the big cities (let them forgive - these leaders of the big cities!) insisted on smaller areas... nine. It's their internal view. But they are little able to compete... the regions they had at that time. They were based on the Danish experience. That's the Danish experience... Two scientists, Lundorf and Larssen, made a lot of money... Latvia paid two million lats. But Professor Keisha and I already worked on our concept of competitive regions and based on these historical regions (at the time - regions) provided for in Article 3 of the Satversme - Latgale, Vidzeme, Zemgale and Kurzeme - and Riga. In 2002... In time, I worked in one regional organisation and presented a report on our proposals to improve Latvia's regional policy. And there was this reason why these five regions should be built in Latvia. And, you know, a couple of years ago, in 2004 the Danish created exactly five regions. A coincidence? Or did we make use of our justification? And here's the Danes... offered low-value, uncompetitive regions to Latvia, but created these five regions themselves in Denmark. That's the answer to Digim Schmidt. Go on. Planning regions - what is it? Administrations are already in operation there. One of their tasks is planning and they have developed their own regional development plans. They should only be updated. And building on these planning regions, building on administrative regions. There would certainly be a small extra, very small cost. Go on. If necessary, I can also remind you that at the end of September... I don't remember, on 25 or 26 days... I sent you an e-mail to each of my fellow Members, there is an interview, there is a regional justification, there is an answer to many questions... those interested in regional policy. And more. I would like to say that... especially for the new Members... I'm ready to offer, give every book I'm a co-author with Professor Casey. Its name is “Regional development in Latvia: administrative process of territorial reform, problems and solutions”. This book is also used abroad... Foreign experts... As an example, I can say that this book is also in the US Congress Library. I know only four politicians from Latvia who have such books there in that library. It should be read, especially in the case of the new Members. There is a basis for many things, in particular, about the functions that regions have. There's everything there. So... it is not thick. It's just 615 pages...
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-07-PT13-2017-U92	Thank you, Mr Kazinovsky, thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-07-PT13-2017-U93	So, the ads... Yeah, thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-07-PT13-2017-U94	The debate time... The second part of the debate has also come to an end. The name of Member Dace Bluke.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-07-PT13-2017-U95	Good afternoon, dear colleagues! The Saeima Bureau and Members! Live viewers! Administratively, territorial reform is primarily carried out in the interests of the whole country and not in the interests of one or the other particular municipality. Many times it has already been scandalted that almost half of Latvia's 119 municipalities currently do not meet the criteria of the law “On Local Government”. This means that municipalities are not able to carry out all the statutory functions, are unable to provide services, and are obliged to do what they are obliged to do. Consequently, inequalities between municipalities continue to increase. This discriminates against citizens on the basis of their chosen place of residence and is not acceptable. Nothing will change if in Latvia there will continue to exist municipalities with thousands of inhabitants and municipalities with more than 30 thousand inhabitants. The objective of the reform is to address inequalities. Territorial reform is a platform for further country-specific reforms, both in education, health and road management, and so on. As far as I know... Within its competence, the Ministry already cooperates with the Ministry of Education and Science, the Ministry of Transport and other ministries to ensure that the vision of sectoral development is balanced from a territorial point of view. When I watched a number of reforms... The criticisms of the discussions and reform of local politicians which are not satisfied with reform, then it seems that Latvia is not a “independent democratic republic” in which “the sovereign power of the state belongs to the people of Latvia”, but a feudal state in which every feudal tries to protect his or her right to land borders and existing facilities, even if they have long ceased to meet the requirements of the law. More! It is reinforced yesterday by the shocking State Audit Office report heard by the Commission of Public Expenditure and Audit about one of the richest and most prosperous municipalities in Latvia - Garkalne Municipality, where some people decide privately who to grant, to whom do not grant money, without any generally accepted criteria for a democratic state. Fortunately, Latvia is not a feudal country, and in the last Saeima elections, Latvian citizens have elected three new political forces that promised municipal reform in their pre-election programmes. That has been voted unanimously by all Members, and that is why the reform is finally taking place so that our country can grow and develop as a whole. Yeah, part of it doesn't like it. That is why a protest campaign took place today at the Saeima. However, I cannot in any way call it the popular movement, as the protestors call it. Civil society organisations or even citizens in my city's microdistrict were not invited to protest. Most of them were politicians who called for this protest campaign. The most active guests were members, leaders of local governments, representatives of opposition parties of the Saeima and representatives of parties not admitted to the Saeima in the last elections. Yesterday on Facebook, I noticed a previous Saeima Member calling to unite the people of Durbe and to come to the Saeima to protest today. The reason for this was that the draft reform law would deprive Durbani of the city's rights. Well, these are the absolute misdemeanours distributed by the former Member of the Saeima and Parliamentary Secretary of several ministries. No one is going to take the status of the city away from Durban; on the contrary, after the reform in Latvia there will be two more cities. Iecava and Koknese will gain the status of the city because the municipalities wanted it. This was assessed and found to be justified. Today's draft law provides for the maintenance of the status of the city, as has been the case so far, in the municipalities with less than 2 000 permanent residents. When I pointed it out, the master changed the call in the record... the motivation that Durban will lose its status as a city, to the fact that making and deciding on its own means will distance the tillers. The status of the city will be, only formal. I can also answer that the reform proposal calls for an increase in the number of Members in the newly created municipalities, so that representatives from any local territory can be elected. Already in Latvia, there are districts where the city and rural areas have been merged and representatives from both the city and the outermost places have been elected in the councils. On the other hand, the location of the public service is determined and will continue to be determined by the municipality itself. It is likely that the decision-making power or council will be located in the new administrative centres, but the municipality will also be able to provide various services in other cities and parishes. In addition, it should be pointed out that the involvement of citizens is possible not only through elections, but also, for example, through the formation of a council of every municipality or city's residents or... with a participatory budget where citizens can decide to spend some part of the budget. Knowing how active a number of Durban citizens are, I am fully convinced that there will be people in Durban who will be ready to participate in such a council. In my parliamentary e-mail I received several letters from municipalities, which are so-called large municipalities. And the basic argument is: “We can, however, fulfil all the statutory functions. Why will we be joined by surrounding regions? We do not want this!” Yes, in reality almost all cities of the republic are now closely connected with their surrounding territories. The residents of the surrounding areas go to work, study, and shop in these cities. They already use the services and infrastructure of the largest municipality. And it is precisely because the inter-population movement and movement are already taking place and the largest municipality performs all functions, but the smaller is often not - that is why it is only logical that these municipalities will unite. The reform offers to connect urban and rural areas in one municipality. The practice after the previous reform shows that rural parish administrations are maintained and various services are provided and residents can receive them close to their place of residence, even if the municipality council is located in the city. I have heard from the small municipalities: "All the financial resources will now be at the heart and will forget about us." The objective of the reform is not to concentrate financial resources on cities. On the contrary, cities will be able to support rural areas of their municipality with their capacity. Most jobs are currently in urban areas and already exist in rural areas. This means that the money paid in taxes is mainly generated in cities, including personal income tax, which accounts for most of the municipal budgets. It creates districts and small cities, the budget of which is actually earned elsewhere. By creating a district where there will be both a city and a rural area, a large part of the population will be taxed in the municipality where they live and work. In conclusion, while individual municipalities will be treated as being “only interested in what is going on to the threshold of my house, and beyond the flower pot I do not want to see anything on the window”, in the meantime, we cannot talk about a united development of the country. In the context of the reform, I invite every municipality to look at what is happening to the neighbor and look beyond the nearest tree behind the window. There are ways to live together and work with the most successful who are less successful; how the most skilled and experienced help the one who is lacking the knowledge and experience; how the most prosperous to past what is more difficult at the moment. Only in this way can we be stronger and more successful as a country. Thank you for your attention. (Applause)
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-07-PT13-2017-U96	Name of Member Dana Reizniece-Ozola.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-07-PT13-2017-U97	Good afternoon, Madam President of the Saeima. Colleagues! Minister! If any reform is implemented in Latvia, then the usual practice is that it really wants to solve all the sorrows of the world and often looks forward to the unrealistic. And that is impossible, no reform can solve all the difficulties. It must be understood that the reform is a change of system aimed at making improvements, not only to give an idea of them, without making significant improvements. Administratively, the territorial reform (ADR) or the so-called Puce reform is, unfortunately, just like this: it gives an idea of a big change, but it is in fact like an empty nut: when you overhang it, you understand that there is nothing to do with it. I will give you a few examples. You could wait... And there's a lot of talk about it too... that the demographic situation in the regions will improve after the reform. The Ministry itself indicates in its reform estimates that by 2030 all new territorial units will face a significant decline in population. I could imagine that... And that's what it's said. there are promises that the new municipalities will be much stronger economic units; that entrepreneurship will flourish there; that they will live better. It won't be! This is not true. After the reform, all the areas to be awarded so far will also be awarded. There is no measure to be proposed in this reform, along with redesign... which could indeed support e.g. the promotion of entrepreneurship, e.g. demographics, e.g. quality of education. A promise of a road supply of 300 million... It's... equivalent to current promises to increase medical pay. People have a lot of unclear questions, and indeed, more often than not to go and tell people, but to talk to them, to let them speak, to ask them. They really still have no idea who and at what price will provide public utility services - heat, heating, water... Who and how will be ensured... Where will education be provided for children? Where will there be access to health services, or will they also maintain sufficient cultural supply? These are questions that are still unanswered, but they are very important. But what is clear? That there will be less money for the regions. We see this in the budget for next year. In fact, the largest or lion's share of justice is taken away from municipalities, taken out of the regions, and the next reforms or future benefits this government offers, not by looking for a revision of expenditure, not by combating the shadow economy, not by developing entrepreneurship, but... Mr Eglitis also said in one discussion with me: "Let us come back from the reform of the regions. There's going to be the big money for everything that's not enough in the country at the moment." One more thing: it is clear that citizens will have much, much less representation. It is already clear that 90 thousand Latvians will not be able to decide for themselves how their taxes are used. And that is an essential principle. If a person pays a tax, he/she must have sufficient representation to decide how to improve the environment and improve his/her well-being. Municipal budgets are made up of taxes on the population, and the population delegates people who are familiar with the needs of the area and who are important for the well-being of the area. After the reform of 27 regions, the present regions, at best there could be one Member in new councils, six (already easy to calculate) - there will be no one. One example is Alsunga, and the previous speaker also said that there will certainly be representation. How can they do that? There's no such a superstar or star... at least at the moment, which could indeed be elected to the new Regional Council of Kuldiga, taking into account the number of people in Alsunga. At the moment, they have Members who do not completely hold on to their chairs. They receive 30 euros per month, spend their fuel, perhaps even spending more than they deserve to really decide how to distribute municipal funds, how to improve life in Alsunga. After the reform, the savings will probably be - maybe! - EUR 50,000 per administrative cost. But the Alsunga people will lose the opportunity to decide for themselves about 1.6 million. As a result, I think that many places in Latvia will become such sad outskirts of Latvia, where the donkey mentioned by Mr Kariņš will appear. It's going to be the guy who's gonna have to load the suitcases and either go to Riga or somewhere else. Since this reform, as Mr Pouce is proposing, is an empty nut and cannot be supported. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A. Geidan: “Tell me one good thing! It's all bad!” ) Council Regulation (EC) No 1257/96 of 20 June 1996 concerning humanitarian aid (OJ L 163, 2.7.1996, p. 1).
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-07-PT13-2017-U98	The name to the Member Digim Schmit for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-07-PT13-2017-U99	First of all, I thank Mrs Golubeva for the example of Estonia, because it is perhaps more accurate than what I mentioned about Finland. In particular, the link between the reform of the Estonian administrative breakdown, which has really taken place recently, and the quality of education. I really haven't seen an index in which Estonia would have missed Finland... I didn't find it in the middle either. But I do not doubt, Mrs Golubeva probably knows better, and then I can simply congratulate the Estonians on this result. In any case, the bad news is that they are certainly ahead of us, even in a parameter like the minimum wage for teachers... for EUR 500 in the bet ahead of us. That's the truth. But now such a harsh factology is linked to the quality of education and the regional breakdown in Estonia. Until 2017, in Estonia, if I counted correctly, there were 211 municipalities... That is to say, taking away half a million people who... they're less than we're... actually more, twice as much than we have for the last 10 years... We had twice as many municipalities as we could... So far it's... And... Yes, right, in 2017 Estonia carried out the first level... as he says, a significant reduction - came to 79 municipalities, which is now at first level in Estonia. Again, if we extrapolate half a million difference, the population difference, we actually get to the same number of municipalities as we currently have in Latvia. So here to justify it with the quality of education in Estonia, well, just statistically, there's no basis for figures. But what's the difference? If we assume that an administrative territorial division has a direct link to the quality of education... definitely at some level is... then there is a difference between Estonia and Latvia. It's important! In Estonia... Since independence... There are 15 second level municipalities or counties that have never been ‘demolished’, never ‘refurbished’. The poaching leaders are taking part and representing their counties in the government's sitting - with rights, not simply participating. They have the right to participate... I mean... For these 29 years, the Estonian government has gone to the unison... in unison with its regional development and listened and made decisions on the territory of Estonia as a whole. And it really is a big difference. And, as I said in my first speech, we should also start with the second level. I can't do it again. Perhaps one such call when listening to the speeches today. I see that “Development/About!” Members' speeches differ considerably from other speeches in defence of their Minister. That's logical! ( Internouncing call.) Member of your party, Minister. No, no, it's not a reproach. That's logical. How else?Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, But... I think... In my opinion, such a call to think that you would not just be baptized for the offer that your minister brought to our Saeima House, but would help to make this offer a quiet one that would truly bring the expected growth for Latvia and put our country in an administrative position. I think that, in the long term, it would also be politically much more substantial and more support for ministers, for you and, after all, for our dear Latvia as a whole. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-07-PT13-2017-U100	The name to the Member Martyn Stackey.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-07-PT13-2017-U101	Dear Members, Honourable Members! Colleagues Bergmanis raised the issue of security and administrative territorial reform and also referred to "comprehensive national protection". I like to call this a 'prepared culture', which is quite an important element of the fact that the leaders of various institutions come together in the regions and are already talking at peace about what to do in the event of a crisis. If we look at Finland, which is one of the examples of "comprehensive national defence", we can see that there is the very main pillar of the fact that no one is waiting for something from above, but is already ready to act regionally. For this purpose, regulations of the Cabinet of Ministers – “Regulations on Civil Protection Commissions of the Local Government Cooperation Area” adopted in 2017. They foresee that these commissions will have a chairman, a deputy... Yes, Secretary. It is also mentioned that representatives of the Emergency Medical Care Service, Disease Prevention and Control Centre, Health Inspection, Food and Veterinary Service, State Police, Local Government Police, State Border Guard, National Armed Forces, State Forest Service, State Environment Service, Joint Stock Company Latvenergo, Joint Stock Company “Sdales tīkls”, Joint Stock Company “High tension Network”, as well as medical institutions and social institutions may be included in the committee. And I would also say that the ideal model for such a "comprehensive national defence" should also include the non-governmental sector, such as scout, the organisation of waiting, the Red Cross, and the Church. And already in 2017, when it was decided... and it was a time when the STECF was still leading the government. Already at that time, it was clear that the municipalities would not be able to do so, so only 36 such commissions were offered, where they would cooperate in Tukums region - Tukums, Engure, Kandava, Jaunpils region - Jelgava... the novads of Ozolnieki, And, you know, when I was driving around the regions, I was happy to ask how these commissions are going, because as a representative of the Ministry of Defence, this is a very topical issue. Many of these commissions either do not take place or take place formally. There are also good stories. When I ask why this is happening, one of the answers is that county managers sometimes do not congratulate each other, where else they could sit down at one table and agree on something, for example, on such an important matter as protection or civil crisis. That is why I am convinced that this administrative territorial reform will only increase security in Latvia, because finally, at least these commissions could work on the substance and take care of the safety of all our citizens. Vote, please, “for”! (Applause)
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-07-PT13-2017-U102	The name of the Member, Ilze Indrickson. ( Internouncing call.)
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-07-PT13-2017-U103	Dear colleagues, I understand that everyone is tired and looks forward to hearing something new. I will, of course, say that the reform must be implemented and that it is necessary, but let me start with what we would like to see the municipalities and what the objective is. Local governments must be wise. Everybody says strong. I could use the term ‘smart’. I have heard that the targets are noble and, as well as the opposition said, all the reforms are with such an ideal goal of putting everything in order. The objective set is correct and it is the quality and availability of services. And this time I want to stress the words "accessibility and opportunity to choose and participate in the process". The reform is not a magic stick. We have seen this once again in the Commission for Public Expenditure and Audit - not only do the large and small municipalities tend to be well organised and well-managed or poorly organised and very poorly managed, but also... It turns out that rich municipalities can work very badly. And that is why the only argument that the reform of municipalities will ensure economically capable and therefore also good governance of municipalities is an illusion, looking at the local authorities right now. The example of the Garkalne, I think, does not require any additional clarification, because the lack of funding does not allow them to do what they should do and in good quality. The other thing is that Latvia is not the same. I have also stressed several times that one criterion is not appropriate for the whole territory of the country. Population is not the only criterion. You cannot compare Pierīga municipalities, where 15 thousand people, in my sense, are very few, and at the same time, for example, the area of Ventspils Municipality, where the population density is 5 inhabitants per square kilometre, and say that they also need 15 thousand, because they will have to go much further... Definitely... than here, in Pärja, where you can go to a nearby area after service very easily. So I think there are many things that still need to be assessed, and more things that need to be heard and studied. At present, this proposed law is only one dimension. That's... Well, so just to say, it's a picture. These are the boundaries, they are the centres that could also be... of course, it would change yet. But it doesn't have its content, its spatiality, its other dimensions. That is why I think that we will be able to discuss this at the same time with the Saeima, with its reasoning, depth and understanding, in terms of visions, draft laws or the concepts of representativeness. This means - electoral order, perhaps in this context - part of the planned financing model for municipalities, which will also provide opportunities to influence processes... and maybe also this community's budgeting... or, as I say, zero levels in the municipality, when a citizen will also be able to decide on something specific in the territories of more detailed local parish associations or parishes. Another issue, which is of course very important, is the law "On Local Government", the functions to which this second level governance model is very much linked, which I believe should not be left behind for either a month or two, and should follow immediately in the footsteps of this draft law. The only thing that goes with this is the draft law “Amendment to the Law on Territorial Development Planning”. But I would have been happy to see other draft laws, at least in the work version ready, already now. That is why I think it is so much to do that, within reasonable time limits, extending this process and allowing the Ministry to prepare and make Members familiar with all the other ideas, we will certainly come to the best possible version - of course not ideal. Investing in work and not only listening, but also listening and hearing, could create something close to what we all hope to see. Because the expectations are very high. Our cities, as politicians, as well as those of people in the counties, and who have these questions about everyday services. On level two... regional governance. I think it is absolutely possible to agree that it should be. And they have to have functions that are not in a single small region or even a larger area that can be resolved, including the same civil protection. I would like to say that there are also good examples of where the neighbours - municipal leaders - speak. In northern Kurzeme, there was a great challenge with a bog fire. At first it was difficult, but then... It has proved to be a means of cooperation - and a success. ( Internouncing call.) But if the country has its own sectoral functions or, as let it be, the Ministry of Sectors does not... at the same time as the municipal reform, we will not re-evaluate and sort out, then we will create even more networks... and more. An example of this is to turn the planning regions of these ideas into a second level. Very well, but the boundaries have to be looked at. Because now there are municipalities in the planning region... is in the same region, but administrative... You can say that you have a different feeling. And in the constituency... There's also the third... And they don't really understand what side they need to look at, either at Zemgale or at Riga or at Kurzeme. That, in my opinion, is very, very important. And the fact that big centres like magnets are currently pulling the rest of the country out as vacuum-empty - this is a global process; it can be said, also on a global scale, that big cities, mega cities and metropolitans are doing this. However, Latvia has one big difference both from Estonia and from Lithuania - we have Riga. No adjacent country has a size metropolitan that, like a pump, pulls out and emptys the rest of the regions. So I'm glad that the big cities can build and drag these magnets. But if we look so hard and put one bag of big city and some sparsely populated area... Well, as an example, the same area of Liepaja can be mentioned, but Ventspils is also an example that can be seen and not so mentioned. The population is one to three. Those who live in the region now against those who are in the city. And can everyone really say so - yes, everyone will hear the needs of rural areas in the region and provide them with these services - education, culture... Well, what does the municipality currently provide? We have to think about it. This needs to be addressed. ( The box “Yes! ”) ) While there are no solutions, as the Saeima says, in the discussion, we will not manage with this simple flat picture. At the end of the day, we will leave it either with something very different from what we are currently seeing, or it will just get stuck. So I'm calling for a deeper, more contentful debate and a more general discussion, not a single dimension, while the rest are postponed to look at sometime later. Thank you. (Applause)
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-07-PT13-2017-U104	The name of Member Inese Voika.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-07-PT13-2017-U105	Dear President of the Saeima. Colleagues and colleagues! Many good arguments have been made today, some constructive suggestions and some foolishness. In the morning, I heard that we do not need administrative territorial reform, but we need governance reform. Listen to what that means! What else is administrative territorial reform, if not governance reform? The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. U. Plant intermediates.) And from the ZZS we also hear that it is... It is, however, a reform of the withdrawal of identity. Of course, this is a reform to withdraw identity, if identity occurs, if you have your own building board, accountant and form, but there is no money to take the dance collectives of your municipality to the song festival, and it must be asked by the neighbors, where there is a larger and stronger municipality. I'm calling... I really listen to and understand, yes, the most against the reform are those who are trying to keep this here “identity”, where the warm places have been created not only by the construction board... Accounting officer and cashier... but where are the places? workplaces for relatives and purchases for friends. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. R. Lochmele-Lunova: “Include specific regions!” ) It is an “identity” that so many are afraid to lose. And I'd say it's right to be afraid. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. R. Lochmele-Lunova: “Include specific regions!” ) Because he has taken his warm place for the purposes of “identity”... local buses have led their children to school, traveled them two hours before hours and driving along their own district around, thinking not about children, but about what they already have. This may have been due to lack of awareness, but that is why we need stronger municipalities. ( Milestones.) While the reform was also being carried out, I heard from Mrs Reizniece-Ozola, a reform of rural emptying. Tell me, how empty has the Gulbene region been compared to other places in Latvia in the last 10 years? The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. D. Reizniece-Ozola: “But how will the reform ensure that there is no less population?” ) The city of Gulbene and the 13 parishes around it are already united, and in Gulbene over the last 10 years there is also likely to be some loss of “identity” because they have significantly reduced the number of accountants in local authorities; this has enabled them to save over 100,000 euros and use them for other good needs. Gulbene, of course, also gives us the opportunity to learn what to do better and differently so that a large municipality can function well and represent the regions with each other. Yesterday we listened to the Public Expenditure and Audit Commission at one of the richest regions of Latvia - Garkalni. State auditors from the State Audit Office have seen a lot in their work, but such shameless use of power and money... They didn't even see it. The work has accepted radied posts on the right and left, the documents of the Council sitting... and even the City Council's budget for years has not been publicly available. ( Internouncing call.) Dome money has been spent without the permission of the dome, even about 3 million... peacefully with the actions of the Chairman of the Council. ( The head of the sitting is knocking down with a hammer.) Those listening, I understand, will not only recognize the Garkalni in these settings. At municipal level, there are currently the most unlisted cases, and companies cannot get an overview of finances. And we need better and more transparent governance. After sending documents to KNAB and VARAM started a review, the management of the Garkalne Municipality Council at the Saeima was tolerant and obedient yesterday and said that many things had already been changed, but it was not planned to go away for violations. I think that we do not need municipalities where all possible public services and safety structures need to be connected to stop the insanity. We need municipalities that understand the importance of openness and public involvement not only in the monitoring of budget spending, but also in budgeting. We need to understand that in an open and modern society we want to come to other bar - investors, entrepreneurs - and we have the city in Latvia (not only Riga), which can show it. People are not stupid, and they need to tell the truth based on facts, and that is the responsibility of politicians. We need an educated and active society, and I look forward to a discussion, together with the Members of the Saeima. Of course, the tooth can also be drawn, and criticism is welcome, but it is based on arguments and mutual respect. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. Mr Lochmele-Lunova: "To be respected, you must not... !” ) I invite you to support the draft law at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-07-PT13-2017-U106	Name of Member Dace Rukšāne-Šchipčinska.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-07-PT13-2017-U107	Hello, colleagues! I would like to remind you of the debate that took place on 7 March this year. Then we listened to the Ombudsman of the Republic of Latvia with his annual report, after which we talked a lot about inequality in our society. At that time, I read with bitterness some of the report’s findings about the lack of specialists and the natural unavailability of many services. However, I was even more upset by the fact that several institutions and institutions do not take into account the recommendations, recommendations or requests of the Ombudsman. Is it acceptable that only 98 of the 119 municipalities provide the necessary information in response to a request from the Ombudsman? Of course not. Is it acceptable that many vital services are not available to citizens in all municipalities? Of course not. Vulnerable groups are already suffering from a lack of specialised services and financial support, where there are 119 different methodologies and procedures at municipal level which add to the feeling of inequality and exclusion. That is why we need an administrative territorial reform in our country, so that we guarantee services of equal quality to all citizens and also their rights. This reform is also about human rights. I therefore call on you to support this draft law both today and in future readings. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-07-PT13-2017-U108	Name to Member Viktor Valainin for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-07-PT13-2017-U109	Welcome again. Listening to Mrs Voika's speech, I would like to say that it is true that you are a specialist in public administration and are very well-targeted on these issues. That's why... Today, as we see, we will have... a special commission will be set up; it is not in my decision, of course, it is in your group's decision, but apply to this commission! There we could talk a lot more specifically about these issues, understand what one understands - which is public administration, which is local government. And let's get to these questions, maybe even agree on certain things. So much debate today! Today, very many very fundamental things have actually been announced from this troupe, which do not fall into this draft law. If we are talking about level two, level two governance, I have to agree... and, in principle, I agree with everything Mrs Indricksone mentioned today from this troupe. Indeed, today we are deciding and we are only being proposed to decide on a bare card. It is impossible to decide on this bare card if you do not see other laws, if you do not see the law “On Municipalities” as the very primary law. ‘ If we are talking about the first, second level", as many colleagues today from this troupe started their speeches, I support Mr Kazinovsky's ideas. I, too, am in my deepest conviction about this here... the second level. And I can only regret here that the previous Saeima, the previous ministers for environmental protection and regional development... has not fully done so. Then there would have been a lot of questions resolved by themselves. The task was in the law, but it was simply not fulfilled. They were counties... called what you want, the counties, the districts... no matter what. But it was by nature the second level, and it was the government that “wrought” this idea, because no ministry was prepared to give some meaningful (I say here – meaningful) function. The only function that was - public transport - was removed. Educational issues... Well, you can watch it. However, it is not possible to debate these issues until other laws (such as the primary law on municipalities) have been passed on, where we would then also define what we expect from these new, large areas. By changing a simple map at the moment... Colleagues, it's not a question, it's a fact... all municipalities will remain the same as before... they will remain giveable. There will be no strong economic units. By putting together two poor ones, they do not get rich. It's going to be poor anyway, and it's going to have to give this money anyway. This is not the solution - a simple combination. If we... Many of us, I think, have also followed... and, in my opinion, one such very successful campaign was for the Latvian Chamber of Commerce and Industry, which also carried out regional reform... originally with very aggressive settings, just like the Minister comes today... But in the end, the conclusion was that the size doesn't matter, it doesn't matter how the boundaries change. The question is: what powers and functions do you give these municipalities here, what instruments do the municipalities give them so that they can develop their territories more successfully so that they can cope more successfully with the challenges that they often do not have at all in the capacity of one administrative territorial unit. We need to look more broadly, and at this point, this proposal does not, unfortunately, answer these big questions. And they won't let the commission in charge answer, no matter what, if they don't... additional laws, precisely these fundamental laws, which are not currently being proposed for discussion.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-07-PT13-2017-U110	The time allowed for the debate is 15 minutes. Mr. Dombrovskis, you'd be good enough for seven? Name to Member Vjačeslav Dombrovskis.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-07-PT13-2017-U111	Dear colleagues, Thank you very much for a really very interesting discussion. I also felt obliged to give some clarification as to why the Group of the People's Republic (Inter-Charter. Thank you very much. ... why the Group will vote as it will. Mr Gobzem will then probably explain how independent Members will vote. I'm here, colleagues, I see... Two camps are clearly marked here. One camp believes that from this ATR... the reform will bring a great deal of benefits. The second camp thinks that there will be some serious damage to it. But both the first and the second are wrong. First, so-called... those who call themselves a “new policy”... The young people to whom I understood him, the idea of life has arisen at a time when there was quite a lot of talk about structural reforms. Therefore, some young people believe that everything in the country is bad, either, or relatively bad because there are no structural reforms. Some 'anti-State forces' do not allow its structural reforms to be implemented. And then... they believe that such a major structural reform, such as its administrative territorial reform, is necessary and, if it is so, everything will happen in the country. Well, like... as has been said here: if there is reform, there will be growth in the regions, there will be jobs. As one of the Members said here: if there is only a business specialist in the region, then everything will be absolutely happening in that region. Well, there's only one thing I have to say in addressing our colleagues in the opposition to the Union of Greens/Farmers. Colleagues, I should have invested in education once! I should have! Because it's all... all those "new forces" - it's karma, colleagues! Not enough attention was paid to education. ( Milestones.) Then the second camp. Once again, our colleagues, the FAO, fear that in fact it has been discovered... that the real objective of this reform is another; that the real objective of the reform is to break down the political power of the STECF in the regions. I would like to say that, now, my fellow Members, your fear is absolutely unfounded. Well, wot, well, think, please... Imagine that municipal elections are taking place in a district... in Alsunga. And, well, there ask, of course, quite specific questions – “how will it be with my way” that then... and so on - and then one of the... Like from the pub... One of its “comsmol” representatives begins to talk about the “new policy”. I think you absolutely have nothing to worry about, my fellow Members. Why... Why will we support it? Because of the benefits? Colleagues, a country like Finland was called here. Finland has a population of 5 million. The number of regions is more than 300. This obviously has not prevented Finland from becoming a Nordic country. If someone thinks that in order to become Finland, it is necessary to reduce the number of municipalities, then... Check and look! See you! Colleagues! What will happen if we do not support this initiative? Then it will go on. Then the representatives of the so-called light forces will continue to tell the general public and their constituents that those provinces, together with their cartilage, do not allow them to implement structural reforms. And that's why nothing happens in the country. So I say, please implement, and then we will all see who will come from it. Let us see if the region starts with its great development, jobs, investment, people stop driving and so on. And voters will also look at and draw their conclusions, especially in the regions. Young colleagues do not understand that politics is a long-term game. So let us, colleagues, not prevent them from learning! Thank you. (Applause)
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-07-PT13-2017-U112	Thank you. Dear colleagues, Members Strike, Dzintars, Paviluts, Judins (Interspeakers.) ... Now it's very hard to decrypt, believe me! The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A. Gobzem: “ Put the mandate down?Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, “)... asks for the session of the Saeima to continue without interruption until all items on the agenda are examined. Do Members have objections? ( The box “Yes! ”) ) There are no objections, so... ( Insight: “Yes! Yes!’ ) There are objections. Please call me! Let us vote in favour of continuing the sitting of the Saeima without interruption until all items on the agenda have been dealt with! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, So let's continue the Saeima session without interruption. We are continuing the debate. Name to Member Armand Kraus for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-07-PT13-2017-U113	Colleagues! I said, last time, that those people who had come and stood outside the Saeima House - they were not against the reforms, but they were against such a reform and against not listening to them. And that's why... I understand that neither the Speakers of the Saeima nor others have had the will, nor the time to go out and listen to them. I would like to thank all these people who represented all the historical regions of Latvia who had come to Riga to say their pain. Let them feel someone here at the Saeima House, Members and others, listen to them! Thank them. I hope that their views as well as those of other citizens - those who remained in the regions - will be heard. And that's what Mr. Pouce promised... that he will now take into account the opinion of the public. And that there may still be changes. So, above all, thank you to the citizens who were here. Let us listen to their views and make their reform so that it is good for the people and not for the political forces! If anyone wants to “turn” to the political forces, forget! Our position as the Union of Greens/farmers was both good and good in the future. ( Internouncing call.)
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-07-PT13-2017-U114	Name to Member Aldi Gobzem.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-07-PT13-2017-U115	Hello, colleagues! In fact, one major problem is one of the main drivers of administrative territorial reform. Yeah... There is, in fact, no one in this Chamber who is against reform as such - and not only in this Chamber, but also outside it. Mr Pouce, that is the main issue that people worry about: that you, Mr Pouce, are making this reform very arrogantly. You don't listen to the public. The whole of this reform is characterised by the word "dignity". The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. E. Grasses-Gross: “The embodiment of Humility!” ) And here I have to stress development / About! the functioning of the ministers. Today we have seen where arrogance leads. Today, the Minister for Health, Viņķele, is trying to apologize to the public for acting illegally.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-07-PT13-2017-U116	Mr Gobzem, on the draft law on "Law on Administrative Areas and Settlements", please speak!
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-07-PT13-2017-U117	I know that you are afraid of the people, Mrs. Moore. But don't stop me!
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-07-PT13-2017-U118	Mr Gobzem, please just talk about the subject. On the bill that is on our agenda! I mean, I mean, I mean, I mean, I mean, I Depp. A. Muižniece: “Disable the microphone!” ) Council Regulation (EC) No 1257/96 of 20 June 1996 concerning humanitarian aid (OJ L 163, 2.7.1996, p. 1).
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-07-PT13-2017-U119	And I very much hope that the day will not come when Mr Puce, like Mrs Viņķele, will have to apologize to the public because arrogance has not led to public listening. In essence, this reform must clearly be a two-tier municipal reform. As a two-level local government, it is in fact a path directed towards the Nordic countries. And I would ask Mr Pouce to listen to this point. It is not the number of municipalities that will make our country richer or poorer, but how we will manage our regions - it is more decisive, important. Two-level municipalities - this should start with. Discussions on this issue in conceptual terms and then gradually proceed. And closing. As much as I am being tried to silence Mrs. Mourniece, I will stand up as a nation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-07-PT13-2017-U120	If Members observe the Rules of Procedure, no reprimand shall be required. But there are other situations, of course. The name of Member Regina Lochmele-Lunova.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-07-PT13-2017-U121	Hello, colleagues! Of course, it is clear that today it is not about the need for this reform. This is necessary. The question is how these reform sketches are ready to build their new Latvian vision building. The new Latvia, where there will be both cities and fields, where all municipalities will cooperate on two levels, will also cooperate with the government. But are these drawings ready? How full are those sketches? When we had a meeting of the Commission for Public Administration and Local Government, I asked VARAM... You were here, Mr. Pouce... a very simple table, such as Excel, the range of services available to the people of these municipalities at present, and what services will be available to these people after the reform when these municipalities unite. This Excel has been submitted to us? None. I asked Mrs Silina to prepare a summary of the positions of all the ministries in relation to the ATR, because we were told that we should not look at the administrative territorial reform separately from the optimisation of the network of schools and medical institutions, that there are other ministries as well. Mr Stakis has told us today about security considerations. I absolutely agree. But there is the question whether some of these functions should not be taken over by the Ministry of Defence with the huge budget that is currently available to this Ministry if we really think about state security and also civil protection. But she said she didn't have such a compilation and she wouldn't do it. And on my question: which could prepare for our responsible commission a review of the position of our government ministries on each of the aspects that are an integral part of the ATR... Because it is absolutely clear that this map is just the frame of the scene. From this point of view, we will be voting for the frame today, but we simply do not have the picture. So the question is not about (how do you try to present to the public) that someone is opposed to the reform here, but the question is how its reform is now ready to vote on it at first reading. Not to mention that we do not know what amendments will be made to the Law “On Municipalities”, what changes will be made to the Law on Elections of the City Council and the Regional Council of the Republic, and not to mention the most important issues that concern people - the optimisation of the school network and how much hospital stays in Latvia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-07-PT13-2017-U122	The name is Mr. Janis Wuzan.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-07-PT13-2017-U123	Hello, colleagues! Now for several hours we have been discussing the draft Law on Administrative Territories and Populations and, in connection with it, the proposed administrative territorial reform in Latvia. I agree that the Minister will probably also come and speak. But I wanted to come here before and say that in my view too... As some of my fellow Members have already said today, we cannot really talk here about administrative territorial reform, because it is only about changing borders, perhaps by bringing together (in most cases) the larger municipalities that are currently in place. Then, if we wanted to really talk about administrative territorial reform in substance, we should talk about changing the system throughout the state and municipal administration. As Mrs Voika does not like this word'management reform', however, we must talk about governance issues and the fact that, in the case of such reform, the state must, by its very nature, be able to give up part of its role and to hand it over to the local authorities. Mr. Valaiņš has already mentioned that it is one of the issues that should be dealt with... the nature of the matter to be addressed. I understand that it is very difficult - to give up something that you have so far managed, for which you have so far responded, but through which resources have also passed. I would like to talk here about another point. This reform also provides for a number of situations: those municipalities that have so far been composed of a city and a territory around the city are to be merged into a single municipality according to the reform plans. And then the question is: did one of the citizens have an interest in such a solution? Is it in the interest of the citizens of the city or is it in the interest of the people living in suburban areas? Because life in the city and outside of the city are often quite different, even though these suburban residents go to work in the city and return to their homes in the evening. However, we are talking about different household models, different models of how the infrastructure is consumed or used (in more precise terms, how children are brought to school - whether they are going or have to be brought) about how cultural services are provided, how social services are provided. In most cases, where cities are combined with rural areas, the situation is that there is a greater population in the city, and automatically this means that in the case of municipal elections, if no specific solutions are found, urban residents and their run candidates will have greater opportunities to become municipal members. This means that the city’s representation in elected organs is likely to prevail. The question is, is it really in the interests of rural people? It is unlikely that these elected members of the city will be able to understand the needs and concerns of single people living alone - let us say, the care of these same roads, which, in many rural areas, including Kurzeme, I represent, are irresistible at the same time as today. The question is, indeed, whether this representation will be adequate to address... to deal adequately with municipal issues. And one more thing. We very often listen to the various recommendations coming from the OECD, come from the administrations of the various major countries of cooperation, and try to implement these recommendations as quickly as possible. But there is also a recommendation from the Council of Europe that, in carrying out any territorial reforms, the citizens of the territories in question must first be heard - not just the Members, but the citizens themselves! - to understand how they are provided with the services that the state in general has to provide together with the municipality, and what should be improved here... In other words, we need to talk about the functions that have already been talked about here today. And unfortunately, I have to admit, and I have convinced you about this today, also when I meet here, outside the Saeima, with the people of certain Kurzeme municipalities who had come - that they have not already been heard. There have been meetings in the regions, yes, so the meetings have taken place, basically the representatives of the municipalities, but the people of the queue are... Only a few have been there. This means that the interests of the people of the Latvian queue have not really been explored and they are not given the opportunity provided by the recommendations of the Council of Europe. However, I ask that, if this reform also progresses, consultations with the population at an advanced stage so that we really achieve the objectives of providing services that the state and local authorities together have to ensure... which would be in the interests of the people. Thank you. But in the sense that this reform is being directed at the moment, I call for it not to be supported. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-07-PT13-2017-U124	The name to Member Karin Scratch.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-07-PT13-2017-U125	Dear colleagues, Thank you for your speech, thank you for your thoughts, for your ideas. But what I wanted to say today... It is very difficult for me to listen to the talks about the fields of Riga, which may have seen only the goat in the zoo. It is very difficult for me to listen to the network or quality of Latvian schools from people who studied time only in private school or who graduated from university... obtained higher education abroad. I find it hard to listen to the upbringing of children and the rights of people who have no children at all and... But they, well, they're calling... They're debating it. And I find it very difficult to perceive and accept that administrative territorial reform is implemented by Juris Pūce. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-07-PT13-2017-U126	I closed the debate. On behalf of the commission, is there any explanation to be added?
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-07-PT13-2017-U127	Yeah, colleagues. I would like to thank everyone for the debate today and for the views they have expressed. I would remind you that the draft law was approved for the first reading at the last Commission meeting on 29 October.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-07-PT13-2017-U128	Please call me! We will vote for the first reading of the draft law “Law on Administrative Areas and Accommodations”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The draft law at first reading has been supported. (Applause) On behalf of the Commission, please set a deadline for the submission of proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-07-PT13-2017-U129	On behalf of the Commission, the deadline for the submission of proposals is 7 January 2020.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-07-PT13-2017-U130	Please turn on the microphone for Dace Bluke!
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-07-PT13-2017-U131	I ask for a deadline for the submission of proposals on 18 December, both in order to mobilise the applicants and so that the Saeima can start working on the pending proposals immediately after the festival.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-07-PT13-2017-U132	Thank you. So we have two deadlines: 7 January 2020 and 18 December this year. We must first vote on the next deadline, so on 7 January 2020. Please call me! We will vote for the deadline for submitting proposals for the draft law "Law on Administrative Areas and Accommodations" - 7 January 2020! Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about - 32, it's against - 50, it's not. Consequently, the deadline for the submission of proposals - 18 December this year - remains in force. Dear colleagues, Changes to the agenda for the sitting approved by the Saeima Bureau have been tabled. Members Sprūde, Liepiņa, Stepanenko, Sirgens, Krapāne and others are asking to include in the agenda the draft decision “On the withdrawal of Member Karina Sprūde from the Sustainable Development Commission”. Are Members opposed to this amendment of the agenda? There is no objection. The order of business has been amended. Members Liepiņa, Stepanenko, Sprūde, Girgens, Krapāne and others are asking to include in the agenda the draft decision “On the election of Member Karina Sprūke in the Commission for Public Expenditure and Audit”. Are Members opposed to this amendment of the agenda? There is no objection. The agenda has been amended. Members Liepiņa, Stepanenko, Sprūde, Valainis and Gobzems are asking for the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Financing Political Organisations (Parties)” to be included on the agenda of the sitting. ‘ For” applied to speak Member Aldis Gobzems. ( Interface: “I’m sorry, there’s a mistake! ” ) There is an error! ‘ Jūlija Stepanenko, Member, has applied to speak about”
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-07-PT13-2017-U133	Dear colleagues, When the law is not being enforced and on behalf of the Saeima Chairman, the Saeima apologizes for unenforceable decision making, seven times to raise their pocket money for themselves - that is more than immoral. I don't know, colleagues, what oligarchs are giving you. ( Internouncing call.) Mr. Riekstin, you must have ended up painting books again.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-07-PT13-2017-U134	Do not talk to the room, but continue the debate.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-07-PT13-2017-U135	But if they... But if the oligarchs have lost their salaries, you, fellow Members, will not become cleaner from public funding with 1 January. And apologies, honourable colleagues, will not solve anything here. Absolutely nothing! We call both this Saeima and the next Saeima... whatever they decide, no matter how they raise public funding... Although I think no other Saeima can beat you with its cynicism... it will apply only to the next term, nothing else. The draft budget accompanying the increase in party funding was not discussed qualitatively due to a lack of time, and this is acknowledged both by Mr Bordan and... it is also an annotated that such draft laws accompanying the budget... There is a slightly different order in which they are directed. It wasn't... not all NGOs, who were very interested in this issue and who also made the relevant proposals were invited (Dep. Bondar: How, for example? )... Nor was the company attracted. And if you don’t want to fall below zero in the eyes of the public, if you don’t want to keep hiding again in the Saeima building, coming hard before the medical strike, meetings. — Dep. S. Riekstins: “Who was hiding?” ), well before all the events in which the public wants to tell you that you are absolutely yours (Dep. Feldmans: “Nemelo!” )... You've definitely fallen below... if you don’t want to continue to do so (interfaces.) ... You're very worried. I understand you're hit very hard by the nerves. ( Milestones.) If you really do not want the law to incorporate a conflict of interest... which allows the members of the party to vote in favour of giving themselves the money of the parties... is contrary to the principle of good governance... and you want to let that happen... All the more, right on the background of this apology... The draft law, honourable colleagues, does not affect any new donation restrictions that may apply to you. Get rid of oligarch money! Reduce the amount of donations! Do it! The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. E. Zālīte-Gross: “Speak about it in the Riga Council!” ) Reduce your expenses as well, see if you really need all the measures you take and pay for! Live Saved! Get rid of oligarch's money, and then we'll see it. And then you will show the result! I call, colleagues, on you to support this draft law by following the principle of good governance and not to conflict with yourself and with the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-07-PT13-2017-U136	Do Members object to the inclusion of a draft law on the agenda of the sitting? ( The transcripts are: “Yes! Yes!’ ) Then we must vote. Please call me! We will vote for the inclusion of the draft law on amendments to the Law on the Financing of Political Organisations (Parties) on the agenda of the sitting! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Draft legislation is not on the agenda of the sitting. Members Ples, Eglitis, Cielēns, Dzintars, Pucens, Latkovskis and others are asking to include in the agenda the draft decision on the establishment of the Special Administrative Territorial Reform Commission. Do Members have objections? ( Independence: “We must vote! ” ) So we have to vote. Please call me! We will vote for the inclusion of the draft decision on the establishment of the Special Administrative Territorial Reform Commission on the agenda of the sitting! Please vote mode! Please get the result! -64, against -14, refrains - not. The draft decision shall be placed on the agenda of the sitting. Members Stepanenko, Liepiņa, Gobzems, Sprūde, Valainis, Krauze and others are asking to include in the agenda the draft decision “On task for the Cabinet of Ministers to find funding for raising the salary of health care workers until 13 November 2019”. ‘ For” applied to speak Member Aldis Gobzems.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-07-PT13-2017-U137	Dear Members, in the direct sense of the word, members of the coalition! Why don't you hide before the elections, but hide when the doctors strike? The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. S. Riekstins: “Who was hiding?” ) When people desperately stand on the street, there is another live medium (Dep. J. Strike and dep. Feldmans: “Nemelo!” ) in which BIP politicians laugh. They laugh because they will vote like puppets, as they will! They will vote against the increase in medical fees. Today we have to talk about where we are, that is, yours - the coalition - the excellent, genius President of Latvia Egil Levit, the great defender of the rule of law? There is a feeling that the heart has also been changed with the taking of the oath. Where's Egil Levit's heart left? Egil Levit is ready to fall and stand up for an increase in the funding of political parties seven times, as if you had earned it, but is quiet as a tomb for medical salaries. Everything is clear about Karini: he doesn't care about the medicine! He was not at the Saeima today, and he was also not at the Saeima to resolve this issue. The national association, the BIP - especially, it is you who are responsible for the fact that there is no money for doctors today. Development/About! With the whole Vincele. New Unity! You betrayed the doctors and sold... against the creation of your party cartels and against the support of the construction cartel, because the Cabinet of Maizitis had tens of millions! We will not talk about civil service salaries hidden in different budget headings. What the publicmen would do today is not to do the stupid things all day, not to watch on the clock, to end the Saeima sitting right away and to run again to some expensive cafes or political tourism trips, but to solve... to resolve the medical issue today, not to come out before the public as Mrs Mūrniece, and to apologize for continuing to illegally violate the law. You're not sorry about that. The law has to be fulfilled! And the law on medical pay must be fulfilled. Today it has to be done! And what I want to say. I want to tell the people. People, dear people! Please don't stop! The coalition will promise you in the hope that you will calm down. You'll be promised! This is their goal: to promise as promised before the elections, to promise now too. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. J. Strike: “On the draft decision!” ) Please do not stop! ( Internouncing call.) I call, dear nation, you must go to the end. We need to support the doctors now and always! The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. J. Strike: “On the draft decision!” ) And the fact that Juta Strike screams today against doctors is just...
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-07-PT13-2017-U138	Mr. Gobzem, no one...
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-07-PT13-2017-U139	... shows that the rule of law is "uncompromising". Suit Strike (Dep. J. Strick's intermediates. Medicines cause noise.) Come on, get medical!
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-07-PT13-2017-U140	Mr Gobzem, please address the specific question. ( Internouncing call.)
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-07-PT13-2017-U141	Another thing I'm going to say in conclusion.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-07-PT13-2017-U142	But about the specific draft decision, Mr. Gobzem!
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-07-PT13-2017-U143	This platform will never allow you to speak if you join the people of Latvia. I mean, I mean, I mean, I mean, I mean, I Thank you very much. And now you hear the coalition screaming. When medical doctors are required, they don’t deny, they are secreted along the Saeima building. Depp. Feldmans: “Nemelo!” Medicines cause noise.) That they don't want to be seen.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-07-PT13-2017-U144	Mr. Gobzem, please! Please... Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. ( The head of the sitting was knocked down with a hammer.)
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-07-PT13-2017-U145	Thank you. This issue must be resolved by 13 November. ( Milestones.)
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-07-PT13-2017-U146	Mr Gobzem, I would like to point out that Members of the Saeima 'based on facts' - in the debate on the facts! - 'their fair interpretation and reasoning'. But it must be that it is not worth even quoting. (Laughter) Do Members object to the inclusion of the draft decision on the agenda of the sitting? ( The box “Yes! ”) ) There are therefore objections and we must vote. Please call me! We will vote for the inclusion of the draft decision “On task for the Cabinet of Ministers to find funding for raising the salary of health care workers until November 13, 2019” on the agenda of the Saeima sitting! Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about - 34, it's against - 49, it's not. The draft decision is not on the agenda of the sitting. Budgets and finances (Interim) ... Okay. Only a document has been submitted now... That's... Okay, thank you. Colleagues! In accordance with the second paragraph of Rule 140 of the Parliament's Rules of Procedure, Members of Liepaja, Gobzems, Sprūde, Stepanenko, Valainis, Krauze and others are asked to read each Member's vote on this issue, namely on the inclusion on the agenda of the draft decision on the establishment of a Special Administrative Commission for Territorial Reform. ( Internouncing call.) Do Members have objections? ( Milestones.) Do Members have objections? The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A. Gobzem: “Sorry what it is!” ; “There are objections!” ) All right, so let's vote! ( Imposition: What kind of draft decision?) ) Please call us! We will vote in favour of reading the vote by Members on the draft decision on 'On the special... “ [Independence] ... on the inclusion of an own-initiative proposal on the agenda of the sitting of the Saeima... “On the task of the Cabinet of Ministers to find funding for raising the salary of health care workers until November 13, 2019”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! - 34, against - 52, abstaining - not. This will not result in a vote. ( Internouncing call.) The Budget and Finance (Tax) Commission is asking for the draft law on ‘Amendments to the Gaming and Gaming Act’ to be included on the agenda of the sitting. Are Members opposed to this amendment of the agenda? ( Interface: “No! ”) ) There are no objections. The draft law is therefore on the agenda of the sitting. The amended agenda of the sitting will be discussed further. On the agenda - draft law “Amendments to the Law on the Protection and Management of the Marine Environment”, second reading. On behalf of the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy, Mr Daniel Pavluts.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-07-PT13-2017-U147	Hello again, colleagues! The Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy has examined and prepared for second reading the draft law “Amendments to the Law on the Protection and Management of the Marine Environment”. The purpose of the draft law is to undertake a codification of administrative infringements in the field of protection of the marine environment. For the second reading, three proposals were put forward in the draft law. They're all from the Law Office. The proposal is editorial and was supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-07-PT13-2017-U148	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-07-PT13-2017-U149	Proposal No 2 - Legal Bureau proposal Commission supported, editorial.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-07-PT13-2017-U150	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-07-PT13-2017-U151	3. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Commission supported, editorial.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-07-PT13-2017-U152	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-07-PT13-2017-U153	Therefore, please support the second reading of the draft law on "Amendments to the Law on the Protection and Management of the Marine Environment".
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-07-PT13-2017-U154	Please call me! We will vote for the second reading of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on the Protection and Management of the Marine Environment”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 79, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The draft law at second reading has been supported. Please set a time limit for the submission of proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-07-PT13-2017-U155	The deadline for tabling proposals for third reading is 14 November this year.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-07-PT13-2017-U156	Thank you. The deadline for submitting proposals is 14 November this year. Draft law “Amendments to the Law on Tourism” (No. 423/Lp13), first reading. On behalf of the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy, Member Atis Lejiņš.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-07-PT13-2017-U157	Yeah... Honorable Bureau! Colleagues! You have to clean up after all the demagogy that we've just heard. Prime Minister Kariņš has sent us the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Tourism”, but we had to split it into two parts within the Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy Commission, because one part is about tourism, and you can see for yourself... There is something about what is tourism product, guest apartment, business tourism and also - Latvian Tourism Advisory Council. But the second part we separated from the draft law sent by the Cabinet of Ministers is about what to do with law-obedient citizens, and it concerns administrative... the codification process. So I'm going to talk about the first part, about bill No. 423/Lp13 and I assume that the biggest debate will be on the concept of a guest apartment, because people in Latvia rent apartments very much illegally, and... how we can solve this problem. That's why I'm calling now... at first reading. I call for support.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-07-PT13-2017-U158	Please call me! Vote on draft law “Amendments to the Law on Tourism” (No. 423/Lp13) at first reading! Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about - 75, it's against and it's abstaining. The draft law at first reading has been supported. Please set a time limit for the submission of proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-07-PT13-2017-U159	November 25th.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-07-PT13-2017-U160	So please set a deadline for the submission of proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-07-PT13-2017-U161	November 25th.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-07-PT13-2017-U162	Thank you. So the deadline for submitting proposals is 25 November this year.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-07-PT13-2017-U163	Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-07-PT13-2017-U164	Draft law “Amendments to the Forest Law”, first reading. On behalf of the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy – Member Jānis Dūklavs.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-07-PT13-2017-U165	Hello, colleagues! We will work with the draft law “Amendments to the Forest Law” (No. 396/Lp13). The draft law drawn up by the Ministry of Agriculture “Amendments to the Forest Law” has been submitted by the Cabinet of Ministers according to implementation of the system of codification of administrative irregularities in sectors. In brief. The draft law provides for supplementing the Forest Law with the norms resulting from the Latvian Code of Administrative Violations, which establishes penalties for violations in the field of forest management and use. When transferring norms, the Ministry of Agriculture has assessed the composition of the existing administrative offences depending on the hazard of the offence, public harm, consequences, its actuality and legal relations. The draft law is intended to enter into force at the same time as the Law on Administrative Liability. The draft law has been examined and supported by the Commission at its meeting of 6 November. On behalf of the Commission, I call for support for the draft law at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-07-PT13-2017-U166	Please call me! We will vote in favour of the first reading of the draft law “Amendments to the Forest Law”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The draft law at first reading has been supported. Please set a deadline for the submission of proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-07-PT13-2017-U167	The deadline for the submission of proposals for second reading is 12 November this year.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-07-PT13-2017-U168	Thank you. The deadline for submitting proposals is 12 November this year. Draft law “Amendments to the Law on Tourism” (No. 485/Lp13), first reading. On behalf of the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy, Member Atis Lejiņš.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-07-PT13-2017-U169	Good afternoon! See Draft Law No. 485/Lp13. The draft law is related to the Latvian Code of Administrative Violations... Decoded here is about violations in the provision of tourism services, as well as who is competent to punish, namely police and border guards. I'm calling... The draft law was examined by the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-07-PT13-2017-U170	Please call me! Vote on draft law “Amendments to the Law on Tourism” (No. 485/Lp13) at first reading! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 78, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The draft law at first reading has been supported. Please set a time limit for the submission of proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-07-PT13-2017-U171	Proposals should be submitted on 12 November.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-07-PT13-2017-U172	Thank you. Deadline for the submission of proposals - 12 November this year. Draft law “Amendments to the Law on Gambling and Gaming”, first reading. On behalf of the Commission for Budget and Finance (Tax) - Member Rihards Kozlovskis.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-07-PT13-2017-U173	Dear Chairman of the Saeima. Dear colleagues, Today, the Budget and Finance (Tax) Commission discussed in its meeting the draft law prepared by the Cabinet of Ministers “Amendments to the Law on Gambling and Gaming”. During the meeting, representatives of the Ministry of Finance, a representative of the industry and the Legal Bureau of the Saeima were heard. In general, discussions did not appear on this draft law, but we heard the arguments put forward by the Legal Office in connection with the fact that this draft law aims at transposing the system of codification of administrative offences into the sector, namely to establish administrative liability for infringements in the field of gambling and slot. The Legal Bureau pointed out, however, the need to carry out an additional discussion and to assess the penalties to be applied depending on the nature of the infringement, the danger and other criteria. Members unanimously supported this proposal within the Commission and, at the same time, supported draft laws for first reading. I ask colleagues to support this draft law.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-07-PT13-2017-U174	Let us start a debate. Name to Member Viktor Valain.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-07-PT13-2017-U175	I do not have in principle any objections to this draft law, but there is something I would like to make. This draft law has such a very suitable date for entry into force - it is next year. From the very beginning, when we passed it on to the Budget and Finance (Tax) Commission, I consider that this draft law is also linked to the public budget. What, then, do we have in the draft state budget law? Another separate draft law, on which we have debated here from the tribunal, provides for the transfer of resources from local authorities to the state budget. But... If this happens, I would agree with it, but in this draft law I will submit and call on you, colleagues, to support the proposal to extend the powers of municipalities to close gambling halls. This should be done by taking out resources for various municipal initiatives. If municipalities have to talk to citizens about why they need or do not need one or the other gambling hall, then this law should (if they do not have one time) also impose extended powers on municipalities to decide whether or not to close gambling medicinal products. (Applause)
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-07-PT13-2017-U176	I closed the debate. Is there anything to add on behalf of the Commission?
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-07-PT13-2017-U177	No, not to be added. The nature of the amendments was, of course, different. But again I would remind you that the Commission generally supported this draft law. I also ask for the support of colleagues.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-07-PT13-2017-U178	Please call me! We will vote in favour of the first reading of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Gambling and Lots”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 76, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The draft law at first reading has been supported. Please set a time limit for the submission of proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-07-PT13-2017-U179	November 12th of this year.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-07-PT13-2017-U180	Thank you. So the deadline for submitting proposals is 20 this year. ...
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-07-PT13-2017-U181	12. ...
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-07-PT13-2017-U182	12. ... Consequently, the deadline for the submission of proposals is 12 November this year. On the agenda - Election, approval, appointment, dismissal or dismissal of officials, expression of trust or distrust. Draft decision on the withdrawal of Member Karina Sprūde from the Commission for Sustainable Development. Please call me! We will vote for the draft decision on the withdrawal of Member Karina Sprūke from the Commission for Sustainable Development! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 79, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Decision adopted. Draft decision on the election of Member Karina Srūdes to the Commission for Public Expenditure and Audit. Please call me! We will vote on the draft decision on the election of Member Karina Sprūte to the Commission for Public Expenditure and Auditing! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 81, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. Decision adopted. Examination of draft decisions Draft decision on the establishment of the Special Administrative Territorial Reform Commission. Let us start a debate. Name to Member Viktor Valain.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-07-PT13-2017-U183	Someone could justify why it is necessary, because however, we in the Saeima have a National Administration and Municipal Commission that is responsible. It's been a while ago... It's been a long time since... we have a debate on a case such as sub-committees, which is the composition of the committee. A broad theme was, various sub-commissions were set up everywhere, and the sub-commission was also a question of sub-commission within the Public Administration and Municipal Commission. There was a debate. We have already said that it is clear to everyone that there will be an administrative territorial reform and that it would be exactly that place. A special sub-committee was set up to assess this issue, see, analyse in depth, in which Members from all the Saeima could then participate... I think that there are really competent people here at the moment on these issues and are ready for a constructive debate. As well as about the Commission of the State Administration and Local Government... In my opinion, in this committee, everyone knew and was prepared, absolutely everyone was prepared for the fact that the issue of administrative territorial reform will be in this committee, and that this committee will decide in a collegial way, all together. If I look at the New Conservative Party... Mr. Budrik has brought very specific questions to this commission, where we have assessed them, looked... as managers in municipalities. Mr Kazinovsky - I think no one has any questions about his competences in the area of municipalities. Dace Bluķe, colleague from “Development/About!” 'I think she has played a very active part throughout the summer in various events, and I respect her opinion, and it will be a really good debate. Mrs Goldberg, who is the head of the commission, is where the people are even more familiar with the municipalities than Mrs Goldberg! I think that a qualitative debate in this committee could and should have taken place there. The creation of this special commission - colleagues, in my opinion, this is such an hasty moment. At the moment, I do not see absolutely any justification for this. Today I saw Minister Pūci who demonstrated how he consulted the population... Today from the Saeima Tribe. It was clearly visible - said, listened, went! Well, then... I understand that if we create such a special commission, then the Saeima tells us that it will continue to work in a special, special way; that we will not listen to the Lord of Pouce anymore. But that's the reason... I do not fully understand, colleagues, for whom it is necessary, what is the reason that there is a majority in the coalition. Fear of this as it should not be that independent Members are also represented. This decision, in principle, excludes part of the Saeima, the independent Members. Colleagues, what are you afraid of? Independent Members... Karina, yes, knowledgeable. Yes, there is no problem, working can and really is competent in matters of local government; it has been demonstrated. Is that why such a commission should be set up? I think colleagues, we do not need to be afraid of uncomfortable issues, we simply need to work. This draft law is not a way of avoiding unpleasant issues. Whether they are easier or heavier, they will have to be answered by either the commission (in a special, special or other contact) or by the parliamentary tribunal - this will have to be discussed. And, in my opinion, there is absolutely no justification for creating such a new institution.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-07-PT13-2017-U184	The name of Member Arthur Tom Plesh.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-07-PT13-2017-U185	Hello, colleagues! You are certainly all familiar with this draft decision, which provides for the creation of a Special Commission on Territorial Reform. This committee is due to look at the issues related to the draft law that we have already adopted at first reading in the Saeima today and other issues specific to administrative territorial reform. The main reason why such a commission is necessary is as follows: Today's debate has already highlighted the aspects that need to be addressed in this reform. And also in view of the fact that the issue of reform is not the only one on the agenda of the Committee of State Administration and Local Government (this could, let us say, slow down the work of this committee), and also in view of the whole context in which we need to consult local governments and consider all the arguments regarding the second and third readings for us to implement the reform, it is intended to build... there is a proposal for such a commission, where each group will have one representative, where we will be able to debate and address in a constructive manner these issues relating to administrative territorial reform and its implementation. And this commission will carry out its work as long as the specific draft law and related draft laws are examined. I call for support, colleagues!
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-07-PT13-2017-U186	Name to Member Sergey Dolgopolov.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-07-PT13-2017-U187	Dear colleagues! As always - with good intentions, the road to hell has been paved. Tell me, please, how long will this commission last? Tell me, how many draft laws will be dealt with in this commission? Where are their draft laws and procedures and their rules of procedure? To be honest, the more commissions we create, the deeper we want to get involved in solving any problem. Instead of entrusting the Cabinet of Ministers with the creation of a Committee of Reforms at the forefront of Kariņš, we create an additional structure that, to be honest, performs exactly the same functions as the Commission of Public Administration and Local Government. I am not talking about the fact that, in this case, it is also going outside the Bureau, which usually makes recommendations to the Saeima to refer one or another draft law to a commission. Here... Will this commission decide whether that draft law is subject to that commission, whether there will be a vote by the Saeima or an opinion on what draft laws are relevant to reform, what - not? To be honest, there's no very big point here, and that's... Well, as says, if there's no friendship with the head, we can also support this thing here. Let's go! (Applause)
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-07-PT13-2017-U188	The name is Digit Schmidt.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-07-PT13-2017-U189	Yeah. I'm also really... I don't know what that motivation is, but I don't really understand it, whatever it is, because... I understand that the Commission also has other tasks, the Commission can convene separate sittings on one issue, separate sittings on the other, so there is no need to set up a new commission. Then perhaps we can also have a Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission, now, a sub-committee for the 2020 budget. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. Bondars: “We can’t!” ) Jo? No, no... So I think it's some sort of a narrowing of membership. It may be that it has some constructive idea, but as Dolgopolov said, I don't see that... In my opinion, this looks like a narrowing of membership. In fact, after lowering the issue, although, as I said, it is, in my opinion, the most important issue that we will decide on in this Saeima. And if there's... if, in the case of... I do not think that this is the case, but if, in the case of this special committee, there will be no independent Members because there will be only groups there, then do you really think you will get out of the debate with us? I think the stupidest thing would be to say, try to do it, because it can't work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-07-PT13-2017-U190	The name is Mr. Janis Wuzan.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-07-PT13-2017-U191	Colleagues! To all those questions about the creation of this Special Administrative Territorial Reform Commission, I have another point to which I would like to receive a coalition's answer. Why do you have an inconsistency in dealing with different issues as if they were equivalent? When the National Electronic Media Council and the Media Law had to start dealing with the issue, it was established... A Sub-Commission for Media Policy was set up at the Commission for Human Rights and Public Affairs, which also worked with this draft law, prepared a version of its basis, and has now been interrupted in its sub-committee work. Apparently sometime it will renew its activities, but there this sub-commission was a very good option. And why is there another special commission now, in my view, in an analogous situation, where administrative territorial reform and the related draft laws are to be discussed and where an appropriate sub-committee is already in place? If you have an answer, very well, but please also tell your other colleagues why there is such inconsistency at your disposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-07-PT13-2017-U192	Name to Member Maris Kučinskis.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-07-PT13-2017-U193	Dear colleagues, I would also, however, call on one of the initiators to come and tell you this properly by points, otherwise it is possible to create such scenes in these intentions not to go the parliamentary and democratic way! For what is the commission ever being formed if you can create five... Well, how... For example, an untrustworthy commission manager... and, if there are independent Members in there, you don't know any bardaco will allow there then... Yes, I know that INTERPRETATION today will also support this decision and perhaps send someone to the Commission. I'll send you who... the less understandable from the municipalities, the better it is for the debate to be less and the result to be one. That's the method. I'm sorry, I'm a little irony, and I hope that maybe it won't happen. But please come and tell the protocol - it's in a well-understood Latvian language, make sure that its commission will really work with all municipalities, that it will do what it can't do in official... I'd like to hear and... Because, on the other hand, this is a very unpopular decision. You'll see, in a week's time it won't go off the agenda.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-07-PT13-2017-U194	Name to Member Viktor Valainin for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-07-PT13-2017-U195	Well, there's no explanation. What Tom said is that I think there is no logic at all. We should then split the Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy Commission once a month into another Commission. And where else is the Budget and Finance (Tax) Commission and the Education, Culture and Science Commission! When the Saeima works with questions... Well, important questions, it always takes time. I remember - Mr Adamovič, in the previous Saeima, held committee meetings for hours, held committee meetings for days when he watched amendments to the Education Act, for weeks. And there was no problem, other questions can be looked at as well. And here too... In my opinion, Mrs Goldberg also mentioned it some time ago: if we need to, let us work. We need to work on Mondays all day or... I don't care. But it has never been a problem. At the moment, however, I urge you to reflect, especially on the fact that a part of the Saeima will be excluded from membership of this committee. In particular, they are independent Members who do not appear in this project. Some arrangements may need to be made to include them. But this decision... Well, I'll vote. There is also the question of consultants, experts who should automatically be connected. And how will this whole process work? How well has it been thought out? I think it's not completely thought-out. One of each... In my opinion, such an issue could... should be on the contrary - think how more to attract... Two in two... So... Well, I don't see any justification here.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-07-PT13-2017-U196	The name of Member Linda Liepiņš.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-07-PT13-2017-U197	Hello, colleagues! I'm very brief. I wanted to say that, however, we should focus on the work of the commissions that we already have. For example, no meeting of the Human Rights and Public Affairs Commission was held this week because it was impossible to collect a quorum. No work. Also Request Commissions... The meeting was held, but the vote was not held, because the coalition members were stuck somewhere. Since my proposal would be to focus on what we already have here in the Saeima, no matter when we come to some kind of draft decision, that maybe we need to set up somewhere outside here some new Saeima, which has no opposition or group members, and so on. How far are you going to go?
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-07-PT13-2017-U198	Name to Member Aldi Gobzem. ( Internouncing call.)
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-07-PT13-2017-U199	The family needs a new commission again, because there will be a new bonus again, huh? I would point to just one example. Sandis Riekstins in the Sports Commission. There's no sitting in a month, but the master of wages gets if? (Applause) Mr. Wage gets him! But when the commission is to be conducted, there is no lord. Just put it in front of me when I'm talking out of the podium. The other thing. From a practical point of view, I understand that independent Members do not want to be in the commissions, because they are uncomfortable, they speak a direct language, they do not have to report to the leader of the political group, they have to ask for a permit, which they may and cannot speak. But... The practice is that, for example, in the Legal Commission... Juta Strike, the head of the Legal Commission, is angry that Gobzem, for example, has arrived, but when Gobzem is not, she is worried. Then she is looking forward directly and longing for Gobzem to be on that commission again. (Applause) We don't need a new commission to have a bonus again. Give it back to the doctors! And, Mrs. Strique, when you're putting on me, at that time you could go to the medical profession and defend the medical profession, not screaming in my direction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-07-PT13-2017-U200	Name to Member Armand Kraus.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-07-PT13-2017-U201	Thank you. Yes, it is perhaps a good proposal, but maybe it also requires other good proposals. And I'd like to say that we have the opportunity to divide... There is the Commission for Defence, Home Affairs and the Prevention of Corruption. Then three come - the protection... the meeting - the prevention of home affairs and yet corruption. Okay. We can also take, for example, an economy. Very good. The economy... There is the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy. So it would be an agricultural, which is very logical, about agriculture... environment, which is something quite different... and the Regional Policy Commission. Well, listen, colleagues, we're... We don't make it how much we have there... Is that so? Maybe we're 30 commissions, maybe 45 extortions?
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-07-PT13-2017-U202	The name to Member Aldi Gobzem for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-07-PT13-2017-U203	And during this debate there was a classic proof of the difference between an independent Member who can say his or her thoughts and a JCPOA. Sandis Riekstins (Noise in the hall. Depp. J. Strike: “The question is speaking!” ) pressed the button to be able to talk, but Juta Strīķe ran at Sanda Riekstina. and said that he should never climb in any way. These are the BCPs! And don't listen to them: for they may speak only what the Strique permits them.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-07-PT13-2017-U204	The name is Sandy Riekstin.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-07-PT13-2017-U205	In fact, one little lady didn't realize that I knew he was coming for the second time. And he did. And very good. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. Mr Gobzems: 'The proposal speaks!' ) But I would like to say...
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-07-PT13-2017-U206	On the proposal!
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-07-PT13-2017-U207	... Tell Mr Gobzem this...
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-07-PT13-2017-U208	On the proposal!
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-07-PT13-2017-U209	There was no word for the proposal there, colleagues! I very much hope that the public can understand what is actually happening here ( Dep. Mr Gobzems: 'The proposal speaks!' ) and realizes that time should not take into account one cross-juvenile lawyer with a scribbled nose. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A. Gobzem: “You have been punished by a machinator!” ) Council Regulation (EC) No 1257/96 of 20 June 1996 concerning humanitarian aid (OJ L 163, 2.7.1996, p. 1).
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-07-PT13-2017-U210	The name of Member Julija Stepanenko on the proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-07-PT13-2017-U211	Dear colleagues, I will also be excluded from the possibility of participating in the establishment of this commission. And in fact, we already understand that you want to create this commission without Karina Sprūdes, because she is not really comfortable in the Commission for Public Administration and Local Government... because she is not part of the political groups. In this way, you can also create an alternative Legal Commission, one that will not have Alda Gobzem and Julia Stepanenko, and also Mrs. Liepiņa will soon be able to turn off in some way. You can form parallel parliamentary commissions where you decide all things. And I also offer you a decision by the Saeima, which will simply prevent you from speaking from the troubling outside the political groups. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A. Gobzems: “Mūrniece is already trying!” ) You will be very happy and will be able to draw your carnivores further in the back step. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-07-PT13-2017-U212	Name to Member Uldis Augums.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-07-PT13-2017-U213	Highly honored Speaker of the Saeima! Dear colleagues, I think if we have a very complex and poor quality bill in the Saeima, which provides that we even have to set up a special commission, then it would be more reasonable not to set up such a commission and the bill at the moment to return to the Cabinet of Ministers in order to recycle according to the qualities that were also mentioned today by the members of the positions and to re-submit to the Saeima so that we do not hinder the work of the Saeima and do not waste the financial resources of the Saeima.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-07-PT13-2017-U214	The name to the Member Digim Schmit for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-07-PT13-2017-U215	Dear colleagues, Ladies and gentlemen! I really want to thank everyone. Thank you to those who urge this commission to form and vote in favour. Anybody! Because nothing gives the word to the opposition more than an attempt to block its mouth. I think you have not understood - neither what people were in the last elections, nor what people were on the streets today. I'll see you again soon!
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-07-PT13-2017-U216	Name of Member Dana Reizniece-Ozola.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-07-PT13-2017-U217	Colleagues! I also do not support the creation of such a separate commission. Here is a good example where you can see how the Saeima is different from the government. If there is something in the government that you don't want to solve and want to throw into the long room like a ball, then a working group is formed. Former ministers know this - working groups then uselessly long work while the author of the idea has already forgotten it. Here, in turn, there is a different idea. There is a question that you want to get through very quickly, and that is why you want to set up a separate commission, which - as a troika in the days of communism - will meet and take a decision, and the other commissions will only be able to see how the reform has already been adopted. So we do not support this proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-07-PT13-2017-U218	I closed the debate. Or... Is that so? So no one wants to add anything on behalf of the applicants. Please call me! We will vote on the draft decision on the establishment of the Special Administrative Commission on Territorial Reform! Please vote mode! Please get the result! There's no one for - 63, against - 15, abstaining. Decision adopted. Mrs Stepanenko, do you want to talk about the procedure? The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. Mr Stepanenko: “Yes!” ) Please turn on the microphone for Jūlija Stepanenko. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. Mr Stepanenko is not speaking in a microphone.) We can't hear it!
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-07-PT13-2017-U219	I would like to point out that the draft decision was not correctly read... Please... Members’ request to read the results of the vote on inclusion of the draft decision on the task for the Cabinet of Ministers to find funding for raising the salary of health care workers until 13 November 2019 on the agenda of the meeting. I ask you to put this question back to the vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-07-PT13-2017-U220	The question has been decided. And this question was read, too. True, we received this document, or ‘ Interface. ’ an application to the Saeima Bureau later. The question was read. The Law Office also acknowledges that this was the case. And the question has been decided. The agenda of the sitting was examined. But before I close my sitting, I have to inform you of the answers to Members' questions. On the question of Member Zariņa, Klementyeva, Orlova, Lochmele-Lunov and Kabanov, Minister of Finance Janis Reirs, about the legality of the Ministry of Finance's actions, preparing for government approval the draft law on the state budget for 2020 and the draft law on the medium-term budgetary framework for 2020, 2021 and 2022.’ The written responses received are not satisfactory, but Members do not want to ask further questions. Members Zarins, Adamsons, Agešins, Urbanovičs and Krišāns have put an urgent question to the Minister of Economics Ralf Nemiro “On the authenticity of the replies of the Ministry of Economics regarding the participation of officials of the Ministry of Economics in cover of possible criminal offences in relation to the results of “OIC power plants” inspections”. The complainants have declared that they cannot attend and hear the Minister's oral reply. The Minister must reply in writing within 48 hours of the Saeima meeting. 13 new urgent questions have been received from Members Augulis, Valaiņa, Reizniece-Ozola, Bergmanis and Vucans to Prime Minister Arturs Krišjānis Kariņš on the proposals of the Group of the Union of Greens and Farmers that have not been supported by the Cabinet of Ministers in the draft state budget for 2020. Questions are referred for a reply. And today's answers to Members' questions will not happen. Please call me! Please register the Members! Time for notifications. Name of the Saeima Secretary Andrejs Klementyev.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-07-PT13-2017-U221	Highly honored group leaders! Joint meeting with the Saeima Council at 15.45 at the Saeima Library. Not in the Red Hall, but in the Saeima Library! Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-07-PT13-2017-U222	Name to Member Oyars Eriks Kalniņš.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-07-PT13-2017-U223	I call on Members to come to a side-by-side medicine to set up a group of MEPs to facilitate cooperation with Saudi Arabia. It'll be right next to you.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-07-PT13-2017-U224	The name of the Member, Martin Bondar.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-07-PT13-2017-U225	The Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission shall meet at 4 p.m. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-07-PT13-2017-U226	Name for Maria Golubeva to read the results of the registration.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-07-PT13-2017-U227	Not registered: Aldis Adamovičs, Raimonds Bergmanis, Inese Ikstena, Artuss Kaimiņš, Aleksandrs Kiršteins, Romanas Naudiņš, Juris Rancāns, Ivans Ribakovs, Vita Anda Steel... Ivan Ribakov is... Vita Anda Steel and Ivars Zariņš.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-07-PT13-2017-U228	Thank you. I'm closing the sitting.
