ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-30-PT13-2015-U1	Good morning, dear colleagues! I invite you to take your seats in the Chamber! Mr. Prime Minister! Members of the Saeima! Ministers of Government! Everyone here! Let us begin the extraordinary sitting of the Saeima on 30 October this year. On the agenda - first reading of the annual state budget and related draft laws. Dear colleagues, I will remind you of the procedure after which we will work today. So, first of all, we will decide on the urgency of all the draft budget package and then start a debate on all the draft budget package as a whole. Name to Mārtiņš Bondars, Chairman of the Budget and Finance (Tax) Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-30-PT13-2015-U2	Madam President, Dear colleagues, Dear colleagues, The Budget and Finance (Tax) Commission has examined the accompanying drafts and the budget for 2020 as well as the draft framework law to actually present it to you. I think that today's debate will be big enough, and both the Prime Minister and the Minister of Finance will climb the table to tell us what the government's intentions are. On the other hand, Members will definitely tell us how they or they see the 2020 budget. In the Committee on Budgets and Finance (Tax) we looked at, to be precise, we invited all ministries, all ministers to explain with a request both the accompanying draft laws that concern their particular areas and, of course, we asked them to explain their restaurant budgets. The hottest debate at the Budget and Finance (Tax) Commission was precisely about accompanying draft laws. The overall debate on the draft budget was much less, the contradictions were much less. So I understand that everyone is ready for today. Everyone is ready for today to express their vision, their views on how to live for Latvia in 2020. So, what's going on? I mean, let's get started! Let's start by... For all accompanying draft laws, the Budget and Finance (Tax) Commission has, of course, wished urgency... more precisely, I have voted in favour of the urgency of these draft laws. Let us now ask you to vote for each bill separately. Thank you. The first is the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Taxes and Fees”. The Budget and Finance (Tax) Commission proposes that it be declared urgent.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-30-PT13-2015-U3	Mrs. Liepaja, will you speak against? ‘ Against” Ms Linda Liepiņa, Member, has applied to speak.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-30-PT13-2015-U4	Dear Chairman of the Saeima. Mr. Prime Minister! Mr. Bondar! Colleagues! About... ‘to’ urgency. It's 30 October, and I really don't see where to set up. If the budget is well prepared (and probably well prepared, Mr Bondara!) if it has passed through the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission enough quickly, I would like to hear more arguments as to why we now have to vote in favour of the urgency. Because it may have a bad impression both on the procedure of later publication of these laws and on whether the President of Latvia will be able or will not be able to return them back to the Saeima. Moreover, if we vote 'for' urgency, then, under certain conditions, a table for the second reading of proposals may be submitted to us only a few minutes before the next sitting of the Saeima, before the next time we are in favour of this... when we see this draft budget again. I call on you all to reflect on whether this is really necessary and to vote against it.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-30-PT13-2015-U5	Please call me! We will vote for the recognition of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Taxes and Fees” as urgent! Please vote mode! Please get the result! There's no one for - 57, against - 32, abstaining. The draft law has been declared urgent.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-30-PT13-2015-U6	Colleagues! The draft law ‘Amendment to the Law on Barracks’. The Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission asks for urgent recognition.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-30-PT13-2015-U7	Please call me! We will vote for the recognition of the draft law “Amendment to the Law on Barn Courts” as urgent! Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about - 55, it's 27, it's not. The draft law has been declared urgent.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-30-PT13-2015-U8	Draft law ‘Amendments to the Land Management Act’. The Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission asks for urgent recognition.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-30-PT13-2015-U9	Please call me! We will vote for the recognition of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Land Management” as urgent! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 57, no, 31, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The draft law has been declared urgent.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-30-PT13-2015-U10	Draft law “Amendments to law on slot and gambling levies and taxes”. The Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission asks for urgent recognition.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-30-PT13-2015-U11	Please call me! We will vote for the recognition of the draft law “Amendments to the law “On Lot and Gaming Fee and Tax”” as urgent! Please vote mode! Please get the result! There's no one for - 57, against - 32, abstaining. The draft law has been declared urgent.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-30-PT13-2015-U12	Draft law “Amendment to Law on Compulsory Social Insurance for Accidents at Work and Occupational Diseases”. The Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission asks for urgent recognition.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-30-PT13-2015-U13	Please call me! We will vote for the urgent recognition of the draft law “Amendment to the Law on Compulsory Social Insurance for Accidents at Work and Occupational Diseases”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The draft law has been declared urgent.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-30-PT13-2015-U14	Draft law “Amendment to the Law on State Pensions”. The request shall be deemed to be urgent.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-30-PT13-2015-U15	Please call me! We will vote for the recognition of the draft law “Amendment to the Law on State Pensions” as urgent! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 57, no, 30, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The draft law has been declared urgent.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-30-PT13-2015-U16	Draft law “Amendments to the Law on the Protection of the Rights of the Child”. The request shall be deemed to be urgent.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-30-PT13-2015-U17	Please call me! We will vote for the recognition of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on the Protection of Children” as urgent! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The draft law has been declared urgent.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-30-PT13-2015-U18	Draft law “Amendment to the Law “On State Social Insurance””. The request shall be deemed to be urgent.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-30-PT13-2015-U19	Please call me! We will vote for the recognition of the draft law “Amendment to the Law “On State Social Insurance” as urgent! Please vote mode! Please get the result! There's no one for - 57, against - 33, abstaining. The draft law has been declared urgent.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-30-PT13-2015-U20	Draft law ‘Amendments to the Invalidity Act’. The request shall be deemed to be urgent.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-30-PT13-2015-U21	Please call me! We will vote for the recognition of the draft law “Amendments to the Invalidity Law” as urgent! Please vote mode! Please get the result! There's no one for - 57, against - 33, abstaining. The draft law has been declared urgent.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-30-PT13-2015-U22	Draft law “Amendments to the Law on Unemployment Insurance”. The request shall be deemed to be urgent.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-30-PT13-2015-U23	Please call me! We will vote for the recognition of the draft law “Amendments to the Law “On Unemployment Insurance”” as urgent! Please vote mode! Please get the result! There's no one for - 57, against - 32, abstaining. The draft law has been declared urgent.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-30-PT13-2015-U24	Draft law “Amendment to the Notarial Law”. The request shall be deemed to be urgent.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-30-PT13-2015-U25	Please call me! We will vote for the recognition of the draft law “Amendment to the Notary Law” as urgent! Please vote mode! Please get the result! There's no one for - 57, against - 32, abstaining. The draft law has been declared urgent.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-30-PT13-2015-U26	Draft law “Amendments to the Law on the Maintenance Guarantee Fund”. The request shall be deemed to be urgent.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-30-PT13-2015-U27	Please call me! We will vote for recognition of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on the Maintenance Guarantee Fund” as urgent! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The draft law has been declared urgent.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-30-PT13-2015-U28	Draft law ‘Amendments to the Law on Land Commissions’. The request shall be deemed to be urgent.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-30-PT13-2015-U29	Please call me! We will vote for the recognition of the draft law “Amendments to the Law “On Land Commissions”” as urgent! Please vote mode! Please get the result! There's no one for - 57, against - 32, abstaining. The draft law has been declared urgent.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-30-PT13-2015-U30	Draft law ‘Amendment to the law on the completion of land reform in rural areas’. The request shall be deemed to be urgent.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-30-PT13-2015-U31	Please call me! We will vote for the urgent recognition of the draft law “Amendment to the law on the completion of land reform in rural areas”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! There's no one for - 57, against - 32, abstaining. The draft law has been declared urgent.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-30-PT13-2015-U32	Draft law “Amendments to the Law on Remuneration of Officials and Employees of State and Local Government Institutions”. The request shall be deemed to be urgent.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-30-PT13-2015-U33	Please call me! We will vote for recognition of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Compensation of Officials and Employees of State and Local Government Institutions” as urgent! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 57, for - 34, for - 1. The draft law has been declared urgent.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-30-PT13-2015-U34	Draft law “Amendment to the Mediation Law”. The request shall be deemed to be urgent.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-30-PT13-2015-U35	Please call me! We will vote for the recognition of the draft law “Amendment to the Law on Mediation” as urgent! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The draft law has been declared urgent.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-30-PT13-2015-U36	Draft law “Amendments to the Law on Natural Resources Tax”. The request shall be deemed to be urgent.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-30-PT13-2015-U37	Please call me! We will vote for the recognition of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Natural Resources Tax” as urgent! Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about - 55, it's against - 32, it's not. The draft law has been declared urgent.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-30-PT13-2015-U38	Draft law “Amendments to the Law on Higher Education”. The request shall be deemed to be urgent.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-30-PT13-2015-U39	Please call me! We will vote for the recognition of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Higher Education” as urgent! Please vote mode! Please get the result! There's no one for - 57, against - 33, abstaining. The draft law has been declared urgent.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-30-PT13-2015-U40	Draft law ‘Amendments to the Education Act’. The request shall be deemed to be urgent.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-30-PT13-2015-U41	Please call me! We will vote for the recognition of the draft law “Amendments to the Education Law” as urgent! Please vote mode! Please get the result! There's no one for - 57, against - 33, abstaining. The draft law has been declared urgent.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-30-PT13-2015-U42	Draft law ‘Amendments to the Law on the Financing of Political Organisations (Parties).’ The request shall be deemed to be urgent.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-30-PT13-2015-U43	Mr. Aldis Gobzems has applied to speak.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-30-PT13-2015-U44	Good morning, colleagues! It turns out, there are political parties in Latvia as children of life. That is why political parties urgently need to increase their funding by 700 percent. I think for a long time why such an urgency is needed, and in the end, however, I came to a logical and understandable conclusion: it is necessary so that a millionaire Karina should not make shells with Cypriot offshores. There is an urgent need to increase funding for doctors, people with disabilities, children with cancer and not millionaire Kariņš's party and... instead of political parties, 700 percent! It is urgent to increase this funding, not only because these social groups are in more difficult living conditions, but also because the nine ministers of these governments have voted in favour of increasing medical funding and have voted in favour of increasing the funding for teachers. I call for the urgent nature of a particular draft law to be voted against. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-30-PT13-2015-U45	Mr Atis Lejiņš has applied for a speech.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-30-PT13-2015-U46	Madam President, Dear Members, Honourable Members! We're years old! - He's been waiting on this for a long time. It was also on the question of the zero declaration. We were in the back of Estonia and Lithuania, and the consequences we all see today are worse for us than for Estonia and Lithuania. ( Internouncing call.) A total of zero declarations. We wanted to accept that project when I first came to the Saeima. You know who voted against? Sheave and Shlesser. They were sitting there. And that was understandable. They were oligarchs! Sorry, “farmers” but you also voted “no”! But we understand that Lemberg did not want to see how much money he had. And I DID... ANALYTOUS... Today we understand what happens at the Riga Council, why they were against the zero declaration. We now have a proposal to sponsor parties. Again, they want us to stay with the sponsors. There has long been full support in Estonia. It's a long time! The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A. Gobzem: “You have sponsors?” ) in Lithuania - long ago! And we want to get rid of it. We need to follow Estonia and Lithuania so that we can... And that's what the people understand. I haven't seen anyone where I've been... In Zemgale... Who doesn't support this. They understand very much. If we remain in the power of sponsors, then we will not get more money to give everyone more money... as in Estonia and Lithuania. I call for support (Interface: “Yes!” )... as we did in the past with a zero declaration... Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-30-PT13-2015-U47	Please call me! We will vote for the urgent recognition of the draft law on Amendments to the Law on the Financing of Political Organisations (Parties). Please vote mode! Please get the result! - 58, against - 33, abstaining - not. The draft law has been declared urgent.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-30-PT13-2015-U48	Draft Act ‘Amendments to the Energy Act’. The request shall be deemed to be urgent.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-30-PT13-2015-U49	Please call me! We will vote for the urgent recognition of the draft law on energy law! Please vote mode! Please get the result! -59, against -32, refrains - not. The draft law has been declared urgent.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-30-PT13-2015-U50	Draft Act ‘Amendments to the Energy Efficiency Act’. The request shall be deemed to be urgent.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-30-PT13-2015-U51	Please call me! We will vote for the urgent recognition of the draft law "Amendments to the Law on Energy Efficiency". Please vote mode! Please get the result! -59, against -33, refrains - not. The draft law has been declared urgent.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-30-PT13-2015-U52	Draft Act ‘Amendments to the Electricity Market Act’. The request shall be deemed to be urgent.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-30-PT13-2015-U53	Please call me! We will vote for the urgent recognition of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on the Electricity Market”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! -59, against -32, refrains - not. The draft law has been declared urgent.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-30-PT13-2015-U54	Draft law “Amendments to the Law “On the Deep of the Land””. The request shall be deemed to be urgent.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-30-PT13-2015-U55	Please call me! We will vote for the recognition of the draft law “Amendments to the Law “On Land Deeps”” as urgent! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 59, 30, abstains. The draft law has been declared urgent.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-30-PT13-2015-U56	Draft law “Amendments to law “On the Register of Enterprises of the Republic of Latvia””. The request shall be deemed to be urgent.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-30-PT13-2015-U57	Please call me! We will vote for the urgent recognition of the draft law “Amendments to the Law “On the Register of Enterprises of the Republic of Latvia”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! -59, against -34, refrains - not. The draft law has been declared urgent.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-30-PT13-2015-U58	Draft Act ‘Amendments to the Law on Scientific Activities’. The request shall be deemed to be urgent.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-30-PT13-2015-U59	Please call me! We will vote for the urgent recognition of the draft law on amendments to the Law on Scientific Activities! Please vote mode! Please get the result! -59, against -34, refrains - not. The draft law has been declared urgent.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-30-PT13-2015-U60	This appropriation is intended to cover expenditure on studies, meetings of experts, information and publications directly linked to the achievement of the objective of the programme or measures coming under this item, and any other The request shall be deemed to be urgent.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-30-PT13-2015-U61	Please call me! We will vote for urgent recognition of the draft law on the medium-term budgetary framework for 2020, 2021 and 2022! Please vote mode! Please get the result! -59, against -34, refrains - not. The draft law has been declared urgent.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-30-PT13-2015-U62	Draft law “On the State Budget for 2020”. The request shall be deemed to be urgent.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-30-PT13-2015-U63	Please call me! We will vote for the recognition of the draft law “On the State Budget for 2020” as urgent! Please vote mode! Please get the result! -59, against -34, refrains - not. The draft law has been declared urgent. Now, honourable colleagues, we are launching a debate on the whole package of draft budgetary laws. Name to Prime Minister Arthur Krišjānis Kariņš.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-30-PT13-2015-U64	Dear President of the Saeima. Dear Members, Honourable Members! Ministers! Colleagues! When I look at the draft budget for 2020, I would like to start by talking a little about the context in which we accept it. Let us remember what our country's general objective is. This is to achieve the prosperity of the Nordic countries. ( Internouncing call.) We strive, we work, and we will reach. — Dep. I. Zarins: “Beal to whom?” ) Nordic prosperity. Consider what has happened in the last 29... now, for almost 30 years. The first stage is that our country regained its independence. ( Internouncing call.) Everyone in this room remembers these times. The transition to a market economy then took place. It didn't happen without your own fights. The privatisation process was not infallible, but it led to the return of the capital to private hands. The third stage was our accession to the Western Allies to the European Union, NATO. It took many years for it to be very purposeful, and several Saeima and several governments worked purposefully to achieve this goal. The fourth stage was much more difficult for us. The fourth stage came with the global financial and economic crisis. This crisis had to be overcome in Latvia as well. This cost society dearly. But there was no choice, the society was fully prepared for it. And we did. We have overcome this crisis and are now in the fifth stage. At the fifth stage, I would call the system set-up stage. We finally have time. There is economic growth. We've got more and more money in the budget... And it's coming true. We have the opportunity, not in times of crisis, but in conditions of peace, to put in order a system which, in the last three years, may not have had time and energy - I will not talk about the wishes - to put it to the end. And that's what we are doing as a government right now. So we... In shaping the government, we said that the financial sector was our priority. Thanks to what I thought was very good for cooperation with the Saeima, what I called capital repairs... that first stage has come to an end, because last week you, Members of the Saeima, approved the new Chairman of the Financial and Capital Markets Commission. Now we could say that all the tiles are in place... Now people just have to work and do their job. But we've got to... We had to change the laws, we had to change the Financial and Capital Market Commission, say, power, the fight against money laundering must be highlighted as one of the high priorities. This has been done - a joint work. Nine months since the government was working, and it could be said that in nine months it's the first one... from you as a legislator, from us as a government... that first stage is over. And now... following the next steps or subsequent steps. So, centrally... administrative territorial reform. Mr. Puce was on the Commission yesterday. I understood that the Commission had approved at first reading, there would be a debate between you, or perhaps there something else to adjust. That's... So how it works. But this reform has been necessary for years. Because we've had... recently - time 119 municipalities; the smallest - about one thousand, the biggest... In Riga - there are almost 700 thousand inhabitants. And these municipalities with their diversity... Culturally, it is undoubtedly a great wealth. The level of parishes is also important culturally for us, as well as for our place of origin. But as regards the provision of services to citizens, education, health, social care and security, not all municipalities have been able to ensure it in a uniform, high-quality way. Ordering these municipalities (and that is what we are already doing!) , finally, there is an opportunity to arrange two more giant systems, which are two Latvian children of pain - education system and health care system, because if we do not arrange local governments, we will not be able to arrange health care to the end or education system to the end. So we work as a government for nine months. It is very impossible to make miracles in nine months. However, one work has already been done: it is the first stage in the financial sector. Now let’s think about something that is easy to understand, so let’s say, health itself! Let's say, I'd like to be in the best form. You can each say, “I would like to be in a better form.” It's so popular and it sounds good. Well, and... Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. I've seen ads that you can buy all kinds of stuff there. Sitting yourself in a comfortable sofa, press buttons... And the stomach will shake, some muscles will shake, I don't know exactly what kind of... Maybe you can drink all kinds of miracle powders, and they're all lies! If you want to be in good shape, it will take time and it will take hard, persistent work. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. I. Zariņš: “Then start working!” ) This means that the sweetened drinks must be abandoned, cakes must be abandoned, eating healthy (as the basis) and exercise. It doesn't just buy a suit (now its tight pants are in fashion... and with the botes) and go to, let's say... buy a ticket in the hall. It's a expensive subscription if you don't use it. But in that big, tense outfit you have to go to the grass and do what. Not just drink water at that... where water is given, but you have to climb and move. And that's what we do as a government. If we want - and we want - we will arrange our education system. It will take time and work. If we want - and we want - to sort out the healthcare system, it will require the same. And anyone who promises you that with a magic tablet, with a powder will do everything and “What is there... You can arrange for the week!’ Then I'll say that man lies to you. Let us now look closer to one of these concerns - the education system. For education, we spend just over 8 percent of our country's budget - more than EUR 800 million. This is more than protection. More than all the soldiers and weapons we devote to our school youth. If we compare ourselves - and we often do it - with the Estonians in the northern neighbourhood, then we see that we invest a little more from the budget in education than the Estonians, but they, let us say, have much higher salaries for teachers. And then the question is, how can it be? We invest more than Estonians, but they have more salaries. This keyword is “efficiency”. In Estonia, the reforms we are now undertaking have already been carried out. And one indicator you can see is the number of teachers per child. In Estonia, there are almost half less teachers on any learners. If there are fewer teachers, of course, they can pay more. Undoubtedly, we have to go to this direction in the country. We need more schools, stronger schools. And we need teachers who can afford to pay a good salary so that there is no question at school about whether there will be a physicist or a biology teacher in the future, but there is a competition for a physicist or another subject teacher. Now we have an administrative territorial reform, we will also organise education... with efficacy. The second issue we have is the health system. Very much was discussed in the public, public space. And I really understand every doctor who says he's got a better salary for his job. I do not believe that there is someone in this room who does not agree with it. I accept that everyone would agree. The difficulties are: if we look at the figures, we see that an additional EUR 368.7 million has been invested in the health system in the last three years, not including 2020. Almost EUR 400 million has been added over three years! Next year we still plan an extra 50 million. That means more than 400... almost 450 million euros into the system... to almost 1.2 billion... I understand that: we often throw that money into that system. Here it is. We throw 100 million, 200 million, 300 million, 400 million now... and go up... But what is the result? Are we getting smaller lines? I hear there are complaints that there are not really smaller. Are our doctors satisfied with their wages? I hear complaints that they are not satisfied with wages. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. I. Zariņš: “And who has to arrange that system for us or for the doctors?” ) What should be done? One thing needs to be done. The same as education is efficiency. And now I'm going to say something that many people don't like to hear, but that has to be said. We have around 40 hospitals in the country for 2 million people. ( Interface: “Comparison with Sweden! ” ) We have many hospitals which, unfortunately,... Although perhaps on paper, that they are able to provide services and even receive funding... that they provide a certain kind of service... We know that this is often not the case in nature, because there is simply a lack of staff. ( Internouncing call.) We cannot find someone who would come to work for the money that can be offered. And that means we need to change this hospital network. What the Ministry of Health is talking about - it's called "levelling"... The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. I. Ribena’s intermediate call.) And that's the right approach, I think. This means determining which services will be provided in each hospital. I guess it will be at five levels. At the lowest level - it would be where the wounds can be treated, diagnosis and ensuring that a person goes to a hospital where he can also help. Because from the patient's point of view, I don't think there's any difference - go closer or further if there's quality care at the end. We are all ready to bring our relatives to Riga, even if only to have quality care. And we have to put an end to this idea, that we... that our country, which is not the most prosperous in Europe, can maintain a network that even rich countries cannot afford. This is what we will have to do. This is what is called effectiveness. So where is the money needed... Do not understand me, we will need to put more money into the healthcare system in the future. We offer an additional 50 million people to put on the top for 2020. Its system must be arranged, otherwise it will be that there will be grain and grain inside... But the money will certainly go so far that the patient feels it and the doctor feels it. That is what we have to do. Now I get to my own budget. Our Finance Minister, I accept, will speak more precisely than I do - and with all the figures. You've all read it and you can mention it... Right, left... In such great trains, we have offered a budget on the part of the government, the very basis of which is that we do not increase citizens' taxes. When we formed the government, we said that we would change them every three years. It would... If we change... That is, taxes could be revised for 2021. Well, maybe you could sort the system out something. But my idea is very simple. How is traditional? The government somewhere lacks money for one, the other, the third... Ten programs - impose another tax. I think of what I saw in one Eastern country a year ago. There were such large, heavy chariots with such a small, thin yellow in front and a boy of no more than 13 years old with a stick. He said something in his language and struck that donkey on his back. And he was struck by animals so that there was already light and blood. Oh, that donkey didn't wear. ( Intercretion: “It’s about you! ” ) Why? Because that donkey can't. You have to put the other donkey in there - then you could. That's the same thing as taxpayers. ( Interface: Taxpayers are donkeys?) ) We cannot put the same people who already pay taxes on top of them and on top of them. We need to make the system fairer. So that everyone who works in Latvia is evenly and proportionately paid into the system. We are not amending taxes in this budget yet. We will bring more justice to 2021. In this budget, not only do we not increase taxes, we will be burdening low wages in all sectors. Is it medically working, is it in the education system, or is it in the home system... all low wages will be burdened with the fact that, from 1 January 2020, we will be raising an unlimited minimum of EUR 300. Step in the right direction. Now, during the period of growth... Thank God, we are still expecting growth, even though the world’s external economic conditions are not the most favourable. Not to mention the British Brexit, we know that the United States administration continues to fight its goods and trade, both with China and with the European Union. This undoubtedly slows down the global economy. As part of the world, we are also subject to this, but we are still predicting growth in 2020. And that means that budgetary growth is also foreseen. Next year, we are going to be going to be going to exceed the EUR 10 billion threshold. Such a large budget has not yet been available in Latvia, and growth is expected in all sectors. There is no growth sector. Absolutely everyone has it. But we're in government and governments... in the coalition, we re-allocated some 150 million extra money, taking into account the interests of society as a whole. If we had... if I were to be the Head of Government, if you, as Members of the Saeima, if we had only one area to arrange, it would go as a whistling! All focus on one, all money - to put one area in order. But we don't. So, from our priorities, the first priority with the biggest money drawing, it could be said, is the health system: in addition, EUR 50 million. This is followed by an education system: an increase in teachers' salaries - EUR 23 million. Then we have 18.9 million euros in home affairs. We have a culture... salaries of cultural workers who have been on the ground for years - EUR 13 million, and it is significant that we have also found an additional EUR 8 million for science. This is certainly not what the destination is saying, but 8 million is 8 million more than has been added in recent years. And we're... and this is not the only money that we have put in additional priorities in the balanced interest of society as a whole. But above all, it is money that will enable us to continue with our government's main priorities. Administrative territorial reform - there, too, additional money is provided for, including the adjustment of the education system and the adjustment of the healthcare system. Colleagues! Friends! There are those who promise God's miracles and that you will get something for nothing. I'm not. I have not been and will not be in the future either. Under my leadership, our government will continue what we have so far... We have already shown that we can set clear objectives, set a clear action plan and implement it step by step. This budget for 2020 is one of the small steps in the big picture. Colleagues! I call on you to support this. Thank you. ( Internoint.) Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-30-PT13-2015-U65	Thank you to the Prime Minister. The name is the Minister of Finance Janis Reirs.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-30-PT13-2015-U66	President-in-Office of the Saeima, very much. Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council of Ministers. Dear Members of the Saeima! Ministers! Colleagues! The design of the state budget for next year was significantly different from previous practice. It was made up of representatives of government parties, a working group on the preparation of the budget. Therefore, the draft state budget for 2020 is a five-party and balanced budget. This entails additional funding for a number of important sectors. At times, it must be stressed that the budget complement does not lead to increased taxes on citizens, thereby ensuring stability for society and business. The government has prepared a budget in line with the economic situation, in line with the requirements of fiscal discipline. Compared to the winter forecasts of January 2019, we have reduced gross domestic product growth forecasts for 2020 by 0.2 percent and have stopped at 2.8 percent in August. Thus, we need to take into account less funding than previously predicted. The macroeconomic projections are based on conservative assumptions about medium-term economic developments. The outlook for Latvia's economic growth is mainly subject to external fluctuations. It is important to stress that these forecasts have been more negative in recent years. These macroeconomic projections have been agreed with the Bank of Latvia and the Ministry of Economics. In preparing the forecasts, the Ministry of Finance has consulted experts from the International Monetary Fund and the European Commission and has approved them by the Board of Fiscal Discipline. Colleagues! Working on the next year's national budget, all options, needs and proposals have been assessed in cooperation with all government parties. The Cabinet has been able to agree on support for many major public health, education and internal security and justice measures. Next year, national consolidated budget revenue is estimated at EUR 9.9 billion. On the other hand, expenditure will exceed the 10 billion mark. Compared to the 2019 budget, the planned revenue for the state budget next year is estimated at €717 million. The state budget expenditure is 610 million euro higher than in the State Budget Law 2019. The general government deficit is projected to be 0.3 per cent of GDP in 2020. GDP growth, on the other hand, is projected to be 2.8 percent next year, as I said earlier. In discussions with the Ministry of Industry, the review of the state budget expenditure was continued. This year it was structured in three main blocks: the revision of sectoral financing policies, the revision of national budgetary programmes and the development of processes and systems. The Ministry of Finance, in cooperation with representatives of government-building parties, carried out an analysis of the state budget programme on the basis of a common framework and uniform evaluation criteria. In cooperation with the ministries, an evaluation of the previously allocated funding has been achieved. It was found that it is not always used best and most effectively. In the review of sectoral funding policies, particular attention was paid to the effectiveness of education and health financing. General and higher education, crediting students and studies, as well as scientific institutes, were evaluated. The health sector assessment, on the other hand, includes an analysis of the effectiveness of the financing of hospital care. As a result, resources of almost €94 million were found in the next year's expenditure review. Of these, €48 million were directed towards improving the overall fiscal space (increasing budgetary spending opportunities). On the other hand, EUR 45,6 million - priorities set by ministries. Overall, € 174 million was allocated to sectoral priorities next year in addition to the budget already approved in the medium term. It would be important to mention some sectors. For example, a third of the additional funding has been allocated to the health sector - EUR 50 million. Additional funding is provided for wage increases for medical staff, reimbursement medicines and treatment of patients with rare diseases. This will provide more accessible health services, but the sector's staff will become more motivated and more interested, with a downward trend for doctors... medical personnel flow to the private sector. It should be noted that in the draft law “On the State Budget for 2020” total expenditure of the Ministry of Health budget is planned to amount to 1.2 billion, which represents 3.6 percent of GDP. But for healthcare, in the general government budget for 2020, which is the state budget together with municipal budgets, this funding amounts to 1.37 billion, which is already 4.1 per cent of GDP. This shows that the Health Care Financing Act states that, as of 2020, the financing industry should account for 4 percent of GDP... This means that the government has secured it. Significant additional funding - over EUR 30 million - has also been allocated to the provision of teachers' salaries and science. So EUR 23 million for educators. Here I will mention that the total amount is EUR 382.7 million, which is a targeted grant to municipalities for educational activities and the remuneration of educators. On the other hand, as the Prime Minister said in his speech, there is an additional 8 million in funding for science, and this is a huge increase on the overall background of 49.9 million. At the same time, it should be noted that scientific funding is also allocated to the implementation of the European Structural Funds projects, as well as to the various sectoral studies for which funding is planned in the budgets of the relevant sectoral ministries. Also important funding has been earmarked for salaries of the cultural, home affairs and justice system. For an additional nearly €19 million, an increase in remuneration is planned for officials of home system institutions with a special service degree, improvement of information exchange security, construction of the state border band and other priorities of the sector. And here I would like to point out that the total expenditure of the Ministry of the Interior in 2020 will be EUR 415 million. The draft state budget for next year also provides additional funding for road arrangement and electronic communications development, which is almost EUR 8 million. And so that we do not think that there are only 8 million roads, so, together with the previous budget, the total funding for the next year's road fund is EUR 255 million. In turn, €5.9 million is earmarked for the development of the media sector, including the exit of public media from the advertising market and security measures in the information space. It should be noted here that in 2020 the total funding of the media, public media funding, is almost EUR 30 million. The government has also been able to agree and comply with the European Commission's recommendations to reduce social inequalities. From 1 January 2020, the maximum differential non-taxable minimum is increased to EUR 300 per month. It has also been decided to raise to a maximum of EUR 500 per month, subject to a maximum differentiated non-applicable minimum. It is also planned to work on solutions in the coming years to increase the differentiated non-eligible minimum to EUR 500 per month. However, in order to ensure social security for the most disadvantaged groups, it was decided to raise the minimum income level for persons with disabilities and seniors. On the other hand, from 1 January 2021, the minimum wage is increased by EUR 500. Within budgetary possibilities, the government will continue to seek solutions to ensure an increase in income for the low-income population. It is also important to stress that this year's pension indexation is already planned in the state budget. It's historically the greatest. In particular, an additional EUR 228.7 million has been allocated to social protection, including minimum pensions and state social security benefits for persons with disabilities, pension indexation and other social measures. The total cost of social protection is estimated at €3.5 billion next year. Dear Members of the Saeima! The preparation of the budget involved not only active discussions in the government, but also social and cooperation partners of the government, as well as sectoral associations and local authorities. In the budget for 2020, tax revenue along with a special grant of 18.8 per cent of the total budget is planned for municipalities. The implementation of the budget for recent years shows that the budget plan goes beyond the municipal revenue from personal income tax and actual implementation provides local authorities with a significant increase in funding - additional funding. The tax revenue of municipalities and the special grant of the state budget will increase by EUR 63,1 million or 3.6 percent compared to 2019. Municipalities in the regions are provided with stable, balanced funding, with revenue gains for all municipalities after financial adjustment. As I said, the average increase is 3.6 percent. Moreover, if we are talking about municipalities, then it must be borne in mind that the state budget provides funding for both the provision of teachers' salaries, the arrangement of roads and other measures administered by the ministries of the sectors. In the course of the implementation of the budget for 2020, the Ministry of Finance will explore the possibilities to find resources to allow municipalities to borrow for the construction of new kindergartens and the extension of existing kindergartens. The draft state budget also provides that municipalities will be able to receive the necessary loans for projects co-financed by the European Union and for the completion of the projects started. Latvia has achieved the mid-term objectives of the European Union funds for the 2014-2020 programming period thanks to the effective work of project implementers and administrations. This allows an additional EUR 261 million of EU funds to be allocated to the implementation of projects. They will be available from the end of this year. Currently, there are projects of 3.44 billion, or 78 percent of the total funds available for this programming period. This will maintain the high investment dynamic achieved in previous years in the implementation of cohesion policy projects in 2020. The next edition of the state budget provides €720 million for this programme (the Head of the Seimas knocks down with a hammer), and will be invested in important areas for Latvia such as health, education, innovation, ICT, employment, reducing social inequalities, transport, energy efficiency and regional development. Colleagues! Continuing to implement measures to restrict the shadow economy, the involvement of the State Revenue Service in promoting fair business is strengthened. It is planned to improve the taxpayer’s ability to better assess the counterparty’s confidence and identify the transaction risk. The State Revenue Service will have the right to inform the taxpayer about its risky counterparties in order to take a decision about the execution of the transaction or to refuse it, and legal persons are meant here. Also, from next year changes will come into effect in the regulation of refund of late tax payments by the legal person. The criterion, the conclusion of which is the basis for the initiation of the process, will be improved. It will also be established that liability for late payments of the legal entity will also apply to persons who actually exercise the functions of the board. A smaller shadow economy increases the budget revenue that can be used to raise public well-being and to develop the country - the health sector, education, infrastructure and other priorities. Honourable Members! To sum up, the public budget will continue to focus on ensuring sustainable economic growth and the implementation of responsible fiscal policies in the coming years, subject to conditions of fiscal discipline. The next year's budget is a five-party and balanced budget. This will make it possible to ensure both the ongoing reforms in the field of education, additional funding for health care and the necessary support for the implementation of the administrative territorial reform. I therefore call on the Saeima to evaluate and support the budget for 2020. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-30-PT13-2015-U67	Thank you to the Minister for Finance. (Applause) Development/About! on behalf of the Member, Daniel Pavlut.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-30-PT13-2015-U68	Dear President of the Saeima. Colleagues and colleagues! The Prime Minister and the Minister of Finance have already spoken about the budget as a whole. I would also like to emphasise that this budget even partially reflects the increase in welfare in Latvia. It is a budget for income growth in many sectors and for many people - pensioners, doctors and nurses, teachers, public media journalists, environmental inspectors and soldiers. Of course, the budget is the mayor of any coalition, any government and any Saeima. We are being accused that we have not fulfilled our promises. We are! We have fulfilled our promises as far as possible, without implementing reforms more quickly and without reviewing taxes more quickly. We will take on these responsible tasks next year. We called for the correction of errors and for tax changes already this year, but we agreed in a collegial way that this work is still ahead of us next year. And a part of the company swindled - businessmen, accountants - many swindled. It must, of course, be acknowledged that some of the promises made by this Saeima have proved to be a reflection of wishes. At least for now. We must, of course, take responsibility for this. But we will continue to work on fulfilling our promises as well as possible. That is what I promise for my part. This is our first year in the Saeima. literally in a few days, it will be a year since we started work 13. In the family and we made an oath. Changes have started in different areas. We have shown that policy can be shaped differently - more transparent, more open, faster and fairer. Yes, there are moments of turbulent discussions that are hidden there, but there is no doubt that this Saeima is different, that stagnating ice has shrunk and has broken. Group for Development/Par! has worked actively to fulfil its pre-election promises. What will change in the life of Latvian people? We have reduced discrimination in health by preventing the introduction of unfair healthcare baskets. There is still a need to prevent tax injustice so that all those entitled to health care pay their share of the tax on their income. We have developed and actively driven the administrative territorial reform so that people in regions have the best possible job opportunities, health care, social protection and education. We have worked together to strengthen quality public media so that people in Latvia can get objective information in the age of false news. This is a matter of national security. We are putting in place good governance and e-government so that people do not have to spend time in public authorities providing documents that have long been stored in public authorities' databases. We restricted municipal enterprises' ability to distort free and fair competition. This means that they will not now be able to provide worse services and sell them at a higher price to citizens because they have no choice. We gave the Competition Council the right to punish state-owned and municipal enterprises for violating these rules. Colleagues! We led the draft marriage law to ensure that all people had the right to a family. Here's the big job we still have. We gave clear support to public benefit organisations by renewing the possibility for them to donate funds with appropriate tax incentives. This is one of many bug corrections. We encouraged reduced consumption of sweetened drinks, raised excise duties, and did not make public health a marketable product. I am particularly proud of the changes that we have achieved together very recently - from next year Latvia will no longer become new non-citizens of the Republic of Latvia. We will build a more cohesive society. In 2022, as we decided a week ago, a tare deposit system will finally be introduced so that people of Latvia live in the greenest and most environmentally responsible Latvia, where everyone is divided. Colleagues! We have said many times and will continue to say that healthcare is "Development/About!" priority, but — Dep. I. Ribena’s intermediate call.) ... but it must become a priority for the whole country, so that Latvian people do not have to wait in line for vital health services. In this budget, the maximum additional funding for healthcare is EUR 50 million. It's not close enough. But there is more funding in general for the social field only: pensioners' remuneration, wage indexation, apologies, pension indexation and other social needs. The next year, the increase in pay for treatment will continue for the fourth year in a row. The focus next year will be on raising the minimum wages in the health sector. However, this reward has long been too long! - has been unforgivablely low. There is a reason for the indignation of doctors and nurses, sanitary, assistants and residents, family doctors. The priorities set for healthcare in 2020 would have cost almost €200 million. Such an increase could not be found in this budget. Here is a few words about the tax reform implemented by Dana Reizniece-Ozola. As we recently learned, the Board of Fiscal Discipline had calculated that this reform had reduced public revenue by about EUR 300 million. Colleagues! I think it is quite unnecessary to make it clear that this sum would have been able to cover all the sharpest needs in this budget, to honour those promises that we are being rejected for their complete failure at the moment. Already, Latvia's tax revenues towards the economy are among the lowest in the European Union, so there is no wonder that we have one of the lowest investments in health, science and many other areas. A few words about another very important reform and Development/About! priority is given to administrative territorial reform. Friends, I think it is obvious that the smaller the municipality, the smaller the number of people support it, the more expensive it is to maintain it - and the quality of life of people in these regions is significantly lower. I look forward to the support of all parliamentary groups so that stronger municipalities are elected already in the 2021 elections. I am very pleased that we have fulfilled our promises to ourselves, to our partners and to our security with regard to the defence budget. This will be 2 percent of GDP. There, additional resources are provided to guarantee the security of Latvia, the maintenance and reinforcement of the capabilities of international forces, NBS and the national defence forces so that our people feel that Latvia is protected. In conclusion. We created the budget for 2020 as balanced as it was possible, however, the inequality in Latvia is great: the child at the border and the child in Riga are currently receiving very different quality education. Social support varies from municipality to municipality. Health care without long queues and large co-payments is still not available to many people in Latvia. A good life begins with a sense of certainty about its future, and a large part of Latvia's population does not have it. Good life is not possible without human dignity - doctors, doctors, doctors, sisters, teachers, educators, policemen - and good life is not possible if we resist major and important reforms. Whether your reservations are substantive or political in nature, without changes in health care, in the municipal system, we will not achieve savings in education or better services. Money is never enough for everything. Our job is to make sure that money is enough for the most important. We will work to make 2020 a major year of change, the results of which will be felt by every citizen. I call on everyone to vote in favour. (Applause)
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-30-PT13-2015-U69	Thank you. On behalf of the new conservative group, Mr Gatis Eglitis.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-30-PT13-2015-U70	President-in-Office of the Saeima. Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council of Ministers. Dear Ministers, Colleagues! In recent months, as a representative of the UKP in the coalition budget negotiations and as a member of the Budget and Finance (Tax) Commission, I have taken part in the preparation of the main budgetary decisions, so I will share my assessment of the 2020 budget. First of all, it is a great achievement that five coalition parties passed this test and did not say it irreversibly. The budget will be, and the government will continue to work on many work undertaken, including development of judicial system, ATR, health sector adjustment, selection of new leaders of the Bank of Latvia and LIAA. It is fair to say that it was not easy. Sometimes it went very high, so this is a classic budget for compromises: more - a budget for salaries, redistributions and stability, less - a budget for development, reform and smart decisions. If we succeed in working together in the coalition and the Ministry of Finance will be more open and bolder than new ideas, then I would like to put great hope on the budget for 2021. However, I would like to highlight the most important achievements in the 2020 budget. First. The largest additional funding in 2020 from the total fiscal space of around EUR 500 million, including with the support of the CIP, has been for the indexation of pensions - around EUR 200 million in total. This is the largest indexing of pensions over the last 10 years, and depending on the length of service, any increase in pensions will be between 7 and 9 percent. That's a lot. Secondly. The UKP insists that the non-taxable minimum personal income tax is increased from EUR 230 to EUR 300, while the maximum amount to which the non-taxable minimum of EUR 300 can apply is raised to EUR 500. This means that those working in both the private and public sectors will have more money left in their pocket. Thirdly. Thanks to our insistence, a minimum wage of up to 500 euros is being built in 2021. It will remain the lower in the Baltics, so we should continue to think about a faster increase in the minimum wage. Fourth. An increase in teachers' salaries to €800 from 1 September 2020 will continue. Although the funding has not been put into the budget base, it is clear that in spring, like this year, money will be available for budget reallocations. Five. After many years, there has been a significant increase in funding for science, which will finally add substantially to the European funds' project money. Funding has also been found to participate in the activities of the European Nuclear Research Organisation, the so-called CERN, and the European Space Agency. Six times. There is a substantial increase in funding for medical salaries - EUR 42 million. This will make it possible to raise remuneration more quickly, especially in those categories where it is not possible to obtain additional revenues from private consultation. Seventh. The salaries of cultural workers - about 13 million - are significantly increased, as are the employees of the Ministry of the Interior systems and the administration of prison places. A total of around EUR 20 million comes from the budgetary base. Eight. The state budget is relieved from the shock caused by “Riga Transport” through the fiscal space. It is therefore an amount of EUR 72 million. Thus, the residents of the state do not have to pull the belt because of the negative and corrupt behaviour of Riga City Council. ( Internoint.) Thank you very much. Nine times. Funding for new electric trains - more than EUR 200 million - has been added to the budget base for 2020 and 2022. So the good news is that the new trains will be. What else could I do? With all the listed, I am convinced that the 2020 fiscal space could have been increased by at least EUR 50-70 million without tax. This would make it possible to find additional funding for both medical salaries and educators' wage increases. However, there was a lack of political will. We young Conservatives submitted a list of measures to coalition partners of around EUR 80 million. Unfortunately, only a small part of them were accepted. Let us certainly return to our ideas in the context of the 2021 budget. Some words about the plan “3 × 500”. Over the last year, we have often been asked what is happening with the implementation of the UKO 3 × 500 plan and when could it be implemented? As is well known, the plan provides for a rapid reduction of poverty and tax burdens on low-wage earners, pensioners, leaving people more money in wallets, as well as an opportunity to emerge from the shadow economy for thousands of small entrepreneurs, reducing the number of enveloped wage earners. The fact that we have the highest tax burden on labour in the Baltics is also one of the main reasons why Latvia spends hundreds of millions of euros each year on investment. Production here is relatively expensive, so we see investments mostly in supermarkets and not - as in Lithuania - in factories. So this year's GDP data are very sad: we are going to have 2.5 percent growth, for Lithuanians - more than 4 percent. A substance for thought. I recognise that the young Conservatives were ready to implement the plan 3 × 500 from 2020, and this would have happened, unfortunately, shortly before the budgetary decisions of 2020 there appeared a political envy and the unwillingness of individual partners to admit their errors during the pre-elections, spreading lies at the absurd cost of the plan 3 × 500. However, we are determined to defend the implementation of the plan in the next two years, both in the coalition and in the parliamentary committees. It is planned that an unlimited minimum for both salaries and pensions could reach €400 in 2021 and €500 in 2022. Minimum wage - 500 euros from 2021. We have heard broad support from both the social partners and the Ministry of Welfare, as this sends a clear political signal that Latvia is no longer the land of low wages, which drives many people into emigration, that every company must continue to raise productivity and social protection of workers. As we know, in Lithuania and Estonia the minimum wage is much higher than in Latvia. A few words about the health sector. I am pleased that for the third year in a row - quite rightly - the health budget is being substantially increased; it has increased by more than EUR 300 million - to the EUR 1.2 billion mark. However, in the coalition, let us wait for the very clear plan of the health minister, Mrs Ilze Viņķele, on health sector adjustment reforms. There are a number of issues: how to implement the structure of healthcare providers, including the involvement of private health institutions; how to organise strategic procurement procedures; how to reform the health management system; how to develop the role of municipalities in providing health services; how to implement effective e-health; how to combat corruption in the health system. Because it is clear that not only money is to blame for almost catastrophic survival and public health indicators - it is also to blame for inefficient and often corrupt, cartel-like use of existing funding and, unfortunately, for the lack of treatment of patients in many cases too. There are three ministries under the supervision of the CIP, so I will briefly outline the main lines of action there. Ministry of Education and Science. First. There is great joy with the additional EUR 31 million of priority measures, mainly teachers' salaries and science. Secondly. Work is ongoing on changing the model of university governance and reviewing the model of sport financing. Thirdly. General education is working on the alignment and efficiency of the school network, also in the context of the ATR, as well as on the revision of the money-following student model. Fourth. The Saeima presented a fundamentally important draft law on the transition to state language training also at the pre-school stage. Five. Participation in the European Space Agency and CERN is an important step forward for future growth. Six times. Youth policy is allocated around €7 million together with the European Funds. So a significant increase. Some names about the Ministry of Justice. The main tasks. First. There is intensive work on setting up a specialised economic court. Secondly. Work on improvement of procedural regulation is ongoing with the aim to achieve faster and more high-quality examination of cases. Thirdly. Work with debtors of the Maintenance Guarantee Fund is ongoing with the aim of increasing the amount of funds recovered in a regression order. Fourth. Work on construction of a new prison in Liepaja continues. Five. The principle of open data in the justice sector is introduced. As an example, amendments to the law “On the Register of Enterprises of the Republic of Latvia”, which give free access to the data of the Register of Enterprises. Plus - The Ministry of Justice has implemented all these measures without any extra money, that is, from internal budget reallocations. Ministry of Transport. It must be said that 2020 and beyond in terms of traffic will be difficult, lean years. The total drop in funding compared to 2018 is €73 million. However, in 2021 it will be further reduced by EUR 23 million. So, essentially, EUR 100 million - there is already a deficit. The future aims to improve national mobility. Including modern trains, a more orderly network of national major roads - all of which will, of course, require additional funding over the next two years. Thank you. Good luck to us! (Applause)
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-30-PT13-2015-U71	Thank you. Mr. Dzintari, nine minutes have passed until the break. Are you talking now or after a break? After a break. Then, colleagues, it's time for a break. Please call me! Please register the Members! Name for reading the results of the registration to Maria Golubeva, member of the Saeima Secretary, as soon as they have been prepared.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-30-PT13-2015-U72	Not registered: Mārtiņš Bondars... Yes, Kaspars Ģirgen, Inese Iksten, Andrejs Clementyev. A. Clementjev: ‘I am!’ )... He's Richard Coll. R. Coll: “I!” )... Yes, Armands Krauze (interface: “Yes!” )... Yes, Atis Lejiņš (Dep. A. Leiiņš: “I am here... I even spoke!” )... Yes, Daniel Pavlut... Yes, Dana Reizniece-Ozola and Jānis Vucāns.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-30-PT13-2015-U73	Interruption until 12 noon. ( Interruption)
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-30-PT13-2015-U74	Dear colleagues, We're continuing the Saeima sitting after a break. We are continuing the debate. On behalf of the Group of the National Alliance, Mr Raivis Dzintars.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-30-PT13-2015-U75	Very honourable Speaker of the Saeima! Dear colleagues, Mr. Prime Minister! The draft budget is good. It's not perfect. And what should it be at all, so that each of us considers it to be perfect? Do we have an answer to that? But - not in the sense of desire, when there is unlimited resources, but in the circumstances, with existing tax revenues and existing sectoral needs. What exactly would each of us remove and give him more so that we could call this budget perfect? Yes, maybe someone would think that if he were to draw up a state budget alone or within at least one party, he could think he had achieved the best result. What about the rest of us? Probably not. In a democratic country, the budget means a balance between different sectors, the priorities of different ministries and parties. And I would say that the balance has been found. Fulfilled expectations and unfulfilled expectations among all divided on an average basis. I will focus on just a few areas that are relevant to the National Union. Latvia is a major state of culture. Culture is not only the spiritual core of the nation, but also a revenue-generating sector. It has been shown that the money invested in culture gives the economy several times greater returns. But the cultural process is based on people, and unfortunately, since the crisis, the remuneration of cultural workers... it has also failed to achieve wages for the rest of the public sector. From next year everyone - more than 4300 people employed in theatres, museums, libraries, archives - is expected to increase their salary. The average salary from 750, I apologise - from 780, will be raised to 910 euros, and the biggest increase will be precisely those groups that have received the lowest wages so far. Agriculture. In the agriculture sector, an additional 3 million have been allocated to agricultural science, in particular environmental and climate research. Support for small and medium-sized farmers has more than doubled or increased by € 750 per farm. In total, this increase in aid will affect more than 13,000 farms. 16 million have been directed towards increasing the competitiveness of farmers. Support for families with children, largely thanks to the active participation of the National Alliance, has been well-targeted over the last few years. If in 2012 the family state allowance for each child was 11 euros, now, with three minor children, the third allowance is 100 euros per month. If the incentives for each child were 100 euros in 2012, next year they will be 250 euros for the child. The minimum "motherage" was 89 euros, currently rising to 171 euros. And it could go on. The number of family support measures will also grow next year. The housing programme will not only continue despite the expiry of residence permits, but will also be extended by introducing a specific subsidy for the purchase of multi-child family housing. Similar to the beginning of a benign competition about the most family-friendly municipality, it is planned to introduce another programme – a family-friendly workplace. The system of parental benefits will also be improved, for example by keeping the amount of parental benefits for a year longer or up to the age of three years of the previous child. The biggest increase in the budget (which has already been said several times here) - 230 million - is intended for social protection measures next year: increasing the minimum pension, indexation of pensions, approximately the benefit for persons with disabilities. An additional 50 million for the health sector. 31 million for education and science. The same amount - also for protection. Almost 19 million for the home sector. The list could be continued for a long time. The increase will be experienced by all the sectors under the responsibility of the ministries. Yes, not to the extent that each individual would like, but the increase in aid is. There is no discussion in this budget about significant changes in taxes, if it does not include higher taxes on gambling. There is no discussion about the reduction in aid. The debate is only about whether the increase could have been divided differently, whether someone had to ensure that the increase was faster and not so fast. Colleagues! It is very understandable that the representatives of each sector are active and are fighting for the greatest possible increase. These are rare situations where, for example, a trade union would say: “Yes, thank you, that’s enough! We are satisfied.” It is as though in the Eastern market - there must be constant pressure. The fact that the opposition has to repeat from year to year that this budget is at last the worst that has ever been... It is also normal, and it is used to it. But do not leave the feeling that something else is going on in the budgetary process. The public, perhaps purposefully and organizedly, is incised, overspending and false news are cultivated, and it seems that this is not about specific budget lines, but about targeted propaganda in order to achieve a change of power in Latvia. Yes, the issue of funding political parties is clearly not popular and can be used to instigate society. However, in principle, this decision is in the public interest. If anyone suffers from this decision, then they are political businessmen who want parties to be dependent on their donations. This dependency costs the country and all sectors much, much, much more expensive than these 4 million. Some people do not benefit from this Saeima and this government, and they will do everything to regain influence. And I don't really think that this is about the interests of society or some sector. Rather, on the contrary. Now we hear from the parliamentary tribunal and we will hear a lot more in the coming month of the public holiday, I would say, propaganda of Doņecka style... if not for cross-screwed children, then something very close and similar. None of these propagandists come up with any concrete ideas as to how the major challenges of the budget could be solved. And that's not their goal either. What, then, is this Saeima's biggest propaganda? One of them is the political power which is coming to a failure in the capital to rule, but there is no need to shoot at the state's criticism. This skill has been grounded since 1995. Whatever governments come, this power has criticised them (I think, of course, in the time of independent Latvia). This is because the majority of citizens have never had to burden themselves with real responsibility because of their unacceptable views. And then there's another association that has fallen from the heights of power in the rocks of the opposition "all is bad". These rocks are so deep that some begin to question the possibilities of absconding. At first, they were confused and seemed to be a temporary misunderstanding, but some are beginning to become increasingly natural and more likely. I don't mean to throw a stone right now in the direction of this association, there's no shortage of stone throwers either. But what must be understood is that the criticism that we hear from them is not about the budget, but about the distribution of power that has been created. Yes, and then there is a group of critics who are called independent. There are indeed few common signs in this group. There Members have reached different paths and paths. Very different tacks. One majority and tactical error has lost the opportunity to lead the country, or at least to be very close to running it, another has come there for another reason, but one unifying feature is still. This is a sign of inability to cooperate. Individually, they are good, wise people, but politics in a democratic country requires the ability to cooperate. — Dep. A. Gobzem: “You have something to say about the budget?” ; dep. A. Leiiņš: “He has already said!” ), to cooperate with other parties, within the limits of reason - also with other expressors of different ideologies and values. The independent Members have not even been able to cooperate with their team members. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A. Gobzems: “Raivi Dzintar, maybe talk about the budget!” ) Deficiencies... All of us, colleagues. ( Internouncing call.) Coalition parties too. And not a little. Yes, and for us too, the National Association. But there's something different with what coalition parties are, it's the ability to work together. True, sometimes cooperation involves disputes, harsh words, disappointments, loudly crippled doors, but when emotions take place, everyone returns to one table. Anyone who has been more or less involved in budgeting, at some moment - and not once - has been able to harm himself or herself, has been able to make concessions. He was able to think not about how he or his party would look, but about how to achieve a result. Dear colleagues, The budget is good, but each of us wants to see it perfectly. Therefore, let us not only argue with the opposition, let us also argue with one another, but when action is to be taken we will be united, despite the disadvantages. I call on you to vote in favour! (Applause)
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-30-PT13-2015-U76	Thank you. On behalf of the formation of the New Unity - Member Aldis Adamovičs.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-30-PT13-2015-U77	Dear President of the Saeima. Mr. Prime Minister, Ministers! Colleagues! Every one of us wants to live better, only good for our families, our children, our parents, our fellow people. And sometimes here, hearing only negative conversations and accusations, it seems that we are going to sink in a bigger bog every year. I would also like to look back a little on history today and look at the 1999 state budget when the revenue amounted to 1.8 billion euros, while the expenditure was 2.06 billion euros. The budget deficit was 9 per cent. That year the principal's salary was 64 lats, and the teacher's salary was 48 lats. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. J. Adamson: “But 100 years ago it was... “) And now we know that the teacher receives 710 rates, and next year a supplement is planned at 750 rates. The director's salary rate is over a thousand. Date of designation referred to 5.6 billion in revenue, 6.6 billion in expenditure. Once again, we continue to live for 10 years at the expense of the deficit, which, of course, leads the country to live on debt, and this money must be repaid sometime. We are currently living in 2019, with budget revenues of 9.8 billion and expenditure of 10 billion. The budget deficit is 0.3%. ( Subtitle: “External debt? ”) ) Yes, and the 2009-2012 crisis, which additionally called for a EUR 5.3 billion investment, for which we are all paying... which were not for Lithuania and Estonia. The new initiatives were over a billion. Yes, of course, we have desires and needs, and it is very difficult to weigh what is needed first and foremost at times. I would like to say that, although I am not easily contentious, the government's proposal for the 2020 budget is now good. Financial resources are limited, so all sectoral priorities, needs, proposals - everything has been assessed and discussed in cooperation. The government has been able to agree on support for many measures of major societal importance in various sectors. The budget for next year does not raise taxes on citizens. We have also followed the European Commission's recommendations on reducing social inequalities, and we know that 228 million - for the first time such a large amount - are being directed towards social protection: minimum pensions, disability benefits and many other things... as well as non-taxable minimum for both dependants and non-taxable minimum wage up to 300 euros, as well as non-taxable minimum for pensions are being built. All this takes millions. From 1 January 2021, it is also proposed to increase the minimum wage to EUR 500. 2 per cent of gross domestic product is also provided for protection. We have already heard a lot about the sectors: how many million in which sector next year is further diverted to important things. But at the moment I would also like to touch the municipalities, because I have heard many accusations from the Saeima in previous sittings that more than 100 million are not being given to the municipalities, and half is being charged for the holidays... and many other issues. At present, the additional grant to municipalities next year is 63 million, or 3.6 percent, and we know very well that the forecast for growth of gross domestic product next year is only 2.8 percent. Local governments are provided with stable, balanced funding in the regional section, ensuring that all local governments, after financial adjustment, have an increase in revenue. As everyone spends it, it is up to the local government, it is their responsibility. In 2020, local authorities were provided with funding to carry out their functions, as I said, of EUR 63 million. In the state budget, a special grant of 148 million euros is foreseen for municipalities in 2020. In negotiations with municipalities, an agreement has also been reached on the implementation of a 100% guaranteed personal income tax forecast. There are, of course, issues on which there remain disagreements, but they can still be discussed and agreed upon. The issue of co-financing by municipalities for private education institutions needs to be mentioned here. The issue of emergency loans is also very important. No agreement has been reached on local government borrowing opportunities in 2020 and in the medium term. It is proposed to maintain loans to projects co-financed by the European Union as a key priority for local government loans and to complement borrowing opportunities by providing for projects co-financed by the emission allowance auctioning instrument in 2020, while maintaining the condition that the amount of the loan does not exceed the eligible costs of the project. It is also being discussed that, at loans outside the European Union fund, priority should be given to the construction of kindergartens in areas where there is a need or to the expansion of kindergartens. A little more about municipal funding and increases... And for the holidays... for this part. Riga. The next year's increase after equalization - 23 million, for holidays from the municipality 3 million are requested. Daugavpils. 3.1 million - growth, for weekends - 414 thousand. Liepāja. 3.4 million - growth, for weekends - 382 thousand. And also in small municipalities - Zilupe, Baltinava - where there are increases (20-30 thousand), holiday needs 3-5 thousand. Then estimate what part of this is in these increases. I would really like to say a great deal of thanks today to all those who have been involved in the preparation of the budget in the last six months. The work has not been easy, but we have found compromises and reached first reading. And as financial expert and member of the Council of the Bank of Latvia Mārtiņš Kazaks said today, the budget is not perfect, but the budget is acceptable. Thank you all for your work. And I call for support at first reading. (Applause)
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-30-PT13-2015-U78	Thank you. on behalf of the Group. - Member Vjačeslav Dombrovskis. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A. Lejiņš: “It’s all bad!” ) Council Regulation (EC) No 1257/96 of 20 June 1996 concerning humanitarian aid (OJ L 163, 2.7.1996, p. 1).
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-30-PT13-2015-U79	Dear colleagues, Please allow me to combine speaking time.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-30-PT13-2015-U80	Are there any objections to merging the two times of the debate? There is no objection.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-30-PT13-2015-U81	High Prime Minister! President-in-Office of the Saeima, very much. High Ministers! Members! I would like to begin by expressing my gratitude to all those citizens, citizens and non-citizens of Latvia who have worked hard all this year and will continue to do so in the future, so that the government and the Members of the Saeima have, at all, something to decide about today. Thanks to your tax payments, Latvian citizens, we can plan the national budget for next year at all. I call on all Members of the Saeima to remember that we are dealing with almost EUR 10 billion - Latvian taxpayers' money - and it is our duty to deal with this with the highest responsibility. Colleagues! The situation is that 70 percent of Latvians are dissatisfied with government work and 50-50 percent! - Latvians believe that the situation in Latvia is developing in the wrong direction. This means that we need to consider every budget decision very carefully today. Dear colleagues, There is no consensus on the title of the next draft budget for 2020. Various options have been taken - the largest ever budget, the socially just budget, the cooperation budget, the budget of disappointment. The Prime Minister has expressed his opinion that we are approaching the Nordic level with this budget. On the revenue side of next year, the government has very significant resources at its disposal. Additional tax revenue - €540 million. But that's not all. The government claims that the expenditure review has generated additional funds of EUR 94 million. As you say now, false news. In fact, an additional EUR 30 million has been obtained for expenditure because interest rates on government debt are lower. These are global trends. The state capital company “Latvian State Forests” has a record profit this year. As a result, the budget revenue from dividends is EUR 50 million higher. The reason is the high price of wood on world markets. In other words, it was a success. The government also decided to “put” the municipalities. And its budget's revenue side also shows the so-called adjustment of municipal budget revenue of 81 million euros. Plus on the weekend, plus a special additional correction for Riga - in total around 129 million euros. There is simply a redistribution between municipalities and the state budget. So, colleagues, overall, Karini's government is taking additional money of no less than EUR 762 million for next year. On the total budget expenditure of around EUR 10 billion - that is a lot, colleagues. And now let's ask a question. How has the Karina Government handled this additional EUR 762 million? First of all, Kariņš Government refused to comply with the Health Care Financing Law adopted unanimously by the Saeima on raising medical fees. Medical salaries need less than €120 million. But Karina's government gave only one third of this amount. And what did the government of Karina say? It said there's no money in the budget! There's no money in the budget! In a budget of EUR 10 billion, with an additional revenue of EUR 762 million, it has no money! Do you, fellow Members, understand in general the indignation of the public and the indignation of the doctors, that all the time in the largest budget... Are you saying there's no money? EUR 762 million is, but EUR 120 million is not! ( Internouncing call.) Dear colleagues, Of course, on the background of non-compliance with the laws of the Republic of Latvia, on the background of non-compliance with the Satversme, talk about whether you have fulfilled your promises - that is a little bit of salt. But even with those EUR 762 million, even by non-compliance with the law, no coalition party has fulfilled any of its pre-election promises! The slogan of the new conservative party “3 × 500” has become a laughter for many years. Development/About! free programming courses and English for all Latvian citizens, opportunities for young people to study at the best universities in Europe - long forgotten. THE new Unity talked so much about education, education, education before the elections. Where is all this? National Association... National Association!... Every year life falls deeper into the pit. After 10 years, only about 9000 Latvian children will be born in Latvia every year. And where is your demographic ultimatum? ( Internouncing call.) Was that the demographic ultimate this year so that Imants Pastor became the prime adviser on demographic issues? That was all. ‘ KPV LV’. Well, my fellow Members, this is something I think nobody is interested in what KPV LV has promised and what priorities you have directed this money. In the field of welfare, pension indexation takes place. Thank you very much for that. But, to be precise, thank you for the fact that, in this particular case, you are still complying with the decisions taken by the previous government and the Saeima. On the overall background, colleagues, it's not a little. That's not a little! At the same time, the decision to reduce unemployment benefits is absolutely regrettable. It is clear that this decision was taken without any analysis, without respecting either the principles of social security or the principle of legitimate expectations. The government's decision to decouple a number of social spending, including child support, social benefits and minimum wages, is absolutely regrettable. It is quite clear that the Karina Government paves the way for not increasing spending on eligible social areas from the coming year, saving EUR 15 million each year. Colleagues! I will remind you once again that, in the field of demographics, the Karina Government is not offering any additional solutions. It does exactly the opposite by refusing to finance the holiday for schoolchildren, it aggravates the demographic situation by increasing spending directly on families with children. I'm... Colleagues, I just find that it has been the new idea of the Debtor of the Prime Minister's Adviser on Demographics, how to “promote” the birth rate. Let's get rid of the weekends in schools! Education. The funding for teachers' salaries was not granted once again in full. According to Minister Šuplinska, the funding will depend on Pandora's charge - on how the confiscation of the proceeds of crime will work. In other words, colleagues will be: there will be money laundering - there will be money for teachers' salaries. Go on. Higher education. There is nothing like that in the draft government budget of Karini. Of course, the exception is litigation with the University of Latvia. It is already clear today that the government declaration on that "500" will not be met... But maybe this is how Development/About will be fulfilled! promise that... Without allocating funding to universities, disrupting university management with dubious government, power orders and litigation, the competitiveness of Latvian universities will be undermined to such an extent that young people will soon understand that there are no other exits as to study to universities from other countries. Science. The Head of Government talked about additional EUR 8 million for science. Firstly, not 8 million, but 7.3 million. Secondly, of this amount, 4.2 million were allocated not to science but to the European Space Agency. Overall, there are less than EUR 3 million in science. And, thirdly, what science? Here are some examples of scientific projects. Latvian landscape assessment and landscape design, and so on. Colleagues! Let us soon look forward to innovation and the biggest export revenues. Sports. At least it seems that funds for participation in the Olympic Games will not be taken from the National Budget Programme “Unforeseen Events” this year. Finally, my fellow Members, I congratulate you - we have learned to anticipate the Olympic Games! That's something. No other additional funding for sport has been envisaged by the Karina Government. The relationship between a sporty and a healthy society, on the one hand, and the amount of the health budget, on the other, obviously cannot be understood by the Karina Government. Roads. According to industry estimates, the critical financing of road infrastructure (and that means, 10 years ago, it was necessary to invest!) It is €3.2 billion. What do we have? I quote the Minister for Transport: "Six years." I am pleased, colleagues, about the area of protection. Without any reservations, it was granted funding in order to comply with the law, which refers to 2 per cent of GDP. Here, of course, you need to ask a rhetorical question, as the classic said: “Who owns the country?” The promises made to voters are not being fulfilled, the promises made to allies are being fulfilled. Perhaps colleagues, medical practitioners and teachers should approach NATO directly. I think that perhaps a new article is needed in the NATO Treaty, that the Member States must respect the promises made to their constituents, and that the law must be respected. Otherwise, there is a risk that people will not be ready to defend the country that ‘put them up’. It's a state security case, colleagues! I too have the joy of culture. Total budget of EUR 175 million, significant increase. I think of the Prime Minister's words that our aim is to approach the Nordic countries, that we are approaching this goal every day. Let's take Finland. No doubt, the Nordic country. The Estonians, who were so often excited about, learned a lot from Finland. Well, there's an arithmetic exercise here for you, colleagues. It is interesting that Finland has a sport budget twice as much as the cultural budget, while Finland has a scientific budget four times as much as the cultural budget. A in Latvia, for example, the budget of science is three times smaller than the budget of culture and the budget of sport is almost nine times smaller than the budget of culture. Now we are obviously very far from the Nordic countries. Regional development So what do you say? Regions are developing, full of people, everything is happening. This is all based on environmental protection and regional development policy. For example, next year's budget is a new project (I quote): an integrated approach to resource management (Stage 1). It has a budget of €4.5 million. A new policy. I am even afraid to ask, colleagues, how much will the phase 2 of this integrated approach cost. There are also means for Minister Puce to tell us personally from all televisions and all the media how good his reform is and what number we need to call if there are any questions or suggestions. It's not political advertising, it's no, it's a new policy. I, Mr. Karins, wouldn't look so lightly at this for you, by the way. Your partners appear to be preparing a substitute for you in this coalition. Dear colleagues, I don't want you to blame me for just criticising and saying such negative things... and everything is bad, and so on. Now it's nice. Financing of political parties. ( Internouncing call.) You have finally publicly admitted, as Member Leiiņš just said from the troupe, that you have lived in the power of sponsors all this time. I mean, I mean, I mean, I mean, I mean, I Thank you very much. That you are dependent on the influence of sponsors. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A. Leiiņš: “You! ” ) And instead of fighting your own addiction, you need you to buy something from it, so to say. ( Milestones.) Go on. A new Embassy in Australia will be opened. Three posts. A major trading partner. It was already hard for me to see where it was in the sales turnover. Exports - a whole EUR 205 million per year, imports - almost EUR 2 million per year, but great additional opportunities for those Members who like to travel to exotic places. Congratulations! The number of soldiers will be increased by 350 in 2021, and then by more. That's also logical. We have no shortage of labour in the country, no. People need to work somewhere. Mr Kariņš, what does this budget say about your government? This budget says: you are not monitoring the situation, Mr. Kariņš! With the largest budget all the time, with EUR 762 million, you have not managed to create the confidence of the people of Latvia that the country is moving in the right direction. Why? Why? Firstly, Mr Kariņš, your work does not match your words. You tell people about the success story of Latvia, the successful country, the developed country, the Nordic country... and so on. And then people see that there is a catastrophic and chronic lack of funding in all sectors. First of all, Mr Kariņš, you need to tell people the truth about what is happening in the country with the economy, with demographics, with people leaving, especially young people. Secondly. Mr Kariņš, you need a vision and a concrete plan to do with all this, how to save the country, how to make money for the economy; which is the greatest priority, which is the smallest priority. You don't have anything like that! As regards making money, your budget is zero in terms of economic development. Mr Kariņš, I will not write to you, your government a work plan, but I will give you at least one concrete example: one concrete example. For the area of defence, Mr Kariņš, your government allocates several tens of millions of euros each year without any questions. ( Minister of Defence Pabriks: “No Questions?” ) Without questions. This money is spent either on questionable purchases of old machines (Interface: “Name!” ) or increasing the number of soldiers. How meaningful is that, colleagues? Well, well, we're gonna have half a thousand soldiers in a few years. There are more than a million soldiers in the Russian army (Interface: “China has more!” There are 7,000 soldiers in one Pskov Division alone. ( Milestones.) Instead of recruiting 1,000 soldiers, recruit 1,000 cyber security experts (Interface: “What are you trying to say?” ), create 1,000 cyber security specialists for the economy, create educational opportunities and capacities. And it will take time and they will create for the economy a cyber-security sector with jobs, expert tax revenues. Colleagues! You say: "The opposition is often only criticised, it does not offer anything." ( Internouncing call.) Perhaps, colleagues, let's start with something that we can all agree on. All of them. For the rule of law. One law is one truth for all. No, no? Can we all agree on this here? ( Internouncing call.) Mr. Karins! You often set your Western values against us, what you and your colleagues call ‘cremlines’, ‘anti-state forces’, and so on. But does the law conform to the values of the West? You are a U.S. citizen, Mr. Karins. Does the United States Government systematically fail to comply with American law? Does it disrespect the legislator? What example do you set for the people of Latvia, Mr. Kariņš? Why do you think that Latvian laws are not written to you... Are you excluded? You, Mr. Karins, are a linguist after education, aren't you? Mr. Kariņš, what do these words mean - Dora lex, sed lex? Mr. Karins, what does that mean? ( Internouncing call.) Doura lex, sed lex. ( Milestones.) In state language – “Law harsh, yet law”. ( Internouncing call.) The law is harsh, but the law. The value of the West has been based on Roman times. Therefore, colleagues, I cannot support this draft budget. ( Internouncing call.) Not only because I am a Member of the opposition (Dep. J. Izalnieks: “The Embassy does not allow it?” ), not only because this is a bad project, but above all because I am going to break a Member's oath by supporting this budget. When drawing up next year's budget, the government has failed to respect the principle of legitimate expectations and has ignored the norms contained in several laws. I therefore call on the government to withdraw this draft budget (interim) and to submit a new one in accordance with previously adopted laws or to submit amendments to laws contrary to the proposed draft budget.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-30-PT13-2015-U82	Thank you. The speaking time is over.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-30-PT13-2015-U83	Thank you. (Applause)
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-30-PT13-2015-U84	The name of Member Julia Stepanenko.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-30-PT13-2015-U85	Dear colleagues, Honorary members of the Cabinet of Ministers! This is the starting point of the issue of 'anti-state forces'. I understand that on your part, Conservatives, and on the part of the National Alliance, these speeches are very often heard about the fact that, here, the 'congregation' is 'anti-state power' (Interpretatively: 'The budget is speaking!'). ) and that you are now very... fighting to get more public funding for your called 'anti-State power'... Mrs Ždanoka, by the way. But talking about the budget. I looked at the CVK's website to look at what happened a year ago. So you had a lot of supporters, the respected coalition. ( Internouncing call.) Tens of thousands of voters voted for you, and in a hard fight against competitors, you still fought your share of public funding for what you promised your voters. And what did you promise? From the CEC website. So you promised: firstly, to establish a "fair real estate tax system without tax on family self-inhabited housing up to a value acceptable to society" (National Association); secondly, to "double the salaries of nurses" (Development/Par!). , thirdly, ‘to eliminate the Coalition Council because Latvian governance cannot be entrusted to the grey cardinals’ (KPV LV); (Interface.) fourthly, remuneration in the public administration “in accordance with the results of the work, with responsibility for the failure” (New Unity) and finally, fifthly, a minimum pension of “200 euros already in 2019”; “sisters’ salaries – at least 800 euros “on hand”; retain “small schools”; cancel the NYN; “3 × 500”; “family’s allowance of 50 euros for the first child, 100 euros for the second and 150 euros for the third and each subsequent child”; “the funding for science – 1.5 percent of GDP” (this whole very beautiful range of promises – from young Conservatives). But let's call things, honourable colleagues, the true words: it was a year ago! And within 12 months, you found that you were unable to fulfil the tasks assigned to society for such a fee, for such a part of public funding... promises, and you're not going to do it at all. You are now making a statement that you have developed a very heavy dependence, a very heavy dependence on sponsor money over the course of the year, as if the leaders of the people. You recognise this yourself, and you are not even able to carry out the oath given by the Member in the shadow of this addiction. Instead of apologizing your constituents and repaying the waste... taxpayers' money, which you are already receiving, as the new Unity programme foresees, for the failure to do, you have announced that your royalties will now be bigger, and you are raging seven times more taxpayers' money with greedy hands. But what if a rotten house were to put in new windows and draw around the flowers? What if a rotten cake were to be filled with fresh strawberries? Because that's how you're going to extort the taxpayers' money. ( Insight: “The budget is speaking! ” ; dep. D. Schmits: “The Prime Minister talked about donkeys!” ) Those 4 million or 5 (as your bill still contains 5, you have not corrected it), which includes thousands of transfers to the Treasury from different people: bread bakers, lamb breeders, sock-doers, pensioners, young mothers. They all diligently paid their taxes, carried them to the Treasury. And you're raging from this money as much as you think. At first - 5 million, then think about it and say that there will be 4, leaving the couss for the media and hoping that independent media will quickly find another sensation. Also commercial mediums? Well, well, let's leave them some half a million, too. It's not a pity, it's not our money. We are simply redistributing it. And I really don't. There's no public money, as Margaret Techer said, it's taxpayers' money, and you don't have to deceive the public! And this taxpayer's money will not make you smarter, fairer or more active... 1 January. You're like you are. Are you saying you need more money for communication with the voters? You have to open up some section in the regions. Open the feisbuck! Start communicating with the voters! That doesn't cost anything at all! You need more money to tell your constituents why you didn't double the nurse's wages, why you didn't cancel the NYN... Why can't you still introduce it to your unfortunate "3 × 500"? You need money so that you can simply explain to your constituents that any evil forces prevent you from doing so? ( Internouncing call.) If a dependent person demands more, he also demands: “Here and now!” He's got to be treated when he's five. If your dependence on sponsors causes you to come up with various excuses for asking for extra money, it means that sponsors want to shift their expenses to taxpayers' shoulders. But don't think you'll become independent. It's just a trick, because you already got here with all the sponsors. It is hard for you to excuse the fact that, in Estonia, it has been a long time ago, and that in other European countries, parties are paying more. But please remind me, what is the nurse's salary in Estonia? In Germany? Please remind me - is Latvia not the country whose government does not listen so much to the Ombudsman's warnings about a person's disrespectful minimum income that the Ombudsman is forced to refer to the Constitutional Court? Please remind me - did politicians in other civilised countries also grant seven-fold party funding to themselves, not to the next term? Would you all sit here if your four thousand sign programmes had not recorded stories about benefits and pensions, but the reality - the reality of what is now? Instead of raising medical salaries, as provided for in the law, we will give ourselves money. Would you all, the honourable coalition, sit here if voters knew a year ago that the most important of yours - New Unity, KPV LV, Development/About! , BIP and National Alliances: the work will be seven times your pocket money at the taxpayer's expense? But if you say the sponsor's money is that it doesn't allow you to raise your salaries for nurses, then go home. You are not entitled to be here where to ask... you are not entitled to claim more money for your poor services! You raise salaries for officials, build and repair your buildings, say you have to be happy you don't raise any more taxes. You invite everyone to smear - eat less cakes and walk in tight panties, but you are surrounded by families, single mothers, foster families, disabled people, municipalities so that you can eat your own two-metered cakes with party symbols. You're not complying with the law. You attributed yourself to the previous government and the Saeima and made it possible for the doctors to apply for a day without a doctor in order to look for money that Mrs. Viņķele does not think it is necessary to find. ( Internouncing call.) “One day without a doctor”, honourable colleagues, is because you, the coalition, have been participating in the “Life without shame” campaign for a year. What does society mean? What do you think? What does society think about carrying out your pockets rather than your laws? You say that you have long dreamed about it, for years. Mr Leinny has already told us that the moment has finally come. And then you can live. ( Internouncing call.) But you didn't want to listen to the public. You didn't ask the public all these years. With one hand you turn the public back, you don't call for discussion, but with the other hand you very cunningly put the public in your pocket. Mr Bordan has been gathering coalition parties since July, informally aligning his views with the KNAB and listening to Mrs Kažoka, but the opinion of the public is, I see, asking you that there has been no time, because it is a draft budget. Urgently. But society, honourable colleagues, found time and opportunity to express its opinion. In 12 days, society arranged to say that such a hasty, unnegotiated law should not be adopted in such a way, and that it should not be on the basis of unfulfilled promises and nihilistically ignored laws. All these people who signed will not even belong to “Daugavas” stadium, and even “Ana Rīga” will be too small for them. This draft law has no coordination from the public. Add it to the annotation and if you have no shame at all, then vote in favour! Vote on such a budget and vote on such accompanying documents. Thank you, colleagues.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-30-PT13-2015-U86	Name to Member Aldi Gobzem.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-30-PT13-2015-U87	I'll try to prove why you can't believe Prime Minister Kariņš, Government and existing coalition. I want to start my speech with the example of Mr Pabrika, who, by approving the previous budget, went to this platform and with an open breast, said that EUR 20 000 "FREEEST.LV" would be provided. A year has passed, but this EUR 20 thousand is not. When it comes to buying old armor, Pabrik is a knife. — Minister of Defence Pabrik: “Sort which? Do you know the armoured technician?’ ) and shall do so quickly. If we talk about opening the breast, then Raivis Dzintars, as we know before he was a Member, was able to do so at the Saeima House and join in the public interest of Latvia. But, being in the Saeima, the only moment when he opens this breast is that the unloved politician Imants Debtor, who has not become a member of the Saeima, would pay EUR 2 000 in Kariņa, in fact, in the office. But when the interests of the people are taken care of, Raivis Dzintars does not open his breast but becomes soft as plastic. And that's what he calls co-operation, art co-operation. I work together so that the debtor has a job, not that the nurse has a salary. Now Raivis Dzintars, just like apparently Kariņš, who has already called the eighth time a nation as donkeys, thinks that a nation can hit it with a stick... And let that donkey pull that stuff. In this place, I have to remind you, Mr Kariņš, of what the President of Latvia, who approved this coalition, said in his speech from the same tribunal. He said: “We all know that Latvia is one of the most unequal countries in the European Union. This is not a sudden accident, but it is a disease that has been ingested for many years.” The President of Latvia also said: “It is necessary to take into account the broom and waste the house from the manure that has accumulated in the 30 years that are pulling with us and that are separating us today from a highly developed, legal democracy.” In this context, Mr Kariņš, I would like to refer to your speech today, where you are calling on the Nordic country. Do not comply with the decisions of the Saeima and do not comply with the laws already in force, and I will remind you of the laws that provide for an increase in medical fees or an increase in teachers' salaries, or the abolition of OICs by 31 March this year, that is, half a year ago... It does not happen in the Nordic countries, Mr. Kariņš! Mr Kariņš, I will remind you that there are no Nordic countries in which the Prime Minister would have dubious deals with the Cypriot mailboxes and the cinema Pioneer. In the Nordic countries, the Prime Ministers or politicians resign from office on the slightest suspicion of possible corruption, but you have such millions worth the deal! Mr Kariņš, I also remind you of the fact that, in the Nordic countries, the most deplorable and unsupported politician of the party, who has not entered the Saeima, in this case, Viņķele, does not become the Minister for Health. Mr Kariņš, I also remind you of the fact that, in the Nordic countries, the fund for the integration of society would not be run by the wife of the Minister Puce, who would be approved by the subordinate Minister Puce. Mr Kariņš, I will remind you that in the Nordic countries there are no persons to be judged as parliamentary secretaries of the Ministry. ( Internoint.) (Laughter) Mr Kariņš, I will also remind you, as you fall from this chair here today, that increasing party funding by 700 percent for yourself - you, a millionaire - is not a reduction in inequality. Of course, you can laugh at the people of Latvia because you have American citizenship and do not threaten Latvia's minor pension. You are not at risk of health problems because you will be able to afford paid medicine with your millionaire salary. That's why you're laughing here. And that is why, Mr Kariņš, if you cannot find the money in these 760 million, which is additional to the budget, I call on you to take into account your salary supplement, which is intended for you personally at EUR 248 next year, with this EUR 248 being passed on to a specific nurse. If you can't find it in the state budget, find it in your pocket! To make it easier for you to make such a decision, I have my salary supplement... as an example to you... I have a lower salary than you do, and I'm not a millionaire than you do. I've got my salary supplement... I call on the Saeima Administration to hand it over to a particular nurse from next year, but please let me know the name of this nurse. I call on all ministers, and so also ministers Viņķelis, to give your salary supplement to the nurse if you cannot find the money in the budget. Dear Latvian society! You're not donkeys. Show it to Prime Minister Karins! Show Karin and show Karin the donkey place! Dear Latvian society! You have to take this stick in your hands, and you have to kick donkey Karin with this stick so that he can fulfill his promises that have been made before the elections. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A. Kaimiņš: “Mr. Mūrniece, can be with a hammer!” ) Honorable Latvian society! The coalition will not change if you bunk in the kitchen, if you patiently, for a long time (intermediate call.) Every week you will not come and protect your rights to the Saeima building. This coalition will not understand it before you wake up. If we are talking about “the success story”, I would like to remind you that now, 29 years after the restoration of the Republic of Latvia’s independence, Latvia’s external debt has increased more than 11 times (Dep. A. Neighbours: “It is for you!” ) and make up 11 billion. Hundreds of thousands of people have left Latvia. This is also for your sake, Mr. Kariņš, you put your signature on the document on the implementation of the OIC in Latvia... which you have still not been able to remove. Finally. ( Milestones.) More than 10 thousand have been collected in Latvia... more than 11 thousand citizens of the Republic of Latvia signed for not increasing party funding by 700 percent. These signatures have been collected very short - actually record! - during the period, which means that society is not indifferent to this situation. It is not indifferent for one reason. Because society does not understand why a compromise needs to be sought by doctors, why a compromise needs to be sought by teachers, why a compromise needs to be sought by science. — Dep. A. Interdependence of the Muižniece.) , but why should the funds be allocated without compromise to parties, party millionaires and once and for all to unfulfilled, first-ranking politicians? Thank you. (Applause)
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-30-PT13-2015-U88	Name to Member Ivars Zarins. I mean, I mean, I mean, I mean, I mean, I (Laughter)
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-30-PT13-2015-U89	Hello, colleagues! Hello, Mr. Karin! I am pleased to see you here today, in the Saeima, when we are talking about the budget! I really wonder: were you not afraid today, was not ashamed to come to the Saeima? Because usually on Wednesdays, when we invite you here to tell you about how it is with this budget and how it is legal, you have avoided. One time you sent a minister to your place, who could not tell you anything about the legality of this government's decision, another time you lied to the Saeima that you are in Brussels so that you should not come. That is why I hope that today, when you are here and when we are debating the budget here, you will come and give reasons if that is the case for you, of course, that... on the basis of a law on which the government was entitled not to comply with the law when drawing up the budget. Because if you cannot do this, in principle, you acknowledge that Latvia does not exist as a legal and democratic state. It's just fiction. This budget is a chrestomatic example of what power considers to be the rule of law and democracy in Latvia - that it is a fiction, a fairy tale of which “go to the people’s ears” so that it will obediently endure the permissiveness of this power, irresponsibility and the inability to take care of even the most important. So that as obedient sheep, society can continue to be circumcised and the power should not change anything at its disposal. I have proved this with the OIC, which is still, unfortunately, continuing, and the power has shown that it is dealing with legal nihilism, that is, if you remember, very recently it has been demonstrated here with the facts that the Ministry of Economics is covering violations of the law, obvious fraud on a very large scale. Today's debate, too... And instead, the power tells us that it's fighting with the OIC. In today's debate, too, we hear the stories and promises of Carlson. Some in that style: “What are you, Brothers, worried about the broken chip here! You're gonna have 40,000... 40 million new chips!” And that's how it continues all the time. But if we look at what the government does. Thus, the politicians for themselves ensure that there is an increase in salaries for ministers, an increase in salaries for Members, even for parties (although this is not provided for in the law) (Interdependence.) government finds money. It must be that... “The country must start with itself!” are executed in an operation. However, the teachers are told that something will grow in their garden too. You know, that's exactly what Carlson did. Vott, when you split public money, you acted like Carlson shared sweets with Brother. Brother had that big hairdo, so delicious. Carlson thought he wanted to eat it. He ate it and tried to tell Brother that the most valuable stone in this fir is, and if he now plants it, it will grow. He's going to have a whole frying tree, Brother just has to endure. That is how you are now dealing with the budget. This is how you share this money - ignoring the laws. The Minister of Finance, too... You're telling me... You know the law... the budgetary management. You had to prepare the budget in accordance with the legal requirements. One of the requirements laid down by law, for example, for medical practitioners, is very clear - what is this increase in wages, how much funding should be provided for the increase in wages in 2020. And you're here to try to say that you didn't have the money. In fact, I have already heard today that this argument has changed, you are no longer saying that there was no money anymore. You're now saying that the money was, but if we had given the money to the doctors, it wouldn't be enough for others. Therefore, Mr Kariņš, I call on you to come here and say two things of principle that are important. One thing. On what legal basis were you entitled to fail to comply with the law, and your government was entitled to violate the law? And the other. Tell me why you and these over 700 million, that is, this extra budget revenue that you knew it would be, could not have put 120 million in the budget. You now try to play it out so: “If we had given to the doctors, then there would be no others.” What you are doing now is, in fact, you try to divide society, these different sections of society that you have not provided for the statutory funding, so that they can make each other work without supporting each other. You owe justification to society as a whole - and not only to society. You also owe this justification to the Saeima. And if you don't do it, then you already violate not only the law, but also the Constitution. You know, if you don't respect the order of law or the Constitution, then the order of things... how you act, it undermines Latvia as a legal and democratic state on its own merits. Even the political regimes in the east - our neighbours - do not allow such a sort of rule of law and democracy nihilism! They don't even let anything like that go! The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. J. Salanist: “Good example!” ) For example, you can mention the same Russia... Yes, Mr. Pabrik, even there's no way to do that! And then the question arises: what do you differ... with whom do you differ from this regime? You differ only by the fact that there, contrary to you, is one powerful, charismatic man who takes something and does something. You're a bunch of little people and poor people! ( Milestones.) You're insane... a bunch of little and bad guys who are just trying to chart everything with each other. It's all based on it. On it! ( Internouncing call.) You can't even... even do it. Because what matters to you is important to you, as you also announced... you have an important political deal. A mutual political deal, not a law. So you are even worse than this regime for us, Latvia, society! ( Minister of Justice J. Bordāns: “Hismatic Man Ushakov left! ” ) Next. If you do not obey the law, how do you expect the rest of society to comply with the law? Who's paying taxes? In principle, you have answered that question. You said that you consider the company to be tax-paying donkeys. In the direct text, you say, if you need to, let's hit them with a stick! Also for doctors. How do you think it is right - teach them now: “You know, cakes must be abandoned.” You tell teachers and doctors: “You know you won’t have those salaries. But that's okay! You give up the cakes!” You know, this is what Maria Antoinete talked about before the Great French Revolution, when the public was also outrageted there that they had no bread to eat. And then... Well, what? And cakes, huh? ( Milestones: “What are you talking about? ” “On the budget!” ; “Budget!” ) These incentives, too, that the system should be arranged... Well, apologies, who should put this system in order? For nurses? Are they responsible for putting this system in order, or are you who have not done it for years? ( Internouncing call.) It's just as absurd as let's say to a man... He comes and says, “You know, I don’t... What about you having no money to do about it! Where's your suit, where's your stick? Because according to our dress code in our restaurant you won't be at the cakes (Dep. A. Neighbours: “Where is your stick?” ), if you don't have a stick.” Even though it depends on you what this system is. ( Internouncing call.) And that is why, Mr Kariņš, it is very important for you to come here today and give reasons. Otherwise... If today the Saeima is voting in favour of such a budget, this means that the Saeima is voting in favour of an illegal budget. This means that the Members of the Saeima, who will vote in favour of this budget today, have, in substance, violated the oath given to the people of Latvia. If you do not give the legal basis for this budget today, then it will mean that society has a moral right to demand the dismissal of such a Saeima. And in principle, the Saeima would have an obligation to resign itself. Those Members who have promised one but do not live up to their promises. What ironic is that would probably also resolve the debate on party funding: then it should be allocated. Because really that would then be the case for those who would then win the fair political competition, not because the individual parties would be given a major financial handicap so that they could compete... their competitors. ( Internouncing call.) That's why I'm calling... The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. J. Kursīte-Pakule: “Start with yourself!” ) And if you don't... If you do not do this, I propose - at least those who promised that they would act honestly, courageously and wisely - that you remove at least from the wall in the government's house the inscription "One Law - One Truth for All"! It will be honest and it will be courageous. Thank you. (Applause)
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-30-PT13-2015-U90	The name of Member Rainis Znotiņš.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-30-PT13-2015-U91	Hello, honourable Speaker of the Saeima! Dear Prime Minister, Ministers! Members! A number of good things have been done, which colleagues have already mentioned on behalf of the political groups. Most important... I must say that five parties have been able to agree on the budget... It's not easy. However, at this point in time, I think we need to be self-critical and look at the process of drawing up this budget and the things that we could perhaps have done better to ensure that such cooperation between these parties would continue successfully. First and foremost, the budgetary process. The process started as follows: (at least from the point of view of the Members): the Ministry of Finance involved Members in the budgetary process in June... and throughout the summer, Members have put forward various proposals to free up the fiscal space, how to find it, to re-allocate resources. There were a wide range of proposals. I can mention a couple of them. I think the Members who have been there will recognise them. For example, one of the proposals is to review various tax incentives, which are currently worth 2.5 billion, so a quarter of the Latvian state budget. You can also go further and look, say, at the relief of natural resources tax. For example, currently the Latvian State grants natural resources tax relief for plastic bags, television sets and other things that are not even produced in Latvia. I know that ministers are aware of these things. So let us hope that this will be addressed in the context of next year. Members also presented various other ideas, such as the introduction of digital tax on Facebook, Google and other digital service providers, who profit in Latvia, but do not pay any taxes in the Latvian state budget. Let me say, retail chains, which are over EUR 500 million... which has a turnover of over EUR 500 million. There are countries that have introduced additional taxes on such chains. We could do that, too. This was one of the calls. Unfortunately, according to the Ministry of Finance, it came out that there is not enough time for all this, even though the process started in June. The question is, what is it? How was it not enough? Well, if there is not enough time this time, my proposal is very simple - in relation to 2021 - to start this process with Members from 1 January 2020. So let's just hold on to it. What has started in this year's budget and should perhaps continue more actively in the years to come? Looking at the Government's Action Plan, of course, it is necessary to reduce inequalities, in particular, the tax burden on wages, especially small wages. That is what we have done. The next year must continue much more actively. Similarly, funding for science and infrastructure, which I think are very important elements in the long term. We found a small increase in science. We need a much bigger one. Unfortunately, if we are talking about infrastructure, then that funding is even reduced there. Financing of health care. There is also, of course, a big thing that is necessary together with reforms, and if the Saeima has given such a task, then the Cabinet of Ministers must find this funding. But how can you do all this? First of all, the coalition must agree that the aim is not to push the maximum amount out of the few taxpayers, which we in Latvia have... As Mr. Karin said. I agree. It is just that it should also start to be realised in the works. Here I have to mention such a very classic example. If we look at the internal allocation of resources, then the budget of the State Revenue Service is 120 million. At the same time, the Ministry of Economics has a budget of around 80 million. Then the question must be asked: how do we understand these priorities? We are giving more resources to an institution that is trying to collect as much tax from people as possible, or are we giving more resources to an institution that is helping existing taxpayers and businesses to grow and also new ones that are helping to create this environment? Go on. Of course, another large group of questions, which should be viewed and solidarityd, is more active in reducing the civil service. There are some ministries here which, unfortunately, have been pointed out by the State Chancellery for years in a row to the need to reduce the number of officials, but the Ministry has consistently refused to do so. I think that this issue should also be dealt with more actively by ministers. Officials should, however, also see this whole process as a little more jointly and severally. If our country has a shrinking population, then the number of posts should also decrease. Finally, I would like to remind you that in a parliamentary state, however, Parliament gives tasks to the members and ministries of the Cabinet of Ministers, not vice versa. I hope that there will be no more repeat of situations such as that at the time of drawing up this budget, when all these many proposals, which, as I mentioned at the beginning, came from Members and were presented to the Ministry of Finance, were buried somewhere under the slug. Such situations will not happen again. Such situations must be taken into account, so next year's budget, as... if this budget is to be supported, then, as I said, the next year's budget must start working from 1 January 2020. The Ministry of Finance, with the involvement of Members, must work actively to find real mechanisms to expand the fiscal space and re-allocate internal resources in order to meet political promises. I call for budget support and propose that next year work even more actively and achieve the objectives set. Thank you. (Applause)
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-30-PT13-2015-U92	The time allowed for the debate is 15 minutes, but it is about 10 minutes to break. Mrs. Papule, will you speak now or after a break? After a break. Please call me! Please check-in mode for Members! Name of member of the Saeima Maria Golubeva to read the results of the registration as soon as they have been prepared. ( Interface: “How much is it about half an hour? Hour?’ ) An hour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-30-PT13-2015-U93	Hasn’t registered: Gundars Many (interface: “Yes!” )... Yes, Inese Ikstena, Ritvars Jansons (Interface: ‘ Yes!’ )... Yes, Andrejs Clementyev, Armands Krauze )... Yes, Vitaly Orlov (Interface: “Here!” )... Here, Evija Papule (interface: “Yes!” )... Yes, Dana Reizniece–Ozola, Ivan Ribakov (interim: “I am!” )... And... and Jānis Vucāns.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-30-PT13-2015-U94	Thank you. Interruption until 2.30 p.m. ( Interruption)
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-30-PT13-2015-U95	Honourable Members! Ministers! Prime Minister! Let's keep the Saeima sitting! I invite you to take your seats in the Chamber so that we can continue the Saeima sitting after the break! Name of Member Evia Papulei. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. V. Agešins: “Take place in the hall! ” The head of the sitting shall be knocked down by means of a hammer.) Colleagues! Ministers! Members! Let's keep sitting!
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-30-PT13-2015-U96	Madam President, Mr. Prime Minister! Ministers! Colleagues and Members! Well, the first sentence straight for you will be. In the light of the previous experience, I understand that the constructive proposals of the opposition have no place in the budget, but I would like to draw some conclusions when assessing the work of the coalition party in the preparation of the state budget. Regardless of the way in which any new policy can be put into the battles by any party, all the promises have disappeared in this budget of cowardice. It is the same continuation of any previous practice of a party in power, which is to add some amount of funding somewhere. But this has not been achieved in any sector. Development does not take place, and evolution does not take place either. Perhaps it is time for Darwinism and the adherents of this theory to leave the stage, at least from the Latvian political stage, because once again and in the usual political practice in Latvia, only promises in words are priorities. There is no capacity and possibly annual competence to identify concrete, realistic works in line with the priorities set for themselves. It is likely that in the context of the Latvian state budget, it cannot be too much to be able to implement it in reality without discussions, giving full funding without discussions. You can't put a stick on the street for every sector. Introduce legal promises so that they will not then be complied with in a staunch manner. Sometime we have to come when at least one area is able to move in step rather than just a few centimeters ahead. Without such meaningful and serious steps, Latvia's development will not take place. It's simply impossible. Neither are evolutionarys - no. There must be decisive and clear decisions for society and they must be implemented consistently. In addition, Latvian society needs to know what our country's priorities are, which, in spite of anything, no additional funding is granted, it is not granted. It is reasonable to say that Latvian society is confused, not knowing how it can be that this year's budget has as much money as it has never been, but not enough to fulfill any promise. No one knows when and what will improve the life of every Latvian citizen next year. Teachers are not expected to raise salaries during the 12-month period. Doctors and nurses - not, residents - not, science - not, and much more - not. Just like usual. In fact, this is the same technical budget as last year. In none of the sectors has it been possible to thoroughly reassess and structure expenditure logically in order to re-allocate money to the priorities set by the government. And there is no vision of it, also in the medium-term development budget. It is clear from the public communication that the funding of officials, including officials, salaries and parties is priorities, but there are no issues of education, health and social welfare. It is not clear to Latvian society why there is enough money in one area, but in others it is not. And never does. And the teachers - they always have to pray. Always! The communication of the government and coalition about the 2020 budget with the public is, in fact, formal, sometimes even seems to be simply a smile. At the moment, no one has a clear true picture. Although, I must say, there are certain changes. There is an innovative content format for dialogue with industry. Its failure to set priorities, direct targeted development, development policy and structure state budget resources - all of which we want to focus on those working in the sector themselves, although this is a direct responsibility of each minister and ministry. We do not pay teachers because there is an unsubstantiated network of schools and too many universities. It only makes sense to protest if the doctors are able to indicate where the source of funding is to be found. Does not everyone really have to do their job in their profession and position? This is a new level of cynicism. How far are you going, colleagues? During the budgeting process, it is very felt how much the ruling Latvian political elite does not love or respect the inhabitants of its country. ( Milestones.) To undermine the prestige of doctors and teachers, shameful signals are given to municipalities. It will spread throughout Latvian society and appear in a new, very unpleasant way. ( Internouncing call.) In the past, doctors, scientists, cultural workers and teachers were born an enormous potential for raising the level of public intelligence and it was crowned by a strong core of values - with a strong sense of belonging to their country, faith in it, pride in it and work for Latvia. This radiation spread to each community, local authorities, students, and families. But at present, the representatives of the ruling coalition party destroy these values, arrogantly using power and irresponsiblely using the money that actually comes from Latvian society. How much do you not need to love your people and the state of Latvia in order to ignore the law of scientific activity?Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The implementation of the existing legal provisions will require 28.7 million next year. Existing norm of the Law on Higher Education - already existing norm! - less than 30 million are needed to carry out the following year. A timetable for raising the salaries of educators. The implementation of the existing rules next year requires nothing more than 8 million against the background of the 10 billion budget. Even the Latvian School Youth Song and Dance Festival you have ignored and have not been able to give full funding (Dep. A. Muižniece: “No! No, no! Melo! Melo!’ ), as no full funding was found in 2020 to reach 1.6 million. And, of course, increasing the salaries of pre-school educators, because that would be enough for this, one of the most important groups of educators, to increase the wage. Mr. Kariņš, education in all areas, if added, needs only 73 million! You have spoken about several thousand million at your disposal. Well, it would be nice... It is not much for education, because you also usually quote and say that education is at the heart of the economy, at the heart of growth. Well, maybe it's worth loving the people of your country! The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A. Lejiņš: “He does not, of course, love! You are the only one who loves Latvian citizens!” ) I would vote in favour of the budget. I would vote in favour of the draft budget if funding for higher education, science, teachers' salaries, including pre-school pay, were allocated in 2020... And where else is the song festival, which certainly is not an unforeseen and unplanned event. Consequently, if you were to grant the statutory funding, the minimum, the minimum, then you could vote for it. And the sources are actually these 78 million. Of course, too, party funding. But there are others. As I have saved time, perhaps I would call for one minute's silence on the 2020 budget. Thank you. (Applause)
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-30-PT13-2015-U97	Name to Member Janis Krishan.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-30-PT13-2015-U98	Dear President of the Saeima. Mr. Prime Minister, Dear colleagues, Ministers! I will only talk about issues that I and my constituents have real concerns about. And today... with amendments to the Law “On State Social Insurance”, the Law on Invalidity, the Law on the Protection of Children’s Rights and the Law on the Maintenance Guarantee Fund. I understand that we show the public, our constituents, that only in words we look after the most vulnerable groups in the population. And I do not really understand the minutes of the meeting of the Cabinet of Ministers of 13 August 2019. 41 which states that ministries should prepare amendments to regulatory enactments, providing that the expenditure of the state budget, which is directly related to the minimum wage, is not linked to the amount of the minimum wage that we have had for years. For me, the question is: what will happen to the most vulnerable groups of the population - the disabled - in 2021 and beyond? We all know who a disabled person is: a person with functional limitations that affect physical or mental abilities. These people have not been able to help medical professionals during the treatment process. If a person with disabilities receives assistance, this means that he is not excluded from society, that he is helping to socialize, including education or additional skills. It is important that the assistant also feels financially appreciated and that his salary increases as the minimum wage increases. We are well aware that it is practically impossible for a disabled person, especially Group I, to find an assistant for this salary today. So his role is shared by close relatives. But relatives also need to keep their families together, and they are not able to care for their relatives for such a reward. As well as athletes. The government aims to ensure that compulsory state social insurance contributions for professional athletes are paid out of EUR 860, thus disregarding the minimum wage, which may be increased to EUR 500. If the minimum wage can be increased from 2021 onwards, this means that professional athletes will also be placed in an unequal situation. I would really like to find answers to these questions. And it seems so strange to me that such changes to the law lead us to another continent, where a person can survive with two euros a day. But I would like to remind the ministers, however, that we are living in latitudes where people - namely the poorest, the disabled - need clothing, they have to pay for utilities, they have to pay for heating. And those bananas and sausages don't grow in trees with us, too. Man needs to think about how to survive. I hope that we will find answers to these questions. And I very much hope that these amendments will also be addressed by the Ombudsman's Office and, if necessary, will challenge them in the Constitutional Court. What I want to conclude with. What did I hear here today? I heard such a strange thing from all the parties that the budget was created according to the priorities of the five parties, not under the law. Nobody's against the budget... that it should not be approved. Maybe, though, we're taking this budget back and sort it out after... from the beginning - by law, and only if anything remains - only by party priorities! Thank you. (Applause)
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-30-PT13-2015-U99	Name to Member Martin Stein.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-30-PT13-2015-U100	Good afternoon, Madam President of the Saeima. Mr. Prime Minister! Ministers! Colleagues and colleagues! Resurrection! It is not a repeat of what has already been said that this is a budget of many compromises, which supports many important initiatives, although not to the full extent necessary, because money is as much as it is. However, this budget, the budget for 2020, and the medium-term budgetary framework are proof that the government understands and supports the development of youth policy and shows its commitment to strengthening civil society in Latvia. I'll talk about that, too. I would like to highlight today these two government declaration tasks that are being carried out. Point 134: "Let us support young people's civic activities and promote their involvement in school, municipal, national issues and increase the funding of the Youth Policy national programme." And point 164: ‘Let us expand State aid to the NGO Fund by setting priorities for support in line with the policy of public participation and cohesion.’ The recent study of the Latvian Child Welfare Network on the quality of life of young people in the Baltic States shows that the participation of young people in youth projects, youth organisations, non-governmental organisations, school youth and municipality youth councils, students and students' self-governments, clean-up facilities and other activities is much lower than in Lithuania or Estonia. In order to change these indicators and seek solutions, we implement a youth policy in Latvia involving many players – ministries, state institutions, municipalities, youth organisations, organisations working daily with children and young people, young people themselves and others. Youth policy in our country is being implemented to improve the quality of life of young people, to create a supportive and inclusive environment for young people, to support youth initiatives and to promote the participation of young people in order to strengthen young people's susceptibility and healthy lifestyles. Some of the results of this policy foresee that already in 40 municipalities of Latvia, the youth centre, the youth council and the youth advisory commission could work together in 2020. Work is also planned to increase the proportion of young people in youth organisations. It is planned that finally, all municipalities could have the time to have someone responsible for youth work - whether he is a youth specialist or another person entrusted with this important work. For the implementation of youth policy, the budget of the Ministry of Education and Science in 2020 is 1 percent of the total expenditure of the Ministry, or almost €7,7 million. The largest amount, though, is the funds needed to co-finance the European Union's Erasmus+ and other programmes, and more than half a million euro is funding for the national youth policy programme, although funding for this programme is declining, the overall amount of funding is increasing and - which is important - the principles of support have changed. The funding that is already clearly visible in the budgetary process for the youth policy programme will enable the necessary support for youth organisations, especially those working at national level, to be strengthened and provided. Yes, of course, it should be added that it is important to continue working to increase the amount of funding available in the basic budget, because only in this way can long-term and planned work with young people, development and support for youth organisations be ensured so that they can plan their work and activities in a more targeted way. But more importantly, we have moved from one-off annual payments, different additions, to youth organisations' perspective and planning at least in the medium term - in a three-year perspective. The increase in funding for youth policy will not be based on the so-called parliamentary quotas, as before. It is another kind of policy (interoperable), for which I thank the involved and the Ministry of Education and Science. The other thing I would like to outline is our commitment to strengthening civil society in Latvia. By promoting the development of civil society, strengthening the NGO sector, I would remind you that this year, 2019, additional funding for the NGO fund was found. And the funding continues. Also in 2020, the national budget programme 'NGF' for the development of civil society has been made available among the main measures, in particular by supporting interest-protective initiatives. The increase in funding to ensure the functioning of the NGO fund is €800,000. Together with the existing 400 thousand, for the first time, the ceiling of one million is exceeded, amounting to a total of 1.2 million euros. In this work, too, I would like to thank - especially the Ministry of Environmental Protection and Regional Development and the Ministry of Culture - for finding and planning funding for the Fund. Although I have heard Members say that strengthening civil participation is not necessary and should not be one of the priorities of the National Development Plan, we are doing the opposite and will support the initiatives and participation of non-governmental sectors and citizens at all levels. And, also in the context of the National Development Plan, this must continue to be done. We, “Development/About!” We believe that civil participation has a positive impact on the legislative process and should continue to support it. The NGO fund is, of course, not the only support mechanism, but an important objective of the programme. The aim of the programme is to promote the sustainable development of civil society in Latvia, to support activities in the processes of participation and cooperation of citizens, to ensure democratic state governance and participation of the wider public in issues of importance to society, as well as to ensure quality and decision-making process in accordance with the interests of society. There are many challenges, and it is good that funding is growing. In commenting on the fact that this budget does not support any particular organisation, I would like to say that it is an old policy. The new policy is to work towards increasing co-financing for programmes and can be divided into honest, open competitions, where any non-governmental organisation can start. In this way won ideas - the best ideas! - Not organizations. The NGO fund is administered by the Society Integration Fund. I hope that this summer's change in the Law on the Society Integration Fund and the new fund, which has just been chosen in an open competition, will help to create the Society Integration Fund as a modern, open and civil society-enhancing institution that will be able to implement the NGO Foundation's programme with increased funding in a high-quality way in order to promote more active civil initiatives and to promote cooperation between society and the state. Commenting on what one colleague said earlier about the SIF manager, I still believe in open competitions that select the heads of institutions in our country, because there is no better mechanism in place than an open competition. If critics have doubts about the course of the competition and are talking about violations, put these facts on the table instead of talking empty from the Saeima station! Contact law enforcement authorities if you have information about violations! I do not think that the fact that a candidate's spouse is a high state official is a reason to refuse to take up an open competition in which the candidate's professionalism is assessed in three rounds. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. I. Zarins: “What has to do with the budget?” ) And this cannot prevent us from operating in an area where excellent results have been achieved in the past. Even more, it is a pleasure to read that people in various sectors are very much in favour of the candidate chosen. ( Internouncing call.) I really hope that SIF - stronger SIF! - will also contribute to a better implementation of the NGO fund programme. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. I. Zarins: “It already helps!” ) Only 5 percent of Latvians currently operate in non-governmental organisations that are able to participate and influence decision-making in state and local government institutions. Public participation in the work of NGOs and participation in general requires civic education, stable funding, effective communication and better use of existing cooperation mechanisms. We are working on improving all these things and will continue our efforts to promote participation. Active youth organisations and strong non-governmental organisations promote not only the involvement of the general public in various activities, but also help to improve the quality of the decision-making process and the quality of the decisions themselves in local governments, executive level and the Saeima. I hope that this funding for youth policy and NGO sector will help to strengthen Latvian civil society, both children, young people and adults' activity and growth. I hope that interinstitutional cooperation will continue to improve in order to achieve the objectives set. Thank you. I call for support for the budget for next year at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-30-PT13-2015-U101	Name to Member Igor Pimenov.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-30-PT13-2015-U102	Hello! Dear President, Resurrection members of the government! Honourable Members! The first reading of the draft budget is the rare moment on the Saeima's agenda, when you can talk about strategic development goals, goals, means and measures of Latvia's economy. The budget focuses on government policy in the economic and financial field. In fact, it is a debate about the economy. As at the end of January, we are having a foreign policy debate. Development indicators for a healthy economy are aimed at two objectives: a high per capita gross domestic product and a low level of social inequality. For billions of people's poverty, humanity is paying a high economic and social price. Poverty is even more devastating if it is accompanied by a challenging luxury. Tens of revolutions and wars had to take place, so that the demand to prevent or at least reduce social inequalities would no longer be seen as crazy, revolutionary, empty-minded and as a norm in a democratic state. It has become absolutely clear in the 21st century that social wealth and social equality are interrelated. The post-crisis decade has struck illusions about the omnipotence of the invisible hand of the market and has led the country to assume a high level of responsibility both for economic development and for reducing social inequalities. From this high level of demand, I also call for an analysis of the three-year budgetary framework, as well as the next year's budget. So, what will be the gross domestic product per capita and what can be the level of inequality? Draft legislation does not specifically include these indicators, but merely refers to an estimated gross domestic product of EUR 33 billion and an increase in GDP. This year it is projected at 3.2 per cent and next year at 2.8 per cent. Meanwhile, per capita gross domestic product was the fifth lowest in the European Union in 2018: 29 901 international dollar. Less for Greece, Romania, Croatia and Bulgaria. The Gini coefficient, which is known to represent the income inequality of the population, increased by one percentage point in 2018, from 34.5 to 35,6 in the previous year, and now in Europe only Lithuania and Bulgaria are ahead of us. For Estonia, the Gini ratio is 30.6 for Europe on average 29.0 and for Sweden 25.0. A World Bank Growth Survey was published in 2008. This shows that in order for the State to double its income over 10 years, it is necessary to ensure continuous growth on average of 7 per cent per year. Seven! One of the most important findings of this report is that such a rate of growth can be achieved if the total level of investment in the country reaches 25 per cent of gross domestic product every year, including private and public investment and investing another 7 per cent of GDP in education and health. So a total of 32 percent of GDP. Meanwhile, the share of investment in Latvia in 2019 is 23.8 per cent, next year, in 2020, it will be 24.1 per cent, in 2021 – 24.5 per cent, and then in 2022 – 24.9 per cent. Moreover, the answer to my question was: these 24 percent include expenditure on education and health. Consequently, the investment rate is 24 per cent of GDP rather than 32 per cent. The difference between the World Bank recommendation and the investment level in Latvia is 8 percentage points. So Latvia needs a further EUR 2 billion of investment of EUR 652 million, so that the economy can run and grow to 7 percent per year. Conclusion: insufficient investment policy leads to insufficient budgetary revenue growth. This is also the cause of the lack of money in healthcare and education! How to increase investment in the Latvian economy? The current economic development policy was based on attracting private investment and limited to macro-economic stabilisation, in the hope that private money will enter the real economy. However, we can see that even if this happens, this process is short-lived and the increase in private investment is being replaced by a fall. In this context, the priority of investment policy should be to increase public investment. There are two reasons for this. Firstly, public investment is necessary to increase domestic demand and to motivate private investment. Secondly, public funding is a source of security of investment in sectors and private investment is therefore always welcome to follow the public. According to the World Bank study, in order to ensure a high level of total investment and attract private sector investment, public investment in public infrastructure accounted for around 7 per cent of GDP annually in all fast growing countries. Meanwhile, Latvia's state investment in 2020 is estimated at 1.6 billion, which is less than 5 percent. Insufficient public investment policy leads to insufficient budgetary revenue growth. What economic development instruments still exist in Latvia after it was not given the opportunity to use monetary and active fiscal policy in the European Union? Without State aid for the development of a real economy, including real state investment in the share capital of companies, only tax policy remains at the disposal of the State. On the other hand, in the second budget in a row, the government has not changed its taxes on labour, allowing economic operators, in the opinion of the government, to “peacely” (footsteps!) work. That proves... I say again what I said at the previous sitting of the Saeima, when we just passed on to the commission of draft laws... This demonstrates that the government only considers taxation to be a fiscal tool, ignoring the fact that tax policy is a powerful tool for entrepreneurship and overall economic development. The firm policy shows that the government is not seeking to increase tax revenues. Firstly, income which exceeds income recognised as high or very high is not taxed at a higher tax rate. Secondly, there is no extension of the taxable income base. The shift of the tax burden from low income to high income, coupled with an even greater increase in the tax burden on particularly high personal income, can be ensured by the application of the principle of progressiveity, which, although cowardly, began in 2018. With regard to the tax, the word ‘progressive’ does not mean ‘evidence’, but rather ‘progressive’. In implementing such a tax policy, a higher rate is applied to each future increase in income. It's not a dive! The mechanism for distributing the tax burden ensures economic fairness, which means that those who have made the free market more able to earn have to give more to society. Historically, in all countries, taxation on a progressive basis has developed into ideological struggles, economic interests and political conflicts. The 20th century began with such social upheavals that in most developed countries governments have introduced progressive tax, but the Battals have not been calmed still today. The lobby of corporations and their interests is opposed to progressive tax. They work more actively where they are not opposed, where the workforce is poorly organised, where the traditions of democracy have been weakened or even disappeared. And there is also evidence of this in all 15 emerging countries that were formed instead of the Soviet Union, including Latvia. Today, with irony, we can read about organisations that express the interests of large recipients of income in the same arguments. And the main way is to put the interests of your group in the interests of society as a whole. There is no desire to pay more taxes on its own in the budget, so it is assumed that the victims will be all citizens, because their monthly income will fall. But they are wrong. The progressive tax, when implemented consistently, will allow to reduce the tax on low income in Latvia. After tax, most people in Latvia will have more money left in their wallets! And they won't bring this money to the bank, but to the shops. There will be increased demand in the internal market, entrepreneurs will have the basis to invest in their own production facilities, to promote economic growth. Progressive personal income tax will motivate entrepreneurs to leave the shadow of the economy. If progress were to continue and the high income rate increased, the rate could be further reduced for a very large number of paid workers below the average. The costs for businesses will decrease, and entrepreneurs will have less reason to hide in the shadow of the economy. No measures similar to this are planned by the government either in the next year or in the next three years. Only by applying the principle of progressiveity in the taxation of personal income can the regressive system, which is at the heart of inequality, be corrected. The tax system in each country carries out three tasks: the first - provides revenue in the state budget; the second - influences, i.e. regulates the economic activity of entrepreneurship and the third, most important in the context of this negotiation - particularly offset differences in income of individual groups. Since the restoration of independence in Latvia, the tax system of the third of these functions has never seriously performed. It was a good thing for the ruling elite. In Latvia, the principle common in Western Europe is not working and has never worked, that everyone has to bear the same heavy tax burden as they have. Organisations such as the International Monetary Fund, the World Bank, the Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development have already pointed out this. Therefore, one recently known businessman in Latvia continues to say that Latvia is a country where it is cheap to be rich. Low public funding for health care is a striking blow to social equality. The analysis of the World Health Organisation shows that at least 5 per cent of GDP can be considered a necessary financing of the health budget. On the other hand, when drawing up next year's budget, without respecting the principle of legitimate expectations, the government has ignored even the norms already contained in national laws, including the financing of health care. I therefore call on the government to withdraw this draft budget and to present a new one in line with the laws previously adopted. This budget does not respond to the challenges of time. It is materially weak, health care and education stunting and politically numb. It cannot be supported! Thank you. (Applause)
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-30-PT13-2015-U103	Name to Member Ivan Ribakov.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-30-PT13-2015-U104	Dear Bureau! Prime Minister! Dear Ministers, Colleagues! Last year, the newly elected Saeima adopted a so-called technical budget. This year, all Members have the opportunity to work differently to fulfil their electoral promises, but the Saeima troupe is most often used to find and condemn the perpetrators. Today we also heard: Riga City Council is responsible for everything, maybe Jelgava City Council or... Artus about some Aivars and Alexander... But yet we have been elected in the Saeima to work for men, not to judge and blame. The government has failed to respect the principle of legitimate expectations when drawing up its budget for 2020. Yes, the law is harsh, but it is the law! I therefore call on the Government to withdraw this draft budget and to present a new one in line with previously adopted legislation or to correct the existing one and two readings by carefully examining all the amendments tabled. Our group's proposals will have many good ideas that can really be implemented. ‘ No money” - bad argument. Their money can be found, for example, from the funds allocated to lots. Until the promises made to voters have been fulfilled, pending compliance with the statutory obligations to raise wages for nurses and educators, political parties should not grant themselves an advance at the expense of voters' confidence. I hope that we are not Members of the cardboard and that we will be able to correct the mistakes. Thank you. (Applause)
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-30-PT13-2015-U105	The name is Mr. Wallary Ageshin.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-30-PT13-2015-U106	Dear colleagues, The draft law “On the State Budget for 2020”, as well as the draft laws accompanying it, raises several questions and comments on these documents. Unfortunately, there is a habit in Latvia to say everything in mind before the elections, but then pretend that it was just a pre-election rhetoric. It turns out that the drawing up of the state budget can also be achieved by promising everything, but not even mentioning it later. Now, when analysing the draft state budget, it is clear that the trick of a public relationship with a new policy is unsuccessful, because the promises made during the pre-elections are forgotten as a misunderstood misunderstanding. Moreover, the laws and regulations of the government do not reflect not only the promises of pre-election, but even the tasks of the Saeima. The 2020 budget is therefore a budget of hypocrisy and disappointment. But regardless of their budget, many people in Latvia now have bitter taste in their mouth. Voters had great expectations of the new forces, but the sunny times of happiness had not come, and the sweet foam taste has been replaced by a cheese of bread. Before the elections, almost all parties have promised to support the timetable for raising teachers' salaries. But what do we see in reality? The Ministry of Education and Science is going to have a reduction of €3.2 million! It should be borne in mind that an additional EUR 23 million has been allocated to raise teachers' salaries for the previous timetable, which is true. All this - by the end of this school year. And to ensure it from September, maybe the rest of the child’s lunch money will have to be taken away. The Minister of Education and Science, Ilga Šuplinska, could already sense her attitude to sport in the first days of her activities, when she encouraged the suspension of funding for sports facilities. And the logical continuation of this policy is a million euros... reduction in the sports sector next year. Neither the Law on Higher Education nor the Law on Scientific Activities nor the norms on the increase of salaries of university teachers and annual increase of funding by 0.25 per cent of GDP for higher education and at least 0.15 per cent for scientific activities are observed. There is no provision for 1.5 per cent of GDP funding for science that has long been promised. The budget of victorious and disillusioned is also the budget for doctors who decided on the increase in the salary that will not be provided 13. The Saeima. Moreover, unanimously. In addition to medical wages, there will be EUR 41.8 million, which, however, is far too little for the promised 20% increase in the lowest wages. The total budget increase of the Ministry of Health is 33.5 million, which is less than the medical salary supplement, and therefore patients should not have too much hope of improving the availability of the services promised and reducing the number of rows in hospitals and clinics. On the area of welfare. In the field of welfare, the priority seems to be increasing the minimum income level from 53 to 63 euros, but the adequacy of the norm is likely to be assessed by the Constitutional Court. The EUR 8.2 million dedicated to municipal reform could be perceived with shared feelings. It could perhaps be agreed and applauded if the underlying money were spent on, for example, the creation of appropriate infrastructure for the joint functioning of new municipalities, but it seems that the lion's court will simply be filled with bureaucracy. Thus, regional development money will, to a large extent, simply remain in the Old Town. Another serious problem is that, as a matter of urgency, the draft law "Amendments to the Law on the Financing of Political Organisations (Parties)" is discussed. My comments and my views on this draft legislative act are as follows: first of all, I, like several of my colleagues and my colleagues and representatives of other parties, also argued for a reduction in the impact of sponsors' money on real policy, but I believe that this should take place within a reasonable framework, providing a level playing field for policy actors. The move towards such amendments is to be seen as a political mistake for the coalition: there is no doubt here, because the politicians who rule themselves provide for themselves a "golden cushion" so as not to say a "golden parachute". From ethical requirements, such an idea must come not to the coalition, but to the author of this idea. In this case, President Levit. The draft amendments were not properly discussed in society, which naturally caused a wide range of counter-responses and public dissatisfaction. The urgent draft law was not properly discussed in the Saeima as well, and it seems that it will not be discussed. The entry into force of such amendments is, in my view, only applicable at the time when the next Saeima was convened, i.e. to 14. Come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, But in general, if the “uncompromising rule of law” coalition adopts this law, it will only reinforce public dissatisfiedness, it will create the current legal and political Brother, who will not contribute to the stability of democracy in Latvia and public confidence in parliament. I think that this money can be directed at doctors, education workers and pensioners. Overall, when drawing up the budget for 2020, I believe that the principle of legitimate expectations has not been respected by the government, i.e. it has ignored the norms laid down in several laws without amending them in draft laws accompanying the budget. Moreover, the government has not only failed to comply with the laws, but has also, in substance, violated the Constitution by explicitly ignoring the decisions of the Saeima. I believe that such government action undermines Latvia as a legal state on its own merits. I would like to inform you that the good intentions of me and my fellow Members today, tomorrow and tomorrow will be put on paper with all the calculations and estimates, and I hope that the second reading will be supported within the framework of the draft law on the national budget for 2020. In any case, we want to open a serious discussion on the proposals at second reading, because it cannot be that Members of the Saeima have no mention of specific budget lines in the parliamentary republic. ( Interface: “There’s no one! ” ) Think about it. Thank you for your attention. (Applause)
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-30-PT13-2015-U107	The name of the Member, John Adamson. Mr. Adamson! I'm sorry. The name of the Member, Lubov Svekov.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-30-PT13-2015-U108	Thank you, ladies. Ladies and gentlemen, What is the secret of this government and, in particular, of the Minister for Finance, Mr Reira, when presenting this budget package to this Saeima? There are several such secrets. First. Obedience to blackmail of the New Conservative Party introduces, in an absurd and distorted way, a differentiated non-observable minimum, resulting in the loss of 2.5 million orphans and other children without parental care, as the increase in child support will not be ensured; 43 professional athletes working in the Ministry of the Interior will not be guaranteed in the future... social guarantees; 27 million are not found to ensure implementation of the concept of a minimum income level at the pre-planned level. The second secret. The real beneficiaries of such a budgetary framework will be those who are in the shadow economy, because the differentiated non-taxable minimum is Karini's support for low-wage entrepreneurs; it contributes to maintaining a low value-added or low-cost labour economy, favours the envelope wage sector, reduces the competitiveness of companies that legally pay normal wages. And most importantly, it is a myth that the differentiated non-deductible minimum introduced by the New Conservative Party reduces inequality. It even slightly increases it among persons with and without dependants! Whoever, but Mr. Reira should know what are those shadow economic workers who, by enslaving workers and paying minimum wages, will continue to cheat on envelope wages! Because under the auspices of the Ministry of Finance, there is a Department for the Coordination of the Prevention of the Shadow Economy. In total, tax losses related to envelope salaries amounted to 1.07 billion last year, even more than a year earlier, when tax losses in this way amounted to €927.01 million. The Commission therefore As Mr Reira headed the financial restaurant, the shadow economy began to grow from 2012 onwards, but in 2018 it reached a new record of 24.2 percent of GDP. And now the last, third, secret is about the lack of funding for health. Whoever, but Mrs. Viņķele should know that her party member in the Cabinet now, Mr. Puce, the Minister for Environmental Protection and Regional Development, is taking an active part in increasing the number of employees in the state apparatus by creating the VARAM... The Environmental Investment Fund, the Green Investment Fund, under which... It is planned to establish such a sub-unit, which, in turn, will manage EUR 60 million by attracting to a private partner. So the funds are - 60 million, which will be redeployed in the interests of private capital, not for doctors, educators or orphans! Ladies and gentlemen, if you have internal respect, and ladies and gentlemen, if you have that honour! ‘ Dura lex, sed lex” – “The law is harsh, but it is still the law”. Follow this and do not support this budget package. Thank you. (Applause)
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-30-PT13-2015-U109	Name to Member Edgar Kucin.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-30-PT13-2015-U110	Hello, honourable Speaker of the Saeima! Government! Hello, colleagues! At the end of the summer, the Minister for Education and Science came with a new initiative on how to use local government funds even more (Intersor.) , - from January next year, stop financing on the state budget for the full amount of the most recent classes of the holiday. The Minister did not consider it necessary to ask the municipalities whether they could afford such expenses. The Ministry of Education and Science seems to have an ambitious intention to manage the municipality’s mayors in the preparation of the 2020 budget. At first, it seemed that it was perhaps an attempt to test the patience of local governments. The reaction of municipalities was unequivocal: the transfer of new functions to them without funding should not be allowed. Unfortunately, this was not heard, and today the government is already proposing to us a draft budget law, which provides that the state will not fund full-scale meals for pupils from grades 1 to 4. This will put an additional burden on municipalities and will have to abandon projects previously planned. For example, Daugavpils City Council now urgently needs to find a budget of 400 thousand, but for these funds it could repair a special primary school building and create a new preschool educational institution there, reducing rows to kindergartens. The decision to provide a holiday for all primary school students was made by the government, committed to providing them from the state budget, so today's government's actions, unable to find funding for their commitments, - making local governments increasingly new and new functions - makes me think of a "ball" at the expense of others. We invited the guests, but we sent a bill for it to our neighbor. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. (A. Neighbourhood sub-scenario) The government has failed to respect the principle of legitimate expectations when drawing up its budget for 2020. In other words, he has ignored a number of legal norms. Therefore, I call on the government to withdraw this draft budget and to present a new one in accordance with the laws previously adopted, otherwise such government actions are fundamentally undermining Latvia as a democratic and legal state. Thank you. (Applause)
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-30-PT13-2015-U111	The name of the Member, John Adamson.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-30-PT13-2015-U112	Dear colleagues, To paraphrase one song of old sailors, I would like to say that “the small boater is swimming by the sea and not sinking to the bottom”... and so on, continuing that yet “put down on the bottom”. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. I. Zarins: “Why don’t you go down – tell me!” ) Where is the problem of our government and... if we are talking about this budget? The problem is very simple: the government does not work as a team. At least I don't feel that. I would like to understand what the priorities are in this budget. What is our priority, and what money is it about? Our ship, the country of Latvia, is not yet fully understood after the deep crisis in which it arrived in 2008, 2009. ( The head of the sitting was knocked down with a hammer.) This is the biggest problem. But our captains don't know where to go, where there is a port, nor what are those travelers who will help to reach this port. We can talk a lot, debate... but on draft laws... But the thing is, the ship that's sucked is put in one place. After that, the pump appears in the second, third place, and as a result it sinks. What are we doing? We buy arms. Two percent of what is intended for protection is undoubtedly very important and necessary, and for these 2 percent we stand up for... our group was still standing up when Mr Pabrik defended the 0.98 percentage points budget. Because we believe that all international treaties, the laws adopted in the Saeima, must be enforced. They shall not be derogated from. Unfortunately, however, when it comes to priorities, I do not see these priorities. We have adopted the concept of protection. One of the points in the concept of protection requires remuneration in power structures to be adequate and non-discriminatory. What is the situation today? The cadet, who joins the Border Guard College, receives EUR 400, EUR 455 if we are accurate; the cadet, who joins the Academy of Defence, receives EUR 800. The instructor who starts carrying out his duties in the border guard shall receive EUR 800, the same as the cadet. We want quality. We have discussed a lot about a semi-Maphiosic state, about the system that was created by the Ministry of Justice, about the mafia of court administrators and many other things. Why can its system and its corruption flourish? The answer is very simple - because we have abolished the only vocational training institution that prepared specialists. And this budget also does not provide resources to restore the only vocational training institution where these specialists could be trained. There is no interaction between sectors in the budget, Mr Kariņš. At the meeting of the Commission yesterday, I asked the Minister of Defence, Mr Pabriks, "Yes, you have a budget increase, a very sharp increase, - 663 million against the Ministry of the Interior 415 million, although the tasks and responsibilities assigned to the institutions under the Ministry of the Interior are much greater than those of the Ministry of Defence. But what is the contribution from the budget of the Ministry of Defence, from this increase to the Latvian economy?” The answer was very interesting, unique: “You see, our contribution is in taxes... on what we spend in shops and the like.” But if this budget had also been well balanced, the defence budget had provided support for the construction of infrastructure, had it been planned and provided support to the same border guards for the purchase of form, for the purchase of machinery, because in the event of an emergency, in the event of war, they would be transferred to the armed forces... And it's elementary, but it's not done because I think I need the brain there and I need to think about it. We do not think about what it means to invest in border care. Some figures. Last year, more than 200 border offenders were detained at the green border, whereas this year their number has decreased by three quarters. What does this bring to our public budget indirectly? This means that there is no need to spend funds and resources on bringing those detained to their places, and no need to spend funds and resources to interrogate and feed them, care for them and ultimately send them to their homeland... the country of origin. They are not even hundreds of thousands; they are millions of euros. But what happens now? Now, directly, indirectly, cases are being initiated against the current or former management of the border guard and one of the rare professional bodies that have remained in our country is being destroyed. Colleagues! If we want to achieve something in the country, then we need to see the interaction between all public authorities, what is the contribution, the possible contribution from one or the other body, either directly or indirectly. Then we could understand the growth and development of that country. As long as we are dealing with thirst, as long as we have our priorities, we will not see what these relationships are, the interaction between security, the economy, the social sphere, nor will we have any growth. As long as the captain doesn't know his ship, in this case, the country... As long as we do not know what we really want to achieve, then we can debate here to madness. And then I think of a poem about Cinderella, Latvia as Cinderella. ‘ Cinderella, time is the time... “ I’m sorry. ( A humiliation.) Imposition: “I will open it to you! ” Open the water bottle and pour into a glass of water.) “ Cinderella, time is the time... “ I don’t think I can finish, ” he says. Dear colleagues, I call on both the government and the Prime Minister to study the substance of the budget, its interactions, causes and consequences, and only then to see how much can be given. Can we find the money for doctors? Can we find the educators? Can we find security? Naturally, all of this can be found. Just to understand the causes and consequences. Thank you. (Applause)
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-30-PT13-2015-U113	Name to Member Viktor Valain.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-30-PT13-2015-U114	Hello, honourable Speaker of the Saeima! Mr. Prime Minister! Ministers! Colleagues! The Prime Minister called this budget an approach to the Nordic model. The Prime Minister has also said, of course, that this is the biggest budget in the history of the country. However - is this budget really approaching the Nordic model? And yet, in this budget... Today's speeches, I would say, even such shouting about the problems that affect this budget is justified. I think that is so, and I will touch some of them. Of course, the budget is big. But I think it's not so big as to be proud of it. If we look at our Estonian neighbours in which we are heading, they have a budget of almost 2 billion more. The population, as you know well, is not as large as in our country, it is smaller, but the budget is more. Similarly, if we look at the other side, as we are going to Lithuania with economic development, as Mr Znotiņš said from the tribunal today, it is still 4 percent. Then the question is: why do we not have this 4 per cent, why do we fall in these growth rates in recent years? ( The drug is noise. Depp. Mr Gobzem: "Mr. Mūrniece, do you not want to put the order in place?" ) As regards education, colleagues. Education is, in my opinion, a very important issue in this budget package. And I would ask you to remember... I am convinced that some of my colleagues were also involved in the negotiations that took place at the beginning of this year. It was in Jelgava, where there was an optimisation of the school network, accompanied by strikes, pickets, and long conversations. To start these conversations, there was a year of work, carrying out research and analysing... The Minister of Education has also been involved, and has also participated in these negotiations - in the final phase, however, he has participated. The decision was followed by judicial action and, of course, all of this came to an end at some point. It is September, the optimisation of the school network has been carried out, successfully carried out, and in the city training takes place in the usual way. There is also a bright example where the government, too, is the previous government... and there, Mr Kariņš, it was your colleague, Mr Shadursky, who also did - I would say - not even close. It was a reorganisation of one educational institution. And it was, in my opinion, more than a year of talking about one educational institution. Picket, requests in the Saeima, debate in the Saeima - all this was about one educational institution. But, of course, these talks are never easy, and they do not intend to be easy. However, in this budget, the Saeima, my fellow Members, you are giving a mandate... You are now giving a mandate to the government to decide on the size of schools and also on the closure of schools. Not only will the school be financed from the state budget in the future, but also will it be or will it not be. And it's inside this bill... the budget package... which has nothing to do with the budget package. Highly honored National Union! You too... In the past, Raivis Dzintars, speaking on behalf of the Group, stressed that we, the opposition, are somehow talking here about political things that should not be in a coalition. Colleagues, I do not want to be in such a coalition if such decisions are made. And this decision... I'll explain to you right away... The responsible commission - the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission - headed by Mārtiņš Bondars, brings together representatives of the Ministry and speaks on this subject and asks to name the figures. Minister for Education and Science Šuplinska... I was listening to an audio record this morning. Ms Šuplinsk asks: "How many schools could there be that do not meet these criteria?" That means that they should be closed. Šuplinsk’s answer: “From 600 schools, 300 do not meet these criteria.” So half of our country's schools do not meet these criteria. The party should be closed. But, of course, the Latvian Municipal Union comes up with its own figures. They are a little more precise. Namely, from the figures of the Local Government Union of Latvia... If you look at secondary schools, - from 279 secondary schools 176 should be switched off because they don't meet the criteria. If you look at the primary schools that you are offering to decide about today, 160 out of 270 should be turned off. Colleagues! Let's remember what... how long the debate is about one school, how long the debate in the government is about one educational institution. At the moment, in the budget package, you are giving half the school a mandate. We include such a question and we simply want to make a decision in two readings?Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, In the previous Saeima, I remember there were such decisions too, but what was the debate in the Saeima! Three readings! And that was not in any budget package. In three readings, as long as Members had full confidence on which they voted! And it was about the high school network. At the moment, you simply decide not to go into the details. I am convinced that only a few of the Members who will vote in favour of the budget today have gone into these figures and understand what that means. The fact that the minister says... The Commission has also confirmed that this will not be the case. From the outset, we need to be clear about how we will and then make such decisions. I believe that this article should be closed out of the Education Law. I do not believe that this can be voted on and put to the budget package. The next issue I want to touch on is the funding of the parties. Colleagues! If you need it, you need it. But the question is the way it happens. Education... In the Commission of Public Administration and Local Government... The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. R. Synthesis of amber.) Mr Dzintara, I am talking about the way, not about the principle. If you wanted to increase, you could simply increase this number. But you come up with healthy amendments - amendments to the law! - who will see who will be able to receive and how to spend. Also, various delegations to the government... It is a question of respect for questions. And is this in line with the Nordic model - the fact that such issues are so important questions... Nobody here in the hall denies that this is an important question... are adopted in two readings in the budget package without public involvement? Colleagues! I am not opposed to the progress of this issue. I am against the way in which this happens. This was to happen with three readings being debated. It is already clear that the law we have now adopted will undoubtedly have an impact on small political parties. Of course, you may wish consolidation of Latgale Party, Liepaja Party, Tukums Party. This will have an impact on such regional - strong, long-term - regional parties. Is that your goal? I don't think so. This bill could have been drafted in a normal way - in three readings. And the previous speaker already mentioned... One of the previous speakers said that it should not have been hidden, it should also have been a bill tabled by the President. Not that the commission asks who is the author of the bill... It's not a boord. It turns out that Kučinskis is, it was a great surprise to me. But the coalition... Then the coalition says the President. Who, then, is the author? So, in the course of the examination of this draft law, we did not come to these answers (Internext.) But we came to several... on a series of cases that are not correct in this draft law. And I strongly doubt that you will debate it by the very nature of the second reading. And, Prime Minister, the Nordic example, the model - is this model also predicting that the signatures collected by 10 000 people, the very short-term collection of what... These are - draw attention! - not that they are opposed to an increase in party funding; they are opposed to a decision that this increase in funding is being made for this term. They are in favour of increasing funding for the parties. But not by 700 percent. Colleagues! Of course, also about municipalities. It is very nice to say that the local authorities, all the local authorities, have secured growth. Undoubtedly, it is. But you forget to say that these municipalities have been reduced from the beginning by base and then by money. If we look at absolute numbers, it is not an increase but a reduction. Of the planned 19,6 percent of municipalities currently receive 18,8 percent... Colleagues, if you think that this will not have an impact on the population of the regions... it will undoubtedly have an impact on the population of the regions! No one has removed any of the functions of municipalities. It is quite the other way round - local governments have come here. If we look at what will then be the first to suffer... The basic function of municipalities must be fulfilled, and no one can give up on them. Voluntary functions are where there is a possibility to vary. What will happen then? What, then, are its voluntary functions? It is primarily various forms of social assistance. Colleagues! Next year, I think that very many municipalities will be forced to make painful decisions that will affect precisely social responsibility. If you take this grant away from the target municipalities, the target equalisation grant, it means you take this money from the regions. It is from where the money is most needed. If we look at the situation between Riga and the regions, Mr. Kariņš, you will certainly know that the standard of living in Latgale and Riga is three times different. In Kurzeme there is no other - 2.5 times, also in Zemgale - 2.5 times. That's the difference. And with this budget, unfortunately, this difference does not even even level up a little, but - quite the other way down - goes down. A moment ago, I mentioned 4 percent growth in Lithuania and our drop. Some time ago, Peter Strautiņš, an economist... I had the honour to meet him... The presentation showed... asked for these reasons. One of the main reasons, in principle, the main reason - the 20 per cent rate of GDP, the share of our economy, was construction, construction. At the moment, during your management, it has fallen by 4 because local authorities are not being given the opportunity to make the relevant investments in the regions (which have fallen sharply), and this also creates this picture. You should - quite the other way round - look for a way to secure investment in the regions! I am not talking about some perplexed projects, bikes, parks and so on, I am talking about educational institutions, which Mr Reira has already mentioned. But that's not enough, there should be more. I am talking about the business support infrastructure that is needed to allow the development of business, jobs in the regions. I am talking about housing programmes, about the construction of new houses, which unfortunately does not appear in this budget. Finally, health. Colleagues! Here I have to say that health is what... They are not promises before the elections or after the elections, they are backed up by laws. The Health Care Financing Act has been approved unanimously by the Saeima. And now that this law has not been fulfilled, I think it's a spit in the face of all our medical staff. I think that the picket of 7 November, which is likely to be joined by a large number of regional representatives, is also going to pick up at the Saeima on 7 November... I think Mr Kariņš should come and tell you how much money is being put into the health sector. Undoubtedly, it's very big... A lot of money. But, in my opinion, it is rather hypocritical to say that you will participate in the moral support of doctors - as Mrs Viņķele said. Your hands have that power to correct this error. They are you, not someone else who has to correct this error. Colleagues! The most important thing is that health will not disappear anywhere - there will be doctors, there will be nurses. Only the question is whether it will be a public service, which is then the Nordic model, or whether it will be private clinics, which are currently developing very rapidly. Why not develop them? There is such a favorable environment to do so. Private clinics grow turnover every year. And I think that this policy, which is aimed at reducing schools, reducing hospitals... It is just a matter of time - when we will have paid education. And for medicine too, there is only a matter of time, which is no longer a matter of time: we already have paid medicine. People are already forced to go to private clinics to get normal health care. Colleagues! I cannot support such a budget. This budget (Dep. A. Neighbours: “You can’t do it at all!” ) Latvian economy, Latvian society, does not benefit at all. ( Internouncing call.) Colleagues! I call for this budget not to be supported! ( Milestones.)
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-30-PT13-2015-U115	Mr Kazinovsky, would you have five minutes to debate? ( Internouncing call.) So we are continuing the debate after a break. Please call me! Please check-in mode for Members! ( The ring of noise.) Name to Marija Golubeva, member of the Saeima Secretary, for reading the results of the registration.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-30-PT13-2015-U116	Not registered: Raimonds Bergmanis, Inese Ikstena, Artuss Kaimiņš... Yes (Interface: Yes!) ), Andrejs Clementyev (interruption: ‘ Yes!’ )... Yes, Dana Reizniece–Ozola and Jānis Vucans.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-30-PT13-2015-U117	Thank you. Interruption until 16.30 a.m. ( Interruption)
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-30-PT13-2015-U118	Honourable Members! We're continuing the Saeima sitting after a break. We are continuing the debate. Name to Member Andris Kazinovskis.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-30-PT13-2015-U119	Dear Chairman of the Saeima. Dear colleagues, Mr. Prime Minister! Ministers! Practically since its accession to the European Union (Sitting Manager knocks down with a hammer.) We have the opportunity to compare how our country has developed. One of the main criteria is gross domestic product per capita. Figures for 2018. In Estonia, it represents 81 percent of the European Union average per capita, and also in Lithuania, it represents 81 percent of the European Union average. In Latvia it is 70 percent. In addition, there are very different regional development opportunities. These differences are also characterised by this GDP indicator. In Latgale - 40, in the other regions - a little more. I would like to ask Mr Kariņš to think about it because this government has a very serious mission. Mission! Because the next programming period begins - from 2021. This year and next year... This is the year in which the relevant documents and negotiations are being prepared with the European Commission on specific funding and access to this funding. Basically, there is the National Development Plan, on which it is currently working, and it is in the public consultation in the government. In the national plan, we know that three strategic objectives have been set. The debate is currently under way and the fourth strategic objective of regional development is also being set. This objective is supported by a number of organisations. We also looked at this issue yesterday at the sub-committee on the development of the municipal system of the National Administration and Local Government Commission, and it was decided in practice that Members would be asked to evaluate and consider and agree on this fourth strategic objective in the National Development Council. Why? This is because it is obviously the time to do so, and this government, no one else, will have the opportunity to change its approach to absorption of structural funds. There are two approaches in the European Union. One is sectoral, through ministries, just as Latvia has always done - has mastered the funds of these Structural Funds in the sectors... in the ministerial section. A second approach is a regional approach. It is also used by many countries where there are regions. Then, given that there is also administrative territorial reform in the process at present, we in the New Conservative Party believe that it is imperative to create administrative regions, state administration regions on the basis of planning regions - Vidzeme, Zemgale, Kurzeme, Latgale and Riga - where each of these regions would then be the basis for receiving funds from these structural funds on a decentralised basis. It is a revolution for many officials, especially this proposal surprises the Trans-European Coordination Centre. For example, at the sub-committee sitting mentioned yesterday, Mr Vilka, the head of this centre, suddenly - okay, perhaps this proposal could be taken into account, but then you are developing a methodology, a procedure for making provision for using this funds in the regions. I must say, then, that the Coordination Centre for the Reconnaissors, which, if I am not mistaken, receives EUR 1.3 million from the budget, is unable to take into account the proposals made by Members and is unable to draw up such a procedure. We, Members, perhaps we could. But I want to say that officials often fail to do their job. Members of the previous Saeima know that very well, but the new Members... I, too, am in touch... and I must say in this regard that it must not be the case that the ministerial officials, when participating in Commission meetings, after Members have specifically put forward their proposals, simply reject them or make arrogant statements - whether they may or may not - but do not come forward with any proposals instead. I hope that this budget will also serve as the basis for these reforms, which are intended to be, in particular, administrative territorial reform. If there are these administrative regions, there will obviously also be an opportunity to make Latvia more balanced in development. Otherwise, if we do not make use of this option, then it is another nine years before the next programming period... Really, the fields will be completely empty... and outlyings. I would like the government to pay attention to this. We Members will, of course, try to keep this in sight. And I believe that the result will be positive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-30-PT13-2015-U120	The name of Member Regina Lochmele-Lunova.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-30-PT13-2015-U121	Hello, honourable Speaker of the Saeima! Dear colleagues, The 2019 budget was referred to as the technical budget. And we already know the name of the budget for 2020 because the Prime Minister himself has said so. In particular, he called the 2020 budget: “Ezelite is no longer to be drawn. ” I think if this donkey had the ability to talk, as it was in the cartoon about Shrek, then he would certainly not say any "I" he would say "OIK!" Because all the talk is about where we're looking for money to increase that poor fiscal space. The answer to whether we had no possibility of enumeration in relation to these charming three letters was not given; the question remained unanswered. I was also surprised by the speeches of representatives of all political groups in the government, who were as though a group's opinions. Because it was not a budget debate, it was a real pre-election speech. And there's a question right away: what's going on? Why do you need to express some confidence that you fulfill the promises you made to your constituents? Perhaps something is happening in the government? Maybe some government... What government party is under threat? We do not yet have any information on this. But I think it was really interesting today, why. If we're talking about the construction that the government called for, then... Unfortunately, Mr. Kariņš is not in the hall (Minimum: ‘ Yes! ; “There is!” ), but I hope that Mr Reira will give him information that I think the Prime Minister was very short today (Prime Minister Kariņš: “I am here!” ) macroeconomic analyses... Oh, sorry, Mr. Karins, thank you. Well, I wanted to address one thing to you - that in your speech today I really did not lack macroeconomic analysis and conclusion on where the Latvian economy is now - whether we are still in the process of economic growth or whether we are already warm enough to allow it to slip gradually down. Because that is exactly what the government is doing in a given economic year. There was no analysis. And the more answers... the question was about your statement that it is this budget that brings us closer to certain standards in Northern Europe. Because the main question, of course, as Mr Adamson said, is about government priorities. If we look at the budget, it is a big question: do we really want to approach Nordic standards, where the socialism of Scandinavia is known to everyone? Do we really want to approach Scandinavian socialism standards? Then why do we only follow some of the recommendations of international organisations? Why do we only follow the Moneyval recommendations, and why do we not follow the OECD recommendations on reducing inequalities and poverty? Why is that? In my opinion, this is a fundamental question that the government does not answer at the moment and cannot justify the budget exactly with such a clear vision and strategy... Where we go with this budget. More! I already mentioned in one of my speeches that according to the opinion of the State Audit Office up to 30 percent of ministerial spending does not correspond to the priorities established by the budget law, because this money is spent on salaries and other needs. The Prime Minister himself said in an interview to Mr Domburs that he very much wanted to carry out an audit of budget expenditure in order to draw up a much better budget. As I understood from today's speech, nothing like that has happened. Audit of public budget expenditure has not been carried out. We need to seriously review the technique of drawing up the budget, and the Ministry of Finance is, of course, responsible for this. For all the reservations that were heard here, for example, from Mrs. Petravičs, that the Ministry of Welfare... that there was something they simply had to do because that was a task from the Ministry of Finance. The entire package of draft laws accompanied by the budget was also dedicated to only one task of the Cabinet of Ministers – to separate some spending positions from the minimum wage. And the question is: does it meet the standards of socialism in Northern Europe, Scandinavia? Because if we look at who wins this untying and who loses it, we can see clearly that no mention is made of the fact that reducing inequality is a priority for us, it is simply not. No one has spoken here, for example, about a draft law such as “Amendments to the Law on Remuneration of Officials and Employees of State and Local Government Institutions”. We had such a strange discussion on this draft law at the Commission of Public Administration and Local Government, because it was as if our commission had to make a decision about it. But it turned out that the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission had already made its decision, so that we had such a formal role. And yet. These amendments set half a million present to the Constitutional Court. I have nothing against it. These same amendments to the law were made... EUR 17 526 per year for one official, namely the Director of the National Data Inspection. I calculated (I'll be happy if I'm wrong) that this way the director's salary will rise by 70 percent. That same draft law took away the possibility of increasing the remuneration for home duty for staff of the Ministry of the Interior, namely police officers, prison workers, as well as border guards. Of course, they explained that they did everything, everything, so that these employees did not insult that in 2021, when the minimum wage will rise to 500 euros, their remuneration will fall by only two cents per hour and they will receive only 88 cents instead of the promised 90 cents per hour. And that's all in the same bill! In principle, it seems like stuff, but it shows the priorities that the government has. Next. The same thing... the legislative package accompanying the budget. For the same unemployed. Mrs Petraviča, I did not, of course, expect statistics from you at the time, but I found it in the public space. When it comes to what will be an incentive to reduce unemployment benefits to stimulate our people to work. It turns out those vacancies... We do not have a workforce, we do not have a workforce, but if we look at statistics, what is in reality? In reality, from all the vacancies that really... the number has increased by 30 percent, but 81 percent of these vacancies are in Riga. 81 percent - in Riga! I hope you know that the largest number and problem of the unemployed is in Latgale. They're all going to Riga? More! You also need to know that the biggest problem of getting a job is for people in categories “50+” and “women”. But it turns out that the largest number of vacancies... Mrs Petraviča, I am addressing you this time! Of course, this is not interesting to you. It is a pity that you, dear viewers, do not see that Mrs Petraviča is now smiling with her colleagues when I say that the greatest demand for labour is in the construction sector and highly qualified workers and masters are demanded. Is this in line with the interests of women category "50+" from Latgale? I don't think so. Next. When it comes to the next draft law, it comes from the budget package, which separates resources from the minimum wage. Mrs Petraviča had to ask whether, at all, it is normal that maintenance in our country is linked to the minimum wage and not to the minimum subsistence and consumption basket. And this is the same question that you are now silent about - the fact that the Ombudsman has brought an action before the Constitutional Court, because he believes that your proposed increase in the GMI to 64 euros is for the most socially vulnerable people in Latvia. Because according to his estimates, which coincides with the World Bank's estimates, it is necessary to meet the basic needs in Latvia for 19.70 euros per day or 594 euros per month. At present, if we count up to two parents, is maintenance in line with the basic needs of the child? Perhaps I am wrong, but then I hope to expect a reasoned justification from you. Last point I would like to make. Of course, images from a fairy tale could be used: to compare a nation or a budget with a yellow, but I think that the most appropriate title for the 2020 budget is an illegal budget. For, I will remind you, when drawing up the budget for 2020, the government has failed to respect the principle of legitimate expectations established by the Constitution. In particular, he ignored the norms contained in several laws, without amending them in the laws accompanying the budget. In this way, the government has not only failed to comply with the laws, but has also violated the Constitution, openly ignoring the decisions of the Saeima. Such government action undermines Latvia as a democratic and legal state. We therefore call on the government to withdraw this draft budget and to submit a new one in line with previously adopted legislation or to submit amendments to the draft budget which are contrary to the proposed draft budget. Dura lex, sed lex - “The law is harsh, but it is still the law”. I very much hope that these words will not be repeated again and again. ( The box “No! ”) ) But I will repeat and do it on a regular basis. Thank you. (Applause)
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-30-PT13-2015-U122	Name of Member Dace Rukšāne-Ščipčinska.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-30-PT13-2015-U123	Hello, colleagues! Today, in the debate on the 2020 budget, I would like to emphasise two things. First. I respect the role of the opposition in the democratic process. The constructive work of the opposition often improves and complements the work of positions by controlling and balancing positions of power. But! Unfortunately, during the process of seeing the budget and other reforms, we can face deliberate or uninformed deception by spreading incorrect or even misleading information to the opposition. I believe that this does not honor the opposition, nor does it improve the quality of the budget and the content of the law. ( The box “Provide! ”) ) Second. A number of sectors... sectoral associations and associations have criticised this budget. This is very important. Thank you for your active position. I have to say that I understand you very well, but unfortunately it has to be concluded that many branches in Latvia have been led to a sad situation for many years. Do our nurses, doctors, teachers, social workers have competitive and respectful wages? Of course not. Of course, it is necessary to increase wages while reducing inequalities in society. However, it is not possible to increase salaries immediately for all to a large extent. Yes, this budget is not perfect, but it means raising the minimum wages of medical professionals, indexing pensions and pension benefits, additional funding for science, increasing pay for employees of state social care centres, support for the Diaspora, support for the media and the introduction of a modern circular economy. Yes, this budget is not perfect, but nevertheless I will vote in favour of the 2020 budget by supporting the positive changes it provides. Colleagues, I call for support! Thank you. (Applause)
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-30-PT13-2015-U124	Name to Member Ilmar Duritis.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-30-PT13-2015-U125	President-in-Office of the Saeima, very much. Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council of Ministers. Honourable Members and Ministers of the Saeima! ( The head of the sitting was knocked down with a hammer.) There is much talk in the society, and especially in the health sector, about how it has happened that the government does not fully comply with the standards laid down in the Health Care Financing Act. I would like to say that, when it asks each of us rhetorically, whether today, if we should vote on whether doctors and medical staff should raise their pay annually and whether or not to increase the funding for health care budgets, I think we would vote very much in the same way. We would alsoidely support this increase. Yes, we may be accused of perhaps not accepting a year ago... whether we have in fact adopted an over-optimistic amendment which has actually been proven impossible to fully implement in the 2020 budget. However, I believe that these amendments, at the end of last year in general, have done more good for the health sector than they did for the worse. I really want to say that we may have given many healthcare workers hope and, to some extent, that hope is completely unfulfilled. But this year's budget, however, included in the government's budget an increase in funding - an unprecedented increase in funding - for the remuneration of medical staff. Similarly, the next budget for 2020 provides for a significant increase in funding for medical workers - 42 million out of a total of 50 million additional funding for the health sector. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. I. Wrinkle: “It is completely empty at an unsubstantiated system!” ) I think it is an indisputable signal that in Latvia, the medical sector and those working in the medical sector are a priority. 1 and also for the Ministry of Health it is a priority No. 1. I would also like to mention some facts that are irrefutable. That is, already in the budget for 2020, on the basis of general government expenditure on health care, we will reach the statutory threshold of 4 per cent of GDP. Yes, it is a great pity that there can be no increase in the prescribed amount of this salary for medical staff. And it is a pity that we did not have the courage at that time to oppose the very strong pressure of the health workers' representatives - to increase this funding and to include such a large, so significant, 20 per cent amount in the law, this funding every year. Unfortunately, this is not possible at this point. But... and indeed, I personally can apologize for that too. However, if we look at how much the state spends on health care, we can see that it was 873 million in 2017 and 1.2 billion in 2019. This is, however, a very, very significant increase in the amount of funding. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. I. Riena: “Order the system, otherwise it doesn’t matter!” ) Many will say, "Yes, but this increase in funding was also secured at the expense of the European Commission granting a derogation from the deficit." But I have to admit that they were, yes, some 144 million! For these funds... on this additional funding, which we obtained by voting for the European Commission's deficit derogation, we provided a 'green corridor', we ensured access to health services and many other things that have not been addressed for years. And also in next year's budget, all these programmes will continue. So, too, these many programmes, which have already been launched in previous years, had to reach 144 million in addition to the 2020 budget. So I would like to say that perhaps it is not very right to say that the medical sector in the country is not a priority. It is really a priority, and the figures show it. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. I. Ribena’s intermediate call.) More. I would like to emphasise that salaries, average wages, according to the National Health Service... These data show that in the first six months of 2019 doctors had a pre-tax amount of 1950 euros per month, for nurses - on average 1110 euros per month before tax and for medical support staff - 726 euros before tax. Of course, raising the salary of medical staff is a priority. 1, but the Ministry of Health is also aware that overall this increase in pay is not yet achieving the expected results and improvements in the health sector. In addition to this priority, the Ministry of Health also has other ways of improving the quality of services. And in this area... As the Prime Minister and the Minister have already said (it has been communication many times!) , checking and looking at how hospitals ensure the quality of services; or whether the hospitals have undertaken to do so at their level of specialisation. It is a story about whether we can and will be able to reduce inequalities at this level too - at the level of access to healthcare and quality assurance. The Ministry of Health is working on this very seriously. In addition to these priorities, there are also additional opportunities to provide innovative medicines and medicines for patients, even oncology. And other diseases... There is a serious lack of funding. With increasingly new medicines and treatments coming, we need to compensate patients for these medicines, because often treatment can cost up to tens or hundreds of thousands of a year. Preferential care is also a priority of the Ministry of Health. We very much hope that, in cooperation with the municipalities and thanks to the administrative territorial reform... that, however, there will be improvements in palliative care in the near future. Because preferential care is the care that should be provided as close as possible to the patient's place of residence or, ideally, at the patient's home. Undoubtedly, the issue of disease prevention, public education, early diagnosis, screening, which we still have at the right level because of public involvement is not... not provided. So public education, strengthening primary care - these are priorities on the agenda of the Ministry of Health today and tomorrow and in the coming days. It is wrong to believe that this healthcare system can be arranged within a year or two. It’s a long, continuous work. — Dep. I. Riena: “It has been done for 16 years!” Aware of the fact that many of the activities have to be carried out specifically at the level of hospital management and the management of health care institutions, let us say. We are working on this, and I very much hope that, in the near future, patients and members of the public will feel better. In general, I would like to call on Members and also the public to remember that, in order for us to be able to develop our country smoothly, it is important for us to have a smooth development of all sectors. We are aware that other sectors also need additional funding. There are many problems, and there are many priorities. I would like to mention as an example that in 2019 the university's lecturer's remuneration was... The minimum wage was EUR 785. The doctor's salary is just over EUR 900, but, as we know, the doctor's degree needs a doctor's degree and years of education. With this example, I just want to say that we will think about the budget as a whole, not just in a single sector. I therefore call on Members to support the budget for 2020, and I call on the public to understand this balance between the different sectors, because only balanced development of all sectors can lead to a steady, good and strong development of the country. Thank you. (Applause)
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-30-PT13-2015-U126	Name to Member Maris Kučinskis. ( Milestones.)
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-30-PT13-2015-U127	Dear President of the Saeima. Colleagues! Mr. Karins! Ministers! Mr Kariņš did not speak to me, however, but I would like to start by saying some good words from the opposition. I think that drawing up and approving the budget and yet reaching an agreement is really very, very difficult. I would also like to say what has been done well. That didn't raise taxes, that's... It is appreciated by many. Only they don't talk, they don't usually write in networks. Others write on networks... Other. Next, also on the reform of financial supervision. I think everything has now been done, just work has to be done. But... in general, if you are talking about it, I remember that the budget is very, very difficult to draw up... I am also being asked what is then different in your budget and in what was the case in previous years. I think it is not too easy to find differences in the budget as such, but this is a budget in which... which is a proof that all the promises that very many “buyed” places in this Parliament are simply unenforceable. The reality is very harsh. The reality is that today you come to the platform and are proud of the fact that you managed to reach an agreement. Wonderful! Congratulations, too. If we pull together a little something that nobody has done today, there's also a thing that's a little neglected... This is the Government Action Plan, which is written in the declaration. There are some tasks... These tasks are in some way... I'm not talking about those who are in the long term, because the PKC, which one here yesterday already wanted to eliminate... But do not remove the PCC, as it has very positively assessed the Government's action plan, writing that everything is in the process for the time being. There are only a few things that have not been done: there is no productivity council, and something has not really been done in the Ministry of Economics with regard to housing. The rest is either in the process or... extraordinarily important executions. I'd like to read some of what is... on education... the increase in the state-based universities, which everyone talked about. Next, about science, too. And the result to be achieved: 2020 – 20 million for higher education, 2021 – at least 48 million, 2022 – 78 million. The results are as follows: instead of 20 million - 1.5, instead of 48 million - 3 and instead of 78 million - 4.5 million. It's a reality. But what is written in the Ministry's report, because the work has been placed as performed - it says that in July a request was prepared and sent to the Ministry of Finance. Well, if that's the case, it's very good - very good! - rating, so don't touch the assessors under any circumstances. As regards health care, what I want to talk about today (and I would also like to call on the coalition to do yet to do it) is paragraph 135 of the Declaration on the planned activities of the Cabinet of Ministers led by Arturs Krišjānis Kariņš: “Let’s develop a sustainable model of health care financing, which requires the mandatory inclusion of all residents of Latvia.” The result of the operation was, of course, predictable. It has been recorded that the implementation is within the deadlines. Why is enforcement appropriate? Because all deadlines have been postponed by two years. According to the government's average statistics, you will hardly be here in three and a half years, because four have not lived here yet. But, good luck! Because enforcement is very necessary. And Mrs. Viņķele is committed to doing what... for those who then participated, it was clear to all that it would be very, very difficult to do - to make it all... all forms of business are subject to tax. It's harder than we said, that everyone pays some amount. And as a result, we get to the health budget and to the money. There were 10 million lost. You, my dear, lost one job, it seems, in this term, to be extremely important, all together - to lower the price for the nigger. And as a result, excise duties are no longer being carried out. But there are also known sources of money. To save time, I will not talk at all about health promises. But! I know how with everything else will and that money is very difficult to find. We are looking for it, we will certainly also put forward proposals. And I call on Mr Bondara, who said that I will be speaking after me, at least to discuss and search for these sources. We need to do... to do not my promises... Thank you for not hearing much today that everyone else is guilty. Now that time, that period's probably over. Now you have to start to answer yourself. So, look at these sources together. And the sources are. There are some priorities that... we will want to indicate where you can live for some years. You can do it. Well, the same thing... I'm not saying that it's completely wrong... I also said in my comments that there is a need to talk about increasing public funding for political parties. But! Which other Saeima has attributed it to itself? No one else! Such decisions are made to enable it to work in the future. Well, just one example. But... Okay. The question is... The question is on the agenda, so I am calling on the medical question, the health care question, not to put it aside for the second reading. It's a subject, because medical doctors have shown hope... by the amount of money in healthcare in recent years and by the amount of money in healthcare. Finally, after the great stagnation, they were awakened by hope. Do not be afraid of this hope - at least the hope of new doctors who are already thinking of leaving! At least we'll look for them... Both I and I think all those who have worked before are also feeling and going to be in debt at the moment yet... Let's look for these means to find... I mean, iconomonoming each one of all things. The final point I would like to say is to put an end to the myth if someone is still looking unilaterally. It was said that today, too, from the gallery - as Dana Reizniece-Ozola has set up 300 million and so on... The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A. Neighbours: “It was! It was!” ) Yes, yes, yes. I'm telling you where 300 million come from. Most of this amount is the advance payments for profits paid by socialism companies, regardless of how they did that year. The State Revenue Service granted each of them an advance, and the company paid a fair payment each month, and then it ended up - it was or... As a result, it was a very heavy payment. Entrepreneurs are now most satisfied precisely because they will now pay for the fact. But, of course, in this framework of the year, while he is making a declaration, there is a hole. There is a hole that had to be filled, and we tried to fill it with the same... I remember once again what you very much like, that is, the price of alcohol. That's why we increased excise duty, we went to many unpopular things. Another case is the reinvested earnings. Many of us are grateful for this right now. Again, those who do not write on social networks, who do not talk about it and do not make populism. For companies to be able to invest in their own development. An analysis of this will be possible, I accept, as soon as next year. Then you'll be able to analyse it. I don’t know - there will be any plus or minus - but please without the following arguments: “It’s bad!” For the times when any government or ruler simply said to all, "Faith every one of you there for 20 percent." And there's peace... The government's task is not just to collect taxes. The government's task is both to stop what should be braked at that time and to stimulate what deserves to be stimulated. Thank you, and let all of us work together! (Applause)
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-30-PT13-2015-U128	The name is Digit Schmidt.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-30-PT13-2015-U129	Dear colleagues, Ladies and gentlemen! I will have such a more reflection on what has been heard all day long. As the Prime Minister, speaking about the budget, shared his emotional reflections on the oil and also on some wean that vibrates on the stomach but does not create happiness, I also allowed myself to share my emotional impressions on the budget at the beginning. I mean, when I first... In my opinion, it was “on Latvian Television” in the morning when the Prime Minister said that this budget was a path to the Nordic country... I really laughed. I felt that Brexit had influenced the reasoning of our politicians, as they say. Why Brexit? Because it's... That expression is something I think of British humor. Often said: British humor is black humor, but it is not black humor. British humor is very specific, has evolved over the centuries, so such a special ability to laugh about itself. For the British, its causality is very logical: when they began to lose their empire because of the right of self-determination... When colonies became independent states, they lost their empire, and there were two opportunities - either to mourn and to fall into depression, or to laugh for themselves. The British people, as rational, decided to laugh better. That was my first feeling about this “Nordic”... Of course I understand that the Prime Minister did not try to joking. And then there are two opportunities left: the Prime Minister does not know what the Nordic countries are. Maybe he thought Novay Zemley was also a Nordic country... some part. So I guess not. The most reliable version is that we try to put on the current template... Somehow this budget has to be budgeted out. Let us call it "Towards a Nordic country" budget. Well... Looks like... sounds good, the Nordic countries are good, so that we can do anything quietly. By the way, it is characteristic of Unity Governments. Let us remember the government of Valda Dombrovskis. At one time, there was a template used – “structural reforms”. It was used in all possible ways: "This is a budget for structural reforms!" "This is a budget that will carry out structural reforms." Don't tell me what's really meant by that... So we're structural... We debated what structural reforms are. It is the same now - the Prime Minister says that this budget is aimed at the Nordic countries, but - respect! - does not state at any point which would prove this budget as a budget on the way to the Nordic countries. None! I think it would be quite difficult to imagine a Nordic country, which would be like us: we are making a decision by the Saeima with the force of law and not doing so. I think you wouldn't enter the parliament today, the Saeima, if you did in Sweden, Finland, Denmark... let alone Iceland, where society as a whole can meet on a single square and decide that this government is going home. But if we are even more general, we are even more serious about the Nordic countries - the Nordic country is characterised by one thing: they are able to agree on priorities. They are able to agree on priorities in the country as a whole. This budget... Once again, unfortunately, we have a budget in which ministries compete - every minister wants to prove how much more he has got for his industry. The only poor, as let's say, is Far Linkait. ... The only poor is Fare Linkait, who's got one cut after another, huh? I don't think that's why Farly Linkait is a worse minister than anyone else. I don't think that's the case. Some of the things that make this very clear. If we say that we no longer have money for school lunch or that we do not have money to fulfil the promise that teachers will get a salary supplement from September, but at the same time we are opening an embassy in Australia (severely an embassy in Australia!) The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A. Leiiņš: “Why not?” Then, you know, it's like... I'll tell you, Mr. Leenis, why... It's like... if you as a family father would buy a Rolex clock at a time when the child would not have money for the school bag. That is exactly a comparison. On administrative territorial reform. The Prime Minister spoke... Very little talked about this... as a step that will solve all the sorrows with regard to education and health. There are three things I would like to say about administrative territorial reform, to be more accurate about what has been tabled. I do not believe that this is a reform. I believe that it is repainting the Latvian card once again, not reform. That is, there is one huge problem that we put into it. We have hopes. We're saying... What is the promise of this administrative territorial reform? If we redesign this Latvian map, then Latvia will cool and flourish, then we will have salaries for teachers, then the birth rate will increase, the economy will develop and so on. It is a great deception to the public! I don't know if you're also misleading yourself with that -- I don't know that. But the community deceives you. I will give one example: why. We are talking about the Nordic countries. Finland has 314 municipalities per 55.3 million inhabitants (when mathematically redistributed, the same number of municipalities as today in Latvia is published). The level of education for them is that, for decades, the country has been the first three in the world. There is therefore no link to the quality of education with the number of municipalities. Zero! Exactly zero! You're saying it's a big deal, right? The second thing to say about this administrative territorial reform is that the reform is, once again, political. It's political again, not substantively, if? Political because... Let someone come here and explain to me what is the basis for Rēzekne, Daugavpils or Liepaja city being separate from the surrounding regions! Compare, for example... I will not even talk about Ventspils, which should be mentioned, but about Jelgava. Is there any other motivation if this is not the only one - that at the moment in Jelgava there is the FAO in power? Doesn’t matter whether it’s a ‘ZZS’ or a ‘Development/Par!’ Or someone else. We carry out this reform politically and not in essence in the interests of the state of Latvia. And one more thing. I haven't seen a more non-professional reform... with more non-professional grounds for that... And it's not even a compulsory accusation for Mr. Pouce, who knew nothing about the reform until half a year ago, but for those working in the ministry... Question... If we have one... We have one miracle region, the one that all Latvia will have - Gulbene... In fact, the old district, where the city and the region are integrated into one municipality. It's been the eleventh year... And they shall remain on the next map, and all other municipalities shall be like Gulbene. The question... Ten years have to show something. Has Gulbene got an economic breakthrough? Has it become a contributor to the fund for financial equalisation of municipalities? Or maybe he's stagnated? There may be different reasons. Nobody's analyzed. Wonderland - Gulbene - stagne even more than before became a wonderland. That's another thing. The worst thing we do is we bring Latvia into even worse chaos by calling some figures and laying templates. Not... And another thing I think is very bad... From a state perspective to say that... At the moment, there is something about it: the local authorities are responsible for everything. I'm sorry! These were municipalities that drew maps of 32 state institutions in Latvia? There are 32 maps of how state institutions plan Latvia. What has to do with municipalities? And the answer to the question of VARAM officials, how this new map will address this problem, is very clear: “Nothing!” Nothing will be done. This is another fact, as we say today, or a false reform. Instead of deciding on the continuation of the reform, we, the Saeima, had to get to what was decided in 1998, namely, the territorial division of areas, the counties, the normal state planning. Another thing about... Just one thing about promises. And I look at you, not even at the UKP, I look at you, Gati, and remember that after the Saeima elections... You know... you all know that from “3 × 500” I am at least one “500” - an indispensable minimum - full support from day one. I remember that after the parliamentary elections, Gati, you were, I think, truly sure that we can open the 2019 budget, well, and put these things in. You at least said that. I think you said it really. All right, they called it "technical". The way you say it, in the past. Now it's the budget for 2020. Well, it's not... Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. And I... Don’t take it personally, but it’s another one, forgiveness, “a promise of cardboard”, the same as one cardboard here. By the way, so interesting, very symbolic, that this also turned out to be a “paper promise”. It disappeared at the same time as the cardboard there. It's gone. And yet... A couple more words about... briefly about democracy. It was also about democracy. I think it was about party financing, raising funding for myself, I'm not talking... in the future, for yourself! - Seven times. Have something in Latvia ever been raised seven times... in the history of Latvia in general? Is something three times raised? What is twice as high? I think not. In any case, seven times, nothing. And seven times to raise money for yourself! Actually, saying you're addicted... You're addicted. There's, of course, a method... It seems to me that in Switzerland, for those with drug addiction, the state grants certain days a free syringe and a minimum dose so that they can, as they say, keep themselves alive. Well, if that's what we want, then maybe. But in this regard, Ben Latkovsky had, in my opinion, a very good article... and directly concluding this article on all these decisions. I think he wrote exactly about this decision - to increase funding for himself, not with the next term... I personally... I have supported the increase in party funding, and I believe that this should be raised with the next term. Ben Latkovsky said very rightly that these decisions - they are no longer good or bad - are devoting confidence to democracy. People are starting to distrust democracy. That not their servants or their superiors, but, as I said earlier, the vices (from an English Member)... Members shall represent their interests. Forgive me, Karlis Ulmanis could want this situation in 1934, so he would just have a fiction: the Saeima makes laws and does not comply. The Saeima increases the funding for political parties seven times. The family doesn't keep promises for teachers. A better background for the coup would not be possible. There was no such background. It was difficult for him to figure out the background, because then the Saeima, realizing that there were problems with the Constitution and the implementation of democracy, adopted in two readings the institution of the elected president of the people. Ulmanis hastened to prevent the introduction of a people's elected president on 18 May because he knew that he would not be elected. He didn't have that background! You have created a fantastic background not to believe democracy. Finally, I go back to humor about the yellow. Prime Minister, you said that the donkey you saw somewhere was a great deal. The boy, thirteen-year-old, no more, hit him with a stick, but the donkey didn't go. You made the wrong conclusion. You made the wrong conclusion, Mr. Karin. It wasn't the donkey who couldn't pull that shit... A boy would never have built up that thing if he knew that he couldn't pull the donkey. ( Intercretion: “Uow! ”) Thank you very much. The knife was simply completely uninterested - obscene and uninteresting! - to arrive at the destination. And no matter how many irons I put in front of these wheels, no matter how many irons I put in front of the Latvian government, they do... if they're not interested, they won't take the wedding anywhere. Thank you. (Applause)
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-30-PT13-2015-U130	Name to Member Janis Dombrava.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-30-PT13-2015-U131	It is right that the opposition is criticising the budget. And if this criticism is meaningful and constructive, then, of course, it is also pleasant to listen to it. And I would really like to congratulate Mr Kučinska on this approach. This, however, could not be said about other members of the opposition who, for example, come and criticise the increase in party funding, but at the same time are not prepared to say that they will give up this funding tomorrow and will channel their potential funding to, for example, medical or nurses. ( Internouncing call.) If these opposition parties shift this funding to nurses, the average salary for each nurse could potentially increase by EUR 100 per year. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. V. Orlovs: “How many nurses are in Latvia?” ) There are 8500 nurses and 1.3 million, which opposition parties could channel for this purpose. ( Milestones.) As far as the budgetary process is concerned, it was really not easy, because very many parties were involved, but I think the result is really good, but not perfect. It is good, given that compromises have been reached between a very large number of parties representing a very wide range of voters. However, when working on the next multiannual budget, I think we should look more broadly at all these budgetary processes and understand the future focus of the country. Is development focused on the fact that Latvia is trying to become the most effective country in the world using digital technologies? Is development focused on the fact that Latvia is trying to become the most family-friendly country in the world? For now we are in many areas ahead of most Western countries, when it comes to the support that families receive, both parental leave for one and a half years and free medical care for young, future mothers (Interface: "Where is free medicine?Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. “) and free kindergartens, which are provided in most of Latvia (except for some cities where municipalities do not meet this obligation). And it could keep this list. With regard to the budget that we are looking at today, the National Association can be pleased that it contains a very large number of points in our four thousand sign programmes. For example, the point is that we will increase the social well-being of cultural people. This will be done (Interface: “When?” ) starting next year. ( Internouncing call.) Raivis Dzintars mentioned this specifically in his speech - about the amounts in which this remuneration will increase. Let us continue to increase the non-deemable minimum pension. The non-taxable minimum of pensions is now 270 euros, from next year onwards 300 euros. We will promote a benign competition between municipalities and private companies on family support and build Latvia as the most family-friendly country in Europe. In this case, too, there are budgeted programmes “Family friendly municipality” and “Family friendly enterprise”. The item ‘Let us significantly expand the housing programme for young families’ will set up from next year a new support programme for families with children, under which families will be able to receive co-financing for the purchase of housing. The item ‘Let us continue to modernise and develop the area of justice and home affairs, as well as raise the qualification and responsibility criteria for judges, prosecutors, police officers and other officials’. The Ministry of Justice has found funding for this case. Let us use all the legal means to limit the spread of Russian propaganda. We will strengthen Latvian media. From next year additional funding will be allocated to public and commercial media. Let us continue to increase defence costs. From next year, the defence budget will increase to EUR 664 million, which is EUR 30 million more. The very last point - which I am also very pleased about - that the National Union has consistently managed to implement it for many years and this year we have managed to implement it - will continue to prevent pro-Russian forces from entering the government. Thank you. (Applause)
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-30-PT13-2015-U132	The name of Member Arthur Tom Plesh.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-30-PT13-2015-U133	President-in-Office of the Saeima, very much. Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council of Ministers. Ministers! Colleagues! I would like to touch on an issue that has not yet been addressed today, and this issue is often given undue attention. This is an environmental issue. Latvia as a green country. This is not an obvious figure that we can also be proud of. This requires work to be done so that we can preserve our natural values and live in a clean environment. This often seems so self-evident, but without nature and environment we would not be able to feed ourselves and we simply could not exist. The loss of biodiversity, the problems of environmental pollution, as well as the climate crisis affect us here in Latvia, and it requires action. I am in favour of the budget for next year, because these issues have been addressed. For example, the Ministry of Environmental Protection and Regional Development has a budget of €50 million to tackle these problems and mitigate the negative environmental impacts of human and economic activity. First of all, I would like to point out that there is an opportunity to devote additional funds to the conservation and restoration of protected species and habitats, as well as to the conservation of biodiversity and the mitigation of climate change over the next three years. Secondly, environmental institutions have long been hungry, and money has been hungry. I very much hope that it has not been conscious, because it has greatly restricted the capacity of these environmental institutions to develop their activities, go ahead with time and fight effectively against the environment... offenders here in Latvia. Therefore, I would also like to highlight that in this budget there is an opportunity to strengthen environmental institutions - the State Environment Service and the Nature Conservation Administration - in order to improve environmental information systems and to more effectively record and control environmental violations in order to strengthen the competence of employees in these institutions as well. In order to control more accurately waste flows within the territory of Latvia and other things that are essential to keep Latvia cleaner and make it even more environmentally friendly. I can say that there is a basis for us to take care of the environment. But when we see these challenges in the future, it is clear that we will have to do more and much more to make Latvia green and clean. Therefore, colleagues, in view of these circumstances, call for support for the next year's budget.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-30-PT13-2015-U134	Name of Member Anita Muižniece.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-30-PT13-2015-U135	Good evening, colleagues! Dear Chairman of the Saeima. Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council of Ministers. Ministers! And those who else... I hope nobody's coming! Very short talk from me about two things. One thing. Thank you for really constructive... on constructive criticism where it was. And yet what flows today's message from the opposition from this tribunal is actually for me as a young man and also as a young Member a little shocking with the fact that... That's the main message we bring to each other and for society is that... and this is in connection with the issue of education... in context... It is that the Saeima does not keep its promises. That's what we listened to here all day! And to a very large extent it was associated with the remuneration of the educators. Colleagues! I recommend you look at the salaries of teachers. 2014 when I started working - € 395 per rate; 2015 - 420; 2017 - 680; 2018 - 710; this year - not January 1, but already this year! - up to 750 and let us do our best to pay teachers €800 per rate by 1 September this year. What is the moment when the Saeima does not fulfill its promises to teachers? I don't know. ( Internouncing call.) But the other thing that has been said today - and I think it is important to hear it all - was the issue of the amendments tabled to the Education Act, which is in the budget package and which essentially consist of three things. One thing is that it is a change in the funding arrangements for children's weekends. It is very important here to understand that nothing is being reduced, that children will have a holiday; that there is a change in the distribution of funding, which will now be jointly and severally - from both the state and the local authorities. The second case in this amendment package is the transposition of the deadline for centres of education of public interest... a one-year transfer. And the third thing is probably the most important thing that everyone is talking about, about the running of the school network, about this chapter. I would like to inform you that it is this chapter, namely the draft law... The Education Act... that paragraphs 1, 3 and 4 concerning the conduct of the school network, concerning the right of the municipality to finance or not to fund educational institutions, as well as the question of private educational institutions, the Ministry of Education and Science will remove from the budget until the second reading of this draft law. So maybe someone can breathe lightly. And we will continue to work and implement a responsible growth-oriented policy, not only in the field of education, but also, of course, in the country as a whole. Thank you. (Applause)
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-30-PT13-2015-U136	The name of Member Ramona Petraviča.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-30-PT13-2015-U137	Dear Chairman of the Saeima. Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council of Ministers. Ministers! Members! The next year's budget plans more support for socially vulnerable groups. The total budget for the welfare sector next year will reach €3.3 billion. That is about a third of the total public budget. The general budget allocates EUR 703.2 million to state social benefits, service pensions, old-age pensions and public social services. On the other hand, the special budget amounts to €2.97 billion. They are intended for public pensions, employment, work accidents, disability, maternity, sickness... special budgets and for other purposes. The draft budget submitted to the Saeima contains funds for priority measures in the welfare sector in 2020. In particular, funding to increase the minimum income level has been found. It has a budget of €9.8 million. They are intended to increase social security for the most vulnerable groups of the population. This means that the minimum amount of old-age and invalidity pensions will increase, the compensation for loss of capacity for work, the minimum amount of compensation for damage, as well as the amount of the state social security benefit for people with disabilities. This step would help to reduce the social exclusion of these population groups. From 2020, the basis for the minimum old-age pension and the public social security benefit for people with disabilities will be €80 (to date €64). For people with disabilities from childhood, the basis for calculating the minimum old-age pension and the state social security benefit will be 122,69 euros. There will also be an increase in invalidity pensions and compensation for loss of capacity and compensation for damage. Overall, these measures will have a positive impact on more than 70 000 people, including people reaching retirement age and people with disabilities. Each of them expects even more support, but yet I am pleased that we have succeeded in taking the first steps to improve their lives. One of my priority target groups will always be our seniors. In order to strengthen the fact that with each year their quality of life does not change or even improve, the Ministry of Welfare's main budget and special budget provides funding for pension indexations: for 2020 - EUR 201.7 million. This is the largest pension indexation in recent years, which is ensured by Latvia's economic development. It is important to appreciate those with the greatest length of work who have spent most of their lives at work. When purchasing for the supply of pension, benefit and remuneration at the place of residence of the recipient, it became clear that “Latvijas Pasts” tariff will increase. When looking for all options, we create a solution that by redistributing funds within the Ministry of Welfare, this “Latvijas Pasts” tariff increase of 2.1 million euros will be compensated, because it is clear that any increase in costs for seniors or other recipients of pensions, benefits and remuneration is unpleasant and is clearly felt in this household's already small budget. In order to improve living conditions for people with mental disabilities and children with disabilities, whose only residence is in national social care centres, half a million euros will be invested to live in as comfortable conditions as possible, creating a sense of cosiness in the customer's premises, as they are their homes, where many spend their entire life. It is therefore important that our customers feel really good at national social care centres. To sum up, I stress that this welfare sector budget is balanced and socially responsible. Support for the most vulnerable groups is being increased. Yes, of course, I would be pleased if this support were even greater. But the first steps to increase the minimum income level have been taken. People with disabilities will be able to live better in public social care centres. Support for seniors remains stable. And these are important steps. Thank you. (Applause)
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-30-PT13-2015-U138	Dear colleagues, Before continuing the debate, Members Strike, Dzintars, Paviluts, Pucens and Adamovich ask for the session to be held without interruption until all items on the agenda are examined. Do Members have objections? ( Interface: “No! ”) ) There are no objections. We're continuing the sitting all the time. Name to Member Andris Flyre.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-30-PT13-2015-U139	Dear Mrs. Mourniece. Mr. Karin! Dear colleagues, The general government health expenditure next year, 2020, is €1.37 billion. And they make up 4.1 per cent of gross domestic product. In general, if we compare with all the other previous budgets, this is, of course, insufficient, but the largest health budget that has ever been in our country. I would like to remove the myth that, at the end of 2018, we Members were unwittingly voting in favour of this salary supplement. I studied yesterday meetings and decisions of the Cabinet of Ministers in 2016 and 2017, and already there... The Health Finance Act makes it clear and clear that this increase in wages should have been 185 million in 2019 and 253 million in 2020. Since we only continued what the previous governments had already done, but unfortunately this funding for 2020 is decreasing as a result of this failed tax reform of the previous government. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. I. Ribena’s intermediate call.) Go on. I would like to welcome, of course, the work of the Ministry of Health. I have to say that I also calculated that university hospitals, which are the most important in our country, spend about one fifth of Latvia's health, medical budgets on tertiary healthcare. The competition is over... has finished login... a competition for hospital councils has been concluded. Currently, both hospitals have also been tendered for boards. I really hope that the hospital administration will improve and that former government inserts will no longer work there, because it's money (Applause). ... That money... Indeed, the resources that need to be managed by universities in hospitals are enormous. The use of its money must be a huge responsibility. And now the State Audit Office also comes to us, the ministries and the Saeima. The State Audit Office also admits that these internal salaries are currently very disproportionate in hospitals. And the Ministry of Health has also requested that this supplement, which will... what we will provide in 2020 would be precisely those wages that are currently small. If we are talking about figures, it should be taken into account that, in fact, from 2017, doctors' salaries have increased from EUR 569 to EUR 1079. The next year's salaries for nurses - I call them now - will rise from EUR 393 to EUR 714. Of course, this is still not enough, but together we can achieve much by doing these two works - while increasing funding and controlling these funds -. I will not give up on my words for a moment. Yes, there are, unfortunately, cartels in the field of medicine in many places. (Applause) And with our funding... with this funding for security authorities... we cooperate not only with the State Audit Office. And even to us with these little funds... This small amount of our funding must be used really precisely by all of us who need it most. So thank you to the Ministry of Health. Of course, thank you also to the Ministry of the Environment and Regional Development and to the Minister, Mr Puce, who, in my opinion, is very quick and very well to move forward with the reform of the district; this will enable a stable health and education network to be built in the future. I am pleased that the new budget also has additional funds for the National Health Service and also for the Ministry of Health itself, because we know that currently the officials working with the eHealth system are receiving very low pay. And you have to understand: while the main institutions that shape health policy in the country will have very low wages, they will not be able to do so too... as maybe on the other side. And, of course, I would like to welcome the work of the Ministry of Welfare, the work of Minister Petravičas. Indeed, the new budget provides that those who received its lowest pensions, the lowest invalidity allowance, will increase with 2020. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. V. Dombrovskis: “But you said you wouldn’t vote for the budget if there’s no money for the medical wages!” ) I have also prepared this one for my special, let us say, against... That's... changes in the number of taxes that I will introduce to the coalition from 2021 - how we can obtain additional funds by limiting... harmful... different... food. So no. 1, what we have already started, our proposals (Inese Voika, Ilmar Dūris) - increase excise duty on sweetened drinks. This is very important for us, first of all we will spend less on health... health expenditure, because we will have less diabetes and we will also have additional revenue in the budget. We have already started to look at this, and I hope that we will introduce it by 2021. Then the next one, who will come from me and from “Development / For!” on the part of the political group - all kinds of tobacco products, including electronic and all these new devices here - - a significant increase in the tax. At present, we have 20 times fewer excise duties on e-liquids than in Estonia. Here, too, we can get additional funds for the budget, plus limit these harmful things not to be used by young people and others as well. The next point. The same applies to energy drinks. The next item concerns trans fatty acids and saturated fatty acids. In fact, this is the most important thing. All these dishes, if we eat too much, kill us. But most of all, we're killed because we're using more salt... We have to look at it too... Salt products will need to be restricted and healthy eating will need to be promoted. Thank you again to the Cabinet. I call for this budget to be supported. Thank you. (Applause)
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-30-PT13-2015-U140	Name to Member Alexander Kirštein. ( Internouncing call.)
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-30-PT13-2015-U141	Dear President, Mr. Prime Minister! Ministers! Honourable Members! Ladies and gentlemen! Some remarks about this budget, which may differ from the generally popular point of view. I will express my opinion here, unlike others. I think the budget is not too small. I think it has been refinanced in some areas. We believe that we do not collect enough taxes - 30 per cent of GDP - because some countries collect 31 per cent of their neighbours. The goal would be 34 percent, and then we'll live in a chocolate. I'm forced to make you feel sad. So socialism is not baffling! For everyone to be as in Sweden as needed, the minimum is that we should have a budget of 40 per cent of GDP, which is not real. That's why there's nothing like that! So what do you do? Like a paradox - the budget is modest but refinanced. And the health and education sector is heavily refinanced. Why? Because structural reforms have not been completed, because our ministers are not allowed to do so by the same trade unions. We know that the biggest shouting on money is the ones who have been against health insurance for years. If we are justified by the fact that everyone is paying taxes and due to everyone, then I would like to remind you that there are 30,000 alimators in the country. Hence, their health should also be maintained in some way. There are two philosophies. So, a European Union that will not develop... and let us not deceive ourselves that there will be economic growth there! There will be no growth there, the European Union is neither China nor India, there will be some 0.9 percent in the future. And in this system, where you take away those who have, and distribute them to those who have no... Perhaps you should learn and go to the opposite system, that no one has anything but what he has earned, and only those who can't really help themselves should be helped. It is clear that two and a half billion in all the concessions that we are going to have are also a very refinanced part of which one billion could be taken off calmly, because it is not clear why rich people should finance their children's lunch or why millionaires should be given a discount, say, on fuel. Well, that's not clear to me. So what do you do? Knowing that there will be no wonders in the European Union in the coming years - not three or five - we could only stimulate our internal consumption. How? There is, of course, another possibility: by pricking behind German investors who have a lot of money and who are worried about inflation, who are therefore in favour of a strong fiscal policy and are not taken on board. We are proud of having a deficit of 0.3 percent. At the same time, some of Europe's rich countries cannot fall within 3 percent and some cannot fall within 5 percent. Where, then, is this wonderful wisdom? Follow the German bunkers who, as they say, put on the socks and who really have the only worry about not losing value to their doicmark, forgiveness, the euro? Or, on the contrary, when you are paid for taking money, take that money and invest in development? Why not 1 percent? We asked this question, and it is quite difficult to get an answer. One percentage point corresponds to about 300 million with which we could solve both these problems... But... I will give you a few examples. We say that we want to be like the Nordic countries. In the Nordic countries, housing is spent between 5 and 7 percent of gross domestic product. Latvia spends 2 percent. Latvia takes one of the first places or... one of the last places, let's say, by the number of private houses. Latvia takes one of the last places by the number of apartments with bathrooms, because almost one third of us have either a dry toilet outside, or there is no bathroom. And Latvia takes the last place... one of the last places not only in terms of the number of apartment houses, but also in terms of the number of houses that have actually already served as such, they are the time of the Soviets... these panel houses. We say we've reached 4.1 percent... Well, next year, we will have 4.1% for the healthcare sector, where there is no complete structural reform. But why not, for example, make 5 percent of housing more attractive to economic development? Second example: I could tell you about Altum. Altum is a comical small bang that imitates some economic development and should have at least several billions of share capital, which is not... So we could, by investing even a few hundred million in this Altum bank, finance, for example, machinery. A little statistics. Last year's mechanical engineering exports exceeded 1 billion, but could amount to 3 billion, because our industrial development is 30 percent of the European Union's average. Talking to the owners of these different companies, everyone says that they cannot buy small machine tools, modern ones that do not pay a huge amount of money, the sum of which could be between 300 thousand and a few million; they could triple their productivity, but they do not credit Altum. Why? Because during the year Latvia lost about 500 million because of our exaggerated policy. We were invited to the commission by representatives of the banks who said: “Creditisation has fallen by 500 million over the year. This reduces gross domestic product in Latvia by 1.7 percent.’ And in such a situation, we are facing our breasts and say, 'We, as the rich Germans, will know, collect, and we will only have 0.3 per cent of the budget deficit.' Not to allow... I am not talking about the 3 percent allowed, which is 1 billion, I am talking about one percent. So that we can resolve these issues. That would not be a problem. And the last one. This budget, which I am calling for support, could be called a stabilisation budget. Do not mix with stiffness! Although there is no big difference there. But next year - 2021. - but there should be a development budget with a breakthrough, because in order to reach not only the level of Lithuania that has given up Estonia thanks to industrial development, but also to achieve, let us say, the average level of the European Union, we do not have enough 2 or 3 per cent, as The Economist says, we should have a minimum of 4.5 to 6 per cent each year, which we can only achieve by increasing the capitalisation of our national banks and other banks, say, by paying cheap loans that have been invested directly in production. I believe we can do that! Thank you for your attention. (Applause)
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-30-PT13-2015-U142	The name of Member Inese Voika.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-30-PT13-2015-U143	Dear President of the Saeima. Mr. Prime Minister! Ministers! Colleagues! Today, mainly coalition Members have spoken about what the budget has, and the opposition has basically talked about how there is no budget. ( Intercretion: “Rightly! ” ) As a coalition Member, I want to say one thing about which I am proud, which is not available in this budget. And it's Members' quotas. It is the money that Members used to divide themselves, often incomprehensible and often unrelated to national priorities. I am proud that the distribution of this 1 million was not the top point of our budgeting as Members of the Saeima in this process, where we must be responsible for all of us almost EUR 10 billion. I am pleased that we have violated our wish seemingly (and I stress - seemingly!) to do something understandable and useful for their constituents. Such gifts, of course, bring joy to their recipients, but they spoil far more than just moods to those who remain. State budget money must not be shared between friends and party members... with the blessing of the Ministry of Finance to share pies that would make re-election sweeter. In traditional democratic countries, budget preparation and implementation is a task for the government. Parliament's role is clearly defined and should be divided into the following tasks: Firstly, make sure that the budget reflects political priorities. Secondly, to maintain the responsibility of the government for the implementation and achievement of budgetary objectives, to monitor budget implementation and to ensure access to information and public involvement in the budget... the procedure. Many Members today - from both the position and the opposition - have expressed their desire to continue to play a more active role in the budgetary process. And I join it, too, and from 1 January 2020 I am ready to work on the budgets for the following years. Latvia has something to account for... the implementation of public participation. We heard this from Mr. Reira today, but we have to work carefully on the communication budget process - with the public, with non-governmental organisations and with each other - so that the Supreme Court does not have to come to the meeting of the government to ask where the money promised for employees' salaries is, so that the State Audit Office and other independent institutions know where and how the funding to be granted to them will be decided, and so that suddenly it does not appear that the promised cases are not included in the ministry's budget. We approved the results of the audit of the State Audit Office here a week ago – we took a decision “On the approval of the Annual Report of the Republic of Latvia on the implementation of the state budget for 2018 and on the municipal budgets”. It was at the end of the sitting, and many of you may not even notice that this was the case, and it is perhaps good because we trust the State Audit Office. It has done its job well. On the other hand, this huge work of the State Audit Office on 470 pages includes a fun ride for us – both for the implementation of the budget for 2020 and for the preparation of future budgets. Internal reserves in public administration are quite deep - a complex tax system with personal income tax management, value added tax systems, patent fee registration, gambling regulation, various tax incentives. They all offer a good chance of saving. We could also review... and not giving public administration senseless tasks, because this means spending both the resources of the public administration and time, but then not using them... Yes, with the 2020 budget, we have not achieved all the objectives of this government's political agenda. And I agree with Mr Kariņš that we are only at the beginning of the road. But it must also be said that this road is full of pits, and these pits... some are very deep, and they have been dug by no one else than the government of Kučinsky. And while their pits are there, we'll have to talk about it and watch how we can plan them to numb, change something. Because really Latvia is one of the three European Union countries capable of... and has set minimum budgetary resources to be collected in relation to gross domestic product. And that would be another thing, but with this tax reform... In the government of Kučinska... we are again top 5 champions in terms of reduction, and we will have to look for money for development, and we have a lot of needs. And when we've found this money, then... then we should remember, including us as a coalition, that the State Audit Office recognised that 40 per cent of the development measures that we planned ourselves were not in line with the policy documents, did not meet the priorities set. This shows a high degree of inconsistency between plans and work. And so we should learn better to plan and less allow immediate temptations of political benefits. It is indeed a job that the Saeima could do in the implementation of the budget. I call on you to vote in favour of the national budget for 2020 at first reading. Thank you. (Applause)
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-30-PT13-2015-U144	Name to Member Nikolai Cabanov.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-30-PT13-2015-U145	Dear President of the Saeima. Dear Members, Ministers! Unfortunately, the Minister for Economic Affairs did not come to us today. It would be very interesting for me to know where Latvia can come from (Dep. Col: “It was! He was!” )... He didn't. He didn't! I guess he didn't have anything to say. Why does Latvia rank among the Nordic countries or want to be there? I have great doubts that Latvia can achieve even Sweden's inflation rate... It's 1.5 percent... or Finland's inflation of 1.3%. ( Internouncing call.) Unfortunately, inflation is falling and flourishing in Latvia. We already have 3 percent. Why did the Minister of Finance not mention inflation today? It was... Listening figure... It seems to me that Mr Reira also did not mention the fact that Latvia does not have a budget that is, by nature, undeficit. During the 2014-2020 programming period, 4 billion euros of cohesion payments were paid to Latvia. This means that every year Latvia pays 600... plus... million. This means that the European Union is pumping money into Latvia, which has not been earned here. We get subsidies. And so inflation develops in Latvia. The real estate market first feels it. You know how much the two-room apartment in Imantha's nine-storey house? It costs EUR 65 000. That's a lot. And I think prices are rising with everyone - with everyone! - the month in fact. Inflation also occurs in some areas such as retail and catering. Everywhere people feel inflation. And GDP growth, which is now below 3 percent, does not allow the economy to reach speed to close this distance to inflation. And people literally get poorer with each month. And this dangerous trend has been evident since Mr. Kariņš... the time when the office was drawn up. It seems to me that, in fact, the government is hiding inflation, the government is not talking about it. Today, nothing has been said about price increases, nothing at all was said about the real economy. Nor was it said that the financial services market had fallen by 43 per cent per year. This government substantially killed the financial sector in Latvia. And it's very sad. I cannot support this budget. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A. Neighbours: “You can’t do it at all!” ) Council Regulation (EC) No 1257/96 of 20 June 1996 concerning humanitarian aid (OJ L 163, 2.7.1996, p. 1).
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-30-PT13-2015-U146	The name of Member Regina Lochmele-Lunova for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-30-PT13-2015-U147	Good afternoon! Dear colleagues, My speech will be a follow-up... the quality of the discussion on this budget. I have listened with interest to the speech of the Minister for Welfare and I would like to point out once again that the fundamental problem of this budget is the fight against poverty and inequality. The main problem is that the Ombudsman turns to the Constitutional Court against this government and does not wish to increase the guaranteed minimum income. And you, as a minister, are not saying anything about the fact that, over this year, there have been no legislative initiatives on welfare for you. Because your concern is for the seniors to live... The life of seniors would not change or even improve, referring to decisions of the previous Saeima and governments on pension indexation. Once again, Latvia has been recognised as a high-income country according to the World Bank's assessment. Thus, based on the World Bank assessment, the poverty threshold in Latvia should be EUR 19.79 per day or EUR 594 per month. Nevertheless, according to the Latvian Government, it is necessary to meet basic needs only with 2.13 euros per day or 64.03 euros per month - it is stated in the application of the Ombudsman to the Constitutional Court. I would remind you that the Constitutional Court has accepted this application. And I do not understand the government's failure to act on this issue, also when drawing up the budget. A representative of the Ombudsman's Office indicates that by the end of 2018, 3509 people had to live in absolute poverty livelihoods in Latvia. And more. Tell me, please, to the person who gives you the speeches, so that he will take a few topics very carefully. Just those people who follow these topics could tell you that you shouldn't have talked again today about how well our few children are doing in care centres. Because those who follow the theme... And here, too, there's a man from the BIP who's following it... At least two people know about your public discussion with the social worker Ester Zemīte, the branch of the State Social Care Centre, who wrote an open letter to you and for whom you tried to answer but failed. And this entry for Esther was supported by the Hallie-Gross from the UKP and promised her fight. Has something been done? Is there any legislative initiative? ( Internouncing call.) I think you have a discussion, a budget, at least... talk between the parties that make up the governments... Not to mention some of the Members who run the commission... Mr Skride, I'm talking about you this time. When you're public at the Saeima and in the committee meeting... I have short-sightedness... you promised in the public commission, and there are several witnesses that you will never vote for a budget that does not have a salary supplement for doctors. What are you doing now? ( Internouncing call.)
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-30-PT13-2015-U148	The name of Member Evia Papulei for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-30-PT13-2015-U149	Madam President, Mr. Prime Minister! Ministers! Colleagues! Well, those ruling in the coalition, you've grown up! I admit that you have grown up: there is not only innovation in communication with the public and with the people of the sector, making them find sources from which to raise their pay, but also, by default, you tolerate the constructive proposals of the opposition... at least one day. But still. But still. Anita Muižniece - Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Education and Science, whom I have recently, very recently, really said in my skills while working at the Ministry... And I don't think there were problems with division... Or as a Member or as an official... Well, why public... Is that so? And you're too young to have learned it and it's already in your blood, unlike some older colleagues here. Why can the public say the truth? On the salaries of educators and on the increase in the salaries of educators, which you have now been planning in a stable way in the draft budget for 2020. Now you have no promotion for four months - September, October, November and December 2020. This number or number is not currently recorded. Not currently written! And we should not deceive not only those present here, but also all those who continue to watch or at least listen to what we are talking about right now! That is not true and fair. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. S. Riekstin’s intermediate call sign.) The second thing I would suggest is to think a little bit about. It is nice to say, “Daily will be for you all!” , but you don't finance it. On the contrary! The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A. Muižniece: “Do not engage in populism!” ) You would like to say that the municipalities will already pay for what you have taken away. Because people in municipalities will be accountable to their citizens and to their children. Because the birth rate, as we know, has failed to increase in Latvia as a whole. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A. Interdependence of the Muižniece.) And the third. We heard sadly here what we were advised to do with the funding of political parties. A national association, you will have to consult the KNAB a little bit, because I think the funding arrangements for political parties do not allow anyone else to pay it in wages. Because it is unlikely that anyone will be such a fool as to openly point out the buying of votes, which is popular every moment. ( Interface: “No! ”) ) Finally, however, I also turn to you, Mr Prime Minister. I know you're a kind enough man. And yet. How much you do not need to love your people and your country to ignore the law on Scientific Activities (-28.7 million for 2020), the law on Higher Education (29.9 million for 2020)! Increasing the salaries of educators - 8 million. You'll find it. But do teachers really always have to be prayers? Do they deserve it? I hope that there will be no means of finding money for student song festivals, because it is a predictable event that takes place every year. And 1.6 million will already be available. I very much hope that these traditions will continue. And I hope a little bit that you will also support the solution of raising the salaries of pre-school teachers through the state budget. I very much hope that the people will not burn a candle in a minute's silence. And yet. Thank you. (Applause)
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-30-PT13-2015-U150	The name of Member Inguna Reibena.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-30-PT13-2015-U151	Colleagues! As a common denominator for the speeches of the Saeima today's session, the poem of Māra Zālīte sounds in my head all the time “During the Day of the Soviet Age”: It comes to the cold, as the soul swims in the lake, the soul feels - it gets cool, but those who take care of the souls do not end with the blowing of the hunting cups, do not end with the pain of the anthems and the skin. So the soul feels like it starts to get cold. But those who take care of the souls don't stop praising spring, and the circle doesn't want to be serious after talking about the fact that the temperature has risen both in the lake in this and all the sea and how warm it is after years to be... The lake is cold, the soul feels.”
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-30-PT13-2015-U152	The name to Member Aldi Gobzem for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-30-PT13-2015-U153	This is the moment when we see in Latvia what it means that Latvia has a coalition-elected President of Latvia, not a nation-elected President of Latvia. What is the difference between the coalition-elected President of State and the people-elected President of State? The difference is very simple. The President of Latvia - a lawyer after education, a man who has promised to follow the rule of law from the tribunal today to follow how the coalition executes laws, how the coalition executes laws on raising medical and teacher salaries. If the President of Latvia were to be a people's elected president, it is quite logical that he would be here today at the Saeima House and force the coalition to act in the interests of medical and teachers by complying with the laws. As our President of Latvia is a coalition elected President of Latvia, the only thing he has defended in this budget is an increase in party funding by 700 percent. What distinguishes politicians from statemen? The politician is thinking about the next elections, but the nationalist is thinking about the next generations. This coalition is not even thinking about the next elections; this coalition is thinking about how to stay in office for another six months or a year. There are therefore these so-called compromises. So there's an opportunity to illegally... Not to comply with the law. Here I have to remind myself of what was before the war in Latvia. Pre-war in Latvia in 1934 parliament... realizing already at that time that... is actually against public interests, agreed to change the state constitution, agreed that the President of Latvia will be elected in Latvia. There would be no coup d'état, we would today have the President of Latvia elected by the people. There would be no coup d'état, the President of the State elected today would become a nation. I think today's budget... and the coalition about it will, of course, laugh today because they do not believe in such developments, but I am sure that this development of events after today will only take shape at a rate. We will experience the moment when the President of Latvia will be elected in Latvia, and we will experience the moment when our society will oppose coalition lies and coalition actions without complying with existing laws. I call once again on the Latvian community to wake up (Interview.) , wake up and wake up again! Thank you. ( The Room Noise. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-30-PT13-2015-U154	Name to Member Ivars Zarins for the second time. ( Interface: Vinnie Pooku!) ) Council Regulation (EC) No 1257/96 of 20 June 1996 concerning humanitarian aid (OJ L 163, 2.7.1996, p. 1).
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-30-PT13-2015-U155	I listened carefully to the debate in the Saeima. The most important question concerning this budget has still not been answered - is Latvia a legal and democratic state? Is Latvia, as a legal and democratic state, not just a fiction, but only a fairy tale that the rulers tell the public so that they can continue to use it and sink into their permissiveness and irresponsibility? Because if Latvia is a legal and democratic state, then... in the legal state, the laws are respected by all, including the government. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A. Lejiņš: “But you’re talking out of the podium! We have a rule of law!’ ) And I call here Krisjani Kariņa, who is still sitting in this Chamber for the whole time of this parliamentary debate and who has had the opportunity to come here and still has the opportunity to come here and explain... Why has the government failed to enforce the law when drawing up this budget? In a legal state, it is impossible - not to do. Then either we don't have a state of law, or this government... this government has no right to be. Such a government should resign. If that's not... You're sitting here... here, right now. Come and tell me! Tell me what legal provisions did the government have the right to fail to comply with the law in the state of law?Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Because there's a clear contradiction here. Either there is no state of law or government (interim.) has acted unlawfully. If Latvia is a democratic state (this is written in the Constitution, you can read there that “the sovereign power of the state of Latvia belongs to the people of Latvia” and “Latvia is a... democratic republic”), it means that the leaders of the people, that is, in this case, the Saeima, have decided and the will of the people has to be fulfilled in the democratic state. The government must also do the will of the people. And the will of the people was presented very clearly and in time for even the same medicine. What should be the remuneration in this budget? If the government does not comply with this, then the government shall be deemed to place not only the laws, but also the Constitution of Latvia on the ground. So... then... By doing so, the government confirms that Latvia is not a democratic state. If that's not the case, Krisjani Karin, come here, be a man and tell me what it is! Do you insist on the Constitution, or do you still have any reason why you can act contrary to the procedure laid down in the Constitution, contrary to what the will of the people has decided? ( Internouncing call.) You try to argue with the fact that you did not have the money. Now this reservation has begun to change, because you obviously, with facts, proved that it is a lie. Even a person with three classes of education can’t find 120 million at an increase in the budget of over 700 million! Now you're starting to tell us that if we had given them, it wouldn't be enough for others. The rhetoric is changing, but they're also... This is not a reasoned answer. Come and tell me how you could not execute the law by dividing these 700 million! Although the cases required by the law are much smaller than that. It would be impossible in the state of law because in the state of law you have to comply with the law. You must do the will of the people in a democratic country. You have ignored this again. If you do not come and say so now, and do not provide such a justification, you will recognise that there is no such justification. By this, you will recognise that this budget has been drawn up in a way that ignores the law. It's illegal. In turn, colleagues mean that if Krišjānis Kariņš does not come here today and does not save your skin, who will vote in favour of this budget, you will have violated the law by voting in favour of this budget, you will have violated the Constitution, you will have violated your oath to the Latvian people. And it's right that you don't have any room here anymore... to stay. I very much hope that society will appreciate this - and very soon... And I hope that this will be the last budget to be adopted by this parliamentary term. Thank you. (Applause)
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-30-PT13-2015-U156	Name to Member Artus Neminis.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-30-PT13-2015-U157	Look, but we have the biggest budget in the history of Latvia! The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. Schmit: “Yes! Seven times for yourself!” ) Someone has forgotten it. We have around EUR 10 billion. Everything's bad again! Everything's bad. I absolutely understand this hearth, which is now with medical staff, and I understand it very well. When we were not in positions and opposition, we really also voted... That's right. And what if we... Now we have decided the way we decided then? Then both police and doctors... I can call it again and again and again... other public sector staff... They have nothing to do with their wages, but the doctors, let's say, come. This budget, as such, is a budget for wage increases in principle in all sectors. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. (D. Schmit’s intermediate call.) Nothing can be reduced! There's nowhere! There's nowhere! There is no reduction in this case. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A. Gobzem’s intermediate call.) Now about what (Interior call.) ... And now what one speaker talked about is the people's elected president. I think... The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A. Gobzem: “How much is your salary going to rise? Tell me!” ) Council Regulation (EC) No 1257/96 of 20 June 1996 concerning humanitarian aid (OJ L 163, 2.7.1996, p. 1).
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-30-PT13-2015-U158	Intersights, colleagues, are possible, but they must not interfere with the debate. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. I. Zarins: “Where is it written?” ) Council Regulation (EC) No 1257/96 of 20 June 1996 concerning humanitarian aid (OJ L 163, 2.7.1996, p. 1).
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-30-PT13-2015-U159	In 1934, I think... Of course. A. Gobzem: “What did you wake up now?” ), now I can yell at the top, but when Kārlis Ulmanis was a member of the ZZS party, he was (Dep. A. Gobzem: “You’re clear tonight?” )... Farmers' Union, Farmers' Union, Farmers' Union. Yes, yes, you know, you're the oldest party on the planet - that's clear. But when the Farmers' Union... I think it was that Karly just took something out of the Treasury and... to their lot at all times. And also for yourself a little bit. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. D. Schmidt: “Artus, learn the history!” ) And for yourself too. He borrowed... and then to yourself. He also had notes. Then the Minister of Finance came and said: “Call, Carl! The money must be returned!” The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A. Gobzema and the depot D. Schmitt’s intermediate names.) He said, “No, I probably won’t!” , and then there also happened this whole break ( Intersor.) ... As happened in our country in 1934... What happened. But good. Of course, we're looking in the opposite... medicine... and we see that lots are being given... Colleagues, this is the first reading. There will be a second reading. I very much hope, Krisjani Karin, that next week you will have a successful meeting with the medical staff with whom you already have a meeting... the need for dialogue. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A. Gobzems: “Medicals don’t want to meet Kariņa, they want a salary supplement!” ) I very much hope for a constructive dialogue: once again we have a 'constructive dialogue'! - and that the dry balance will indeed be, and in this case I do not think everything is bad for everyone. Well, that's not the case! ( Internouncing call.) I would like to remind you that, let's assume, the media that all of you are using and so on... they have the largest budget, which is about EUR 30 million, plus another trade union... I'm sorry... employees have wage increases... commercial media. Many things have been done. In this case, we are talking about the first reading. Well, it's not so bad! You can't scream... and the clock is seven and we started in dozens. We can go further, there's more to talk about. But then vote against it for your party's funding! Also “Conciliation”! Where did John go? John already left. I read that the “congregation” also seems to be lacking some kind of funding, and so. I then... Vote 'no'! You know how? That money for that medical staff in principle needs to be counted. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A. Gobzem said, “Neighbours, but all of you regard you as a traitor. ” ) I think that would be a good idea. That would be a good idea. I really think that would be right. ( Interface: “There was already such a proposal! You're asleep!” ) I think maybe all the parties would take it and send it... for the sectors missing. I think that, then, this would not be the last term that all of us here are now grappling against the wall. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. E. Pucken was disintegrating.) That's right! That's right, Mr. Pucen! That's right! Well, here's why I am calling for this debate to take place at second reading. And thank you all for your attention.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-30-PT13-2015-U160	The name to the Member Digim Schmit for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-30-PT13-2015-U161	Artus, you voted in favour of the medical law... wages. You also voted for the law. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A. Neighbours: “Yes! Yes!’ ) It is valid. (Applause) You didn't vote for other salaries. You voted specifically for this law, yes. If there is an annex in the budget, then probably the first thing to do is to enforce the law and then, what is a priority. Because laws are usually adopted in order of priority and then think about who else to give. But about Carly Ulman. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A. Neighbours: “Oh, that’s important!” ) This is important. Yeah, it's important, Artus. Just read the story! Instead of doing something for the Farmers' Union, he was at all in the wish of the last Saeima, as he said... from the first place stuck down to the very bottom, at that time “Solvita Āboltiņa”! And he did not do anything for his party, he liquidated it, including his party. But the joke is that he took the members of the Saeima to the Liepaja camp and kept there without trial. How Can I Get to Know John Rainy? A. Neighbours: “Pleasure! He was a Fountain!” ) said (Laughter) In 1929. (Applause) Jānis Rainis in the decade of Latvia (Interdependence.) ... Jānis Rainis said important words in the decade of Latvia. He was smart, he predicted Latvia's independence first. He said: Latvians, protect your democracy, because this will result in the death of Latvia! Think about it. (Applause)
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-30-PT13-2015-U162	I closed the debate. Mr Bondara, on behalf of the Commission on Budget and Financial (Tax) is something to be added, to be explained?
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-30-PT13-2015-U163	Firstly, my fellow Members, I would like to thank you for this debate, because this was a real parliamentary debate on the budget. The budget in any parliament is Everest. Thank you very much. - Everest Parliament. Because there come together three things - budgeting, legislation and supervision. And all three of us here successfully today and this evening we did. Thank you, colleagues. Secondly, I would like to thank the Prime Minister and the Minister for Finance. Well, bring such a budget to the Saeima that so many people are debating and there are no indifferent! Thank you. Thank you. Thirdly, I would like to say that, within the Committee on Budgets and Finance (taxes), we voted, a majority, in favour of this budget, because, firstly, this budget will ensure the necessary reforms in Latvia, secondly, it will ensure sustainable Latvia and, thirdly, it will ensure that we show international capacity. ( Milestones.) Thank you. Thank you to the Budget and Finance (Tax) Commission. And I will call on you to vote in favour of this budget. I will call on you to vote in favour of the accompanying draft laws. And the end. Colleagues, much was said about the fact that there are no laws here. The government has brought a completely new law. ( Internouncing call.) A completely new law! And it is up to us to accept or not. But, as I said, this budget will, first of all, ensure reforms and, second, ensure sustainability and, thirdly, ensure international capacity. I invite you to vote in favour! I mean, I mean, I mean, I mean, I mean, I Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-30-PT13-2015-U164	Okay. Please provide a tabulated package of draft laws.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-30-PT13-2015-U165	So I call on you to vote at first reading on the draft law "Amendments to the Law on Taxes and Fees".
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-30-PT13-2015-U166	Please call me! We will vote for the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Taxes and Fees” at first reading! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The draft law at first reading has been supported. Please set a time limit for the submission of proposals and the time for consideration at the sitting of the Saeima.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-30-PT13-2015-U167	The deadline for submitting proposals is 1 November at 15.00. And consideration at the Saeima - November 13, this year's extraordinary meeting.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-30-PT13-2015-U168	Please turn on the microphone for Member Julia Stepanenko.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-30-PT13-2015-U169	I call on my honourable colleagues to respect the merits of the non-group Members and also the members of the opposition group and, given that half of the time of the debate today was occupied by the coalition Members, to set a deadline for the submission of proposals at a slightly, slightly later stage, that is to say, that the proposals should be submitted on Monday 4 November, before 5 p.m. Please respect your colleagues.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-30-PT13-2015-U170	So there are two proposals on the deadline for submitting proposals. First of all, we must vote on the next deadline, namely 5 p.m., 4 November this year. Please call me! We will vote on the deadline for submitting proposals to the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Taxes and Fees” - 4 November at 17.00! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, As a result, the deadline for the submission of proposals will remain at 3 p.m. on 1 November this year. And consideration time at the Saeima sitting - November 13, this year.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-30-PT13-2015-U171	I invite you to support the draft law on the first reading of the Brunch Courts Act.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-30-PT13-2015-U172	Please call me! We will vote in favour of the draft law on the First Reading of the Law on Brunch Courts! Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about - 83, it's against - 7, it's not. The draft law at first reading has been supported. Please set a time limit for the submission of proposals and a time limit for consideration at the sitting of the Saeima.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-30-PT13-2015-U173	The deadline for submitting proposals - 1 November at 15.00, consideration - November 13 of the Saeima extraordinary sitting.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-30-PT13-2015-U174	Consequently, the deadline for the submission of proposals - 1 November at 15.00, consideration - at the extraordinary sitting of the Saeima on 13 November this year.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-30-PT13-2015-U175	Request also to support the first reading draft law on amendments to the Land Management Law.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-30-PT13-2015-U176	Please call me! We will vote in favour of the first reading of the draft law on Land Management. Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about - 65, it's 27, it's not. Draft legislation supported at first reading. Please set a time limit for the submission of proposals and the time for consideration at the sitting of the Saeima.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-30-PT13-2015-U177	The deadline for submitting proposals - 1 November at 15.00, consideration - November 13 of the Saeima extraordinary sitting.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-30-PT13-2015-U178	Consequently, the deadline for submitting proposals - 1 November at 3 p.m. this year - at the extraordinary sitting of the Saeima on 13 November this year.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-30-PT13-2015-U179	Request also to support the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Lot and Gambling Tax and Tax” at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-30-PT13-2015-U180	Please call me! We will vote for the draft law “Amendments to the law “On Lot and Gaming Fee and Tax” at first reading! Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about - 83, it's against - 8, it's not. Draft legislation supported at first reading. Please set a time limit for the submission of proposals and the time for consideration at the sitting of the Saeima.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-30-PT13-2015-U181	The deadline for submitting proposals - 1 November at 15.00, consideration - November 13 of the Saeima extraordinary sitting.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-30-PT13-2015-U182	The deadline for submitting proposals - 1 November at 15.00, consideration - November 13 of the Saeima extraordinary sitting.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-30-PT13-2015-U183	Request also to support the first reading draft law “Amendment to the Law on Compulsory Social Insurance for Accidents at Work and Occupational Diseases”.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-30-PT13-2015-U184	Please call me! We will vote in favour of the draft law “Amendment to the Law on Compulsory Social Insurance for Accidents at Work and Occupational Diseases” at first reading! Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about - 92, it's against and refrains from - it's not. Draft legislation supported at first reading. Please set a time limit for the submission of proposals and the time for consideration at the sitting of the Saeima.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-30-PT13-2015-U185	The deadline for submitting proposals - 1 November at 15.00, consideration - November 13 of the Saeima extraordinary sitting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-30-PT13-2015-U186	Consequently, the deadline for the submission of proposals - 1 November at 15.00, consideration - at the extraordinary sitting of the Saeima on 13 November this year.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-30-PT13-2015-U187	Request also to support the first reading draft law “Amendment to the Law on State Pensions”.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-30-PT13-2015-U188	Please call me! We will vote for the draft law “Amendment to the Law “On State Pensions” at first reading! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 93, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Draft legislation supported at first reading. Please set a time limit for the submission of proposals and the time for consideration at the sitting of the Saeima.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-30-PT13-2015-U189	The deadline for submitting proposals - by 1 November at 15.00, consideration - at the extraordinary sitting of the Saeima on 13 November this year.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-30-PT13-2015-U190	Consequently, the deadline for the submission of proposals - 1 November at 15.00, consideration - at the extraordinary sitting of the Saeima on 13 November this year.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-30-PT13-2015-U191	Request also to support the first reading draft law on Amendments to the Law on the Protection of the Rights of the Child.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-30-PT13-2015-U192	Please call me! We will vote in favour of the first reading of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on the Protection of the Rights of the Child”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Draft legislation supported at first reading. Please set a time limit for consideration of the proposals and the time limit for consideration at the Saeima sitting.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-30-PT13-2015-U193	The deadline for submitting proposals - by 1 November at 15.00, consideration - at the extraordinary sitting of the Saeima on 13 November this year.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-30-PT13-2015-U194	The deadline for submitting proposals - 1 November at 15.00, consideration - November 13 of the Saeima extraordinary sitting.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-30-PT13-2015-U195	Request also to support the first reading draft law “Amendment to the Law on State Social Insurance”.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-30-PT13-2015-U196	Please call me! We will vote for the draft law “Amendment to the Law “On State Social Insurance” at first reading! Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about - 65, it's 29, it's not. Draft legislation supported at first reading. Please set a time limit for the submission of proposals and the time for consideration at the sitting of the Saeima.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-30-PT13-2015-U197	The deadline for submitting proposals - by 1 November at 15.00, consideration - at the extraordinary sitting of the Saeima on 13 November this year.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-30-PT13-2015-U198	The deadline for submitting proposals - 1 November at 15.00, consideration - November 13 of the Saeima extraordinary sitting.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-30-PT13-2015-U199	Request for support at first reading of the draft law on amendments to the Invalidity Act.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-30-PT13-2015-U200	Please call me! We will vote in favour of the draft law on amendments to the Invalidity Act at first reading! Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about - 60, it's 33, it's not. Draft legislation supported at first reading. Please set a time limit for the submission of proposals and the time for consideration at the sitting of the Saeima.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-30-PT13-2015-U201	Time limit for submission of proposals - 1 November at 15.00, consideration - 13 November this year at the extraordinary meeting.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-30-PT13-2015-U202	The deadline for submitting proposals - 1 November at 15.00, consideration - November 13 of the Saeima extraordinary sitting.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-30-PT13-2015-U203	Request to support the draft law “Amendments to the Law “On Unemployment Insurance” at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-30-PT13-2015-U204	Please call me! We will vote for the draft law Amendments to the law “On Unemployment Insurance” at first reading! Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about - 60, it's 34, it's not. Draft legislation supported at first reading. Please set a time limit for the submission of proposals and the time for consideration at the sitting of the Saeima.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-30-PT13-2015-U205	Time limit for submission of proposals - 1 November at 15.00, examination - 13 November at the extraordinary meeting.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-30-PT13-2015-U206	The deadline for submitting proposals - 1 November at 15.00, consideration - November 13 of the Saeima extraordinary sitting.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-30-PT13-2015-U207	Request to support the draft law “Amendment to the Law of the Notaries” at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-30-PT13-2015-U208	Please call me! We will vote for the draft law “Amendment to the Notary Law” at first reading! Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about - 65, it's 27, it's not. Draft legislation supported at first reading. Please set a time limit for the submission of proposals and the time for consideration at the sitting of the Saeima.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-30-PT13-2015-U209	The deadline for submitting proposals - 1 November at 15.00, consideration - November 13 of the Saeima extraordinary sitting.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-30-PT13-2015-U210	The deadline for submitting proposals - 1 November at 15.00, consideration - November 13 of the Saeima extraordinary sitting.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-30-PT13-2015-U211	Request to support the draft law “Amendments to the Law on the Maintenance Guarantee Fund” at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-30-PT13-2015-U212	Please call me! We will vote for the draft law “Amendments to the Law on the Maintenance Guarantee Fund” at first reading! Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about - 60, it's 34, it's not. Draft legislation supported at first reading. Please set a time limit for the submission of proposals and the time for consideration at the sitting of the Saeima.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-30-PT13-2015-U213	The deadline for submitting proposals - 1 November at 15.00, consideration - November 13 of the Saeima extraordinary sitting.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-30-PT13-2015-U214	The deadline for submitting proposals - 1 November at 15.00, consideration - November 13 of the Saeima extraordinary sitting.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-30-PT13-2015-U215	Request to support the draft law “Amendments to the law “On Land Commissions”” at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-30-PT13-2015-U216	Please call me! We will vote for the draft law “Amendments to the Law “On Land Commissions” at first reading! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Draft legislation supported at first reading. Please set a time limit for the submission of proposals and the time for consideration at the sitting of the Saeima.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-30-PT13-2015-U217	The deadline for submitting proposals - 1 November at 15.00, consideration - November 13 of the Saeima extraordinary sitting.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-30-PT13-2015-U218	The deadline for submitting proposals - 1 November at 15.00, consideration - November 13 of the Saeima extraordinary sitting.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-30-PT13-2015-U219	Request to support the draft law “Amendment to the law on the completion of land reform in rural areas” at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-30-PT13-2015-U220	Please call me! We will vote in favour of the first reading of the draft law “Amendment to the law on the completion of land reform in rural areas”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. Draft legislation supported at first reading. Please set a time limit for the submission of proposals and the time for consideration at the sitting of the Saeima.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-30-PT13-2015-U221	The deadline for submitting proposals - 1 November at 15.00, consideration - November 13 of the Saeima extraordinary sitting.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-30-PT13-2015-U222	The deadline for submitting proposals - 1 November at 15.00, consideration - November 13 of the Saeima extraordinary sitting.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-30-PT13-2015-U223	Colleagues! Request to support the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Remuneration of Officials and Employees of State and Local Government Institutions” at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-30-PT13-2015-U224	Please call me! We will vote for the first reading of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Compensation of Officials and Employees of State and Local Government Institutions”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 78, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The draft law at first reading has been supported. Please set a time limit for the submission of proposals and the time for consideration at the sitting of the Saeima.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-30-PT13-2015-U225	The deadline for submitting proposals - by 1 November at 15.00, consideration - at the extraordinary sitting of the Saeima on 13 November this year.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-30-PT13-2015-U226	The deadline for submitting proposals - 1 November at 15.00, consideration - November 13 of the Saeima extraordinary sitting.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-30-PT13-2015-U227	Colleagues, request also to support the draft law on the First Reading Amendment to the Mediation Law.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-30-PT13-2015-U228	Please call me! We will vote in favour of the first reading of the draft law on Mediation Law! Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about - 82, it's against - 7, it's not. The draft law at first reading has been supported. Please set a time limit for consideration of the proposals and the time limit for consideration at the Saeima sitting.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-30-PT13-2015-U229	The deadline for submitting proposals - 1 November at 15.00, consideration - November 13 of the Saeima extraordinary sitting.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-30-PT13-2015-U230	The deadline for submitting proposals - 1 November at 15.00, consideration - November 13 of the Saeima extraordinary sitting.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-30-PT13-2015-U231	Request, colleagues, also to support the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Natural Resources Tax” at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-30-PT13-2015-U232	Please call me! We will vote for the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Natural Resources Tax” at first reading! Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about - 60, it's 33, it's not. The draft law at first reading has been supported. Please set a time limit for the submission of proposals and the time for consideration at the sitting of the Saeima.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-30-PT13-2015-U233	The deadline for submitting proposals - by 1 November at 15.00, consideration - at the extraordinary sitting of the Saeima on 13 November this year.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-30-PT13-2015-U234	The deadline for submitting proposals - 1 November at 15.00, consideration - November 13 of the Saeima extraordinary sitting.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-30-PT13-2015-U235	Colleagues, request also to support the draft law on Amendments to the Law on Higher Education at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-30-PT13-2015-U236	Please call me! We will vote in favour of the first reading of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Higher Education”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about - 82, it's against - 7, it's not. The draft law at first reading has been supported. Please set a time limit for the submission of proposals and the time for consideration at the sitting of the Saeima.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-30-PT13-2015-U237	The deadline for submitting proposals - by 1 November at 15.00, consideration - at the extraordinary sitting of the Saeima on 13 November this year.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-30-PT13-2015-U238	The deadline for submitting proposals - 1 November at 15.00, consideration - November 13 of the Saeima extraordinary sitting.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-30-PT13-2015-U239	Colleagues, request also to support the first reading of the draft law on amendments to the Education Act.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-30-PT13-2015-U240	Please call me! We will vote in favour of the first reading of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Education”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! - 57, against - 34, refrains - not. The draft law at first reading has been supported. Please set a time limit for the submission of proposals and the time for consideration at the sitting of the Saeima.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-30-PT13-2015-U241	The deadline for submitting proposals - by 1 November at 15.00, consideration - at the extraordinary sitting of the Saeima on 13 November this year.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-30-PT13-2015-U242	Working on the proposals - 1 November at 15.00 a.m. - Extraordinary sitting of the Saeima on 13 November this year.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-30-PT13-2015-U243	Colleagues, request also to support the first reading of the draft law on Amendments to the Law on the Financing of Political Organisations (Parties).
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-30-PT13-2015-U244	Please call me! We will vote for the first reading of the draft law on Amendments to the Law on the Financing of Political Organisations (Parties). Please vote mode! Please get the result! -59, against -34, refrains - not. The draft law at first reading has been supported. Please set a time limit for the submission of proposals and the time for consideration at the sitting of the Saeima.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-30-PT13-2015-U245	The deadline for submitting proposals - by 1 November at 15.00, consideration - at the extraordinary sitting of the Saeima on 13 November this year.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-30-PT13-2015-U246	Working on the proposals - 1 November at 15.00 a.m. - Extraordinary sitting of the Saeima on 13 November this year.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-30-PT13-2015-U247	Request also to support the first reading draft law on "Amendments to the Energy Act".
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-30-PT13-2015-U248	Please call me! We will vote in favour of the first reading of the draft law on energy law! Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about - 83, it's against - 7, it's not. The draft law at first reading has been supported. Please set a time limit for the submission of proposals and the time for consideration at the sitting of the Saeima.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-30-PT13-2015-U249	The deadline for submitting proposals - by 1 November at 15.00, consideration - at the extraordinary sitting of the Saeima on 13 November this year.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-30-PT13-2015-U250	Working on the proposals - 1 November at 15.00 a.m. - Extraordinary sitting of the Saeima on 13 November this year.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-30-PT13-2015-U251	Colleagues, request also to support the first reading of the draft law "Amendments to the Energy Efficiency Act".
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-30-PT13-2015-U252	Please call me! We will vote in favour of the first reading of the draft law "Amendments to the Law on Energy Efficiency". Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about - 83, it's against - 7, it's not. The draft law at first reading has been supported. Please set a time limit for the submission of proposals and a time limit for consideration at the sitting of the Saeima.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-30-PT13-2015-U253	The deadline for submitting proposals - 1 November at 15.00, consideration - November 13 of the Saeima extraordinary sitting.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-30-PT13-2015-U254	The deadline for submitting proposals - 1 November at 15.00, consideration - November 13 of the Saeima extraordinary sitting.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-30-PT13-2015-U255	Colleagues! Request to support the draft law on Amendments to the Law on the Electricity Market at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-30-PT13-2015-U256	Please call me! We will vote in favour of the first reading of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on the Electricity Market”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about - 83, it's against - 7, it's not. The draft law at first reading has been supported. Please set a time limit for the submission of proposals and a time limit for consideration at the sitting of the Saeima.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-30-PT13-2015-U257	Time limit for submission of proposals - 1 November at 15.00, consideration - 13 November of the Saeima extraordinary sitting.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-30-PT13-2015-U258	The deadline for submitting proposals - 1 November at 15.00, consideration - November 13 of the Saeima extraordinary sitting.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-30-PT13-2015-U259	Request to support the draft law “Amendments to the law on land depths” at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-30-PT13-2015-U260	Please call me! We will vote in favour of the draft law “Amendments to the Law “On Land Deeps” at first reading! Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about - 83, it's against - 8, it's not. The draft law at first reading has been supported. Please set a time limit for the submission of proposals and a time limit for consideration at the sitting of the Saeima.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-30-PT13-2015-U261	Time limit for submission of proposals - 1 November at 15.00, consideration - 13 November of the Saeima extraordinary sitting.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-30-PT13-2015-U262	The deadline for submitting proposals - 1 November at 15.00, consideration - November 13 of the Saeima extraordinary sitting.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-30-PT13-2015-U263	Request, colleagues, support the draft law “Amendments to the Law on the Register of Enterprises of the Republic of Latvia” at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-30-PT13-2015-U264	Please call me! We will vote for the draft law “Amendments to the Law “On the Register of Enterprises of the Republic of Latvia” at first reading! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 60, for - 13, for - 18. The draft law at first reading has been supported. Please set a time limit for the submission of proposals and a time limit for consideration at the sitting of the Saeima.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-30-PT13-2015-U265	Time limit for submitting proposals - 1 November at 15.00, consideration - Extraordinary sitting of the Saeima this year...
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-30-PT13-2015-U266	13 November this year.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-30-PT13-2015-U267	Review - the extraordinary sitting of the Saeima on 13 November this year.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-30-PT13-2015-U268	The deadline for submitting proposals - 1 November at 15.00, consideration - November 13 of the Saeima extraordinary sitting.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-30-PT13-2015-U269	Colleagues! Request to support the first reading of the draft law on Amendments to the Law on Scientific Activities.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-30-PT13-2015-U270	Please call me! We will vote for the first reading of the draft law on Amendments to the Law on Scientific Activities! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 65, for - 7 and for - 19. The draft law at first reading has been supported. Please set a time limit for the submission of proposals and a time limit for consideration at the sitting of the Saeima.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-30-PT13-2015-U271	Deadline for the submission of proposals - 1 November at 15.00, consideration - Extraordinary sitting of the Saeima (Interview.) November 13, this year.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-30-PT13-2015-U272	Time limit for submission of proposals - 1 November at 15.00, consideration - extraordinary sitting of the Saeima...
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-30-PT13-2015-U273	Neighbouring, I can't talk to the hall.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-30-PT13-2015-U274	... 13 November.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-30-PT13-2015-U275	Request, colleagues, to support the draft law on the medium-term budgetary framework for 2020, 2021 and 2022 at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-30-PT13-2015-U276	Please call me! Let us vote on the draft law on the medium-term budgetary framework for the years 2020, 2021 and 2022 at first reading! Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about - 60, it's 34, it's not. The draft law at first reading has been supported. Please set a time limit for the submission of proposals and a time limit for consideration at the sitting of the Saeima.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-30-PT13-2015-U277	The deadline for submitting proposals - 1 November at 15.00, consideration - November 13 of the Saeima extraordinary sitting.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-30-PT13-2015-U278	The deadline for submitting proposals - 1 November at 15.00, consideration - November 13 of the Saeima extraordinary sitting.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-30-PT13-2015-U279	Colleagues! Finally, the request to support the draft law on the state budget for 2020 at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-30-PT13-2015-U280	Please call me! We will vote on the draft law on the state budget for 2020 at first reading! Please vote mode! Please get the result! About - 60 (Applause) , against -34, refrains - none. The draft law at first reading has been supported. And for this draft law, I would also ask you to set a time limit for the submission of proposals and the time for consideration at the sitting of the Saeima.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-30-PT13-2015-U281	Colleagues! The deadline for submitting proposals - by 1 November at 15.00, consideration - at the extraordinary sitting of the Saeima on 13 November this year.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-30-PT13-2015-U282	Here we go! Consequently, the deadline for the submission of proposals - 1 November at 15.00, consideration - at the extraordinary sitting of the Saeima on 13 November this year. We are on the agenda until the draft decisions are examined. Draft decision on the procedure (form) for the submission of proposals for the 2020 national budget package. Member of the Commission for Budget and Finance (Tax) Mārtiņš Bondars.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-30-PT13-2015-U283	Colleagues! In the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission, this draft decision was supported and we ask you to support this draft decision at this parliamentary sitting as well. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-30-PT13-2015-U284	Please call me! We will vote on the draft decision on the procedure (form) for submitting proposals for the draft state budget 2020 package! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 59, for - 32, for - 1. Decision adopted.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-30-PT13-2015-U285	Colleagues! We have accepted the order, please follow it!
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-30-PT13-2015-U286	Thank you. I express my gratitude to the Prime Minister, the Minister of Finance and the Ministers who participate in the Saeima sitting! The agenda of the sitting has been examined. Please call me! Please check-in mode for Members! ( Interface: “Mārtiņš, Mārtiņš... “ The name to Maria Golubeva, member of the Saeima Secretary, for reading the results of the registration. There's no... Is that so? In that case, the name of the Secretary of the Saeima, Andrejs Klementyev, to read the results of the registration.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-30-PT13-2015-U287	Good evening, honourable Members! Not registered: Mārtiņš Bondars... I don't see in the hall... ( Internouncing call.) It wasn't, then it wasn't... Thank you, I see you! Maria Golubeva... No, I'm not, Inese Rectsen... I can't see, Arthur Neighbours... The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A. Neighbours: “What? Who?” ) Artuss... Art, you change your words so often... Dana Reizniece–Ozola, Ivan Ribakov... I see, John Wucan... I don't see. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-30-PT13-2015-U288	Thank you. I closed the extraordinary sitting of the Saeima.
