ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-07-PT13-518-U1	Good morning, honourable Members! I invite you to take a seat in the Chamber so that we can start the sitting of the Saeima on 7 February 2019. First of all, the amendments tabled to the agenda of the sitting approved by the Saeima Bureau. The Legal Commission is asking... ( The head of the sitting was knocked down with a hammer.) include in the agenda of the sitting the draft decision on the extension of the deadline for the submission of proposals in the Rule of Procedure of the Saeima (No. This Decision shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. Are Members opposed to this amendment of the agenda? There is no objection. The order of business has been amended. The Budget and Finance (Tax) Commission is asking for the draft law Amending the Law on Budget and Financial Management to be on the agenda for the sitting. Are Members opposed to this amendment of the agenda? There is no objection. The order of business has been amended. Thank you. We are starting to look at the amended agenda. On the agenda - approval and termination of the parliamentary term. The draft decision ‘On Riharda Kozlovska 13’. The mandate of the Saeima Member for a period of time, while the elected Members from the New Unity List of Candidates in the Riga Electoral Region perform their ministerial duties.’ Member Aldis Adamovičs on behalf of the commission of mandates, ethics and applications.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-07-PT13-518-U2	Good morning, honourable Speaker of the Saeima! Presidium! Colleagues! At its meeting on 30 January this year, the Commission for Mandates, Ethics and Applications examined the application of Member Edgars Rinkēvičs on 13. the appointment of a member of the Saeima for the term of office of the Minister. The next candidate from the New Unity List of Candidates in the Riga Electoral Area is Kārlis Šadurskis, who has refused to accept 13. The parliamentary mandate is temporary. The next candidate for the New Unity of the Party from the electoral district of Riga is Rihards Kozlovskis, who has agreed to accept 13. Members of the Saeima for a temporary term of office. The Commission calls for support to be given to the Parliament’s draft decision ‘On Riharda Kozlovska 13. The mandate of the Saeima Member for a period of time, while the elected Members from the New Unity List of Candidates in the Riga Electoral Region perform their ministerial duties.’
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-07-PT13-518-U3	Thank you. I call on Rihard Kozlovski to make a solemn promise.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-07-PT13-518-U4	As a member of the Saeima, I solemnly promise to be loyal to Latvia, to strengthen its sovereignty and Latvian language as the only language of the country, to defend Latvia as an independent and democratic state, to perform my duties in good faith and for the best consciousness. I undertake to respect the Constitution and laws of Latvia.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-07-PT13-518-U5	Thank you. I invite you to sign the solemn promise. Thank you. Please call me! We will vote in favour of the draft decision on Riharda Kozlovska 13. Approval of the parliamentary powers for a period of time while the elected Members from the New Unity List of Candidates in the Riga Electoral Region perform their duties as ministers”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 89, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. Congratulations to the Member of the Saeima Rihard Kozlowski! I invite you to take a seat in the Chamber. (Applause) On the agenda - reports from the Saeima Bureau on draft laws submitted. The Presidium of the Saeima shall propose that the Member Kučinska, Valaiņa, Reizniece-Ozola, Dūklavs, Bergmanis and other draft laws submitted by the Parliament “Amendment to the Law on State Social Benefits” be referred to the Social and Labour Affairs Commission, stating that it is the committee responsible. ‘ “A Member, Dana Reizniece-Ozola, has applied for a speech.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-07-PT13-518-U6	Good morning, Madam President of the Saeima. Colleagues! I call for support for this draft law, which provides for an increase in the family state's allowance for the first child - EUR 50, for the second EUR 100, for the third and the next EUR 150. I know there have been promises in the pre-election programmes, but there has not been a debate on this type of support. I think it is worth doing this here in the Saeima, without waiting for the draft budget that the government has brought, because we, as Members, have to debate the substance of policy making. This is not only our right, but it is also our duty - not only to the generals of weddings. Indeed, this kind of support is a matter of debate and sense, because, even when we were drawing up the previous budgets, we listened very much to the opinion of the Council for Demographic Affairs on the type of support that large families would need most and the wide-ranging programme, which has a nice name, the "Maras Step", increasing the family state allowance was one of the priority measures. We have already done a great deal by substantially increasing this family state allowance, but, of course, there was no financial opportunity at that time to do it to the extent I would like to, and that is why it is also worth continuing this step, and why? Of course, we know that we are still too bright with the demographic situation: 1.7 children per mother. This means that Latvians are getting less, we are shrinking like a nation. We also know that one fifth of large families, those with three or more children, live on the poverty line. And we also know that tax incentives alone cannot do so. Because support for these families cannot be provided if... For example, despite the fact that we have substantially increased the unobservable minimum for dependent persons, large families of children whose parents are not overpaid cannot take full advantage of this. For example, a family with two dependants and a salary of EUR 680 - the unlimited minimum is zero... In other words, if there are several children in such a family, then there can be no benefit. And that's why... In particular, reducing inequalities and supporting families require specific, targeted measures, which could include family state benefits and increasing them. Therefore, my fellow Members, I call for support for this draft law, so that there is a debate here in the Saeima on the nature of the best demographic support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-07-PT13-518-U7	Thank you. Do Members object to a draft law being passed on to the Commission? Members have reservations. Please call me! We will vote in favour of handing over the draft law “Amendment to the Law on State Social Benefits” to the Commission of Social and Labour Affairs, establishing that it is the committee responsible! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 31, for - 52, for - 6. The draft law has not been passed on to the commission. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. D. Reizniece-Ozola: “Raiv!” ; dep. Mr Dzintars said: “How much does it cost?Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The Bureau of the Saeima proposes that the Member Kučinska, Valaiņa, Reizniece-Ozola, Dūklavs, Bergmanis and other draft laws presented "Amendments to the Law on Personal Income Tax" be referred to the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission, stating that it is the committee responsible. ‘ For” applied to speak Member Viktors Valainis.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-07-PT13-518-U8	Good morning, colleagues! The fact that there are inequalities in Latvia, I think we don't have to convince each other. We can see it for ourselves in our daily life, and there are also various international researches - both Latvian and foreign research - which for years has shown that there are inequalities in Latvia. We can see the difference in income between urban and rural residents, especially Riga and the rest of Latvia. There this difference is measurable in rounds... Currently, more than 20 percent of the society, or about 425 thousand people, are at risk of poverty in Latvia, who are forced to take up SMS credits to take care of their basic needs, are forced to go to municipalities and social services after benefits. Just to take care of your... normal everyday life. I think that is wrong. I think it is clear to the whole of Parliament that we will vote on this draft law. Perhaps not today, but we will support this draft law, because it provides for a substantial increase in the non-equitable minimum for the particular population for which it is most important. I think that Parliament should stop promising; it should stop avoiding its promises, especially those who have been in the pre-election campaign. I call on Parliament to start work already in the commissions and send a signal to the section of society that needs it most, that this issue will be put in order and that the draft law will be adopted. I don't want to call anyone the champion of lies from this platform, but maybe there are people between us. I urge you to prove that you are not, and to support this draft law in the first... referral to the Commission. I think that blaming that there is no money in the budget is completely abhorrent. This is the largest budget in Latvia's history. I think that the 30, 40, 50 million gap that is now appearing in the press - other numbers every day... I would remind you that, at the time when Dana Reizniece-Ozola started her ministry, the gap in the ministerial budget was minus 140 million, and this did not prevent the implementation of very many important things - improving people's living conditions, implementing many reforms that are already in operation. I call for support for this draft law being passed on to the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-07-PT13-518-U9	Thank you. Do Members object to a draft law being passed on to the Commission? Members have reservations. Please call me! We will vote in favour of transferring the draft law “Amendments to the Law “On Personal Income Tax” to the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission, establishing that it is the committee responsible! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 31, for - 57, for - 2. The draft law has not been passed on to the commission. The Saeima Bureau proposes the Member Kučinska, Valaiņa, Reizniece-Ozola, Dūklavs, Bergmanis and other draft laws submitted... ( The head of the sitting was knocked down with a hammer.) The amendment to the Labour Law shall be referred to the Social and Labour Affairs Commission, stating that it is the committee responsible. ‘ For” applied to speak Member Uldis Augulis.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-07-PT13-518-U10	Highly honored Speaker of the Saeima! Dear colleagues, The Union of Greens/Farmers calls for an amendment to the Labour Law, with a minimum wage of at least EUR 500. Knowing that the preparation and approval of this year's state budget in the Saeima has been delayed due to the length of the process of formation of the new government, we are calling for the introduction of a minimum wage starting from 2020 so that social partners, businessmen, can have a full discussion by now. I think the pre-election promises about raising the minimum wage are well known from 2019 onwards, and it is not forgotten how it may have happened with many other loudly expressed... commitments. I therefore call on the voters not to be disappointed this time and to support the raising of minimum wages. All the more so as the coalition party - the New Conservative Party - has announced that it will encourage a debate on raising the minimum wage already this summer. I think we will not wait until the summer, but let us start discussing now. On 1 February, Gatis Eglitis wrote that from 1 January 2020, Latvia should have a minimum wage of at least 500 euros - much similar to what is already the case in Lithuania and Estonia. ( Internouncing call.) In the past, Lithuania was behind us, but it is now ahead of us. ‘ More importantly,” says Gatis Eglitis, “it is faster to raise the tax-free minimum of personal income.” He has also added a beautiful Eurostat table showing minimum wages in the European Member States in 2019. So, my fellow Members, however, call for the coalition voting machine not to be switched off, but for everyone to vote in accordance with what they have promised their constituents. I call for support.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-07-PT13-518-U11	Do Members object to a draft law being passed on to the Commission? Please call me! We will vote in favour of handing over the draft law “Amendment to Labour Law” to the Committee on Social and Labour Affairs, stating that it is the committee responsible! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 31, for - 57, for - 1. The draft law has not been passed on to the commission. The Parliamentary Bureau proposes that the draft law “Amendments to the Constitution of the Republic of Latvia” submitted by the Member Dombrovskis, Krišana, Lochmeles-Lunova, Kabanovs and Goldberg be submitted to all commissions, as well as to the Legal Commission, stating that it is the committee responsible. ‘ For” applied to speak Member Vjačeslav Dombrovskis.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-07-PT13-518-U12	President-in-Office of the Saeima, very much. Dear colleagues, I would like to ask you one question. Maybe you know who Edgar Kronberg is? Does anyone know who Edgar Kronberg is? “ We know! - Member of “KPV LV” party!’ ) Thank you. Colleagues, why do I ask you that right now? This is currently one of the most important issues in our country, and I will explain to you why. First of all, Artus is right - Edgars Kronbergs is a member of the KPV LV party, who, according to the results of the Saeima elections, is the next member of this party on the Kurzeme list. He has a higher education in science at the University of Latvia; he is a specialist in environmental management, an entrepreneur. Publicly available information about this person does not indicate anything in criminal proceedings. But what has he done, colleagues, that because of this person the Minister for Welfare of the Republic of Latvia cannot make a full contribution to fulfilling his direct duties? Perhaps the Minister is so professional in the field of welfare that she doesn't even need to spend so much time on welfare? But that is not the case. As the Minister himself acknowledged on January 12, this year, the journalist Janis Domburs had only 48 hours of work in his welfare sector. Maybe we have such a strong government in general that the Minister... one minister can rely on others that the full involvement of one minister is not necessary at all? Not only opposition parties, but Latvians also do not particularly believe in Kariņš' ability to achieve any positive change. According to recent surveys, only two percent of the population believe that the Karini Government will be able to deliver on the promises made in its declaration, and only 12 percent believe that this government will work until the next elections. Well then maybe the Minister believes that this is what her constituents want? According to the survey results announced only a few days ago, 79 percent of Latvians do not think... ( Insight: How much did the survey take place?) ) 79 percent of respondents... ( Subtotal: How much?) ) You can ask TNS... Ministers shall not be deemed to be able to carry out their duties in a qualitative manner if they combine their positions with those of a member of the Saeima. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A. Zakaistov: “The statistics are a strange thing... “ All right. Let's put the statistics aside. Perhaps we are in such a good position in the welfare sector that the Minister can afford not to pay attention to it? But let's look at the situation. Let us at least look at the situation with old-age pensions! How can a pensioner survive with a pension of less than EUR 300? It's less than the minimum wage, isn't it? But more than 194,000 pensioners receive such a pension. And 44,000 receive an old-age pension of less than EUR 200. By the way, 20 745 people receive a pension of less than 100 euros per month. One hundred euros a month! What are you doing here, Minister? What are you doing here? ( Subtitle: “What do the statistics say? ” ) Do you not believe that your job, your duty at the moment, would be to do everything possible to help these people rather than to listen to me or to others? All right, Minister, this is not a reproach for you personally. I understand that you would like to be fully associated with the work of the government, your industry, and do everything possible. Obviously, your group does not allow you to do so. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. Zakaistov: “Let’s Change the Constitution!” ) Colleagues, it must not be handled either by ministers or by welfare industry or by the state of Latvia. And finally, colleagues - it must not be done with a woman. Unfortunately, I am not a Member of the CPV Group. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A. Nemiņš: “Thanks to God, Vjačeslav!” ) Yes, indeed, thank God! Consequently, we cannot directly influence the group's decision. And since we can't count on people's conscience... ( The drug is noise. Sub-words: “Time!” ) Council Regulation (EC) No 1257/96 of 20 June 1996 concerning humanitarian aid (OJ L 163, 2.7.1996, p. 1).
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-07-PT13-518-U13	Thank you, Mr Dombrovskis. The speaking time is over. According to the order of the Saeima, this cannot be extended. I turned you off the microphone. The speaking time is over! Mr. Dombrovskis, I have to warn you (The Head of the sitting knocked down with a hammer.) - The speaking time is over! ( Milestones.) Mr Dombrovskis, you have a microphone turned off after the end of the speaking time! Do Members object to the referral of the draft law to the commissions? Please call me! We will vote in favour of handing over the draft law “Amendments to the Constitution of the Republic of Latvia” to all commissions, stating that the Legal Commission is the committee responsible! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 31, for - 59, for - 1. The draft law has not been passed on to the commissions. The Saeima Bureau proposes that the Member Dombrovskis, Krišāns, Lochmeles-Lunova, Kabanova and Goldberg be referred to the Legal Commission, stating that he is the committee responsible. ‘ Regina Ločmele-Lunova, Member of the European Parliament, has applied to speak about’.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-07-PT13-518-U14	Hello, colleagues! In accordance with Rule 79 of the Parliament's roll of order, we, Members of the Group, tabled a bill entitled 'Amendments to the parliamentary roll of order'. The essence of these amendments is to prohibit further consolidation of the position of minister and Member of the Saeima. In order to implement this, we propose to supplement Article 5 of the parliamentary roll with paragraph 1.1, in the following wording: “A member of the Saeima shall, within one week from the date of taking up his duties as Prime Minister, a Member of the Prime Minister, a Minister or a Minister of State, appoint a Member to the office of Prime Minister, a Member of the Prime Minister, a Minister and a Minister of State. Upon receipt of an application to establish a mandate, the Saeima Bureau shall invite the next candidate to take part in the Saeima instead of that Member and shall notify the Commission of his appointment, ethics and application.’; The Constitution of the Republic of Latvia strengthens the principle of division of power and the system of balance and balance of power. The division of power in the legislative power, executive power and judiciary is an essential condition for the implementation of the rule of law over the principle. The competence of the executive authority is linked to the obligation to ensure the continuous provision of public administration. Thus, if a member of the Saeima also holds a responsible ministerial position, he must be under constant pressure to work in the ministry. This will significantly reduce the quality of decisions taken by his Saeima, resulting in risks of degradation of the results of legislation, which will increase public distrust towards the Saeima. Linking a member of the Saeima and a minister is also one of the levels of corruption and a potential conflict of interest (Interface: Ha-ha-ha!) ) increase risks. For many of our constituents, no matter which party they have voted for, it is unclear how it is possible to reconcile the responsibilities of the Minister with those of the Saeima, taking into account their size, daily burden and degree of responsibility. Yesterday, something has happened in the Saeima that is difficult to explain to the voters. The Commission for Social and Labour Affairs had invited welfare ministers Ramona Petraviča to its meeting on the very painful issue of a support system for families bringing up people with severe disabilities from childhood. The Minister did not come to the meeting and her position was explained by the parliamentary secretary, Mr Spruč. Knowing that Ramona Petraviča had not appointed a member of the Saeima as a minister, all logically thought people thought that she was not present at the meeting of the Committee on Social and Labour only because the Budget and Financial (Financial) Commission is held at the same time and she is there because, as the Minister himself explained in his communication with the media, it is the work of this responsible committee and the need to help her colleague Mr Zakatistova in his work on the development of the state budget that prevents her from having her seat as a member. It turns out, no! The meetings of the Committee on Budgets and Finance (Tax), both of which Mrs Petraviča ignored this week, too. Was there a job in the Ministry? Maybe. However, the Minister's own agenda on that day and at that time did not provide anything, at least officially. Of course, nothing tragic happened so far. As pointed out by Andris Skride, the Head of the Commission on Social and Labour Affairs, in a very emotional atmosphere, the members of the Commission understood the financial conditions under which families with so-called eternal children are to live - people with very serious health problems, who require special care and, in fact, the constant attention of family members. This issue, in the opinion of the Commission, cannot be expected, therefore Members are planning to look at the Welfare Ministry's offer to deal with the situation on 19 February and are calling on welfare ministers to attend the meeting of the Commission in person. I very much hope that the Minister will come. And I hope that before that, she will, however, set up a parliamentary mandate to carry out the duties of Minister for Welfare in a full and generous manner. On the other hand, you honourable Members, I ask you to vote in favour of the draft law that has been tabled, which seeks to prevent you from joining in the future the position of minister and Member of the Saeima. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-07-PT13-518-U15	Thank you. ‘ Against” applied to speak Member Artus Kaimiņš.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-07-PT13-518-U16	Well, congratulations! Ramona Petraviča, you are the most famous minister in Latvia! That's a good benefit. It needs to be kept in order to speak every day! SAVE, thank you. We do it more often! (Applause) Talking about this... about the accusations that had been made here about what happened at the sitting yesterday... You understand, you're not working in the Saeima for the first day and you've seen the work of the ministries... That is why there are already parliamentary secretaries of the ministries representing the ministries. That's why they already exist! The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. R. Lochmele-Lunova’s intermediate call. The Minister does not have to account for where she goes every day, what she does, what she's on the agenda. She doesn't have to! The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. R. Lochmele-Lunova’s intermediate call. And you have no right to know it! So... This is the second debate... Then Vyacheslav speaks, then Regina speaks and breaks down to our party minister. I understand that you have found some little one, to whom you will be able to lie, but you will not. Well, don't, come on! We need something else. Especially Regina... When you talk about combining work, you should talk least about it. At least! Therefore, reject the whole measure as well. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-07-PT13-518-U17	One Member has spoken for, one against. We have to vote. Please call me! We will vote in favour of handing over the draft law “Amendments to the parliamentary order roll” to the Legal Commission, according to which it is the committee responsible! Please vote mode! Please get the result! - 30, 59, abstaining. - No. The draft law has not been passed on to the commission. The Presidium of the Saeima proposes that the Member Dombrovskis, Krišāns, Lochmeles-Lunov, Kabanov and Goldbergs submit the draft law “Amendment to the Law on the Prevention of Conflict of Interest in the Activities of Public Officials” to the Commission of the State Administration and Local Government, stating that it is the committee responsible. ‘ For” applied to speak Member Vjačeslav Dombrovskis.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-07-PT13-518-U18	Dear colleagues, In fact, I applied to speak against this draft law. Mr. Neighbours, I am afraid you did not quite well understand the big picture that is happening. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A. Neighbours: “Speak!” ) I am pleased. This vote, the negative one, shows that your coalition partners do not want your party's welfare minister to work fully in the field of prosperity. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. (A. Neighbourhood sub-scenario) This means that they would like to keep him away from welfare for some reason. That is the only possible explanation. In turn... Whereas the previous two draft laws have been rejected... if this particular draft law is approved, it will mean that Mrs Petraviča will be able to receive two wages. And that was certainly not the aim of this draft law. So I withdrew my signature. Thank you. It's funny. Depp. (A. Neighbourhood sub-scenario)
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-07-PT13-518-U19	Thank you. The signature has therefore been withdrawn. We do not have to vote on the referral of the draft law to the commissions and we do not decide on the referral of the draft law to the commissions. Members Dombrovskis... The Saeima Bureau proposes that the Member Dombrovskis, Papules, Goldbergs, Ribakava and Kucin's draft law "Amendment to the Law on Scientific Activities" be referred to the Education, Culture and Science Commission, stating that it is the committee responsible. ‘ Evija Papule, a Member, has applied to speak about’.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-07-PT13-518-U20	Madam President, Colleagues! As we know in the tactic: how strong the opposition is, so strong is the position or - in the case of Latvia - the coalition. This means that if you wanted to work together for a long time, you would respect and hear the opposition. And that, ladies and gentlemen, depends only on you. The work of the opposition is not rare precisely because it is valuable that reminds of the promises of the position parties during the pre-elections and does not allow them to simply spread out. But being in the position of power and making responsible decisions, it is strangely strange that these promises do not come true in life, but rather, on the contrary, go away or become somewhat modest. The current discussions and decisions on the budget show this again. So the promises to scientists. One of the reasons why the new conservative party is currently in the Saeima and government, as well as in the administration of the Ministry of Education and Science, is funding for science - 1.5 percent of gross domestic product. ‘ Development/About!’ - open up university professors, scientists from around the world to reform and concentrate scientific activities, triple its funding over three years from 25 to 75 million. It must be acknowledged that those in power in the past have been more modest. The National Association has said: “We will set up a Latvian Innovation Fund by investing public funds in the development of a knowledge geared towards economic growth.” You haven't told me how much you're gonna invest. YOUNG UNION - consolidation of knowledge and university resources in the quality of studies of the state's ability to qualify for European Union funds. Not a word about funding, but a consolidation though. Until science, CPV LV has yet to grow. There is no word for it in its programme, but there is a minister for the economy. Why do I mention this when it comes to science? Because the Ministry of Economics - and this is confirmed by letter of 8 October last year. 188 - The national energy research programme for three years has been approved - from 2018 to 2020. The programme is being or would be financed by the European Ministry... The state budget allocated by the Ministry of Economic Affairs - for three years six million, every year two million. Thus, every year two million will be allocated to the national research programme. That's great! And I really hope that this will happen despite the decisions or statements that have just been made on the future fate, funding and scope of national research programmes. Among other things, nine further ministerial national research programmes have been asked to increase funding from 7.4 million to almost 10 million over three years. However, it is known that in the European Union, funding for science is on average more than two percent of gross domestic product. In Latvia, less than 0.5 per cent of knabs. And that's been the case for years. Science has not experienced either fat years or economic growth and is constantly in crisis. To some extent, scientists nostalgically start longing after the time when scientists were respected and when science played an important role in the economy, development, and thus in the well - being of society. Ladies and gentlemen! These promises must be kept! You are in power precisely because you criticised the previous ones. Latvian science needs breath, yes, also brand change. I therefore ask for support for the proposal included in the coalition party programmes, namely to support the proposal to increase funding for science by 1.5 per cent of GDP. I also call for support for young scientists not to leave, work in other countries and raise their economic development and social well-being. Thank you. ( A PASSENGER’S ANSWER.)
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-07-PT13-518-U21	Thank you. Do Members object to a draft law being passed on to the Commission? Members have reservations. Please call me! We will vote in favour of handing over the draft law “Amendment to the Law on Scientific Activities” to the Education, Culture and Science Commission, which states that it is the committee responsible! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 31, for - 55, for - 2. The draft law has not been passed on to the commission. The Saeima's Bureau proposes that the draft law on budgetary and financial management presented by the Budget and Finance (Tax) Commission be referred to the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission, stating that it is the Commission responsible. Do Members object to a draft law being passed on to the Commission? There is no objection. The draft law has been passed on to the Commission. Reports from the Saeima Bureau on the granting of leave. For unpaid leave granted to Member Digim Schmit, from 5 February to 7 February this year. The Saeima Bureau has received an application from Member Didžas Schmidt requesting him to receive unpaid leave from 5 to 7 February of this year. The Saeima Bureau has granted leave and shall inform the Saeima thereof. For granting unpaid leave to Member Inese Ikstena on 13 and 14 February this year. Colleagues, we must vote in favour of granting leave. Please call me! We will be voting for the granting of unpaid leave to Ms Inese Ikstena on 13 and 14 February this year! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 89, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. Decision adopted. On the agenda - examination of a request from Members. The request made by Members. The Saeima Presidium has received a request from the Member Ulda Augulis, Gundars Dauges, Jānis Vucanas, Anda Čakša, Raimonds Bergmanis, Viktors Valaiņa, Jānis Dūklavs, Armands Krauze, Janina Jalinska and Dana Reizniece-Ozola, Minister of Justice Janis Bordans, about the letter sent about foreign embassies, questioning the competence and independence of the Latvian judicial system. Ladies and gentlemen, this request has been distributed and made available to all Members. The applicants have not asked for a statement in support of the request. In accordance with the Rules of Procedure of the Saeima, a request shall be submitted to the Commission for referral. On the agenda - examination of draft laws. Draft law “Amendments to the Latvian National Opera and Ballet Law”, second reading. The draft law has been declared urgent. On behalf of the Commission for Education, Culture and Science - Member Ivars Puga.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-07-PT13-518-U22	Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. Dear colleagues, We examine the draft law “Amendments to the Latvian National Opera and Ballet Law” (No. 217/Lp13). Four proposals have been received by the Commission. 1. - a proposal from Minister of Culture Dace Melbards. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-07-PT13-518-U23	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-07-PT13-518-U24	2. - a proposal from Minister of Culture Dace Melbards. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-07-PT13-518-U25	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-07-PT13-518-U26	3. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-07-PT13-518-U27	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-07-PT13-518-U28	4. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-07-PT13-518-U29	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-07-PT13-518-U30	Please support the draft law “Amendments to the Latvian National Opera and Ballet Law” at second, final reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-07-PT13-518-U31	Please call me! We will vote in favour of the second, final reading of the draft law “Amendments to the Latvian National Opera and Ballet Law”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 84, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The law is passed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-07-PT13-518-U32	Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-07-PT13-518-U33	On the agenda: draft law on the Council of Europe Convention against Trafficking in Human Organs, second reading. On behalf of the Commission on Foreign Affairs, Member Richard Coll. Rapporteur... Is there a grass? The rapporteur was not in the room. So this item on the agenda is being postponed to the end of the sitting as the last item on the agenda. On the agenda - draft law “Amendment to the law on the holding of persons in custody”, third reading. On behalf of the Commission on Defence, Home Affairs and Anti-Corruption - Member Aldis Blumbergs.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-07-PT13-518-U34	Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen, The Commission has examined the draft law and the nature of the amendment to that law is to rule out the words ‘or the Security Police’. And the other is the reason to turn off... from the place where the detainees are held... Security service because the premises don't match... Thus, the temporary detention isolator is only at the disposal of the State Police. I would invite Members to support this draft law supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-07-PT13-518-U35	Please call me!
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-07-PT13-518-U36	Third reading:
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-07-PT13-518-U37	We will vote in favour of the third, final, reading of the draft law on the law on the detention of persons in custody! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 88, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. The law is passed. Dear colleagues, Proposals for changes to the agenda of the sitting approved by the Saeima Bureau have been received. Members Lochmele-Luņova, Cilevičs, Agešins, Kabanovs, Krišāns and others are asking to include in the agenda the draft decision “On the funding of Latvian Radio 4 and the public media portal LSM.lv for the operation of the English and Russian versions of LSM.lv”. Are Members against (Interfaces: Yes!) ) the inclusion of the draft decision on the agenda of the sitting? One Member may speak in favour, one against the changes to the agenda. ‘ Regina Ločmele-Lunova, Member of the European Parliament, has applied to speak about’.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-07-PT13-518-U38	Hello, fellow Members, again! The need to include in the agenda of today’s meeting the draft decision “On the granting of funding for the operation of the Latvian Radio 4 and the public media portal LSM.lv English and Russian versions” is linked to the exceptional circumstances. The essence of the draft decision is to instruct the Cabinet of Ministers to immediately ensure the provision of funding for the operation of the Latvian Radio 4 and public media portal LSM.lv English and Russian language version according to the implementation plan of national identity, civil society and integration policy. What's happened? Yesterday, a meeting of the Commission on Human Rights and Public Affairs took place, during which the management of the public media - Latvian Radio and Latvian Television - informed that on Tuesday behind closed doors, the government had not given a clear answer as to whether there would be money for the existence of these public media in the near future until the adoption of the budget. Why is there a lack of money? Because public media are only partly financed from the national budget. One part is provided by the Ministry of Culture. And the money for the year is as follows: for the existence of Latvian Radio 4 - 191 thousand, for the Latvian Radio 1 minority and for the technical provision of Latgale broadcasting - is in this amount, while the English and Russian versions of LSM.lv require 121 thousand euros. I will reveal a little secret to you: Latvian Radio employees themselves call this money... from the beginning it was the so-called "Linderman's money", which was allocated - after the referendum - to the fight against Russian propaganda... The Russian propaganda, and then it was also renamed ‘the Crimean money’ to fulfil the same objectives. More. Maybe you don't know that's 191,000... There are also 54 thousand broadcasts inside, because several transmitters were built for this money at the Latvian-Russian border to resist Russian propaganda in border areas, and now this money is used to support these transmitters. Thus, by not providing funding that has not been in place since the new year (the internal resources of Latvian Radio were used in these months), we will not be able to ensure and implement the objectives described in this programme, which is specifically for Russian audience and for specific purposes - cohesion of society. Yes, it is known that the government's extraordinary meeting will be held again tomorrow and will probably decide on the allocation of this money. And that is why I ask you, the Saeima, to take a clear view today that this money must be given to help journalists calm down - they are really concerned because it affects their salaries. I'll tell you more. This money does not go directly to LR 4. This money is scattered - it is financed, as has already been reported, both by the specific people of the news service and the Latgale studio. It won't be that LR 4 will suddenly disappear. No, just less quality, worse quality will be for the whole Latvian Radio broadcasting, because the news service is preparing news programmes for all five programmes. When it comes to money, it really is a very small amount. I could even compare with a few santoms in a pretty thick wallet... And I hope that the Latvian Government will find these Sundays tomorrow, either in the form of an appropriation or in the means of unforeseen events, and will decide on this tomorrow. But today really needs a clear yes from the majority of the Saeima. ( The headlines are: “We already know! ” “We’re addressing it!” ) Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-07-PT13-518-U39	Do Members object to these amendments to the agenda? ( Milestones.) Do Members have objections? Members have reservations. Please call me! We will vote for the inclusion of the decision project “On financing Latvian Radio 4 and public media portal LSM.lv for the operation of the English and Russian versions”... ( The Room Noise. (See the box below.) Can we keep going? ... inclusion on the agenda of the Saeima sitting! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 26, for - 56, for - 7. Consequently, the draft decision is not included on the agenda of the sitting. Member Vitenbergs, Dzintars, Strike, Pavļuts and Zakaistovs are asking to change the agenda of the sitting and to exclude from it the draft law “Amendments to Competition Law” (No. 76/Lp13). Are Members opposed to this amendment of the agenda? There is no objection. The order of business has been amended. Members Kozlovskis, Lībiņa-Egnere, Kalniņš, Adamovičs, Judins and others are asking to include on the agenda the draft decision on the election of Mr Rihards Kozlovska as a member of the Committee on Budget and Financial Affairs (tax). Are Members opposed to this amendment of the agenda? There is no objection. The order of business has been amended. Members Kozlovskis, Lībiņa-Egnere, Kalniņš, Adamovičs, Judins, Latkovskis and others are asking to include on the agenda the draft decision on the election of Member Rihards Kozlovskis to the Commission for Petitions. Are Members opposed to this amendment of the agenda? There is no objection. The order of business has been amended. The Budget and Finance (Tax) Commission is asking for the draft law Amending the Law on Budget and Financial Management to be on the agenda for the sitting. Are Members opposed to this amendment of the agenda? There is no objection. The order of business has been amended. On the agenda - draft law “On the recognition of the EU Cohesion Fund project management law as invalid”, third reading. Member of the Commission for Budget and Finance (Tax) Reinis Znotiņš.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-07-PT13-518-U40	Hello, dear colleagues! The eligible period for expenditure on Cohesion Fund projects has already, in principle, expired on 31 December 2010. Therefore, in order to reduce regulation, a draft law has been drawn up, which renders this law obsolete. The Commission has supported this. No proposals have been submitted. Please support me.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-07-PT13-518-U41	Please call me! We will vote for support for the third, final reading of the draft law “On the recognition of the EU Cohesion Fund project management law as invalid! Please vote mode! Please get the result! Not by - 82, not by - and refrains. The law is passed. On the agenda - draft law “On the recognition of the law on the management of the European Union structural funds as invalid”, third reading. Member of the Commission for Budget and Finance (Tax) Reinis Znotiņš.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-07-PT13-518-U42	The programming period for the European Union Structural and Cohesion Funds 2004-2006 is also over. In order to reduce regulation, I again ask for support and vote in favour of the Commission. No proposals have been submitted, please support.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-07-PT13-518-U43	Please call me! We will vote for support for the third, final reading of the draft law on the recognition of the Law on the Management of Structural Funds of the European Union as forceless! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 84, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The law is passed. On the agenda - draft law “Amendments to law “On North Vidzeme Biosphere Reserve”, third reading. On behalf of the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy, Member Ivars Zarins.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-07-PT13-518-U44	Hello, colleagues! We work with amendments to law “On North Vidzeme Biosphere Reserve”. The Commission has received two proposals for a third reading. 1. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. The Commission received partial support and included 2. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-07-PT13-518-U45	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-07-PT13-518-U46	2. - a proposal from the committee responsible. The Commission is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-07-PT13-518-U47	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-07-PT13-518-U48	Therefore, my fellow Members, I call on you to support this draft law at third, final, reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-07-PT13-518-U49	Please call me! We will vote for the support of the draft law “Amendments to the law “On North Vidzeme Biosphere Reserve”” in the third, final reading! Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about - 83, it's against and refrains from - it's not. The law is passed. On the agenda - draft law “Amendments to the Law “On Police”, second reading. On behalf of the Commission on Defence, Home Affairs and Anti-Corruption - Member Aldis Blumbergs.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-07-PT13-518-U50	Ladies and gentlemen, The Commission has examined amendments to the law on police. These amendments are supported by the Commission. One has been received: the proposal of the former Minister of the Interior, Rihards Kozlovski, who has also received support from the Commission. So please...
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-07-PT13-518-U51	The proposal is supported by Members.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-07-PT13-518-U52	I therefore ask Members to support this draft law at second reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-07-PT13-518-U53	Please call me! We will vote in favour of the second reading of the draft law “Amendments to the Law “On Police”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 81, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. The draft law at second reading has been supported. Please set a time limit for the submission of proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-07-PT13-518-U54	Proposals are due by 21 February this year.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-07-PT13-518-U55	Thank you. The deadline for submitting proposals is 21 February this year. On the agenda - draft law “Amendments to the Law “On Excise Tax”, first reading. On behalf of the Commission for Budget and Finance (Tax) - Member Dana Reizniece-Ozola.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-07-PT13-518-U56	Good afternoon, colleagues! This and the future draft laws that I will report on are linked to the single account... the introduction of a tax account in 2021. Currently, in accordance with current laws and regulations on the procedure for the provision of payment services and the current tax system, the taxpayer - a natural or legal person - makes a tax contribution to 49 different tax accounts in the Treasury. The basic principles for opening these accounts are set out in such a way that the implementation of the State budget revenue after the cash flow can be determined by type of revenue (the taxpayer does not indicate what tax is due, but determines where it is paid into the account). Moreover, for each tax, special laws and regulations set a different time limit for payment to be respected by both accountants and directors of companies, and in fact there is a higher administrative burden on the national side when it is processed. In order to reduce its problems and thus reduce its bureaucratic burden, it has already been decided that in 2021 this single account will be implemented - with the idea that all taxes are paid in one account and the State Revenue Service depending on which tax period has arrived, it is counted as paid accordingly. In order to be able to develop the information technology system, i.e. the payment administration information system (MAIS), we have to make the relevant amendments to the law already this year. And the specific draft law - “Amendments to the Law “On Excise Tax”” (No. 174/Lp13) - provides that economic operators carrying out activities with excise goods during the tax period will pay the calculated excise duty to the state budget in the general tax account not later than by the 23rd day of the month after the end of the relevant tax period. On the other hand, the excise duty declaration will be submitted by those to whom it is required to submit within three working days of the due date. Please support this draft law at first reading, as the Commission has done.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-07-PT13-518-U57	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote for the support of the draft law “Amendments to the Law “On Excise Tax” at first reading! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 80, for - no, for - 1. Draft legislation supported at first reading. Please set a deadline for the submission of proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-07-PT13-518-U58	The proposed deadline is 12 February this year.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-07-PT13-518-U59	Thank you. Deadline for the submission of proposals: 12 February this year. On the agenda - draft law “Amendments to the Law on Electricity Tax”, first reading. On behalf of the Commission for Budget and Finance (Tax) - Member Dana Reizniece-Ozola.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-07-PT13-518-U60	Draft Law No 173/Lp13 - Amendments to the Law on Electricity Tax. These amendments to the law provide that the calculated tax on electricity is paid by the 23rd day of each subsequent month after the end of the relevant tax period and a declaration on the tax period must be submitted to the State Revenue Service within 20 days after the end of the relevant tax period. Please support at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-07-PT13-518-U61	Please call me! We will vote in favour of the first reading of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Electric Power Tax”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 81, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. Draft legislation supported at first reading. Please set a deadline for the submission of proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-07-PT13-518-U62	12 February this year.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-07-PT13-518-U63	Thank you. The deadline for submitting proposals is 12 February this year. On the agenda - draft law “Amendments to the law “On Lot and Gambling Tax and Tax”, first reading. On behalf of the Commission for Budget and Finance (Tax) - Member Dana Reizniece-Ozola.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-07-PT13-518-U64	Draft Law No 172/Lp13 provides for a modification of the time limit for the payment of interest on slots and gambling taxes, subject to the payment of interest and interest for the month before the 23rd of the month following that in which they are paid into the single tax account. The draft law also provides for a change in the reporting period for slot and gambling tax, by stating that the operators of slot and gambling tax submit a report on the calculated tax to the SRS for the reference month rather than, as is currently the case, for the reference quarter. We know that the output tax and the gambling tax is a tax that is divided between the state budget and the municipal budget. This draft law also provides for the procedure how it will be done by establishing that this distribution will be carried out by the State Revenue Service. If there are penalties to be calculated for non-payment of the tax in due time, then... they are assumed to be allocated to the revenues of the national general budget by the SRS. I call for support at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-07-PT13-518-U65	Please call me! We will vote for the support of the draft law “Amendments to the law “On Lot and Gaming Fees and Taxes” at first reading! Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about - 83, it's against and refrains from - it's not. The draft law at first reading has been supported. Please set a deadline for the submission of proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-07-PT13-518-U66	12 February this year.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-07-PT13-518-U67	The deadline for submitting proposals is 12 February this year. On the agenda - draft law “Amendments to the Law on Microbusiness Tax”, first reading. On behalf of the Commission for Budget and Finance (Tax) - Member Dana Reizniece-Ozola.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-07-PT13-518-U68	The number of this draft law is 171/Lp13. And this draft law also provides for the payment of micro-enterprises tax to be carried out via a single tax account. So far, the breakdown by type of payment... We know that the tax on micro enterprises consists of various taxes and social contributions were carried out by the State Treasury, but the new procedure provides that the State Revenue Service will do so by allocating the income of micro enterprises tax on a daily basis according to the distribution established by the Law on micro enterprises tax. These amendments to the law would enter into force in 2021, similar to the other previously examined amendments to the law. I call for support at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-07-PT13-518-U69	Please call me! We will vote in favour of the first reading of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Microbusiness Tax”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 89, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. The draft law at first reading has been supported. Please set a deadline for the submission of proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-07-PT13-518-U70	Also 12 February this year.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-07-PT13-518-U71	Thank you. The deadline for submitting proposals is 12 February this year. On the agenda - draft law “Amendments to the Law on Value Added Tax”, first reading. On behalf of the Commission for Budget and Finance (Tax) - Member Dana Reizniece-Ozola.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-07-PT13-518-U72	Draft Act Amending the Law on Value Added Tax (No. 170/Lp13) also provides that VAT calculated for the tax period of a registered VAT payer must be paid to the state budget not later than the 23rd day after the end of the tax period. It also specifies the number of days in other cases specified in the Value Added Tax Law, replacing 20 days with 23 days, i.e. the payment deadlines are aligned. I call for support at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-07-PT13-518-U73	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote in favour of the first reading of the draft law on "Amendments to the Law on Value Added Tax". Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about - 86, it's against and refrains from - it's not. The draft law at first reading has been supported. Please set a deadline for the submission of proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-07-PT13-518-U74	12 February this year.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-07-PT13-518-U75	Thank you. The deadline for submitting proposals is 12 February this year. On the agenda - draft law “Amendments to the Corporate Income Tax Law”, first reading. On behalf of the Commission for Budget and Finance (Tax) - Member Dana Reizniece-Ozola.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-07-PT13-518-U76	The draft law number is 169/Lp13. This draft law also provides for a change in the time limit for payment of the tax, according to which it is paid into the single tax account not later than by the 23rd of the month of submission of the report. I call for support at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-07-PT13-518-U77	Please call me! We will vote in favour of the first reading of the draft law “Amendments to the Corporate Income Tax Law”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about - 85, it's against and abstains. The draft law at first reading has been supported. Please set a deadline for the submission of proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-07-PT13-518-U78	12 February this year.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-07-PT13-518-U79	Thank you. Deadline for the submission of proposals: 12 February this year. On the agenda - draft law “Amendments to the Law “On Personal Income Tax”, first reading. On behalf of the Commission for Budget and Finance (Tax) - Member Dana Reizniece-Ozola.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-07-PT13-518-U80	Draft Law No 168/Lp13 – “Amendments to the Law “On Personal Income Tax”” – is the last of the draft laws related to the introduction of a single tax account from 2021. It also provides for the introduction of a uniform time limit for payment of personal income tax - the 23rd day of the month. It is also provided that the deadline for submission of declarations and information declarations to the State Revenue Service is before the deadline for payment of personal income tax. As regards the payment of the salary tax in the single tax account, the end date for payment of personal income tax - until the 23rd day of the month. And the employer is expected to pay the cost of income until the 23rd day of the month... shall pay to the single tax account the income tax of all persons who have been subject to monthly withholding tax. The exception is when the salary tax can be paid into the general tax account by the 23rd day of the month following the month in which the employer receives information that the employee's income must be paid and that the payment thereof must be made by the last day of the month. In principle, in this exceptional case, the main task is to align the terms of the contribution and to make it possible to continue... personal income tax will be paid into the single tax account from 2021. I call for support at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-07-PT13-518-U81	Please call me! We will vote for the support of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Personal Income Tax” at first reading! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 88, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. Draft legislation supported at first reading. Please set a time limit for the submission of proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-07-PT13-518-U82	12 February this year.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-07-PT13-518-U83	Thank you. The deadline for submitting proposals is 12 February this year.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-07-PT13-518-U84	Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-07-PT13-518-U85	Dear colleagues, Changes to the agenda of the sitting have been tabled. Members Zakaistov, Pucens, Benhena-Beken, Kaimiņš, Liepiņa and others are asking to include on the agenda the draft decision on the withdrawal of Member Ata Zakaistov from the European Commission. Are Members opposed to this amendment of the agenda? There is no objection. The order of business has been amended. Members Zakaistov, Benhena-Beken, Pucens, Kaimiņš, Liepiņa and others are asking to include on the agenda the draft decision on the election of Member Ata Zakaistov to the Appeals Commission. Are Members opposed to this amendment of the agenda? There is no objection. The order of business has been amended. And Members Zakaistov, Benhen-Beken, Pucens, Kaimiņš, Liepiņa and others are asking that the draft decision on the election of Member Aivars Geidāns to the European Affairs Commission be put on the agenda. Are Members opposed to this amendment of the agenda? There is no objection. The order of business has been amended. We shall continue to examine draft laws. On the agenda - draft law on commercial secrecy, second reading. On behalf of the Legal Commission - Member Inese Lībiņa-Egnere.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-07-PT13-518-U86	Dear colleagues, The Legal Commission has examined 33 proposals received for second reading of the draft law. And in general, we devoted four Commission meetings to this draft law - 33 proposals. Therefore, I would also like to say to those applying legal provisions: if there are any questions about certain versions, I would really ask you to listen to both the audio recordings of committee sittings and to read the minutes, because it will certainly be useful and not all can be reported here, from the parliamentary tribunal. 1. - the proposal of the Minister of Justice Rasnačs, which clarifies the title of the draft law and, in essence, ensures that the said law will apply to the protection of commercial secrets held by any person, both physical and legal. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-07-PT13-518-U87	Members... Not supported. Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-07-PT13-518-U88	1. - supported!
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-07-PT13-518-U89	I'm sorry! The proposal is supported. Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-07-PT13-518-U90	2. - the proposal of the Minister of Justice Rasnačs. Not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-07-PT13-518-U91	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-07-PT13-518-U92	3. - the proposal of the Minister of Justice Rasnačs, which is related to the legal technique. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-07-PT13-518-U93	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-07-PT13-518-U94	As well as 4. - the proposal of the Minister of Justice - is a proposal relating to the legal technique. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-07-PT13-518-U95	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-07-PT13-518-U96	Five more. - Mrs Rasnač's proposal - has been supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-07-PT13-518-U97	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-07-PT13-518-U98	6. - the proposal of the Minister of Justice Rasnačs. This is intended to contribute to the understanding of the concept of ‘holder of business secrets’. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-07-PT13-518-U99	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-07-PT13-518-U100	7. - the proposal of the Minister of Justice, Rasnačs, which concerns the legal technique. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-07-PT13-518-U101	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-07-PT13-518-U102	8 / 8 - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-07-PT13-518-U103	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-07-PT13-518-U104	Proposal 9 is partly supported and included in proposal 12. Applicant: Minister of Justice.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-07-PT13-518-U105	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-07-PT13-518-U106	10............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Supported by proposal 12.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-07-PT13-518-U107	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-07-PT13-518-U108	11. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Supported by proposal 12.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-07-PT13-518-U109	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-07-PT13-518-U110	And 12. - the proposal of the Legal Commission itself, which brings together proposals 9, 10 and 11, specifies the legal provision for breach of business secrecy. I've been supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-07-PT13-518-U111	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-07-PT13-518-U112	13. - a proposal of a technical nature of the legal office. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-07-PT13-518-U113	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-07-PT13-518-U114	14............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - a proposal submitted by the Minister of Justice, Rasnač, which is of a technical nature. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-07-PT13-518-U115	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-07-PT13-518-U116	15............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - a proposal by the Minister of Justice, which complements the title of Article 6 of the draft law with a reference to ensuring the protection of business secrets. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-07-PT13-518-U117	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-07-PT13-518-U118	16. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-07-PT13-518-U119	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-07-PT13-518-U120	17. - the proposal of the Minister of Justice Rasnačs. Partly supported, included in proposal 19.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-07-PT13-518-U121	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-07-PT13-518-U122	18. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Partly supported, included in proposal 19.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-07-PT13-518-U123	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-07-PT13-518-U124	And 19. - a proposal by the Commission responsible, namely the Legal Commission, which includes two previous proposals on remedies which may be requested to apply in addition to the prohibition on certain acts and the recovery of damages. Following the discussions within the Legal Commission, the term ‘obligation order’ was also replaced by ‘prohibition of certain activities’. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-07-PT13-518-U125	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-07-PT13-518-U126	20............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - the proposal of the Minister of Justice Rasnačs, which provides that the general rules for the application of a legal remedy apply both to the person requesting the application of the legal remedy and to the court deciding on the proportionality of the application of the legal remedy. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-07-PT13-518-U127	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-07-PT13-518-U128	21............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - a proposal by the Legal Bureau of a editorial nature relating to the replacement of the term It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-07-PT13-518-U129	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-07-PT13-518-U130	22. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-07-PT13-518-U131	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-07-PT13-518-U132	23............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-07-PT13-518-U133	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-07-PT13-518-U134	24. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-07-PT13-518-U135	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-07-PT13-518-U136	25. - The Legal Commission's proposal to delete the third paragraph of Article 10 of the draft law, because it provides for an overly detailed pre-trial mechanism, which, according to the Legal Commission, is already enshrined in the Civil Procedure Law. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-07-PT13-518-U137	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-07-PT13-518-U138	26. - a proposal from the Minister of Justice relating to legal technology. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-07-PT13-518-U139	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-07-PT13-518-U140	27. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. It, together with the next proposal, specifies the rules for the application of certain remedies. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-07-PT13-518-U141	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-07-PT13-518-U142	Also 28. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-07-PT13-518-U143	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-07-PT13-518-U144	29. - the proposal of the Minister of Justice Rasnačs. Not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-07-PT13-518-U145	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-07-PT13-518-U146	30. - the proposal of the Legal Bureau, which provides for the exclusion of the relevant provision, because it duplicates the regulation provided for in Article 197 of the Civil Procedure Law. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-07-PT13-518-U147	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-07-PT13-518-U148	31. - the proposal of the Minister of Justice Rasnačs. Partly supported, included in proposal 32.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-07-PT13-518-U149	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-07-PT13-518-U150	32. - a proposal from the committee responsible to raise awareness of the criteria for the application of alternative compensation. The Commission is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-07-PT13-518-U151	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-07-PT13-518-U152	And 33. - a proposal from the Legal Bureau relating to the legal technique. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-07-PT13-518-U153	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-07-PT13-518-U154	All the proposals have therefore been examined. I call for support for this draft law at second reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-07-PT13-518-U155	Please call me! We will vote in favour of the second reading of the draft law on commercial secrecy! Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about - 85, it's against and abstains. The draft law at second reading has been supported. Please set a deadline for the submission of proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-07-PT13-518-U156	On behalf of the Commission, I call for the deadline for the submission of proposals to be set on 15 February this year.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-07-PT13-518-U157	February 15th?
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-07-PT13-518-U158	Yes, February 15th.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-07-PT13-518-U159	Thank you. The deadline for submitting proposals is 15 February this year. On the agenda - draft law “Amendments to Civil Procedure Law”, second reading. On behalf of the Legal Commission - Member Inese Lībiņa-Egnere.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-07-PT13-518-U160	Dear colleagues, The draft law “Amendments to the Civil Procedure Law” is related to the draft law examined at zero “Business Secretity Law”. Proposals have been received. 1. - a proposal from the Legal Commission, which is a editorial clarification. The Commission is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-07-PT13-518-U161	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-07-PT13-518-U162	2. - the proposal of the Minister of Justice Rasnačs to provide a system-wide and clear legal framework. It is also supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-07-PT13-518-U163	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-07-PT13-518-U164	3. - the proposal of the Minister of Justice, which is a editorial nature. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-07-PT13-518-U165	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-07-PT13-518-U166	4. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-07-PT13-518-U167	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-07-PT13-518-U168	5. - a proposal from the Minister of Justice. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-07-PT13-518-U169	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-07-PT13-518-U170	6. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-07-PT13-518-U171	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-07-PT13-518-U172	7. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-07-PT13-518-U173	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-07-PT13-518-U174	8 / 8 - the proposal of the Minister of Justice Rasnačs. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-07-PT13-518-U175	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-07-PT13-518-U176	9. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-07-PT13-518-U177	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-07-PT13-518-U178	10............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-07-PT13-518-U179	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-07-PT13-518-U180	11. - the proposal of the Minister of Justice Rasnačs, which is related to proposal No 10 and lists the types of final remedies and the general rules for their application. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-07-PT13-518-U181	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-07-PT13-518-U182	12. - a proposal from the Minister of Justice. Not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-07-PT13-518-U183	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-07-PT13-518-U184	All the proposals have therefore been examined. I call for support for the draft law at second reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-07-PT13-518-U185	Please call me! We will vote in favour of the second reading of the draft law “Amendments to the Civil Procedure Law”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about - 86, it's against and refrains from - it's not. The draft law at second reading has been supported. Please set a time limit for the submission of proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-07-PT13-518-U186	Also for this draft law, the Legal Commission calls for the deadline to be set on 15 February this year.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-07-PT13-518-U187	Thank you. The deadline for submitting proposals is 15 February this year. On the agenda - draft law “Amendments to the Law on Documents for Persons”, second reading. On behalf of the National Administration and Municipal Commission - Member Inese Ikstena. Is the rapporteur in the hall? The rapporteurs are out of the room. So... Was it sitting today? So this item on the agenda is being directed to the end of the sitting. On the agenda - draft law “Amendments to the Education Law”, second reading. On behalf of the Commission for Education, Culture and Science - Member Anita Muižniece.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-07-PT13-518-U188	Dear President of the Saeima. Dear colleagues, On 30 January of this year, at the meeting of the Commission for Education, Culture and Science, we discussed the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Education”, which will ensure recognition of education obtained abroad in Latvia, with a view to introducing a register of relevant persons for whom certificates on recognition of education acquired abroad will be issued, as well as specifying what information will be recorded in the State Test Information System. Six proposals have been made. 1. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-07-PT13-518-U189	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-07-PT13-518-U190	2. - a proposal from the Commission for Education, Culture and Science. The Commission is supported. ( Interface: ‘ Vote! ’) ) Council Regulation (EC) No 1257/96 of 20 June 1996 concerning humanitarian aid (OJ L 163, 2.7.1996, p. 1).
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-07-PT13-518-U191	Members want to vote. Members would like to vote on proposal 2. Please call me! We will vote in favour of 2. - The proposal submitted by the Commission for Education, Culture and Science! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The proposal is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-07-PT13-518-U192	3. - a proposal from the Commission for Education, Culture and Science. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-07-PT13-518-U193	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-07-PT13-518-U194	4. - a proposal from the Commission for Education, Culture and Science. Supported. ( Interface: ‘ Vote! ’) ) Council Regulation (EC) No 1257/96 of 20 June 1996 concerning humanitarian aid (OJ L 163, 2.7.1996, p. 1).
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-07-PT13-518-U195	Members want to vote. Please call me! Let us vote in favour of 4. - The proposal submitted by the Commission for Education, Culture and Science! Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about - 65, it's not 19, it's not. Therefore, proposal 4 has been supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-07-PT13-518-U196	5. - a proposal from the Commission for Education, Culture and Science. The Commission is supported. ( Interface: ‘ Vote! ’) ) Council Regulation (EC) No 1257/96 of 20 June 1996 concerning humanitarian aid (OJ L 163, 2.7.1996, p. 1).
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-07-PT13-518-U197	Members want to vote. Please call me! We will vote in favour of 5. - The proposal submitted by the Commission for Education, Culture and Science! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 66, no, 19, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The proposal is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-07-PT13-518-U198	And six. - a proposal from the Commission for Education, Culture and Science. The Commission is supported. ( Interface: “Let’s vote! ” ) Council Regulation (EC) No 1257/96 of 20 June 1996 concerning humanitarian aid (OJ L 163, 2.7.1996, p. 1).
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-07-PT13-518-U199	Members want to vote. Please call me! We will vote in favour of 6. - The proposal submitted by the Commission for Education, Culture and Science! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No. - 63, no. - 21, no. The proposal is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-07-PT13-518-U200	On behalf of the Commission, please support all draft legislation at second reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-07-PT13-518-U201	Please call me! We will vote in favour of the second reading of the draft law "Amendments to the Law on Education". Please vote mode! Please get the result! Not by - 82, not by - and refrains. The draft law at second reading has been supported. Please set a deadline for the submission of proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-07-PT13-518-U202	27 February this year.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-07-PT13-518-U203	Thank you. The deadline for submitting proposals is 27 February this year. On the agenda - draft law “On the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Latvia and the Government of the Republic of Belarus on International Rail Traffic”, first reading. On behalf of the Commission on Foreign Affairs, Member Linda Ozola.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-07-PT13-518-U204	Hello, colleagues! The Ministry of Transport has drafted a bill “On an agreement between the Government of the Republic of Latvia and the Government of the Republic of Belarus on international rail traffic” to conclude a new bilateral cooperation intergovernmental agreement on cooperation in this area. Currently, bilateral cooperation between our countries in the field of rail transport is governed by an agreement signed in 1995. The responsible transport ministries of both sides have acknowledged that the agreement no longer meets the current situation, in the case of Latvia - the European Union regulation. Similarly, the railway sector in both countries has now undergone major changes and the competences of public and commercial companies have been divided. As a result, the transport ministries of both countries have concluded that the existing agreement should be denounced and they have expressed their wish to conclude a new bilateral cooperation agreement in the field of rail transport. The agreement that we currently have on our agenda is intended to ensure regular and unhindered transport of passengers, luggage, freight baggage and rail freight across the borders of the country according to the current situation. The agreement establishes international rail traffic between our countries, as well as the obligations of carriers, staff duties, border control and other controls, emergency action, accident investigation and other cases. The draft law was examined by the Foreign Affairs Commission and unanimously supported. I ask Members of the Saeima to support the draft law at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-07-PT13-518-U205	Please call me! We will vote for support for the first reading of the draft law on the agreement on international rail transport between the Government of the Republic of Latvia and the Government of the Republic of Belarus! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 87, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The draft law at first reading has been supported. Please set a deadline for the submission of proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-07-PT13-518-U206	The deadline for the submission of proposals for second reading is 22 February this year.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-07-PT13-518-U207	Thank you. The deadline for submitting proposals is 22 February this year. Dear colleagues, Members Adamovičs, Augulis, Pavļuts, Zakaitistovs and Strīķe are asking to continue the sitting of the Saeima without interruption - until all items on the agenda are examined. Do Members have objections? ( Interfaces: “No! ”) ) There is no objection. So the sitting of the Saeima is continued without interruption. On the agenda - draft law “Amendments to the Law on Land Management”, second reading. On behalf of the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy – Member Jānis Dūklavs.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-07-PT13-518-U208	Good afternoon, dear colleagues! The Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy has examined and invites the Saeima to consider the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Land Management” at second reading. Six proposals have been received. All proposals submitted by the Legal Office. Except for one, all are of a technical nature. I call for support for proposal 1.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-07-PT13-518-U209	1. has been presented by the Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Economic Affairs, Mr Upenieks. Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-07-PT13-518-U210	I also call for support for proposal 2. ( Pause) ( Pause)
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-07-PT13-518-U211	I'm sorry, Colleagues! The proposal shall be submitted by the Legal Office. Members are in favour. 2. ...
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-07-PT13-518-U212	Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-07-PT13-518-U213	This will be reported by the rapporteur so that the Speaker of the Saeima does not have to fulfil his duties as rapporteur. ( The Room Noise. Idle: “Do not talk to the grass!” ) Council Regulation (EC) No 1257/96 of 20 June 1996 concerning humanitarian aid (OJ L 163, 2.7.1996, p. 1).
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-07-PT13-518-U214	I have already said that the Legal Bureau has tabled proposal 3, which has been supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-07-PT13-518-U215	Two! Two! So far, we are only on proposal 2.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-07-PT13-518-U216	Two?
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-07-PT13-518-U217	The proposal is also supported by Members.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-07-PT13-518-U218	2. the proposal has been submitted by the Legal Office and is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-07-PT13-518-U219	We support it.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-07-PT13-518-U220	The legal bureau has submitted proposal 3, which has been supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-07-PT13-518-U221	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-07-PT13-518-U222	The Bureau has tabled proposal 4, which is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-07-PT13-518-U223	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-07-PT13-518-U224	The Bureau has tabled proposal 5, which is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-07-PT13-518-U225	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-07-PT13-518-U226	The Bureau has submitted proposal 6, which is also supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-07-PT13-518-U227	That is something that Members also support.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-07-PT13-518-U228	I call for support for the draft law as a whole at second reading. (Applause)
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-07-PT13-518-U229	There is also a vote in front. Please call me! We will vote in favour of the second reading of the draft law on Land Management. Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about - 86, it's against and refrains from - it's not. The draft law at second reading has been supported. Please set a time limit for the submission of proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-07-PT13-518-U230	Deadline for the submission of proposals - 14 February this year.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-07-PT13-518-U231	Thank you. The deadline for submitting proposals is 14 February this year. On the agenda - draft law “Amendments to the Law on Public Equity Shares and Corporate Governance”, first reading. On behalf of the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy, Mr Daniel Pavluts.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-07-PT13-518-U232	Hello, Madam President. Dear colleagues, Dear colleagues, The Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy has examined before the first reading the draft law “Amendments to the Law on the Management of Public Equity and Capital Companies” submitted by several Members – Indricsone, Dzintars, Jansons, Teirumnieks and Schnore. As the draft law states, the aim of the amendments is to introduce greater transparency in public entities, i.e. public and municipal companies, in order to bring the relevant requirements closer to the disclosure requirements of listed companies. There are a number of additional obligations - to provide information on both the Management Board and the decisions taken and many other matters. The Commission generally supported this draft law. And I think there will be additional proposals. So that we support the draft law at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-07-PT13-518-U233	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote for support for the first reading of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Public Equity Shares and Corporate Governance”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about - 85, it's against and abstains. The draft law at first reading has been supported. Please set a time limit for the submission of proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-07-PT13-518-U234	The deadline for the submission of proposals for second reading is 7 March this year, i.e. one month.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-07-PT13-518-U235	Thank you. Deadline for the submission of proposals - 7 May this year... ( Internouncing call.) March. Dear colleagues, Changes to the agenda of the sitting as approved by the Saeima Bureau have been received. Members Zakaistov, Benhena-Beken, Pucens, Kaimiņš, Liepiņa and others are asking that the draft decision on the election of Member Aivars Geidans to the Legal Commission be put on the agenda of the sitting. Are Members opposed to this amendment of the agenda? There is no objection. The order of business has been amended. On the agenda - draft law “Amendments to the law on compulsory insurance of civil liability of land vehicle owners”, second reading. On behalf of the Commission on Budget and Finance (Tax) - Member Vjačeslav Dombrovskis.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-07-PT13-518-U236	Very honourable Speaker of the Saeima! Dear colleagues, We work with the draft law “Amendments to the law on compulsory insurance of civil liability of land vehicle owners” prepared for second reading. 48 proposals were received and examined. I would like to take this opportunity to thank the chairman of the Commission, Martin Bondar, for allowing the Commission on Sustainable Development to use the premises of the Committee on Budgets and Finance (tax) for our meetings. And now I have to report on this bill. 1. - the proposal by the Minister for Finance, Dana Reizniece-Ozola. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-07-PT13-518-U237	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-07-PT13-518-U238	2. - the proposal by the Minister for Finance, Dana Reizniece-Ozola. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-07-PT13-518-U239	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-07-PT13-518-U240	3. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-07-PT13-518-U241	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-07-PT13-518-U242	4. - a proposal from the committee responsible. The Commission is also supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-07-PT13-518-U243	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-07-PT13-518-U244	5. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-07-PT13-518-U245	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-07-PT13-518-U246	6. - the proposal by the Minister for Finance, Dana Reizniece-Ozola. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-07-PT13-518-U247	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-07-PT13-518-U248	7. - the proposal by the Minister for Finance, Dana Reizniece-Ozola. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-07-PT13-518-U249	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-07-PT13-518-U250	8 / 8 - a proposal from the committee responsible. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-07-PT13-518-U251	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-07-PT13-518-U252	9. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-07-PT13-518-U253	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-07-PT13-518-U254	10............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - the proposal by the Minister for Finance, Dana Reizniece-Ozola. Partly supported by the Commission. Not put to the vote. Incorporated in proposal 11.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-07-PT13-518-U255	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-07-PT13-518-U256	11. - a proposal from the committee responsible. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-07-PT13-518-U257	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-07-PT13-518-U258	12. - the proposal by the Minister for Finance, Dana Reizniece-Ozola. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-07-PT13-518-U259	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-07-PT13-518-U260	13. - the proposal by the Minister for Finance, Dana Reizniece-Ozola. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-07-PT13-518-U261	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-07-PT13-518-U262	14............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - the proposal by the Minister for Finance, Dana Reizniece-Ozola. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-07-PT13-518-U263	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-07-PT13-518-U264	15............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - the proposal by the Minister for Finance, Dana Reizniece-Ozola. Partially supported, included 16. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-07-PT13-518-U265	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-07-PT13-518-U266	16. - a proposal from the committee responsible. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-07-PT13-518-U267	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-07-PT13-518-U268	17. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-07-PT13-518-U269	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-07-PT13-518-U270	18. - the proposal by the Minister for Finance, Dana Reizniece-Ozola. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-07-PT13-518-U271	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-07-PT13-518-U272	19. - the proposal by the Minister for Finance, Dana Reizniece-Ozola. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-07-PT13-518-U273	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-07-PT13-518-U274	20............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - the proposal by the Minister for Finance, Dana Reizniece-Ozola. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-07-PT13-518-U275	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-07-PT13-518-U276	21............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - the proposal by the Minister for Finance, Dana Reizniece-Ozola. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-07-PT13-518-U277	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-07-PT13-518-U278	22. - the proposal by the Minister for Finance, Dana Reizniece-Ozola. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-07-PT13-518-U279	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-07-PT13-518-U280	23............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-07-PT13-518-U281	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-07-PT13-518-U282	24. - the proposal by the Minister for Finance, Dana Reizniece-Ozola. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-07-PT13-518-U283	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-07-PT13-518-U284	Mr. Jušas is also in favour. ( Merry laughter.) 25. - the proposal by the Minister for Finance, Dana Reizniece-Ozola. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-07-PT13-518-U285	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-07-PT13-518-U286	26. - the proposal by the Minister for Finance, Dana Reizniece-Ozola. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-07-PT13-518-U287	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-07-PT13-518-U288	27. - the proposal by the Minister for Finance, Dana Reizniece-Ozola. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-07-PT13-518-U289	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-07-PT13-518-U290	28. - the proposal by the Minister for Finance, Dana Reizniece-Ozola. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-07-PT13-518-U291	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-07-PT13-518-U292	29. - the proposal by the Minister for Finance, Dana Reizniece-Ozola. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-07-PT13-518-U293	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-07-PT13-518-U294	30. - the proposal by the Minister for Finance, Dana Reizniece-Ozola. Partly supported by the Commission. Incorporated 31. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-07-PT13-518-U295	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-07-PT13-518-U296	31. - a proposal from the committee responsible. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-07-PT13-518-U297	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-07-PT13-518-U298	32. - the proposal by the Minister for Finance, Dana Reizniece-Ozola. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-07-PT13-518-U299	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-07-PT13-518-U300	33. - the proposal by the Minister for Finance, Dana Reizniece-Ozola. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-07-PT13-518-U301	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-07-PT13-518-U302	34. - the proposal by the Minister for Finance, Dana Reizniece-Ozola. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-07-PT13-518-U303	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-07-PT13-518-U304	35. - the proposal by the Minister for Finance, Dana Reizniece-Ozola. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-07-PT13-518-U305	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-07-PT13-518-U306	36. - the proposal by the Minister for Finance, Dana Reizniece-Ozola. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-07-PT13-518-U307	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-07-PT13-518-U308	37. - the proposal by the Minister for Finance, Dana Reizniece-Ozola. Partially supported, included 38. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-07-PT13-518-U309	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-07-PT13-518-U310	38. - a proposal from the committee responsible. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-07-PT13-518-U311	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-07-PT13-518-U312	39. - the proposal by the Minister for Finance, Dana Reizniece-Ozola. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-07-PT13-518-U313	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-07-PT13-518-U314	40. - Finance Minister Dan... I hope you don't get married again... The proposal by Dana Reizniece-Ozola. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-07-PT13-518-U315	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-07-PT13-518-U316	41. - the proposal by the Minister for Finance, Dana Reizniece-Ozola. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-07-PT13-518-U317	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-07-PT13-518-U318	42. - the proposal by the Minister for Finance, Dana Reizniece-Ozola. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-07-PT13-518-U319	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-07-PT13-518-U320	43. - the proposal by the Minister for Finance, Dana Reizniece-Ozola. Partially supported, included 44. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-07-PT13-518-U321	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-07-PT13-518-U322	44. - a proposal from the committee responsible. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-07-PT13-518-U323	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-07-PT13-518-U324	45. - the proposal by the Minister for Finance, Dana Reizniece-Ozola. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-07-PT13-518-U325	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-07-PT13-518-U326	46. - the proposal by the Minister for Finance, Dana Reizniece-Ozola. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-07-PT13-518-U327	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-07-PT13-518-U328	47. - the proposal by the Minister for Finance, Dana Reizniece-Ozola. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-07-PT13-518-U329	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-07-PT13-518-U330	48. - the proposal by the Minister for Finance, Dana Reizniece-Ozola. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-07-PT13-518-U331	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-07-PT13-518-U332	Colleagues! As all the proposals of the Minister of Finance, Dana Reizniece-Ozola, have been supported...
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-07-PT13-518-U333	... and others are supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-07-PT13-518-U334	... I call on you to support this draft law at second reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-07-PT13-518-U335	Please call me!
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-07-PT13-518-U336	The deadline for submitting proposals is 15 February this year.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-07-PT13-518-U337	We have not yet voted. Please call me! We will vote in favour of supporting the second reading of the draft law “Amendments to the law on compulsory insurance of civil liability of land vehicle owners”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 81, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. The draft law at second reading has been supported. Please set a time limit for the submission of proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-07-PT13-518-U338	15 February this year.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-07-PT13-518-U339	Thank you. The deadline for submitting proposals is 15 February this year. On the agenda - Draft Law Amending the Law on Budget and Financial Management, first reading. Member of the Commission for Budget and Finance (Tax) Mārtiņš Bondars.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-07-PT13-518-U340	Madam President, Dear colleagues, Dear colleagues, The focus of the Budget and Finance (Tax) Commission was on the substance of... The existing Budget and Financial Management Act provides that... By setting up the 2019 budget at this point, both the executive and the decision-making powers would do unnecessary and ineffective work. This means that the budget prepared by the executive and adopted by the decision-making authority in 2019, 2020 and 2021 would be based on September 2018 data. To prevent this inefficiency, which is provided for by law and which in fact... In view of the new situation that has arisen - that we are only adopting the state budget at this point - the Budget and Finance (Tax) Commission has prepared an amendment to the Law on Budgetary and Financial Management and is asking first of all for urgency to be established for this draft law, and is asking you to support it at first reading to make public administration more efficient, with less bureaucracy and less use of taxpayers' resources. Thank you in advance.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-07-PT13-518-U341	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote for the recognition of the draft law on budgetary and financial management as urgent! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 81, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. The draft law has been declared urgent. Please call me! We will vote in favour of the first reading of the draft law on budgetary and financial management. Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about - 83, it's against and refrains from - it's not. The draft law at first reading has been supported. Please set a time limit for the submission of proposals and a time limit for consideration at the sitting of the Saeima.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-07-PT13-518-U342	We would be grateful if you colleagues supported this draft law at second reading as well, so that this amendment to the law can enter into force as soon as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-07-PT13-518-U343	Are Members opposed to supporting the draft law without re-examination by the committee responsible? There is no objection. Please call me! We will vote in favour of the second, final, reading of the draft law on budgetary and financial management! Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about - 85, it's against and abstains. The law is passed. On the agenda - consideration of draft decisions. The draft decision “On Amendments to the Law “On Taxes and Fees”” (No. ( 191/Lp13) return for processing of the Cabinet of Ministers’. On behalf of the Commission on Budget and Finance (Tax) - Member Vjačeslav Dombrovskis.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-07-PT13-518-U344	Dear colleagues, The Budget and Finance (Tax) Commission reviewed the draft law submitted by the Cabinet of Ministers “Amendments to the Law on Taxes and Fees” and, after long consultations, decided that the draft law should be returned to the Cabinet of Ministers for recasting. The reason is that several proposals from the Legal Bureau were received... Quite conceptually... on what is going on... conceptual solutions that call... the so-called codification. Please support the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-07-PT13-518-U345	Please call me! We will vote on the draft decision “On Amendments to the Law on Taxes and Fees” (No. 191/Lp13) return to the Cabinet of Ministers for recycling”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 84, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Decision adopted. On the agenda - Draft decision on the extension of the deadline for the submission of proposals (No. This Decision shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. Please call me! To be put to the vote on the draft decision on the extension of the deadline for the submission of proposals in the Rule of Procedure of the Saeima (No. 178/Lp13) for the second reading until 4 March 2019’. Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about - 85, it's against and abstains. Decision adopted. On the agenda is the examination of the own-initiative proposal. Draft decision “Declaration of the Saeima of the Republic of Latvia on the rights of citizens of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland in Latvia following the withdrawal of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland from the European Union”. On behalf of the Commission on Foreign Affairs, Member Richard Coll.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-07-PT13-518-U346	Dear President of the Saeima. Dear colleagues, dear colleagues, We can see the draft decision of the Saeima “Declaration of the Saeima of the Republic of Latvia on the rights of citizens of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland in Latvia following the withdrawal of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland from the European Union”. A little context why such a declaration is necessary. As we know, the British Parliament has decided not to support the withdrawal agreement. More recently, the majority of the British Parliament voted in favour of the need to review the agreement reached, in particular, the mechanism governing the non-renewal of border control between Ireland and Northern Ireland after Brexit until a specific agreement is reached on future relations between the United Kingdom and the European Union. At the same time, the position of the European Union has not changed. The proposed agreement on UK withdrawal conditions from the block is the best and only possible agreement. Alternative solutions simply do not exist at the moment, and no one has offered them. Clearly, nothing is clear. This situation creates uncertainty, because neither our citizens nor British citizens understand what to do at the end of March, when Britain is likely to leave the European Union. Regardless of the type of withdrawal, it is currently difficult to predict. And the situation is more complicated than I would like to. Of course, we can hope and expect that the white smoke will appear at the last minute and we will have a mutually beneficial and acceptable agreement and that we will find a pragmatic solution to achieve this goal. At the same time, the worst scenarios must be prepared so that, if the so-called hard Brexit really happens, people at least are protected as well as possible from any unpredictable consequences. I think we all agree that Latvia's priority in the context of Brexit is the status of our citizens after the UK has left. On 6 December last year, the British Government adopted a political document confirming and providing that the rights of citizens of the European Union and their families living in Great Britain will not be affected by the withdrawal of the European Union without agreement. Among them Latvian citizens who lived in Great Britain until 29 March 2019 and their family members will be able to stay in Great Britain, continue to work there, study and receive social guarantees and services on essentially the same conditions as they had before. This commitment from the British Government has also been reaffirmed by the British Ambassador to Latvia. We want to maintain a close relationship with Britain also after Brexit. The United Kingdom is an important cooperation partner for Latvia and we are interested in continuing our cooperation. When we receive guarantees on the rights of Latvian citizens in the UK after Brexit, we in turn need to ensure that those British citizens who live in Latvia and who are about a thousand, feel stable and secure about their future here in Latvia. Accordingly, we confirm with a declaration that the social guarantees, job and learning opportunities and other rights will be maintained for the British legally residing in Latvia, even if Britain leaves the European Union without agreement. Colleagues, I call for the vote to make the situation simpler, not more complicated, in one aspect! We must protect those whose lives can potentially turn in the air at once because of political disagreements and agreements or disagreements. Like Britain, we are determined to respect our citizens, and we will respect the citizens of Great Britain. I therefore call on us to support this declaration and give the government a mandate to start work on the relevant draft laws. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-07-PT13-518-U347	Thank you. Let us start a debate. Name to Member Nikolai Cabanov. ( The utterances are: “Ooo! ” , “No!” ) Council Regulation (EC) No 1257/96 of 20 June 1996 concerning humanitarian aid (OJ L 163, 2.7.1996, p. 1).
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-07-PT13-518-U348	Madam President, Dear colleagues, I have no doubt that a majority will soon vote in favour of the proposed declaration, but let me show you, within a few minutes, the context in which you have a common relationship with the United Kingdom. The United Kingdom has been taking a special place in Latvia's foreign policy for 100 years. London was one of the actual patrons of our country's independence, supporting the Ulmanis government by military and diplomatic means. During the free country, England was Latvia's main trading partner. But after 1940, the United Kingdom recognised Latvia's incorporation into the USSR de facto. The Embassy of Latvia in London was deprived of diplomatic status. The agreement of 12 February 1967 with the Prime Minister of the USSR, Kosigina, stipulated that both parties should waive their mutual claims in view of their removal. The Soviet Union agreed that the British Government used Latvian gold deposited with the Bank of Latvia for its own use, and Britain had to hand over 500,000 pounds of this money to the Soviet Union. In turn, it was entitled to purchase consumer goods in Great Britain for this amount. Some of them had also entered Latvia. One of my acquaintances still remembers English shoes, which were bought for 80 rubles at the time and “died” until the end of the Soviet Union. Britain has always been a real politician, and in its economic activity, England is trying to keep to its own good. The total turnover of Latvia and the United Kingdom is around billion euros. By the end of 2017, the United Kingdom was Latvia's sixth most important export partner and eleventh most important import partner. In the first quarter of 2018, Latvia's services exports to Great Britain reached EUR 90 million, which is 12 percent less than in the first quarter of 2017. On the other hand, imports of services from the UK amounted to €48 million and increased by four percent compared to the first quarter of 2017. On 9 August 2018, in line with investments in the share capital of companies registered in Latvia, the United Kingdom ranked as eighth with a total investment amount of 293 million euros and 1093 active companies. No one can really tell how many Latvian citizens and non-citizens are currently in the UK. Our state institutions do not carry out monitoring of Latvian employment, material and social situation in the UK. Voters only remember every four years when they are encouraged to visit polling stations in the Saeima elections. National politicians then gather for their performances in Albion. According to the Population Register, 718 people lived in Latvia on 1 July 2018, who in terms of their nationality indicated that they were English. Of these 72 were Latvian citizens, one English non-citizen and 645 foreigners. Of the 25 Scottishs living in Latvia, 11 Latvian citizens and 14 foreigners have been counted. All five people living in Latvia are foreign citizens. The population register does not decipher foreign citizenship, but it can be assumed that it is about 650 citizens of the United Kingdom who live in Latvia. Of course, thousands of British nationals of Latvian origin are also periodically present in our country. Many of them use the Latvian health and social security system because it is not formally, so to speak, they have removed from their registered place of residence in Latvia. The line to free healthcare in Britain can be much longer than in Latvia. Although, as one of the acquaintances living in Belfast told me, the information monitor of this city hospital has an option “Latvian”. Now Britain has decided to leave the single Europe, to which it has never really belonged. From 30 March, goods from the British Islands will be subject to customs duties in Latvia, as announced by the State Revenue Service. How much money will the Latvian authorities have to spend because of the English departure? This is not known. This data is read by foreign... In camera sittings of the Commission on Foreign Affairs and the Commission on European Affairs, and these are not intended for the public. Perhaps Latvian diplomats are currently also discussing British support... its possible position with Ireland. If the line separating Olster, Northern Ireland and the Republic of Ireland is not closed, this means a huge amount of smuggling northwards. During the negotiations in the European Commission, all countries will have to make a choice between London and Dublin. And the British Foreign Office looks forward to the support of Poland, Romania and the Baltic States because they will try to maintain their special relations with Britain after Brexit. But I cannot call them privileged communications, but rather neo-colonial relations, where Eastern European countries play a subordinate role. I hope that, in future, Latvia's policy towards the European Union will be as independent as that of Britain. But honourable Members must now vote for their conscience. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. R. Kohl.) Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-07-PT13-518-U349	I closed the debate. Is there anything to be added after the debate? Nothing can be added on behalf of the Commission. Please call me! We will vote on the draft decision “Declaration of the Saeima of the Republic of Latvia on the rights of citizens of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland in Latvia following the withdrawal of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland from the European Union”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 87, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Decision adopted. On the agenda - examination of draft laws. Draft law on the Council of Europe Convention against Trafficking in Human Organs, second reading. On behalf of the Commission on Foreign Affairs, Member Richard Coll.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-07-PT13-518-U350	Dear and honourable colleagues! I'm sorry about the previous incident. I'm fine. I am healthy and healthy and ready to report on the bill. In its meeting, the Foreign Commission examined draft law on the Council of Europe Convention on the fight against trafficking in human organs. We received three proposals for the second reading. All three proposals are from the Saeima's Legal Office. They are of a legal technical nature. 1. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-07-PT13-518-U351	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-07-PT13-518-U352	2. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-07-PT13-518-U353	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-07-PT13-518-U354	3. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-07-PT13-518-U355	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-07-PT13-518-U356	All the proposals have been examined. I call on my colleagues to support the draft law at second, final, reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-07-PT13-518-U357	Please call me! Let us vote in favour of the second final reading of the draft law on the Council of Europe Convention against Trafficking in Human Organs! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 88, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. The law is passed. On the agenda - draft law “Amendments to the Law on Documents for Persons”, second reading. On behalf of the National Administration and Municipal Commission - Member Inese Ikstena.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-07-PT13-518-U358	Hello, dear colleagues! Hello, Presidium! Madam President, We shall continue to examine the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Documents for Persons”. We have received seven proposals for the second reading. All the proposals concern dates and time limits for the implementation of this law. We have received proposals from the Legal Bureau and proposals from the Minister of the Interior Kozlovska. In essence, these proposals provide for a mandatory identity card as an identity document from 1 January 2023. All persons who have received a passport before the age of 15 and have not received an identity card shall be obliged to receive an identity card by 31 December 2022, as this mandatory document will enter into force with effect from 1 January 2023. The proposal shall be submitted by the Legal Office. This is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-07-PT13-518-U359	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-07-PT13-518-U360	The proposal shall be submitted by the Legal Office. This is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-07-PT13-518-U361	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-07-PT13-518-U362	3. the proposal has been submitted by the Commission of Public Administration and Local Government and was supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-07-PT13-518-U363	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-07-PT13-518-U364	Proposal No 4 is the proposal of Minister for the Interior Kozlovsky. This is not supported by this change of date.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-07-PT13-518-U365	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-07-PT13-518-U366	5. the proposal has been submitted by the Commission of Public Administration and Local Government and has been supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-07-PT13-518-U367	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-07-PT13-518-U368	Proposal 6 has been submitted by Minister of the Interior Kozlovskis, which is the date of entry into force of the law. Not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-07-PT13-518-U369	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-07-PT13-518-U370	The 7th proposal was submitted by the Commission of Public Administration and Local Government and provides that the law will enter into force on 1 January 2021. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-07-PT13-518-U371	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-07-PT13-518-U372	We invite you to move the bill for consideration...
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-07-PT13-518-U373	... support. Please call me! We will vote in favour of the second reading of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Documents for Persons”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 87, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The draft law at second reading has been supported. Please set a deadline for the submission of proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-07-PT13-518-U374	The deadline for submitting proposals is 14 February 2019.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-07-PT13-518-U375	Thank you. The deadline for submitting proposals is 14 February this year. Title of the agenda: Election, approval, appointment, dismissal or dismissal, expression of trust or distrust. Draft decision on the election of Mr Rihards Kozlovska to the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission. Please call me! To be put to the vote on the draft decision on the election of Mr Rihards Kozlovska to the Budget and Finance (Tax) Commission! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Decision adopted. On the agenda - draft decision on the election of Mr Rihards Kozlovskis to the Committee on Petitions. Please call me! To be put to the vote on the draft decision on the election of Mr Rihards Kozlovskis to the Panel on Petitions! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 88, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. Decision adopted. On the agenda - draft decision on the withdrawal of Mr Ata Zakatistov from the Commission of European Affairs. Please call me! We will vote on the draft decision on the withdrawal of Mr Ata Zakatistova from the Commission of European Affairs! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 88, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. Decision adopted. On the agenda - draft decision on the election of Mr Ata Zakatistov as a Member of the Commission for Petitions. Please call me! To be put to the vote on the draft decision on the election of Mr Ata Zakatistova as a Member of the Commission for Petitions! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 87, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Decision adopted. On the agenda - draft decision on the election of Member Aivars Geidans to the European Affairs Commission. Please call me! To be put to the vote on the draft decision on the election of Aivars Geidans to the European Affairs Commission! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 88, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. Decision adopted. On the agenda - draft decision on the election of Member Aivars Geidans to the Legal Commission. Please call me! We will vote on the draft decision on the election of Member Aivars Geidans to the Legal Commission! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Decision adopted. Honourable Members! The agenda of the sitting has been examined. I must inform you about the answers to Members' questions scheduled today. On the question of Member Zarina, Krišana, Agešin, Tutin and Orlov, Minister for Economic Affairs Ralf Nemiro, about the progress of the development of the National Energy and Climate Plan and its relevance to the interests of Latvian society. The written replies received shall not be satisfied. The Minister informs that an oral answer can be given. On the question of Member Zariņa, Krišāna, Kucina, Niconova and Lochmele-Luniv to the Minister for Economics Ralf Nemiro “On the information report “On the regulation, monitoring and action of electricity mandatory procurement and guaranteed charges for installed capacity following the decision of the Saeima of 10 January 2019” reviewed at the Cabinet of Ministers of 29 January 2019. The written reply received shall be granted to the applicants. So today's question-and-answer meeting will be held at 17.00 and the Minister of Economics Ralph Nemiro will come. Please call me! Please register the Members! Name of notice to Member Ojārs Eriks Kalniņš.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-07-PT13-518-U376	Hello! I call on all my fellow Members to go next to the hall so that we can set up a group of Members together to facilitate cooperation with the Irish Parliament. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-07-PT13-518-U377	Name of notice to Member Vita Anda Steel.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-07-PT13-518-U378	I invite Members to the hall next to you. Today we will set up a group of Members to facilitate cooperation with the Icelandic Parliament.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-07-PT13-518-U379	Name to Marija Golubeva, member of the Saeima Secretary, for reading the results of the registration.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-07-PT13-518-U380	Not registered: Aldis Gobzems, Artuss Kaimiņš, Ieva Krapāne, Armands Krauze, Māris Kučinskis, Romanas Naudiņš, Jūlija Stepanenko and Didzis Šmits.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-07-PT13-518-U381	Name for the statement to Member Edvin Schnorem.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-07-PT13-518-U382	Dear colleagues, Those Members who are in the Strategic Communication Commission and the Comprehensive National Defence Commission! The request is now to gather in the Red Hall.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-07-PT13-518-U383	Thank you. I'm closing the sitting.
