ParlaMint-LV_2019-07-08-PT13-547-U1	Honourable Members! I invite you to take your seats in the Chamber! Let us begin the third extraordinary session of the Saeima on 8 July 2019. On the agenda - Election, approval, appointment, dismissal or dismissal of officials, expression of trust or distrust. Draft decision on the release of Peters Putniņš from the office of Chairman of the Financial and Capital Markets Commission. Member of the Commission for Budget and Finance (Tax) Mārtiņš Bondars.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-07-08-PT13-547-U2	Madam President, Dear colleagues, Dear colleagues, Today, a meeting of the Committee on Budgets and Finance (tax) took place, where the draft decision on the release of Peter Putniņš from the office of Chairman of the Commission on the Financial and Capital Markets was discussed as one of the issues. The draft decision was supported by the Commission. I ask you to support this.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-07-08-PT13-547-U3	Let us start a debate. Name to Member Aldi Gobzem.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-07-08-PT13-547-U4	I would like to talk a little about the Unity spider. In particular, there is now no doubt and it is absolutely clear that the head of the Financial and Capital Market Commission and his deputy are resigning because of pressure from the new Unity Government. And the very simple question arises here: why is it just the manager? Why not all the members of the Board? For example, Gvido Romeiko, who has been working for the Financial and Capital Markets Commission, if I am not mistaken, since 2001. Why do I mention Gvido Romeiko? Here, I would like to touch on the question of what I think is called the 'Swim of Unity'. Gvido Romeiko according to official declaration... and the verification of the declaration made by the official of the Head of the State Revenue Service, Mrs. Jaunzems, shows that these people are united by cohabitation. They also have a common descendant. Why did I name Mrs. New Land? Because Mrs. Jaunzeme's mother is still a helper of Sandra Kalniete in the European Parliament, at least an office worker, and the father of both Mrs. Jaunzeme's mother and Mrs. Jaunzeme's father has been both "New Time" (as I remember) and members of the Unity, and the mother is also a member of the New Unity and has paid the Unity as a minimum, member's money or donations. It is therefore necessary to exempt from the Financial and Capital Market Commission persons who are obviously not bound by the Unity but who have worked much longer in the Finance and Capital Market Commission, which is also known as the grey cardinal, and who are in fact responsible for what the Government of the New Unity is doing, because it is dealing with the financial sector’s ‘capital repairs’. And then there is the question of who is responsible in the financial sector for the problems that we... Who have we seen? Could it not be that those responsible, including the Financial and Capital Market Commission, have been working there for almost 18 years now? Yes, adulthood will be achieved. I guess so. Why does the New Unity not require responsibility from these persons? Because they're theirs. Because Gvido Romeiko is a good relationship with... and he is also a contact person (as can be seen on the website of the Financial and Capital Markets Commission) in various procurements, where Romualds Vonsovičs, who is one of the most expensive lawyers in Latvia, who is for cheap money... In three instances for EUR 726 represented Mr Latkovsky from the New Unity. ( Milestones.) And in fact, this situation - that is what many in society have probably missed - I would like to inform the public about it and tell them that the issue is not about Mr Putniņš and the great compensation voted on by the Group's YOUNG Unity, but about the fact that, in fact, the "capital repairs" of the financial sector are essentially a question of how to get rid of those who are not really in the Unity Journal. The second thing that needs to be emphasised is why I will vote against Mr Putniņš's release: if Mr Putniņš is a man with a spine and if there is to be a "capital repairs" in the financial sector, then he must do it to the end and certainly not subject to the pressure of New Unity. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-07-08-PT13-547-U5	The name is Digit Schmidt.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-07-08-PT13-547-U6	Colleagues! I know nothing will change. We'll get out of office, but... I believe, however, that we should think about what we are doing, with a view to the future, because we buy these petitions for money. We buy them for money! I don't know if he listened to me to pay them cash or not. I guess not. But there's one important message we pass on... And I'm not going to speculate... I don't know, probably some of the Members in the Saeima think that these heads of the institution have worked badly and that's why they don't like their work... or they simply do not like other reasons. But no matter what the truth is, perhaps somewhere in the middle, the question is what signal we give to future leaders. If they do not like us, or if we do not like how they work, then all they have to do will have to agree on compensation for their rest of their time, to get it, and then they will be free. Is that what we... the order we want to establish in Latvia? I hope not, but we are establishing it right now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-07-08-PT13-547-U7	I closed the debate. The debate is closed. Is there anything to add on behalf of the Commission?
ParlaMint-LV_2019-07-08-PT13-547-U8	Yeah, very short. Colleagues! I would like to inform you that Peter Putniņš was also invited to the Budget and Finance (Tax) Commission today. Peter Putniņš was apparently unable to arrive today for some personal reasons and to ask questions about... It was not possible to get a more detailed explanation of his application. That is why I repeat! - The Budget and Finance (Tax) Commission today supported Peters Putniņš' wish to leave the Head of the Finance and Capital Market Commission. Please also support Peter Putniņš’s desire.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-07-08-PT13-547-U9	Please call me! We will vote on the draft decision on the release of Peters Putniņš from the office of Chairman of the Financial and Capital Markets Commission! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 49, for - 5, for - 24. Decision adopted. Decision on the release of Gunta Razāne from the post of Vice-Chairman of the Financial and Capital Market Commission. Member of the Commission for Budget and Finance (Tax) Mārtiņš Bondars.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-07-08-PT13-547-U10	The Budget and Finance (Tax) Commission also discussed today the draft decision on the release of Gunta Razane from the role of Vice-Chairman of the Financial and Capital Markets Commission. The Commission supported Mrs Razane's desire to be removed from office as of 15 July this year. Mrs. Razane had come... was invited and had come to the commission and supported... Thus, they replied to the questions put by the members of the commission and also heard the views expressed by the members of the commission. Therefore, colleagues, you are asked to support Gunta Razāne's desire to be released from his post. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-07-08-PT13-547-U11	Let us start a debate. The name of Member Julia Stepanenko.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-07-08-PT13-547-U12	Dear colleagues, Really in your style - there was a proposal that people could not give up, right? But if seriously, I will vote against this draft decision and I will also call on other colleagues to vote against it. But if seriously, I would like to ask you to consider the following: before you enter a future official in this post or another position, write the amount of compensation immediately in the draft decision so that we can count it on the budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-07-08-PT13-547-U13	Name to Member Igor Pimenov. ( Internouncing call.)
ParlaMint-LV_2019-07-08-PT13-547-U14	Good afternoon, honourable colleagues! I would like to say the same thing as I said today during the committee meeting. Well, I've been taking part for the second time in the examination and decision-making of the FCTC President's call. Three years ago, Kristaps Zakulis returned when someone remembers. It was 12. During the competence of the Saeima. And in both cases - both this year and three years ago - the roots of the return were abroad. The criticism of the Commission led by the Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development, which was the basis for Zakulis' return, is now the reason for the criticism of Mr Putniņš and Mrs Razane. But this is already the case with Moneyval. I am not left to think that, however, colleagues Putniņš and Razane have become scapegoat. The ambitious processes that are taking place in our financial management... and that is injustice. I believe that we can lose important specialists. Where is Mr. Zakulis now? I accept that he is working and getting very good, but I am convinced that his ability to manage a serious institution systemically would have been useful for the country as well. I think this time... We're watching Gunta Razane's farewell now... The same thing will happen. And I do not want to be part of this process. In fact, I will participate, but I will vote against. It seems to me that we are now making a mistake and early or late we will have to look at and look at the reasons for the return not abroad, but here in Latvia, rather than, forgive, open mouth, wait for what an aunt or an fork from abroad will recommend to us. I think that this will be the right direction for all those who see themselves as the leaders of the people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-07-08-PT13-547-U15	I closed the debate. Is there anything to add on behalf of the Commission?
ParlaMint-LV_2019-07-08-PT13-547-U16	Yeah. Here the idea was that the compensation would be paid out of the state budget. No compensation will be paid from the state budget. So it's one. ( Insight: “What is it?Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, “ And the other. During the Commission meeting (Dep. I. Riena: “How is there no shame?Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, “)... During the meeting of the Commission, we were also asked to thank Mrs Razāne and Mr Putniņš for their efforts in favour of Latvia. And I, as chairman of the Commission, thank both Mr Putniņš and Mrs Razane for all that they have done for Latvia. Thank you. Request to support Mrs Razane's desire to be removed from office.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-07-08-PT13-547-U17	Please call me! We will vote on the draft decision on the release of Gunta Razāne from the post of Vice-Chairman of the Financial and Capital Markets Commission! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 52, for - 5, for - 26. Decision adopted. The draft decision ‘On the appointment of Kristīne Chernobyl-Mežmale as Chairman of the Financial and Capital Market Commission on a temporary basis’. Member of the Commission for Budget and Finance (Tax) Mārtiņš Bondars.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-07-08-PT13-547-U18	Dear colleagues, Dear colleagues, The budget and financial (tax) commission also discussed the draft decision “On the appointment of Kristīne Chernobyl-Mežmele as the financial and capital market” (Interface: “Show at least how it looks!” ) the President of the Commission on a temporary basis.’ Colleagues ask what Kristīne Chernobyl-Mežmale looks like. ( Interface: ‘ Books at least debt! ’) ) Turning... There, where the lady even stood up - Kristīne, so that... I thank Christine for being ready to take on this very difficult post for a while. Colleagues! On behalf of the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission, I ask you to support this draft decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-07-08-PT13-547-U19	Let us start a debate. Name to Member Aldi Gobzem.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-07-08-PT13-547-U20	“KPV LV”, learn from the New Unity! You have been placed on the Latvenergo Council (there - the temporary council) in your own. New Unity, Development/About! It's very loud for you... shook his finger: the interim council - it is contrary to the European state of the 21st century! You put your heads down, because it might otherwise have been that Mr. Nemir would have been thrown out of office. The Interim Council left Latvenergo. It was not a week (Applause. (Laughter) , and read in the newspapers... In the same way that we criticised the appointment of the Latvenergo interim board, we read that Mr Reira has found the interim head of the Financial and Capital Market Commission. Where? ( Intercretion: “There is no fault! ” (Laughter) No fault. It's okay! 21st century. It's okay. You must understand, “CPV LV”, what the New Unity is allowed to do, you must not! (Applause) (Laughter) Because you have no experience. You have no experience, and this is demonstrated by the fact that you have been deceived from the first day, to put it unpunishedly. (Laughter) What is the true face of ‘capital repairs’? The problem is that the candidate for the position of Head of the Commission on the Financial and Capital Markets should, before approval, go on the table in the same way as ministers. The Rules of Procedure should be amended so that Parliament can listen to the vision... and so on. But what is the true face of the financial sector’s “capital repairs”? Forced voluntary change in the management of the Financial and Capital Markets Commission means that for the time being, for the time being (and nothing is more stable than the temporary, as we know!) , winner of Scandinavian financial sector: Kristīne Černaja-Mežmale, who from 2006 to 2017 worked in high positions in Swedbank, will be appointed as temporary manager. Significantly, in Magnitsk the money laundering flows also passed through the Swedbank accounts, as can be read in the press. Congratulations to you, the New Unity, on how you played KPV LV's temporary management position in the games! Congratulations on “capital repairs”! Congratulations on the continuation of the spider, as has been the case so far! And congratulations that you have not heard anything from what the new President of Latvia said this morning!
ParlaMint-LV_2019-07-08-PT13-547-U21	I closed the debate. Is there anything to be explained in the name of the commission?
ParlaMint-LV_2019-07-08-PT13-547-U22	Colleagues, I would like to inform you that the resolution of the temporary appointment of the Chairman of the Board... the resolution is governed by the Financial and Capital Market Commission Act. The law passed by Members in this high house, the Saeima. Therefore, we will have to respect the law, as we have sworn or promised when we enter into office. Function: Member of the Saeima. As far as Kristine Chernobyl-Mežmali is concerned, she has been recommended for this post, high position, both by the Bank of Latvia, whose representatives were present today at the Commission for Budget and Finance (Tax) and... ( The Room Noise. Depp. A. Gobzem: “Rimšēvičs participated in the decision?” ) and the Ministry of Finance. So, colleagues, please support.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-07-08-PT13-547-U23	Please call me! We will vote on the draft decision “On the appointment of Kristīne Chernobyl-Mežmale as Chairman of the Financial and Capital Market Commission for the period”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 52, for - 4, for - 27. Decision adopted. The agenda for the third extraordinary session was examined. Please call me! Please register the Members! Name for Maria Golubeva, member of the Saeima Secretary, to report on the results of the registration.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-07-08-PT13-547-U24	Not registered: Gundars Dauge, Sergejs Dolgopolovs, Raivis Dzintars, Andrejs Klementjevs, Māris Kučinskis, Romanas Naudiņš, Ramona Petraviča, Eriks Pucens, Arturs Rubiks, Dace Ruksāne-Ščipčinska and Edmunds Teirumnieks.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-07-08-PT13-547-U25	Thank you. I closed the sitting of the third extraordinary session.
