ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-05-PT13-2024-U1	Good morning, honourable Members! Mr. Minister for Environmental Protection and Regional Development! I invite you to take your seats in the Chamber. Let's start the Saeima sitting. Ladies and gentlemen, we are continuing to review the agenda for the regular sitting of 28 November this year. First of all, the amendments tabled to the agenda of the adopted sitting. Members Budrikis, Eglitis, Strike, Iesalnieks, Pucens and others are asking to include in the agenda the draft decision “Amendments to the law on civil procedure” (No. 141/Lp13).’ Are Members opposed to this amendment of the agenda? ( The transcripts are: “Yes! Yes! Yes!’ ) I hear it is. So we have to vote. Please call me! We will vote for the draft decision on the change of the commission responsible for the draft law “Amendments to the Civil Procedure Law” to be included on the agenda of the sitting (No. 141/Lp13).’ Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 55, for - 22, for - 1. Decision adopted. So the draft decision is on the agenda of the sitting. The Commission of Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy asks for the draft decision to be included on the agenda of the meeting “On the Order of the Cabinet of Ministers of 3 December 2019 No. 607 "On the extension of the declared emergency situation in the administrative territory of Riga"" and consider as the first item on the agenda. Do Members have objections? ( The box “Yes! ”) ) Please call us! We will vote for the draft decision “On Order of the Cabinet of Ministers of 3 December 2019 No. 607 “On the extension of the declared emergency situation in the administrative territory of Riga” and that it should be discussed as the first item on the agenda! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Decision adopted. We are starting to look at the amended agenda. On the agenda - draft decision “On Cabinet of Ministers Order of 3 December 2019 No. 607 „On extension of the declared emergency situation in the administrative territory of Riga““. On behalf of the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy, Member Krišjānis Feldmans.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-05-PT13-2024-U2	Good morning, dear colleagues, honourable colleagues! Today we start with... In its meeting of 4 December, the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy discussed the Cabinet Order of 3 December 2019 No. 607 On the approval of the declared extension of the emergency situation in the administrative territory of Riga, the Commission has prepared the draft decision of the Saeima “On the Order of the Cabinet of Ministers of 3 December 2019 No. 607 The approval of “On the extension of the declared emergency situation in the administrative territory of Riga”, which was also supported by itself. The said Government Order extends for three months the extraordinary situation in the administrative territory of Riga city announced on 12 September this year in order to ensure the continuity of municipal waste management services without increasing the administrative and financial burden for waste producers or owners during the emergency. In the statement of the order, the Government considers that the Riga City Council has not achieved the objective set in paragraph 1 of the order of 12 September of this year, which was to ensure continuity of domestic waste collection and export services in the territory of Riga in the long term. The government has no confidence that the situation will be resolved after 11 December 2019, the waste will be collected and exported and the solution will be long-term rather than temporary, and that the solution will meet all regulatory requirements for waste management... including competition. In this context, the Commission, as I have already informed you, supported that draft decision. And so, on behalf of the Commission, I ask you to support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-05-PT13-2024-U3	Let us start a debate. Name of Minister of Environmental Protection and Regional Development Juris Pucem.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-05-PT13-2024-U4	Very honourable Speaker of the Saeima! Highly honored Saeima! The provision of municipal waste management is an autonomous function of the municipality. This is the competence of the municipality and the statutory responsibility. The Ministry of Environmental Protection and Regional Development has repeatedly drawn the attention of Riga City Council to problems in municipal waste management system in Riga city, several times during this year informed Riga City Council about repeated violations of laws and regulations. Unfortunately, there has not been real action to prevent them. In September this year there was a reasonable risk that the municipal waste management service would not be provided in Riga municipality. For this reason, on 12 September, the Cabinet of Ministers adopted an order on the use of a very rarely used legal instrument, namely, it announced the emergency situation in the municipality of Riga. Order of the Cabinet of Ministers of 12 September No. 432 “On the announcement of the emergency situation in the administrative territory of Riga City” was the result that Riga Municipality did not comply with the standards set by the Waste Management Law and thus did not comply with the autonomous liability established by the Law “On Municipalities”. This order was created with a view to enabling Riga Municipality to resolve the problem without delay and in the interests of citizens and to ensure continuity of the municipal waste management service even after the end of the emergency situation. However, instead of acting, in these three months the Riga City Council has lagged into the infertile struggles about the re-allocation of power. Despite multiple requests and reminders from the Ministry, the City Council still demonstrates the inability to perform one of the autonomous functions of the municipality. The Cabinet of Ministers believes that inaction of Riga City Council to solve waste management issues is irresponsible, it is contrary to the interests of Riga residents and it is contrary to the law. During this week the Riga City Council has come several times with public statements that it has fulfilled the orders of the Ministry and the Cabinet of Ministers, but it has to be recognised that these statements correspond only to the truth. Therefore, I am here today at the Saeima to invite the Saeima to approve the Cabinet of Ministers order “On the extension of the declared emergency situation in the administrative territory of Riga”. On 10 September of this year, the Riga City Council wrote to the Ministry: “The regulation of the waste management law does not make it possible for the Riga City Council to provide an obligation for the waste manager to dispose of municipal waste from waste producers with whom it has not concluded a contract, and the obligation for waste producers to settle with the waste manager in a situation where, even in the absence of a contract, a waste export service has been provided. The existing regulatory framework does not provide the municipality with an opportunity to fully ensure the continuity of the provision of municipal waste management service.” This quote from the letter of the Riga City Council of 10 September, one against one also describes the situation today, December 5. The collection and settlement of waste since mid-September has only been possible due to the existence of an emergency order. Just 26 and 27 November, Riga City Council has concluded agreements with waste management companies, extending existing agreements, but there are no agreements between waste management companies and residents. Citizens are not warned that they need it, and waste producers do not actually have the opportunity to do so by 11 December... All of you... Waste management contracts are concluded in Riga city. ‘ Poor management” would probably be a term that currently best describes the activities of Riga City Council in the field of municipal waste management. I am the official responsible for monitoring the work of municipalities, and I have to talk about legally sound... irregularities. Too often there has been evidence that the Riga City Council is unable to function. On 5 April, the Chairman of Riga City Council was suspended for serious violations of the law. Since then, instability and failure of the Council to fully fulfil its functions have progressed in days and months. Good governance goes hand in hand with the reduction in the level of corruption, but Riga is systematically being persecuted by significant violations: corruption scandals, illegal activities, waste of budgetary resources, fictitious staff and so on. Good governance is also the most effective weapon in the fight against poverty, but taxpayers' money in Riga municipality is wasted wastelessly and wasted. Good governance means that the municipality exercises and expresses respect for the law and ensures that quality services are provided to citizens. But the situation in Riga is radically opposite. The repeatedly identified significant violations in the organisation of waste management in the administrative territory of Riga is a very critical point. Management of municipal waste is not a small or non-essential service provided by the municipality. This ensures the control of the sanitary epidemiological situation in the municipality and a favourable living environment. This ensures that people's rights are realised. Unfortunately, the Riga City Council often defends the interests of its citizens and, without special responsibility, treats the status of the capital. In particular, therefore, it is the task of the Cabinet of Ministers and members of the Saeima as representatives of the people to ensure the management of waste and to take care of Riga residents. Today I call on the Saeima to support the government's order to extend the emergency situation in Riga also because the activities of the municipality must comply with the laws and regulations. This order protects the interests of citizens and the right to receive municipal waste management services of the same quality as before and sets a specific deadline for negotiated contracts to have a final date and not to postpone the announcement of a new procurement procedure. The experience so far with the Riga City Council shows that... Selecting a new open competition - this can be a process that has lasted years. The final decision of the Competition Council, to which the municipality of Riga refers, is hardly expected before the end of 2021. I must also remind that on 21 November this year, as the Minister of Environmental Protection and Regional Development, I warned Riga that if it did not prevent the long-standing and repeated violations of the law in the field of municipal waste management identified by the Ministry, it would be the basis for the dismissal of the Council. On November 29 the Riga City Council's response to this request has been received. At the moment, the specialists of the ministry appreciate this. And I can promise you that, again this week, the Ministry will give its opinion on what further legal work is to be done. The Ministry's action is aimed at ensuring legal and effective work of the municipality in the interests of the citizens in every municipality of Latvia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-05-PT13-2024-U5	We are continuing the debate. Name to Member Krišjānis Feldman.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-05-PT13-2024-U6	About three months ago, on 12 September, I stood in the same courtroom and reasoned why the Saeima could not agree to the announcement of the emergency situation in the administrative territory of Riga. And one of the arguments was that the announcement of the emergency situation actually stopped the contract between the producers of waste and the waste managers. I warned then that it was necessary to be realistic and that naivety should not be allowed in relation to the schemers in the municipality of Riga. ( Internouncing call.) Did anyone then allow the Riga City Council to get there, forget about its old habits and conclude people-friendly agreements with waste managers, in addition to those that would support free competition? Lift up the hands of those who thought this would really happen! ( Internouncing call.) I don't see any hands! But you voted in favour! ( Internouncing call.) And now, three months later. — Dep. I. Zarins: “What has happened?” ), is a draft decision in the context of the emergency situation. Yes, the commission supported. And I'll explain why it really needs to be supported now, because otherwise the people of Riga will be held hostage. You see, the pronoun of the draft decision states: “In addition, if the Riga City Council has agreed with waste management companies on the continuation of municipal waste collection services through a negotiated procedure, it is not possible to conclude new agreements with citizens and economic operators by 11 December 2019.” There's a saying in another language: "We're here!" ( Internouncing call.) Because... I told you, old contracts must not be stopped! And now we have no option but this one - to extend this exceptional situation. You know, it's like a drug addict - the emergency is very embarrassing: how you once preach it (although you shouldn't have done it), so you can't get off that needle anymore. Because it is very convenient: there is no need to submit to a whole range of legal frameworks. Today we have to save the people of Riga from the decision taken on 12 September in support of the emergency situation at that time, the first time. There are no other options for us to vote in favour. (Applause)
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-05-PT13-2024-U7	Name to Member Aldi Gobzem.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-05-PT13-2024-U8	Good morning, everybody! Good morning, society! I climb this platform not to say “for” or “for” but to explain to Latvian society why such activities are taking place and what is then the goal. These activities take place for a very simple reason: on 29 February extraordinary elections of Riga City Council will take place in Latvia. These are the preparatory work. This information is already actually coming from the Central Electoral Commission, whose representatives have said informally that the coalition has already addressed the Central Election Commission with an indication - to prepare for the extraordinary elections of the Riga City Council on 29 February. What will be done until then... So, of course, the coalition's desire is to win the extraordinary elections of the Riga City Council. Understandably, logical desire. But the great desire in the case of the extraordinary elections of the Riga City Council is not like a democracy - so if there are extraordinary elections, then the Council works for the rest of the time until the next, current elections - but in fact it is thought to get the situation that Riga City Council is appointed for five and a half years. To do this... At the moment, it is contrary to the law, contrary to the Constitution, in substance. There have also been informal consultations with legal experts. We will see that 12 laws will be amended by 29 February in order to adapt this situation so that the next council, which will be elected in an extraordinary election, can work for about two and a half years. This whole thing that Mr Feldman spoke about is a theatre that has been prepared before. It has been a planned event, and - mention my words! - February will be the extraordinary elections of Riga City Council. This story is just about the fact that on 29 February there will be an extraordinary election. This story is just about it. The rest are pathetic speeches to prepare for the extraordinary elections. That is why it was also necessary to increase the funding of the parties very quickly by seven times so that these hundreds of thousands could be received in January in order for the coalition to have something to do with advertising campaigns. That's why there's not enough medical money, because, as you say, you have to deal with these issues that the coalition has to deal with... Well, and of course... It is also humanely understandable that those who have felt blood and felt that they can do so - they will continue to do so. I am not saying whether it is right or wrong. Let each one choose. But the whole story is about it. If I'm wrong, I'm sorry. S. Riekstins: “Draw away?” ) you will be able to climb in the barn... But I am by a million percent confident that what I've just told you, society, I've told you that this will happen. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-05-PT13-2024-U9	Name to Member Viktor Valain.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-05-PT13-2024-U10	Good morning, honourable Speaker of the Saeima! Colleagues! If we look at the exceptional situation that occurred in September, it was, in my opinion, a great battle by the waste managers, in which both the government and Parliament were invaded. And the emergency was announced. Today, looking at this situation, it is completely unclear. The Minister's speech was also based on the topics of press releases and nothing concrete was said. There were general themes that testified only to the fact that most likely what the previous speaker mentioned is true that all that is happening at the moment is one... Now absolutely has been given a start shot for extraordinary elections in Riga. Currently, a justification is being considered and prepared. In my opinion, there is a very narrow line between the rule of law and political austerity. If in this case the Riga City Council has to be released, then there must also be very specific facts, not just that the principles of good governance have been violated or something else; it must be clearly stated what laws have been violated and what has not been done. Parliament is currently in such an uncertain situation. The explanation from the Minister is, as I have already mentioned, the subject of the titles of press releases, which... This cannot be the case here. There must be very clear reasons why this is done, but there is only a reflection about it, that it is not good, you see. I think we have very interesting decisions in the coming weeks. And today's decision is least! - related to waste management, the real decision is the dismissal of the Riga City Council... preparation. And in the coming years, I really wish you, my fellow Members, to go through the libraries carefully, to meet with law scientists. Because we will strongly oppose the Riga City Council's extraordinary elections for five years. And that's what you're trying to justify. We're gonna go... Let us come to the end on this matter. ( Internouncing call.) Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-05-PT13-2024-U11	I closed the debate. Is there anything to add on behalf of the Commission? ( Internouncing call.) Please call me! We will vote on the draft decision on the Cabinet Order of 3 December 2019 No. 607 „On extension of the declared emergency situation in the administrative territory of Riga“! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 74, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Decision adopted. Thank you to the Minister of Environmental Protection and Regional Development for taking part in the Saeima sitting and explaining. ( FROM a faction: “Governor! ” ) On the agenda - Draft Law Amending the Law on Alerts, second reading. On behalf of the National Administration and Municipal Commission – Member Dace Bluķe.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-05-PT13-2024-U12	Good morning, dear colleagues! The Commission of the State Administration and Local Government reviewed for the second reading the draft law “Amendment to the Law on Anxiety Creation” (No. 400/Lp13). Seven proposals were submitted. The proposal tabled by the Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Welfare, Mr Lipshan, is that the penalty for causing adverse effects can... be applied to the alarm officer only if the creation of adverse effects is recognised by the court ruling in force. This proposal was not supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-05-PT13-2024-U13	Let us start a debate. Name to Member Uldis Budric.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-05-PT13-2024-U14	Good morning, colleagues! Speaker of the Saeima! Members! I would like to remind you that this draft law comes from a decoding package, but it is not a normal decoding bill. These are the new rules that we incorporate. And here we need to be at least three times more responsible and more careful to see what rules we put in. In essence, this draft law provides for administrative liability if against the alarm... if negative consequences occur at the time of the alarm. But the same thing... This proposal from Mr Lipshan... It provides that this administrative penalty will only be applied after a few years of judgment. I will try to illustrate that situation. The alarmer is now alarming, and he wants to protect himself from some negative consequences. He goes to the State Chancellery, fills out a questionnaire, meets all the requirements of the law, but he still has a side-by-side procedure - he has to go and judge before an administrative court, and only then the so-called pata principle is applied. That's definitely not logical. And... What am I encouraging? This proposal is somewhat destructive and we did not support it in the Commission for two reasons. The first reason. This principle is lost. The second reason is that, if there is no principle of this stick, then there is no point in the alarm institute, too, and we can simply throw this law out. Colleagues, this proposal was not supported by the Commission, and I hope that you will not support it either. Thank you. (Applause)
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-05-PT13-2024-U15	The name of Member Inese Voika.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-05-PT13-2024-U16	Good morning, Madam President-in-Office of the Saeima. Good morning, colleagues! I would also like to speak against this proposal. First of all, the law... The alarm law is one of the 12. The positive contributions of the Saeima to modern state administration in Latvia. Every act that could harm public interests and every crime has not been committed by police officers and KNAB. But each thing has witnesses, and many honest people have been looking at what is happening for years, but they are afraid to report. The alarm law slightly supports and regulates the situation so that fear and infidelity diminish... People question why they wouldn't report, by the way, two main reasons have been named... One is that "nothing will happen" and the other is that "there is a fear that there will be some kind of reaction". The alarm law regulates both of these cases and ensures that the submissions are done, that they are done, that they are made anonymously and that they cannot be turned against the alarmer. However, practice shows that only the words of the law are not enough. Therefore, there is this draft law presented by the Cabinet of Ministers “Amendment to the Alert Law” that there is also a need for punishment if the alarmer (either against him or his relative) were to be turned against him. This proposal, which we are discussing at the moment and which I am calling for to be rejected, is to some extent disrupting this balance and also to some extent making it... can make the entire Alert Law meaningless, because not all cases are dealt with in court and proceedings can last for a long time (as colleague Budrik also pointed out), so protection would not be ensured and many cases would remain unreported. Who are these people we need to protect? These are people like Iveta Ozolina who were not afraid to come with their name and were... she was dismissed from the State Blood Center for the fact that she reported that for years - years! - People at the centre of the national blooddonors have had a risk of getting infected with hepatitis C if they donate blood. Currently, Iveta is being tried for her dismissal... An amendment to the law could also provide for punishment for people who would have turned against him. The law itself has only entered into force in May this year, and we hope that more and more people will use it. This law would also protect an Ogres municipal kindergarten worker who reported fictitious employment. Such exists not only in Riga City Council capital companies, but also elsewhere. In the municipality of Ogres, after reporting and investigating several employees were punished and losses were recovered. The revitalisation of the alarm law is very important, and the common culture in this matter is also important, and a good law can shape this culture. I therefore call for this proposal to be rejected. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-05-PT13-2024-U17	Name to Member Viktor Valain.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-05-PT13-2024-U18	Yes, colleagues, you can't disagree. Of course, this law must be implemented and we must do everything possible to succeed... better work. I was “no” to the examination of this draft law from, let us say, the zero reading, when it was handed over from the Cabinet of Ministers, because the draft law provided for several things – not only an appeal to protect the alarmer, but also an approach to the alarmer himself, including his responsibility. At the moment, the commission has managed to arrange this law so that there can be no such record that a false message can be drawn... false news... focus... can turn against the alarm... replacing it... About... to the sentence... for knowingly false news... focus... But this proposal, which has been tabled, is very controversial. And the most interesting - it is presented by a representative of the government - from the parliamentary secretary, who now expresses something much more. It's already... It is not just a Member; it is already a position in the ministry, which is very... shows the opposite direction... contrary to what the drafters of the law had originally wanted. And I wonder in a way why this proposal has not been withdrawn at all, but has still been put to the vote by the Saeima. I hope that this debate will also show that we cannot agree to such an approach. That's... of course, if such a proposal were to be supported, in principle, the alarm body would end with it. And all the good thoughts that were incorporated would also cease. I think this bill here, in the Saeima, is being examined at all... I still believe that there was no point... The following proposals also appear: This bill should have been examined sometime in May, made a report on how the year has gone, and then repair and make it more successful. Because at the moment it is the result of very long discussions that have arisen. And so... With simple amendments... we see what's going on. Very controversial proposals are being tabled. I therefore call on the State Chancellery, which is responsible for the progress of this draft law, to produce a normal information report... with the entire government... All ministries involved... how we can improve the functioning of the alerting authority and come to the Commission of Public Administration and Local Government in May so that we can also consider and make appropriate amendments there. At the moment, I am calling for this proposal not to be supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-05-PT13-2024-U19	The name of Member Iveta Benhen-Beeken.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-05-PT13-2024-U20	Hello! This proposal is intended to separate the administrative process from the civil procedure, because in this case, there is a story that the fact that an economic operator or employer does not comply with any legislation... normal and the employee has raised anxiety. But this does not rule out the fact that the employee may not have completed his... right... and duties. In some ways, therefore, the employer is in a situation where there is a possibility that... i.e. there is no legal possibility of exempting a person from his employment duties. So everyone has the right to defend their... your rights... I mean, in court. And this is a civil procedure. And there are principles in civil procedure other than in administrative procedure... That would be all in great detail, too, because the proposal provides in principle for the elimination of a double process... that are dealt with in two different ways... Conditions for use of the Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-05-PT13-2024-U21	The name of Member Linda Liepiņš.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-05-PT13-2024-U22	Good morning, colleagues! We could take advantage of the fact that there is now also a Minister for Welfare here. Given that this proposal has been tabled by the Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Welfare, it... In my opinion, it is also as a whole a ministerial proposal. Mrs. Petravič, maybe you could come to the platform and tell me what... Does the Ministry support? Do you support this proposal? What is it? It sounds rather controversial... Support or not? I would ask you to come and... Then tell me what exactly this proposal means! Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-05-PT13-2024-U23	The name to Member Iveta Benhen-Beeken for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-05-PT13-2024-U24	That's... Again... Colleagues, I explained the substance before. It should also be noted that the proceedings contain documents in which... this proposal has been withdrawn. With... In fact, it is not really a vote. We simply wanted to clarify how this proposal could adjust the process ahead. But if most think this is... the nature of the administrative irregularity... and the economic operator or employer has no right... How... at a later stage, after assessing the duties performed by the staff member, to terminate legally with him... relations, then we can also see how this process will turn out. After all, there is always room for remedying and improving the situation... Considering that this is a new draft law.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-05-PT13-2024-U25	I closed the debate. Dear colleagues, we have just - at 9.26 p.m. - received a document from the Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Welfare to withdraw the proposals submitted. In particular, proposals 1 and 2 have been withdrawn. So proposal 1 has been withdrawn and proposal 2 has also been withdrawn.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-05-PT13-2024-U26	Yeah. Then let's go to 3. - a proposal from the Legal Office. It provides for the addition of the words “untruely supplied” with the word “consciously” – “consciously falsely supplied”. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-05-PT13-2024-U27	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-05-PT13-2024-U28	4. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. It is envisaged to replace the words ‘a warning mechanism’ by ‘a warning mechanism’. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-05-PT13-2024-U29	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-05-PT13-2024-U30	5. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. It is envisaged to replace the title ‘Competentness in the application of penalties’ by ‘Competentness in administrative infringement proceedings’. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-05-PT13-2024-U31	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-05-PT13-2024-U32	6. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Technical proposal for transitional provisions. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-05-PT13-2024-U33	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-05-PT13-2024-U34	7. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. It also applies to transitional provisions. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-05-PT13-2024-U35	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-05-PT13-2024-U36	I call on you to vote in favour of the second reading of the draft law "Amendment to the Law on Alerts".
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-05-PT13-2024-U37	Please call me! We will vote in favour of the draft law “Amendment to the Law on Alerts” at second reading! Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about - 86, it's against and refrains from - it's not. The draft law was approved at second reading. Please set a time limit for the submission of proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-05-PT13-2024-U38	The deadline for submitting proposals to the Commission is 10 December.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-05-PT13-2024-U39	I'm sorry, please again.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-05-PT13-2024-U40	December 10th
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-05-PT13-2024-U41	Thank you. The deadline for submitting proposals is 10 December this year. Draft law “Amendments to the Postal Law”, first reading. On behalf of the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy, Member Sandis Riekstins.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-05-PT13-2024-U42	Good morning, colleagues! The Commission of Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy has examined the draft law “Amendments to the Postal Law” submitted by the Cabinet of Ministers and has decided to support the said draft law and to direct its examination at the first reading of the Saeima. The draft law was designed by the Ministry of Transport to ensure compliance with the regulations in the provision of postal services. Taking into account that the Latvian Administrative Violations Code expires, the draft law provides for the establishment of administrative violations in the provision of postal services and the penalties applicable to them. Amendments to the law will enter into force at the same time as the Law on Administrative Liability. At its meeting, the Commission has examined the draft law and asked for it to be declared urgent.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-05-PT13-2024-U43	Please call me! We will vote for the urgent recognition of the draft law on Amendments to the Postal Law. Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about 64, it's against 19, it's not. Draft law has been declared urgent.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-05-PT13-2024-U44	On behalf of the Commission, please support the draft law at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-05-PT13-2024-U45	Please call me! We will vote for the first reading of the draft law “Amendments to the Postal Law”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about - 85, it's against and abstains. Draft legislation supported at first reading. Please specify the deadline for the submission of proposals and the time for examination at the Saeima sitting.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-05-PT13-2024-U46	The deadline for the submission of proposals is 8 January 2020 and the request for a second reading of the draft law is 16 January 2020.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-05-PT13-2024-U47	Consequently, the deadline for the submission of proposals is 8 January 2020. Meeting of the Saeima - 16 January 2020. On the agenda - draft law “Amendments to the Law on Electronic Communications”, first reading. On behalf of the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy, Member Krišjānis Feldmans.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-05-PT13-2024-U48	The Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy has examined the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Electronic Communications” submitted by the Ministry of Transport... to put it more correctly, the draft law drawn up by the Ministry of Transport, rather than submitted. And following the necessary changes... In connection with the decoding of the Latvian administrative infringement system and the determination of violations in sectoral laws... The draft law is designed to regulate administrative liability in the field of electronic communications. In its meeting, the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy examined the draft law, conceptually supported it and asked for it to be declared urgent.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-05-PT13-2024-U49	Please call me! We will vote for the recognition of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Electronic Communications” as urgent! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 59, 18, abstaining. Draft law has been declared urgent.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-05-PT13-2024-U50	On behalf of the Commission, please support the draft law at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-05-PT13-2024-U51	Please call me! We will vote for the first reading of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Electronic Communications”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! Not by - 82, not by - and refrains. Draft legislation supported at first reading. Please specify the deadline for the submission of proposals and the time for examination at the Saeima sitting.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-05-PT13-2024-U52	The deadline for submitting the proposals for second reading will be 8 January 2020. The second reading is due to take place on 16 January 2020.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-05-PT13-2024-U53	Thank you. The deadline for submitting proposals is 8 January 2020. Meeting of the Saeima - 16 January 2020. Draft law “Amendments to the Law on Tourism”, second reading. On behalf of the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy, Member Atis Lejiņš.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-05-PT13-2024-U54	Dear Bureau! Colleagues! Well, this is the amendment to the Tourism Law that I've talked about before and which concerns LOPP... the adjustment. Proposals for second reading... Well, there's one proposal. It's from the Law Office, and there's only a changed word order... that consideration... I mean, the process... that the examination is carried out by the State Police and the State Border Guard, but the final decision... Well, only the State Police is dealing with the case. And that is why I call upon you, if there is no objection, to accept it (interruption: “The final decision... ?” )... State Police... for violations...
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-05-PT13-2024-U55	So it's 1. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-05-PT13-2024-U56	Oh, and the proposals... December 10th ( Internouncing call.)
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-05-PT13-2024-U57	Please call me! We will vote for the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Tourism” at second reading! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 81, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. The draft law at second reading has been supported. Please set a deadline for the submission of proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-05-PT13-2024-U58	December 10th
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-05-PT13-2024-U59	Thank you. The deadline for submitting proposals is 10 December this year. Draft law “Amendments to the Forest Law”, second reading. On behalf of the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy – Member Jānis Dūklavs.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-05-PT13-2024-U60	Hello, colleagues! The Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy has examined and prepared the Saeima for second reading of the draft law “Amendments to the Forest Law”. We haven't got a third... to a second reading, no proposals. On behalf of the Commission, please support the draft law at second reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-05-PT13-2024-U61	Please call me! We will vote for the draft law “Amendments to the Forest Law” at second reading! Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about - 83, it's against and refrains from - it's not. The draft law was approved at second reading. Please set a time limit for the submission of proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-05-PT13-2024-U62	Proposals should be submitted by 10 December of this year.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-05-PT13-2024-U63	Thank you. The deadline for submitting proposals is 10 December this year. Examination of own-initiative proposals Draft decision “On 11 387 Latvian citizens’ collective application “Stand the increase in party funding to the next - 14. Saeima - for election’. Member Aldis Blumbergs on behalf of the Commission for Mandates, Ethics and Applications.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-05-PT13-2024-U64	Good morning, colleagues! On 30 October this year, the Saeima received a collective application from Latvian citizens, signed by 11 387 citizens with an initiative to postpone the increase in party funding until the next - 14. - The Saeima for election. On 20 November this year, the Commission for Mandates, Ethics and Application reviewed this... in the original version... the initiative and heard the applicant. The applicant stressed that it was not right that the allocation of funding would take place from the next one - 2020. - the year, irrespective of the fact that the legislation providing for the allocation of money to other sectors has not been complied with. The Commission unanimously decided to refer this initiative of Latvian citizens to the Budget and Finance (Tax) Commission for further evaluation. A draft decision was prepared, and we as a commission... On behalf of the Commission, please support the draft decision that has been prepared.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-05-PT13-2024-U65	Thank you. Let us start a debate. Name to Member Aldi Gobzem.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-05-PT13-2024-U66	I will try to prove to you why the law on the financing of parties and the seven-fold increase in money for myself, the coalition, has not been passed by people who take care of Latvian society, but by Jenots. As we remember, the budget of the Republic of Latvia and the law on the increase in party funding seven times, while not granting 60 million medical professionals, were adopted during the night. That's what happened. I took an encyclopedia. What am I reading? ‘ Most of the Yenots are active during the night.” ( The paragraphs are: ‘ How many? ’ ‘How many nights is it?’ ) This is No. 1. Maybe that's the coincidence. Jenots are active during the night, coalition during the night confirms party financing seven times for themselves. But let's go! I read in the encyclopedia: “... Jenot is unable to distinguish between colours, he sees everything in green light.” It is not only understandable whether €100 banknotes are meant by the green light or if they are the color of the Unity logo. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. E. Herbs-Gross intermediate call.) That too may be a coincidence. But you can read it below. We remember that the New Unity Government, the Karina Government, was approved in January. What is written in the encyclopedia? That raccoon time starts in January. (Laughter) (See paragraph 4.5 of this Regulation.) Again, it's a coincidence. All right! Maybe I'm wrong, but I'm reading this encyclopedia further. What do we have for Krišjānis Kariņš by profession? Lingvist, right? What does the encyclopedia say? ‘ Jenot has a vocalisation.’ There's a coincidence again. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. E. Zālīte-Gross: “Lingvist and vocalisation are not the same, Gobzem!” ) But another thing that is especially... There is another thing that needs to be highlighted and which suggests that, by increasing the funding of the parties seven times... at night, it more corresponds to the characteristics of the Jonoty... than people who take care of Latvian society. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. E. Herbs-Gross intermediates.) The Encyclopædia states: “Ingenious males often unite in the community of single males. ” As you know, raccoon has been imported if. ( Internouncing call.) Jenot is not a native species. So it's an invasive species when we talk about medical terms. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. E. Pucce: “They are not medical terms!” ) I will explain what is an invasive species for those in this room who may not have the best relationship with education and who do not understand that from a medical point of view. It is a strange species that has reached a strange habitat, has become dominant there and is extortioning local habitats, as well as transforming natural habitats into a place... where they have been incurred. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. E.Zālīte-Gross: “In medical terms, you’re sick!” ) But most interesting when it comes to the OIC and UNIFORM and the Yenths (I read the encyclopedia again): “The expansion of the Yenoth species can lead to climate change.” The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. E.Zālīte-Gross: “Are you fucked up?Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, “ Thank you. ” The answer to the question why Unity is so often called Yenots in society, I received it in an encyclopedia; I also received it in the vote on the funding of parties that took place during the night and in the vote against doctors, which also took place during the night. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. E. Zālīte-Grosa: “Slim!” ) I received this answer because the parties who take care of Latvian society will not put this issue at Martins Bonddars' drawer at the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission and will not look at the plan (Interest call.) , but... That question was put to the vote today and said that... In a legal “uncompromising rule of law” country, the party does not provide funding for itself, but decides with the next Saeima. And that is also what people are asking for; people have signed up to say that party financing must happen, if it is to happen at all, only through the election of the next Saeima. And since the next Saeima will be elected in extraordinary elections and there will be no more Yenoth governments, the next Saeima will stop this issue. Thank you. (Applause)
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-05-PT13-2024-U67	The name of the Member, Kaspars-Girgen.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-05-PT13-2024-U68	Hello, colleagues! I will try to provide a small, slightly informative report and explain with concrete facts and figures that we are overpaid in this party financing. On KNAB's website, everyone has information about how much we, every party, spend and what each budget is; how much money is needed to maintain the party. I compared the years 2016, 2017 and 2018, and these years are very perfect because... 2016 is the year when there were no elections. In 2017, there were municipal elections, where further funds were needed. And in 2018 there were parliamentary elections. I'm going to name what it is... I will remind the parties of what your expenditure was in 2016, when there was no election. Then to the party “Harmonization”... ‘Handlings’... I'll say this: official figures... We do not know what the informal figures are, but the official figures show that the party had needed EUR 240 000 at the time, whereas now they will have EUR 800 000. Three times will be overpaid. The political party KPV LV, which was yet to be established, was EUR 1800. There we cannot compare, but there will be EUR 643 000. New Conservative Party. It was only recently, in 2016, that it started... There were 14 thousand euros. Let's not... Development/About! has not yet been established. The National Association, however, spent €175,000 in 2016. On the other hand, now they will be 557 thousand - three times more than necessary. The Union of Greens/Farmers. They needed 160,000 to maintain their party. And now it's... additional 489 thousand - three times more. The party’s Unity spent 439 thousand in 2016. And now it gets... I'm just... Perfect... That's 416 thousand. It is about the equivalent of how much they spend during the year. If we compare it with 2018, we can see that these figures have, of course, grown very much. And one can see a connection that this funding is more intended to be spent on campaign materials during the pre-elections. Now... Now I'm going to split this up a little bit. There's a second part... it is a collective submission. How have the Saeima been successful since 2012 with collective submissions? Thus, 55 applications have been submitted in total since 2012 and out of these 55 applications have been confirmed... The Saeima has accepted only 10, i.e. 18 percent, 16 applications have been rejected, 29 are still under consideration. It is worth noting that collective submissions are still under consideration even since 2015. So this means that we are able to look at the issues for five years and not get to the end. If we're talking about 13. The Saeima - 17 collective submissions have been accepted and submitted to the committees during the meeting. One of them has been rejected and none is positive. Over the year, we're... we have not approved any collective application. (Applause) Consequently, if we look at the details, since 2012, all the collective submissions relating to members of the Saeima for premiums or compensations, or... cancellation - that the positive indicator (that has been confirmed) is 0 percent. So we can conclude that looking at statistics, this collective application is also expected to be a sad fate. I would suggest to individuals, people who submit these collective applications, but point out... to write the time limits within which they would like Members to consider these matters. Because we have sad examples that we can look at matters for as many as five years. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-05-PT13-2024-U69	Name to Member Viktor Valain.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-05-PT13-2024-U70	Colleagues, we have already talked today about the fact that, by its very nature, we will also be waiting for the campaign of pre-elections, already next year. It will come faster than many think. However, this initiative... Whatever it is... During the examination of the budget here in Parliament, unfortunately, there was very little debate... and, in principle, without the presence of the opposition... and Mārtiņš Bondars has stood out in his Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission. If, my fellow Members, you have made a letter from the President of Latvia - he also points out that any matter needs to be examined in substance and debated. Unfortunately, this did not happen during this budget review. This budget showed that the voting machine works at all levels - both the government, the Saeima, the commissions - everywhere! What Mr. Girgen has just said can't disagree with him. Where, then, is there a justification for the amounts to be allocated? There is a big question: which parties will be dealing with in the near future when they receive... Of course, spending money is not art, but how reasonable such amounts are, such an increase. In my opinion, the answer to this question has not really been received, and Mr Bondara has every opportunity to remedy this situation. This Saeima has already made its own decisions, its own wages - we have frozen them, considering that the decisions of the previous parliamentary term regarding the way in which the Saeima's Member's remuneration is formed were not really correct. This has been done. Then, with regard to party financing, it would be only normal for us to incorporate the vision relating to the next Saeima and then the next Saeima to start working, see the rules and decide whether it is appropriate, sufficient or not. Once again, too, when the elections started, there were parties who said that they needed to increase this funding, but I would unfortunately not name anyone who would have said that they should have tripled, quadricycled, where they would have been even five times more, six times or seven times more. Well, that didn't happen, and I think if a party had started with such a slogan, it would hardly be right here in the Saeima today. So think about it, and I call on you to still correct this error, which has public support, but this law that you have supported does not have public support, nor does it have the support of the social partners. So I'm calling for the mistake to be corrected.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-05-PT13-2024-U71	The name to Member Aldi Gobzem for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-05-PT13-2024-U72	Do you even remember that in Latvia something would have been increased - now, at least twice - over the last 30 years? No, no. But Members, seven times! Seven times more will be needed, because otherwise it will not be possible to participate in Riga City Council elections on February 29 next year. But not about it. When I gave a parable of Unity and Yenots, on the part of the New Conservative Group, there were very strong reservations that the JPN was not rallied. I must speak in the words of our President, Egil Levite. He has introduced the term “neighbours”... Although I read that the term ‘national’ was used in the Tukums News of October 10, 1941, that is, during the occupation, no... This is not new. But using this term, I have to say... It is clear that the UCP is not rattled, but, by rewording the term used by Egil Levite, I have to say that we have apparently adopted a budget and a law on party financing. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. E.Zālīte-Gross: “Go home! Disease!” ) In which category could the new conservative group be placed? Because people... I have to emphasise once again - people who take care of Latvian society... people who have voted... And you too, Mrs. Zalīte... who voted in favour of the medical doctor's remuneration... with the adoption of the budget, would have confirmed the medical fees and voted against the funding of the parties. Then you go to the camera and tell us how you care about Latvian society. Because you're gonna have a party in January, you're gonna have half a million to call yourself a champagne... The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. E. Hall-Gross: “And you won’t!” ) to draw up new business cards, flags of acceptance (Dep. E. Herbs-Gross intermediates.) , more than that, make advertisements on television, as you have worked for the people of Latvia. The only thing you have done for the people of Latvia - I am sorry, you have not completed any of your party program points and you have voted against the whole society in the budget, and seven times for yourself. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. E. Herbs-Gross intermediates.) That's what you are! And people like this deserve to be called co-jets - alongside those yenots who have approved the budget and party funding. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-05-PT13-2024-U73	Please do not call Members from the parliamentary troop. We are continuing the debate. The name of the Member, Martin Bondar.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-05-PT13-2024-U74	Madam President, Dear colleagues, Dear colleagues, Just before I say, “Please don’t call.” Okay. ( Laughs) I... A little different. If you decide - to refer the matter to the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission - then (Dep. V. Valainis: “You will not do anything!” ) On Thursday, 12 December, at 8 a.m., this issue will be addressed at the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission. Congratulations to all the members of the Committee on Budgets and Finance (taxes) on the fact that we will have to rise a little faster. Thank you. (Applause)
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-05-PT13-2024-U75	The name is Digit Schmidt.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-05-PT13-2024-U76	Hello, colleagues! Ladies and gentlemen! Talk about some ethics, morally, that it would not be possible to make financial decisions that concern you yourself, but to determine their financing with the next term and then prove that you are worthy of this money, would probably be foolish, wouldn't you? Well, where else... Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. I was just a couple of things I wanted to say. One of them is that, on the one hand, I was able to sit there and watch you, as you say, collectives, come together, jump off the rock and... What are you doing now. You feel that this decision will provide you with funding that will help you win the next elections. I think you're making a serious mistake. With this decision, like with other decisions on the salaries of sisters and doctors, you put yourself in politics in a place where no money can be left. Neither with this nor with any other all the money that is possible in the world. But you obviously don't understand. Time will show you. Actually, I've been thinking for a long time whether to climb or not... because the feeling is that after all those decisions and this house... Parliamentary discreditation... saying that... assuming that the law may not be enforced on the assumption that there is a government that can safely fail the law, selectively execute those that it wants, and not on those that it does not want to do... In fact, I think that the work of this house has become quite pointless until the extraordinary elections. At least I have the feeling that there is quite little point in participating here. It's a feeling that I'm talking to the separated butaphoria that stood there for about half a year, but it's actually not taken away. Guys, you've made this hall a butaphoria that you think... where the majority of those sitting in the hall believe that the law can be enforced selectively. That's the message you've given to the government, for yourself... But the worst of all, that's the message you've given to the whole society. I think the public will hear and act. The question is, how? The law will not be enforced or the legislator will soon be removed, who believes that this is the right course of action. Thank you. (Applause)
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-05-PT13-2024-U77	The name of Member Julia Stepanenko.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-05-PT13-2024-U78	Dear colleagues, This public initiative, the Latvian citizens' initiative, which, in fact, acquired the right to enter the Saeima in record time as a collective application, shows, of course, that something is wrong with the budget you have adopted, and shows that members of the Saeima must, of course, think about both the rule of law and the prevention of conflicts of interest. Because, as we remember, those Members who voted in favour of granting self-financing were also members of the governing board of the parties concerned and the chairmen of the board, who, on 15 January, will decide on the procurement of different types of procurement.... without contests, by the way... and payment of various invoices, of course, at the expense of pre-elections. We know that very clearly. We also see quite clearly that the law on the financing of political organisations (parties) was also changed in the article on the arrangements for the payment of funding. Order of the cost of funding miraculously was changed in the plan of the Cabinet of Ministers on 13 September – not four times a year, as is currently the case, but twice a year. This means that on 15 January the parties, these 10 parties to the cartel, will receive half of the funding planned for the year. That's very good, isn't it? For you. Of course, it also seems very interesting that KNAB's proposal to ban the purchase of exclusive goods from public money was not supported. This means that most likely when you win or lose this Soviet election, I don't know what you're gonna do... You can really buy expensive champagnes, expensive machines, expensive cakes (Interface: “Do not come expensive cars!” ) and do not worry in any way that it is taxpayers’ money (interfaces.) , which was intended to pay nurses’ salaries and teachers. You don't care. You also don’t care that there were teachers and doctors among those who took part in collecting signatures for this initiative. All the people who understood that it was simply not possible to go further, and in principle this initiative was the basis for the collection of signatures for the dismissal of the Saeima. Because we see that you no longer respond in any way to what's happening there, out. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. E. Herbs-Gross and Deposit. A. Gaidan's intermediate names.) You, honourable colleagues, will probably also know that when talking about sponsors, Riga City Council plans to see one very interesting decision on 19 December - the decision to ban gambling in the territory of Riga. And if the Riga City Council remains decisive (which I doubt very much), then on 19 December this decision could be taken contrary to Development/About! the interests of sponsors. If we're talking about sponsors, then Development/About! risk losing your sponsor money on December 19. And this plan for the dismissal of the Council (Dep. D. Appendix: "What sponsors? In particular!’ ) and there is nothing other than a plan for emergency elections to serve, first of all, its sponsor (Dep. D. Appendix: “What for?” ) and, secondly, would also receive public funding. And if we talk about how “active” the Budget and Finance (Tax) Commission sees ManaBalss.lv initiatives, then I say: I can be sure that the chairman of the Commission Mārtiņš Bondars will delay the examination of this initiative just as he has already delayed the examination of the gambling ban on the territory of Latvia. From the New Conservative Party... Therefore, honourable colleagues, I will, of course, call on you to support this proposal, but I have no confidence that, when you return this proposal to Martin Bondar for preparation, you will indeed expect a result this year or next year (Dep. (M. Bondar’s intermediate call.) Given that Mārtiņš Bondars himself is against the revision of this financing law. He already said that publicly. That is why it really is a mistake - to pass this initiative on to Martin Bondar. And it was also a mistake - not to specify a specific date by which this initiative would be considered. So if we talk about sponsors, the sponsors will stay where they are. If we are talking about public funding, state funding is likely to be spent on all kinds of luxury things. And... is not likely to be affected. Dear colleagues, I call on you to support this proposal. But I think we will, of course, come forward with a proposal in the near future that a deadline should also be set for this proposal not to be measured in time (as is very often the case with the ManaBalss.lv initiatives), especially given that this initiative is particularly urgent. Thank you. (Applause)
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-05-PT13-2024-U79	The name to Member Martin Bondar for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-05-PT13-2024-U80	My colleagues urge me to come again. I came in. First. If someone thinks that there are butaphoria in this house and it is not worth working on until the new elections, then there is an option... I would like to inform those colleagues who are less, as I say, working for the Saeima that there is such an option - to set up a mandate. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. I. Riena: “It’s very witty! Inconceivably witty!’ ; between the words: “Stop it!” ) Let's go! If you are not satisfied with something in this house, set your mandate and wait for new elections. That's your chance. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A. Gobzems: “A good argument! Legal reasoning!’ ) Second. Colleagues! I will draw your attention to the first item on the agenda of the Saeima sitting today. The first item on the agenda of today's meeting was the extension of the emergency situation at the Riga Council. Do you think that - or the only Member who represents the party “God to Serve Riga!” , here he climbed up to debate, to argue “yes - no”, “white - black”? No, no! At the time, this Member, Mr. Duklav, our fellow Members, was in the middle. Smile chatter. ( Internouncing call.) Yeah, and you know' how... and when it concerns other issues, other things, come here to talk about some kind of alcohol... I am sorry, in the Riga Tourism Development Bureau Corruption Prevention and Combating Bureau took out a whole chup with alcohol. Is that what alcohol is talking about? Is the alcohol that was kept without excise duty? Is that what this is about? Come on, come on! Well, come on, just... Stop coming here, talk about some problems, realizing that your political organisation... There is a total barrack in the organization and your political farm, for example. Thank you. (Applause)
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-05-PT13-2024-U81	Mr. Cabanov, you're going to have 13 minutes? Name to Member Nikolai Cabanov.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-05-PT13-2024-U82	Dear Chairman of the Saeima. Dear colleagues, Important 13. The number of voters of the Saeima is convinced that the state funding of political parties in Latvia is intended only to improve the material situation of Members and their relatives. ( Milestones.) I find it hard to convince them of the opposite. It is reasonable to ask why politicians are actually given an uncontrolled parallel budget... Even with a nanomark, it will be about one-two thousandth of Latvia's total budget. However, the parties do not have experience in the administration of such funds. Political organisations are not entities of economic activity. Latvia often refers to Estonia’s experience. Today, our neighbour wants to distribute almost EUR 4 million between the four parties. But the elections do not take place every year. What are the political parties doing? For example, the Estonian Centre Party wants to build a sports and entertainment area for its money. A party known in Estonian as “The Fatherland” wants to allocate part of its funding to the owner’s union. You see, not the poor, but those who already have property to receive support from them in the next elections. On the other hand, the Estonian Reform Party considers the funding of political parties as a form of corruption and therefore does not participate in the distribution of this budget pie in principle. And there I completely agree with them, because I believe that party funding is a completely corrupt measure. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. J. Kursīte-Pakule: “We are in Latvia, not Estonia!” ) Members want another 13th salary. They want to organise this budget funding through all kinds, let us say this to non-governmental organisations, social businesses. Schemers! Schemers are you! The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. S. Riekstin’s intermediate call sign.) I think it is very important to listen to our views as citizens of Latvia and to postpone the implementation of the funding of hypocritical and stealing parties to 14. Saeima, but everyone sign for 13. The release of the Saeima. (Applause)
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-05-PT13-2024-U83	Mr Dolgopolova, would it be enough for you to have a 10-minute debate? The time allowed is 15. ( The box “No! ”) ) Doesn’t it feel like that? So we will continue the debate after the break. Please call me! Please register the Members! Will there be a statement? Name to Marija Golubeva, member of the Saeima Secretary, for reading the results of the registration.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-05-PT13-2024-U84	Not registered: Raimonds Bergmanis, Gatis Eglitis, Artuss Kaimiņš, Ojārs Ēriks Kalniņš, Rihards Kols and Jānis Vitenbergs.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-05-PT13-2024-U85	Thank you. Interruption until 11 a.m. ( Interruption)
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-05-PT13-2024-U86	Ladies and gentlemen, we shall continue the sitting of the Saeima. Let us continue the debate. Name to Member Sergey Dolgopolov.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-05-PT13-2024-U87	Dear colleagues, If someone had turned his back on the other side, it would be very good... Unfortunately, we are starting to develop a bad tradition that when we discuss a particular issue, we are going on and on and talking about everything - the Bible, the personalities, the good and bad qualities, but not the subject of the debate. In this case, it is about a very specific application of Latvian citizens, where it is proposed to amend the transitional provisions of the law on party financing, stating that the law will come into force after the election of the new Saeima. What is the motivation for this proposal? There may be different approaches, different opinions. Adopt, in a great hurry, amendments to the law on party financing - it was, of course, a great mistake - in my view, even a criminal error! - because it was included in the budget package without much discussion about the philosophy of party activities, the financing of party activities... and everything else. Because the assumptions underlying the decision to increase party funding on several occasions were rather vague. And... I would, for example, be very insulted instead of party management, because it is based on the assumption that party leaders responsible for party financing cases are bribery. Because it is only in this way that we can explain that reducing donations is the reason why we need to increase party funding. Because it can only be accepted... And it was one of the motivations that it excluded the possibility for party leaders to take some action for the benefit of donors when they receive a fee for their activities. It is an element of corruption; it is clearly a matter of conflict of interest. This is a clear sign of corruption. But when it comes to the application, tomorrow the Budget and Finance (Tax) Commission will come and decide what they will decide on? They will decide on the nature of the law, to reduce the funding for lots to the current... the budget period, or decide on the need to amend the law, or decide on the need to look at the Cabinet of Ministers' regulations on the financing model at the same time... usage positions and control system, or as otherwise... I think it would be right... that not only should the Committee on Budgets and Finance (tax) look at this matter, but also move on to a broad debate on party financing cases, which is a really important moment. Undoubtedly, this proposal, the proposal of Latvian citizens, must not only be taken into account, but it must be implemented in life. It seems to me that this would be a good example for further action, not only on budgetary matters, but also on other positions. If we are talking about other positions, it would be unnecessary to think about a deeper argument here, also talking about positions such as today's issue of waste, where, to be honest, I unexpectedly heard from the honourable Minister so much, I am sorry, that I do not even believe that the text in question would have been prepared by the Ministry of Environmental Protection and Regional Development. This also applies to other draft laws. However, returning to this draft decision, I would call, however, for the Budget and Finance (Tax) Commission to look at the matter more broadly and not only to talk about the establishment of transitional rules, but also to initiate a discussion on the models of party financing. It's not fair and it shuts down... completely exclude any competition between the political forces and is justified - you forgive me! - very old-fashioned elements. Thank you. (Applause)
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-05-PT13-2024-U88	The name of Member Iveta Benhen-Beeken.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-05-PT13-2024-U89	Hello! First of all, I would like to stress that political parties are not closed organisations, because if that were the case, the individual Members of this parliamentary term would hardly be here. Therefore, I invite everyone in Latvia who has doubts about KNAB's work and professionalism, checking party reports, joining parties and following it from inside. It is still not prohibited. It is only humane that we judge on the basis of our experience. I therefore regret the dictatorship inside individual parties. Talking about the budget. The amount of money allocated to all parties, including those not represented in the Saeima, has overcome the threshold of two percent... In total, they will receive forty-five per cent of the budget. If we are talking about ethics, then I have a rhetorical question: do I sell real estate, building land, allow the family to plan to build a house that is meant to lead a happy life, and then after two years say that the purchase contract has been cancelled - is morally ethical? Thank you. (Applause)
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-05-PT13-2024-U90	Name of Member Maria Golubeva.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-05-PT13-2024-U91	Dear President of the Saeima. Dear colleagues, I thank Mr Dolgopolova for his proposal to argue on the substance. I would like to respond to some of his arguments. First. In my opinion, it is not justified to accuse those who believe that it should be increased... that had to increase national funding for parties - to denigrate them that they think that before this happens, party leaders accept some bribes. It was never meant. What was meant is that the predominance of private money in party financing means that there are a whole series of issues that would hardly ever first place on the party agenda. Any issue relating, for example, to the provision of national social functions also involves taxation, and if donors, mostly entrepreneurs, are not interested in this, then such issues are also less likely to be on the party agenda. In order to be able to implement socially responsible policies, it is sometimes necessary to raise taxes, and it is easier to do so if the party is not dependent on business money. It does not in any way involve any direct effect on trade. The second point, which is no less important. How low the thought should be about the intellectual capacity of their voters to start telling from the parliamentary troupe that party funding can be used, for example, for wage Members or shoes. I am sorry: Members are paid from the country. That is absolutely clear: its wages were frozen. It cannot be said here that Members are paid from parties. It's just not. Shoes? I do not know in which party and through which schemes someone can buy shoes for party funding money. ( Interface: Champagne!) ) This is certainly not the case. I just call on my colleagues... we may be in different positions regarding the need or need for party financing, but please respect your constituents. Please do not use arguments that are under Saeima’s honor. And finally, third. Of course, the authors of this initiative... This initiative obviously collected quite a lot of voter support, so it has to be examined by the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission. That is clear. And it is also necessary to look at the substance of the commissions, in my opinion, almost all of MyaBalss.lv's initiatives, except those where human rights are really directly affected; those where they are proposed to be restricted, or those which are contrary to the Constitution. Otherwise, any initiative that collects 10 thousand votes, of course, to us in substance... It is good practice to look at this. Thank you. (Applause)
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-05-PT13-2024-U92	Name of Member Dana Reizniece-Ozola.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-05-PT13-2024-U93	President-in-Office of the Saeima. Colleagues! I would like to draw your attention once again to what the aim of this citizens' initiative is. It does not say at all that political parties should not be financed at all. It calls for this funding to be postponed to the next Saeima - 14. The Saeima. That, in my opinion, is correct. What you are doing at the moment, with the adoption of this law, providing for the allocation of funding to yourself from 1 January next year, is to destroy competition. You will destroy competition in the sense that it will be much more difficult for new political forces to develop. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. E. Herbs-Gross intermediate call.) Unfortunately, these are unlike you and us! - then be dependent on private donations. You will destroy competition, especially in regions. Your law provides that if political power participates in municipal elections, but has not participated in previous parliamentary elections and has not entered... that such a political power will not be able to receive funding. You want to strengthen your power throughout Latvia - in the country, in local governments - by now using your power position. Power positions are changing. You can also play games... in the second half, and then, unfortunately, the situation will not be so pleasant. At the same time, I would also like to remind you that, although with this law seven times at once (Interface: “Yes, yes!” ) to increase funding for yourself, you did not do another thing that I think it would be right to do in this situation if you really wanted to reduce the dependence of political forces on private donors. The personal income tax relief for donations to political parties remains in force. However, at a time when we proposed to abolish this and ensure personal income tax relief for families with children paying for kindergartens or children's lunch from their own resources, you had an important silence and did not have your support. (Applause)
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-05-PT13-2024-U94	The name to Member Boris Cilevič.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-05-PT13-2024-U95	Dear colleagues, The coalition Members are always continuing this debate on party financing from the budget... speaks in general and not in relation to the specific proposal that this initiative provides for. Indeed, this is a separate question: whether parties should be financed from the state budget. It is currently a question of whether it is ethical or whether it is in line with the principle of good governance - to allocate funding to yourself. Because that's what you really want to do right now. And actually... Yeah... I will not repeat those arguments that have already been made from this tribunal, but it is no secret that some parties that have achieved good results in the last elections now have much worse ratings. And... I think, at all, that some parties no longer actually exist. And you offer to allocate funding to political zombies, artificially maintain some headlines, some (interface.) names! Yes, good governance, independence from sponsors - all this is very good, but does the principle of good governance follow the change of rules of the game in the course of the game? When we introduced new amendments to the law, we were always very careful at the Saeima - we took care that they enter into force only after they can no longer affect the existing political situation, so that they would not be in the interest of any particular political players. You are completely ignoring this principle at the moment. I understand that money always has a pleasant smell, as you say, and you want to strengthen the positions that you have conquered... do not repeat what means are used. Yes, you are now in a coalition and want to give yourself a place in a coalition for life. It's not gonna happen anyway. So... and by such decisions you will undermine your authority further. Now don't go on with this augreek tactic! You have already deceived doctors, teachers, and others. You have not fulfilled your promises, and now you want to climb on the same raven again. Listen to what the authors of the initiative say! Thank you. (Applause)
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-05-PT13-2024-U96	Name to Member Sergey Dolgopolov for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-05-PT13-2024-U97	Some remarks to what has been said today. First. The difference between donation and public funding is that the donation is always concrete and focused on a specific political force, but budget funding, that is to say, taxpayers' pay, is nevertheless generalised. So, the first claim that follows - what kind of party services does the taxpayer pay for? This is unfortunately not stipulated in the law, and these criteria can be very different. Second. I already said for nothing that there are different models. If we are talking about different developed democracies... For example, in the United States, as you know, the financing (and not just) of all electoral campaigns is at the expense of private donations. And no one denies the senators and congressmen that they have, behold, sold (The Intrusive Call: “Let it be! And as much as we say!” )... Well, throw it maybe... you criticise Mr Trampa or Hillary Clinton and so on. Third. I told you, it was a criminal mistake. Because when it comes to budgetary problems, add and expand the amount... amount of funding for lots at a time when no money can be found to comply with the law... Here, by the way, there is no collective responsibility; here is the individual responsibility of every Member for the enforcement of laws. Everyone has certified from the tribunal, making a solemn promise and signing up to what has been said, that we are determined to observe the Constitution and the laws. If the law is not respected, the requirement of the law is not taken into account, which means that a Member who has supported this type of activity has not complied with the oath he has made. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-05-PT13-2024-U98	Name to Member Raiv Dzintar.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-05-PT13-2024-U99	Dear Chairman of the Saeima. Dear colleagues, Dear opposition! Dear opposition parties! What are you going to do with this damned, unfortunate funding? Listening to these speeches gives the impression that you will hand it back to the Treasury immediately after your receipt. ( Ambush of those in the position.) The question is, will it be or will it not be? Will you give up this money? Because what you're saying from the podium creates such an impression. ( Milestones.) But we know it won't, don't we? We know that this is just a part of the campaign. Because if it wasn't... You already had instruments at your disposal, for example Article 72 of the Satversme of the Republic of Latvia. By collecting 34 Members - and there are so many Members in the opposition - you were able to suspend this law for two months within 10 days of the adoption of the budget, in which case, on 15 January, when the funding was to be received, there would be no funding. But this funding would not only be for the coalition, but also for you. And you didn't. ( Ambush of those in the position.) You have noticed Article 71, but Article 72 has not been noticed. That is why, please, we will discuss this proposal in substance. Of course, there may be different views. I also do not believe that this is some sort of miracle to prevent corruption. No, that is not the case, but it is a step in the right direction. Listen to the experts told by KNAB representatives in the working groups! This clearly reduces the impact of sponsors. This reduces! This does not eliminate completely, it does not rule out all risks (interim.) , but the impact of private funding is decreasing. And, of course, there are very influential people who are very, very, very unwilling to make parties more independent. Nothing is absolute. Of course, that is relatively. But this measure... Relatively... to the impression, to the benefit... This is a small amount of funding that can to a very large extent turn things in the right direction. And the question is, when does it come into force? I understand that there are enough interested parties to postpone it as far as possible. But I believe that it should enter into force as soon as possible. This is how I have also voted and will continue to vote (Minimum: "There is no doubt! There is no doubt!’ ) that... if we still have to decide on this. Thank you. (Applause)
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-05-PT13-2024-U100	The name to Member Julia Stepanenko for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-05-PT13-2024-U101	Dear colleagues, Mr Dzintara, is it really that you are not being told by colleagues about the real reasons, are you, right now, so to mislead the public? I... At the time of the adoption of the budget, I called on you, the honourable coalition, to explain several times from this troupe, what was the reason for moving the examination of the party financing law from the planned time of March 2020 to the budget package. Of course, no one was able to explain to me why such a rush was needed. And now we hear different versions... That you need to be very quick... January 1st... And now we cut off the sponsors... But you know it's not true. I do not really know whether colleagues consider you to be uninformed or whether you are simply misleading the public at the moment. Because it is obvious now that this funding law for you, the coalition, was necessary for the implementation of the political reederism plan of some coalition colleagues. And you may be right now... Either you are currently using it or you are just participating in this plan and playing, and you tell the public that you need to be independent from sponsors. I understand - okay, Development/About! With their game drug sponsors... they're in pain. If they are reminded of it, it hurts them. They're right down, and they're starting to talk in front of them. But you, for example... I don't know... The new Conservative Party and the National Union, why have you taken part in this reederism story, risking and, in principle, ruining all your reputation? With these amendments to the party financing law, you completely destroy the political reputation. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. J. Stricks and depots S. Riekstins.) Either you use such little shepherds, or you're just with these honourable colleagues from Development/About!... with these businessmen just participating in the joint plan. And please don't tell the public that you're dreaming of independence from sponsors! As we have already said, on 19 December the urban development plan is in the middle. planned to release Riga from the gaming halls. But these colleagues will not allow this. And you are part of it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-05-PT13-2024-U102	The name of Member Regina Lochmele-Lunova. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. K. Feldman and Depp. S. Riekstins.)
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-05-PT13-2024-U103	Hello, colleagues! My speech will be a reflection of Mrs Golubeva's and Mr Bondara's speeches. Thank you to Mrs Golubeva for calling on us to respect each other. But I hope that our value, as all Members, is also respect for representatives of NGOs, for example. I would like to remind you that when the Budget and Finance (Tax) Commission discussed the budget for 2020, Kristina Blumberga, representing ProBonopublico, was also present on one of the issues. Latvia, and this society was elected to the Saeima NGO Council in 2017. This woman was installed in front of him as one of the initiators of this collective application of Latvian citizens, and she wanted to... Yes, agree, emotionally, but express its views on the relevant budget line for 2020. I think I will now say what I will certainly also be able to demonstrate, because I hope that the record of the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission sitting has been kept. In my opinion, Mrs Golubeva should certainly take part in a commission meeting, where she will look at this collective application of Latvian citizens, so as not to repeat the situation that the head of the commission Mr Bondara allows me to say that he will ask... that he will force a representative of the NGO from the committee sitting only because what she says, Mr Bondara, does not like it. I think such cases... I was really ashamed. I also said that I was ashamed that it was faced with another representative of your group - Mr Stein - who usually spoke here - and I congratulate you on any initiative relating to NGOs, on the defence of the rights of NGOs, as well as Mrs Voika. I also call on you to come to this committee and just to see how its meetings are going and how the representatives of NGOs are treated. Of course, maybe you are dividing its NGOs by some criteria... who are their own, who are not their own... but I think that this attitude in the Saeima towards a representative of a society that is on the Saeima NGO Council does not increase the reputation of the Saeima. If we talk about reputation, I do not think it is possible for the media to have a false assumption that one of the richest people in Latvia buys paintings of a Member's wife, and the Saeima does not reply (Dep. J. Kursīte-Pakule: “What is the connection with the proposal?” ) to those words which degrade the reputation of the Saeima and a particular party. I hope that Mr Bondara understands what this is about, because there are not so many Members' wives who are painting. I hope that's a lie. But I expect you to say that it is a lie, and we will all fight together for the reputation of every Member, party and Saeima as a whole. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. M. Bondars: “And for the wives too!” ) Do not make it possible for people to collect the signatures that we ignore on a regular basis. Mr. Girgen said today that we have ignored everyone... all initiatives of the people. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. J. Kursīte-Pakule: “Now he has gone! Well, Regina!” ) Sorry! Really, if he... If he... If this information does not match the truth, you can come and tell us how many initiatives have been supported by the Saeima. I am waiting for you to speak, Mr Bondara. I very much, very much hope that your party members will come to the Budget and Finance (Tax) Commission and watch you communicate with NGOs on such an important issue. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-05-PT13-2024-U104	Name to Member Vjačeslav Dombrovskis.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-05-PT13-2024-U105	Dear colleagues, I do not intend to talk about this. Much has already been said, but if you listen to all its speeches, you still want to say something. I have a few points. The first one. Let us, however, answer the question: will corruption be reduced by increasing the funding for their parties? I think anyone who has been in politics for more than one year understands that he does not. Because the political struggle is competition, colleagues. And the pre-election campaign is also competition. And in this competition... Each of you understands: the more resources, the better. There are 10 thousand for each -- okay, each one will try to get the eleventh. 100,000 - the same. A million... Therefore, it does not matter what the original absolute minimum is. Each party will try to obtain more financial resources to deploy more advertising, attract more supporters and so on. Consequently, this allocation of taxpayers' money, so to say, does not reduce any corrupt risks. This can only be claimed by those who are, I do not know, completely theoreticians. Restrictions on acceptance of donations. And that's stupid! What will happen is the creation of all kinds of foundations, associations, VEF basketball clubs and so on, and sponsor money will be directed to those societies, those foundations that are unlikely to have any direct connection with political parties, but which will still be, to say, very large allies to one or the other political party. Maybe you need them for a few years to see everything, but that's all it will be. Go on. Well, what... In my opinion, there are two things that are truly regrettable. Now it's the first. I really have your great regret that many of you, look, really believe that the root of all the problems in our country... WHY DO YOU need to say from the tribunals that Latvia has failed in the country? Well, if Latvia had failed, there would be no need for the Prime Minister to say that there a few times a day, wouldn't it? ( Internouncing call.) You believe that the root of all this is that the parties are underfunded. Well, if it really reflects your understanding that now you will get them hundreds of thousands and suddenly you will become much smarter and better, and so on ( Dep. D. Note: “You too!” ), so... But we don't think so, we don't propose anything like that, Daniel. We're not proposing anything like that! That's why... If you really think so, then you will be able to create that success story, then... then we'll really see if. And finally, what is that, well, the most dislike thing about all this. And that's... Now, Mrs. Saeima's Chairman will certainly tell me, but I simply can't choose a better word in Latvian. There's a word, beggar. Please offer a translation, please. Please offer translation, Latvian! ( Intercretion: “Opportunity! ” ) The way you... What you are doing is absolutely the opposite: absolutely the opposite! - what is called the rule of law. Many of you believe that it is only left to name your coalition as a “uncompromising rule of law”... that the same in itself guarantees their rule of law in some way. This is a huge mistake! I will explain to you, so to speak, in a popular language, which many of you, I hope, will understand. What does the rule of law mean? That means that if we play someone, so to say, the game... whether it will be a political game or how... that the rules are known and we do so within the framework of these regulations, according to these rules. That we are following them. That we do not change the rules while this game takes place. Imagine... if any of you have ever played chess (interim call.) ... that, for example, you are playing with an opponent who has remained because he has been so big, so good player, only one, so to say, king and horse. And then he says: “Oh, this horse! No, no, no! It shall no longer be like a horse; it shall now be like a lady.’ So what do you think about this man? You’ll probably tell him: “Well, then maybe we’ll end this game. And if in the next game you want your horse to behave differently, so to say, not according to the rules of the game, then I'll think about whether to play with you or not.” But if people change the rules of the game during the game, then it is unprecedented. And that's exactly what you're doing. With regard to this initiative. Do you want to change the rules of the game? Okay. We're referring this to the next Saeima, not to ourselves. Not on your own. Similarly, what we now have on the table - with regard to the draft law "Amendments to the Law "On Municipalities"" and so on. Now it is absolutely clear to everyone how and why this is happening. You believe that you can change laws during the game, during the day, during the hour, - as you will. This has nothing to do with the rule of law. It has nothing to do with the rule of law. It is just a matter of time when society will “encode” which you are in fact. I think that it will not interfere with parties such as the National Union, the BIP, the KPV LV... and so on. But it's those parties that talk about Western values, the rule of law, and so on... I think it's going to be really karmaic for you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-05-PT13-2024-U106	Name to Member Martin Stein.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-05-PT13-2024-U107	Hello, honourable Speaker of the Saeima! Colleagues! I see that some of my colleagues, Mārtiņš Bondars, are like an eyebrows stuck in the throat. If you see problems and irregularities, then I appeal to the Saeima's Mandate, Ethics and Application Commission, where these issues need to be addressed. I call on the public not to deceive what happened in the Budget and Finance (Tax) Commission at the time of the adoption of the state budget. All who wished were given the word “noise. ” ... and we, as Members and non-governmental organisations, must learn to debate constructively, reasonablely, without threats and emotional eruptions. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. R. Lochmele-Lunova: “Do you have eyes and ears?Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, “ Yes, some spoke in this commission several times, and they were given the floor. If we quote the opinion, it is the task of the chairman of the commission to avoid repetition. Regarding the examination of this collective application... If I hand it over (which I also call for), we will look at it in the Commission on the substance and listen to all those who want to speak from the Presidential Chancellery to every non-governmental organisation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-05-PT13-2024-U108	Name to Member Viktor Valainin for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-05-PT13-2024-U109	I think that Mr Bondara is by no means an axe, a swarm or something like that. He's just Mārtiņš Bondars and... Still, there were accusations. I was also one of the applicants and, to a rather large extent, participated in the preparation of the letter that we sent to the President of Latvia. That was a very serious signal. The whole range of other issues also mentioned the issue of party financing, which was signed by 36 Members. There was a reference to Article 71 of the Satversme. Significantly, they were 36 Members. Of course, we could also use other articles, but this would only allow the President of Latvia to avoid responsibility, and that was the original aim: the President of Latvia would also be involved and take a responsible decision on the next year's state budget. I think with this decision we also showed not only the President of Latvia, but also the coalition... I invite you to appreciate it and understand that it is not the first time... and in this term of office, it will certainly not be the last time Members of the Saeima turn to the President of Latvia. And that's just the point where we're going to use the article next time, the more than 34 Members... opens a little limited... yours, coalitions, political self-esteem. And that was the goal. But I'm absolutely sure that most of you don't even know that a letter back has also been received. And, honestly, I recommend that you read the reply... what the President, the President of Latvia, the Saeima has indicated. In this letter, references in principle... which I think was a little silly, but it came out that we called on the President to make a responsible decision, and he... exactly the same references... calls on the Saeima to work legally and use the same references as our... we have two days (interim call.) We talked about these issues here, including this... and... and also, in our letter to the President, we pointed out that this issue has not been discussed, that it is not... do not need to be supported and that it must be returned to the Saeima. And this time, Martyn, you have every opportunity to surprise us, to surprise the entire Saeima and to examine the matter for the first time in the responsible commission that you are leading. (Applause)
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-05-PT13-2024-U110	The name of Member John Tutin.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-05-PT13-2024-U111	Hello, colleagues! Yes, be much more independent of the thick wallets - that's good. But making decisions on my own -- I think it's bad. Six times the funding from the state budget will increase from next year's parties. As if one addiction is cured. And it's a dependence on sponsors and donors. But the whole other addiction, that is, dependence on power, will be strengthened. In this case, the members of the parties to the positions will be obliged and obliged to press the buttons as required by the power (Inter-Corporate.) , because the reasons for suspending or limiting public funding will certainly be found by the responsible authorities. The very principle of being independent and freer in national decision-making is something that we still do not achieve. There are two ditches on this road. We're kind of rubbing one thing, and the other one is staying. I think it is wrong to finance the political forces on such a large scale from public resources, because the second - the so-called fall of political power - is not possible to fill. It is not right to decide on the allocation of funds to yourself. I therefore call on the Commission responsible to decide positively on this and, however, to make provision for funding from 14. The Saeima. Thank you. (Applause)
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-05-PT13-2024-U112	The name to Member Karin Scratch.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-05-PT13-2024-U113	Good afternoon, dear colleagues! When examining this draft law at the Commission of Public Administration and Local Government, I asked a few questions. And one of my questions was: has KNAB received just one application or a complaint about their being... that politicians are affected... Is anyone threatening or blackmailing a sponsor, a donor or, I don't know, a third party? But we didn't get the answer. No such complaint, no such complaint. There's no complaint about whether there's anyone... Someone... filed that they are restricted to free movement if... What oligarch... And take them on the street... No, it's not! Is there any claim that a Member was fed at a hotel? None. Is there any application or complaint that he was subjected to violence in a sauna? No, it's not! It's all... everything happens in a friendly way. Everyone... He sits with each other at the table, he's... as Mārtiņš mentioned, terminologists... Colleagues, why the coalition doesn't come to... and does not tell you what services will be spent on the allocated funding? Perhaps you are planning to increase the quality of the programme by attracting experts? But no, no words. And reflecting on... said it in advance... Member Iveta Benhen-Beeken said that the parties are not closed by any organization, that we need to get in to be transparent so that we can follow the flow of money... But, sorry, you can sit at one table in one sofa with big sponsors and donors, and even don't know. I just asked myself: how many Members do not even understand who donates and who influence their activities in the party? I therefore call for real support for this draft law and for its funding to be transferred to 14. The Saeima. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-05-PT13-2024-U114	The name of Member Linda Ozola.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-05-PT13-2024-U115	President of the Saeima! Colleagues! In fact, we heard a great deal that today, from this tribunal, I think both ridiculed and disgusted about the funding of political parties from the state budget... And laughed at the thing that... Any person may not like it, ensures fair political governance in the country. About... There was a lot of manipulative information, misleading information, but no one has thought... a collective application, in the context of this proposal... on deferring party financing from the state budget... One simple thing. How much has it cost us not funding parties from the state budget since the restoration of state independence? ( Milestones.) As a result, we see so much talk about losing human resources. Or are these things connected? Because politics really is work. It is a huge investment, and it also requires financial resources. The opposition spoke about the rule of law, about the prevention of conflict of interest. It is precisely this law, which has already been adopted for funding from the state budget, that is based on it to ensure the rule of law and to prevent conflicts of interest in political state governance. The issue has been discussed very widely for years in society, including with non-governmental organisations, but it is very easy to promote it emotionally, to encourage people by linking it with families, with children, and to mention the most socially vulnerable groups. Even so ( Dep. E. Papule’s intermediate call sign.) ... is even deplorable from individual Members (Dep. E. Papule: “It is regrettable that you have voted against the doctors!” ) the parties to speak and highlight obviously based aspects of their experience about the drinking of champagne (I do not know when it happens - during work or how... ), about the purchase of luxury items, machines, Members' salaries, talk about what is absolutely misleading, because the law does not allow it, and also the rules of the MK, which will be drawn up on the basis of this law (Dep. E. Papule intersages.) , it will be strictly regulated. We have a Anti-Corruption Office, which will monitor the use of state budget funding in political parties as closely as possible. It is therefore really, I would say, not to forgive us to manipulate people's thoughts in this way. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. E. Papule: “So don’t do it!” ) It is much more difficult to educate society. But it also requires funding to educate people politically. Dear members of the opposition may not have thought that this funding could be used for educational purposes, but in fact such a possibility will be provided for in the law, and that possibility will be. ( Independence: “How so! ” ) Dana Reizniece-Ozola, colleagues, also spoke about the destruction of competition. Just as an example. New Conservative Party, in participation in 13 The parliamentary elections without external funding have gained the opportunity to be represented in our national parliament. But one aspect is that five years of development and hard work have been needed to set up such a political organisation. The argument concerning the destruction of competition is not substantiated in the present case. My colleagues also talked about the political reputation... they asked if we were afraid of losing a political reputation. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. Mr Stepanenko: “You’ve already lost!” ) For my part... I have come here and come to the Saeima, perhaps because political parties are not financed from the state budget. And the country is what it is right now. I myself am ready to lose my political reputation rather, but it matters to me which country my children will live in. I don't really care. ( Milestones.) This proposal in the collective submission of citizens concerns the postponement of funding. And there were calls on the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission to look at it in substance. I also call for this, but, indeed, to take account of the discussions that have already existed in society so far, including on civil society, and perhaps, in this broader view, to include the question of how much more would still be paid us as a public postponing this bill to 14. The Saeima. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. V. Agešins: “About Turkey!” ) Wouldn’t that be too expensive? The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A. Gobzem: “Lying is cool?” ) And yes, I remained an unanswered question, listening to all this debate from the parliamentary tribunal - or its political parties, namely the 'Conciliation' and the Union of Greens/farmers, who object very loud and vocally... on the financing of lots from next year onwards, then intends to withdraw from this funding up to 14. The Saeima? The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. E. Papule: “What do you worry about us? Be concerned about yourself!” ) Individual initiatives are, of course, absolutely welcome, but I will take the opportunity to ask this question publicly, even though these parties have the opportunity to explain their position. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. S. Riekstin’s intermediate call sign.) Yo (Interior call.) ... national budget funding makes political parties addicted (interim.) not from power, but from voters; that is also our aim. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A. Gobzem: “The lie is cool?Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, “ And the last point is in response to what a colleague, Kaspars Girgen, said... ( The head of the sitting was knocked down with a hammer.)
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-05-PT13-2024-U116	Do not worry, please have an intermediate debate. Impressions are acceptable, but the debate must be... The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A. Gobzem’s intermediate call.) Please continue. ( Internouncing call.)
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-05-PT13-2024-U117	Responding to what a colleague Kaspars Girgens said about collective submissions... but other colleagues also referred to this question... I myself am also in the Commission for Mandates, Ethics and Application... We have also received a number of citizens' collective submissions 13. In the family. And I assure you that none of them is still... No, one has been rejected. In fact, it was very counter-national, really contrary to the Constitution, as my colleague Maria Golubeva said, and it has been rejected. But all these submissions, Dep. A. Gobzem: “Stand in the drawer!” ) is actively analysed and the rapid handling of all, absolutely all, applications is not always in the public interest. We don't want hasty draft laws, we want them to be high-quality. That is why our commission will also study before making a decision. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A. Gobzems: “You have already made a quality law for medical practitioners!” ) And... The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. E. Papule’s intermediate call sign.) Speaking of how many citizens' initiatives are at all, which we support in our Parliament, I would like to end with a very positive note, because, at a seminar organised by our committee in cooperation with the ManaBalss.lv, the leaders of this organisation are also very proud (in the most positive sense!) The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. E. Papule’s intermediate call sign.) said we are first in Europe: we are top in terms of supported citizens' initiatives (Dep. Stepanenko: “Stop hypocritical!” ), so... compared to national parliaments of other countries. And here we can be truly pleased that there is a system in our country where citizens have the opportunity to speak and to have a dialogue with their national parliament. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. E. Papule’s intermediate call sign.) And not only to be in dialogue, but also to be heard. And thank you all for that. Thank you. (Applause)
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-05-PT13-2024-U118	Name to Member Vjačeslav Dombrovskis for the second time. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. S. Riekstins: “Go, Papaule, in the triple and talk! What are you talking about?” ) Council Regulation (EC) No 1257/96 of 20 June 1996 concerning humanitarian aid (OJ L 163, 2.7.1996, p. 1).
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-05-PT13-2024-U119	Colleagues! I do not know why there is such a collective eclipse here, but I have to repeat well-known truths. ( Internouncing call.) A honest person won't become... is an honest person. An unscrupulous person will not become an honest person, either with a seven-fold increase in party funding or with a ten-fold increase in party funding. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. E.Zālīte-Gross: “You know that well, don’t you?” Thank you very much. An incompetent politician will not become competent with seven times the funding of the party, with no ten times or one hundred times. You can give yourself not five, 50 million - taxpayers' money, but incompetent will remain incompetent. Unfairly, it will not be fair. That's all. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. Feldman: “Then don’t stand next time!” ) Council Regulation (EC) No 1257/96 of 20 June 1996 concerning humanitarian aid (OJ L 163, 2.7.1996, p. 1).
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-05-PT13-2024-U120	Name of Member Janina Kursīte-Pakulė.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-05-PT13-2024-U121	Colleagues, however, I must remind you of what we are voting on. And what we're talking about. Not about postponing or not postponing the increase in party funding, but about the fact that we, the committee of Saeima Mandates, Ethics and Applications, are asking to hand over... The budget and financial (tax) commission for further evaluation. It reminds me of the fact that in 1929, or 1930, the Saeima argued three days about whether sparrows were to be counted among birds of prey or not. (Laughter) Thank you very much. Finally. A few asked about it... Some said that none of the collective submissions were supported at all, others said little interest. Linda Ozola said that. That's accurate. Since 2012, the commission has received 52 collective applications (and the Saeima has also received them). Of these, 13 were supported, 18 were rejected, and are on the move or close to being supported, - 21. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A. Gobzem: “We are about 13. Talk to the Saeima!” ) As a result... as well as in a seminar on collective submissions as such, said... Now there is no point in boasting, because what is negative will never become positive if it gets to another status. We are indeed among those who have given the most positive answers with Finland in the process of examining collective applications. Of course, that does not mean that we are perfect. We're not close. But I am asking you to vote in favour of what the parliamentary mandate, ethics and application commission is asking for - to support. (Applause)
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-05-PT13-2024-U122	The name of Member Regina Lochmele-Lunova for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-05-PT13-2024-U123	Colleagues, I think we all understand what is at the heart of the debate. And the discussion is not about procedure. I have great respect for Janina Kursitis-Pakulis and sincerely thank you for this man's leadership. It's hard for me to imagine what would happen if someone else led this commission. But it is clear to everyone that those people who have made and signed this collective application - against whom they had intervened. I think that is clear to you all. And what's happening right now is we... I also say 'we', because the Saeima is, however, a collective responsibility, and if the signatures for the dismissal of the Saeima are collected, all will be released - both those who voted against the illegal law (Dep. J. Strikķe: “On the draft decision!” ), the illegal budget, and those who are sitting in the first step now... and in the Commission, when this Law was discussed and this row in the budget for the following year on the financing of parties, representatives of KNAB as well as representatives of the Ministry of Justice were seconded. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. J. Strikķe: “On the draft decision!” ) I... for you, Mrs. Strike! Now, of course, you can't look at me because I'm telling you the absolute truth. It's a story about the responsibility of Members, the responsibility of politicians, hypocrisy. S. Riekstins: “Who's talking!” ) which suspends this law.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-05-PT13-2024-U124	Name to Member Ivars Zarins.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-05-PT13-2024-U125	Hello, colleagues! Two things. First of all, about the procedure. What is to be understood by all those listening to this debate that is currently under way. So, if we are talking about a procedure, we are currently being ridiculed for a popular initiative. ( Internouncing call.) I mean, when... when the coalition has already decided on the budget, when the budget has already been ordered to be adopted here in the Saeima, when the President has approved it, then suddenly remembers: “Let us now talk about what the people wanted.” It is clear what will be the explanation for all this, what will be the next procedure - exactly the same as for the medical profession. How did you dive about them... that from the beginning... First you planned, without complying with the law, this draft budget, then rang, and then told the doctors: “Well, if you can, you find money for yourself!” When they found it, came with their proposals, you simply ordered them and still passed this law, you adopted this budget contrary to what was provided for in the law. After the President preached, you said: “Well, you know, that’s all! There will be no more debates!” That is exactly what is currently happening with this initiative. Even if it's... and, if you were sufficiently deceptive, then you could pass this initiative on to the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission, because you know very well that... What the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission will do if... Then one option is: they're just gonna beat her up there, and she's going to die there, not seeing the day's light. Or... in the second case: if the Head of the Budget and Finance (Tax) Commission is so avant-tourismist that he will want to see it right away and make his decision - cynical... Cynically enough, he will do it and say: “You know, the budget has already been adopted. We have been examined as the Budget Commission and we conclude that the budget has been adopted. That's it! This issue has been resolved." ( Internouncing call.) That's about the procedure. Second. In essence, we are not already debating this at the moment... this initiative is not about it: to allocate or not allocate this funding to the parties. This is about some basic ethical and moral principles, namely: when you came to these elections, you came to these elections to fulfill your promises. You promised you'd raise your salary seven times... funding for their parties? No, you didn't! But all that you have promised you have not fulfilled it. That's why... it would be correct, in substance, that this funding takes effect from the next Saeima. Why do you want right now? Because that's how you actually... As if speaking about democracy, about independence from the interests of sponsors, you really want exactly the opposite. You want to ensure that this political competition is distorted, that you have a handicraft, that you, having deceived the whole of society, are now at the siege of its money and, in this way, the others - your potential competitors - who will, of course, appear to see you fail to fulfil your promises. In essence, what you're doing now... you remind them of anecdotes... Indeed, it is really an anecdotal, your move to the political stage. It is something like a new political power and says: “In the country, such lenientness, corruption, money-laundering, so we want to come to power!” And when such a leader comes home, his wife asks him... Says: “Well, what do you mean by all this? You're crazy!” He says: “Fight? I want to take part in it!” That's what business project you've come here with. After deceiving the people, now you want to smash a million and then go home happily... perhaps also to be done in such a way that the rest are not present. You're not ashamed of all this? I'll show you... This will be demonstrated by your attitude towards this popular initiative. Thank you. (Applause)
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-05-PT13-2024-U126	I closed the debate. Is there anything to add on behalf of the Commission, Mr Blumberg? No, no? ( The box “No! ”) ) Please call us! We will vote on the draft decision “On the collective application of 11 387 Latvian citizens “ To postpone the increase in party funding until next - 14. Saeima - for election' way forward'! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 89, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. Decision adopted. On the agenda - consideration of draft decisions. Draft decision “On change of the commission responsible for draft law “Amendments to Civil Procedure Law” (No. 141/Lp13).’ Please call me! Vote on draft decision “On change of the commission responsible for draft law “Amendments to Civil Procedure Law” (No. 141/Lp13)’. Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about - 66, it's 22, it's not. Decision adopted. Please call me! Please check-in mode for Members! Time for notifications. Name: Andrej Klementyev, Secretary of the Saeima.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-05-PT13-2024-U127	High honourable Members! Group leaders together with the Bureau on the political group and the Bureau's meeting in the library at 12.10 a.m.! ( Interface: “The Council of Fractions? ”) ) Yes.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-05-PT13-2024-U128	Name to Marija Golubeva, member of the Saeima Secretary, for the results of the registration.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-05-PT13-2024-U129	Not registered: Raimonds Bergmanis, Gatis Eglitis, Artuss Kaimiņš, Ojārs Ēriks Kalniņš, Rihards Kols, Didzis Šmits and Jānis Vitenbergs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-05-PT13-2024-U130	Thank you. I'm closing the sitting. The agenda for the meeting on 5 December will be discussed at 13.00. Thank you.
