ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-31-PT13-2016-U1	Good morning, honourable Members! Glad to see you today in the working line! We will begin the sitting of the Saeima on 31 October 2019. First of all, the amendments tabled to the agenda of the sitting approved by the Saeima Bureau. The Budget and Finance (tax) Commission asks for the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Payment Services and Electronic Money” to be included on the agenda of the sitting. Are Members opposed to this amendment of the agenda? There is no objection. The order of business has been amended. The Commission on Defence, Home Affairs and the Prevention of Corruption is asking for the draft law “Amendment to the Law on Detective Activities” to be included on the agenda of the sitting. Are Members opposed to this amendment of the agenda? There is no objection. The order of business has been amended. The Legal Commission asks for the draft law “Amendments to the Law “On Judicial Power” to be included on the agenda of the sitting. Are Members opposed to this amendment of the agenda? There is no objection. The order of business has been amended. The Legal Commission shall request that the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Judicial Disciplinary Liability” be included on the agenda of the sitting. Are Members opposed to this amendment of the agenda? There is no objection. The order of business has been amended. Reports by the Saeima Bureau on draft laws submitted. The Saeima Presidium proposes that the draft law on the disposal of real estate for public needs presented by the Cabinet of Ministers be referred to the Legal Commission of the Republic of Latvia and the Republic of Belarus for the establishment of the state border band. Do Members object to a draft law being passed on to the Commission? There is no objection. The draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Saeima Bureau proposes that the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Value Added Tax” presented by the Cabinet of Ministers be referred to the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission, stating that it is the committee responsible. Do Members object to a draft law being passed on to the Commission? There is no objection. The draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Saeima Presidium proposes that the draft law “Activities of Real Estate Intermediaries” presented by the Cabinet of Ministers be referred to the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy, stating that it is the committee responsible. Do Members object to a draft law being passed on to the Commission? There is no objection. The draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Saeima Presidium proposes that the draft law “On disposal of the part of the real estate “Dzņi” in Peedruja municipality, Kraslava municipality – the border route at the Paternieki border crossing point for the land strip” presented by the Cabinet of Ministers be transferred to the Legal Commission, stating that it is the committee responsible. Do Members object to a draft law being passed on to the Commission? There is no objection. The draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Presidium of the Saeima proposes that the draft law presented by the Legal Commission “Amendments to the Law “On Judicial Power” be referred to the Legal Commission, stating that it is the committee responsible. Do Members object to a draft law being passed on to the Commission? There is no objection. The draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Council of the Saeima shall propose that the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Judicial Disciplinary Liability” submitted by the Legal Commission be referred to the Legal Commission, stating that it is the committee responsible. Do Members object to a draft law being passed on to the Commission? There is no objection. The draft law has been passed on to the Commission. Honourable Members! We have received proposals for changes to the agenda of the sitting. The Legal Commission is asking to review the draft law “Amendments to the Law “On Judicial Power”” prepared by the Commission itself at first reading without re-examination by the responsible commission. Are Members opposed to this amendment of the agenda? There is no objection. The order of business has been amended. The Legal Commission is asking to consider the draft law drafted by the Commission itself “Amendments to the Law on Judicial Disciplinary Liability” at first reading without re-examination by the committee responsible. Are Members opposed to this amendment of the agenda? There is no objection. The order of business has been amended. We begin to examine draft laws on the agenda of the sitting. Draft law “Amendments to the Labour Protection Law”, third reading. On behalf of the Commission for Social Affairs and Labour, Member Evita Zālīte-Grosa.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-31-PT13-2016-U2	Good morning, dear colleagues! The Social and Labour Affairs Commission of the Saeima discussed and directs the third reading of the draft law “Amendments to the Labour Protection Law”. The draft law is part of... the draft law is within the framework of the codification of the administrative irregularities in sectors. No proposals have been received for the third reading. On behalf of the Commission, please support the draft law at third reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-31-PT13-2016-U3	Please call me! We will vote in favour of the draft law on "Amendments to the Labour Protection Law" in the third, final, reading! Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about - 85, it's against and abstains. The law is passed. Draft law “Amendments to law on the prevention of conflict of interest in the activities of public officials”, third reading. On behalf of the Legal Commission, Member Juta Strike.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-31-PT13-2016-U4	Good morning, everybody! Dear colleagues, The Legal Commission has examined and prepared for the third reading a draft law “Amendments to the Law on Prevention of Conflict of Interest in the Activities of State Officials”. Before the third reading, two proposals were received from the Legal Bureau. Although these proposals have been referred to by the Legal Bureau as editorial, this is not the case. On the contrary, these proposals provide for a substantial extension of the number of officials who can be connected to a post in a social company. Both proposals were not supported by the Legal Commission. I would remind you that the scope of this draft law was initially intended to restrict Members of the Saeima to receive remuneration for work in associations. At second reading, however, the proposals for members of the Saeima to take up office in a social enterprise, together with a ban on the receipt of remuneration for such work, were supported. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the argument that such a permit for members of the Saeima to combine their office with work in a social enterprise was based mainly on the fact that people could come to Parliament from such a business environment (the head of the sitting knocked out with a hammer.) and could in future combine the work of your Member with the work of your own or family social enterprise without having to pay for them, with the aim of not losing the link with your previous job. These proposals of the Legal Bureau were submitted prior to the third reading, were not discussed in a wider range of experts, provided for permission to combine the position of the President of the Bank of Latvia, the Director of the Constitutional Protection Office, the Commander of the National Armed Forces, judges, as well as other officials and according to the proposal of the Council of the Municipality, the Secretary General of the Saeima Administration, the Head of the President's Chancellery and other officials) with work in the social enterprise. I would emphasise - with the right to be remunerated for this too. It is necessary to remind about the risks in the evaluation of the legibility of this law, supporting the proposals at third reading, which have not been discussed in a wider range of experts. In addition, I would like to point out that the entry into force of this law is scheduled for 1 July 2020. 1. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Not supported by the Legal Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-31-PT13-2016-U5	Let us start a debate. The name of Member Julia Stepanenko.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-31-PT13-2016-U6	Dear colleagues, First of all, I would like to point out to Mrs Strike that, in my opinion, she did not speak on behalf of the Commission, but expressed her personal opinion on this proposal because... Yes, it is true that a majority of the Commission did not support the proposal of the Legal Bureau, but the discussion on this proposal was also in second reading, and this is linked to the proposal of Roman Money on social enterprise. Finally. It seems to me, however, that Mrs Strike is a little bit confused with the Saeima with her personal chain, because the draft law that she and her colleagues have submitted, which, by the way, has also been signed by another person involved in a conflict of interest (interim). ... She felt that this law could not be amended at all by anyone other than her, and she wanted to achieve this revanishment of some Members of the Saeima as soon as possible - immediately and right here on the ground. On the proposal itself. I call for this to be supported, above all, because it is the Legal Commission... The proposal by the Legal Bureau, which really talks about editorial changes based on the proposal by Roman Money in second reading. It is not true that there has been no discussion. And what... I think that the people that Mrs Strike referred to could start working suddenly in a social company are a great exaggeration. I call for the proposal to be supported and for it not to take into account what the panel's head supposedly tried to say on behalf of the Commission. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-31-PT13-2016-U7	Name to Member Aldi Gobzem.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-31-PT13-2016-U8	Good morning, colleagues! This proposal could be compared to a situation where one of the Members of the Saeima needs an operation. The doctor starts operating him and then stops at one point. He says: “Well, I can’t do more! I will finish next year!” Approximately so, this Saeima treats doctors. This is how they deal with conflicts of interest situations. Yesterday, for example, voting... is in a total conflict of interest, voting in favour of an increase in funding for itself. Today, Parliament decides that people will not be allowed to work in a social enterprise, because there is then a very important conflict of interests. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. S. Riekstins: “You have to work at the Saeima!” ) This Saeima does not work for our society. And that is why I call on the public to show solidarity with the medical profession, at 8: 30 a.m. on 7 November. J. Strike: “On the proposal!” ) to come to the Saeima House and support doctors...
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-31-PT13-2016-U9	Mr Gobzem, please speak about the proposal in the law on the prevention of conflicts of interest.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-31-PT13-2016-U10	And no matter what I'm trying to stop, Mrs. Murniece...
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-31-PT13-2016-U11	You've got a microphone turned off. Please talk about the proposal. (Applause) The name of Member Juta Stricky. ( Internouncing call.)
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-31-PT13-2016-U12	Dear Members, Supporting these two proposals would also make it possible for honest officials to use social enterprises as a cover for unprofitable benefits. Social enterprises are, of course, a very good initiative. It is a necessary and supportive thing for society, but we must be aware that any advantages that we create for public officials in relation to their activities in the field of social entrepreneurs, and which are subsequently abused, may discredit the role and role of social enterprise in society. I can mention one dubious transaction that has already created confusion and raises questions as to whether this is a scheme for the benefit of social enterprises. This is the case with the investment of funds of a municipality of almost one and a half million euros in renovation of a building, and its premises are transferred for 10 years to Bloda.lv, which has acquired the status of a social enterprise shortly before the decision of the council to rent premises for this company. Financial data also show that this company did not actually carry out any economic activity. This is the case that raises questions as to whether the objectives of social assistance are being achieved by investing in very large public resources to give the impression that there will be different jobs for people at risk of social exclusion. I call for responsibility and vote against both 1 and 2. Legal Bureau's proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-31-PT13-2016-U13	The name to Member Julia Stepanenko for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-31-PT13-2016-U14	Dear colleagues, Well, that's really hypocrisy. Mrs Strike, when will you exclude Mr Budrik from the political group, who is in conflict of interest and who has signed this bill? ( Internouncing call.) When will you do that? Because now you’re telling us about something “Bloda.lv”, but you yourself came into a conflict of interests yesterday. You will no longer need to schemate with some bowls.lv. You won't have to do that anymore! You will be able, under the leadership of the party, to receive a fair salary from public funds. You won't have to make any effort anymore! You voted yesterday in favour of getting you a salary... My proposals at second reading were for you not to be able to get a salary... so that none of you can receive from the state funding the salary for running the party. You rejected it, knowing well that the law on party financing is coming and you will be able to spend that money on a pardon. It's hypocrisy! I call for support to be given to the proposals of the Legal Bureau. (Applause)
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-31-PT13-2016-U15	The name to Member Aldi Gobzem for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-31-PT13-2016-U16	When Jušaks works at the Ministry of Justice and is a courtable person, then Strikķis has no conflict of interest. When people want to work in a social enterprise and help others, then Strike has a conflict of interest. ( Internouncing call.) November 7, at the Saeima at 8:30!
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-31-PT13-2016-U17	Mr. Gobzem! I closed the debate. (Applause) Is there anything to be explained or added on behalf of the commission?
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-31-PT13-2016-U18	On behalf of the Commission, I would like to say that the Legal Commission did not support 1. - a proposal from the Legal Bureau.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-31-PT13-2016-U19	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 1. - The legal office's proposal! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-31-PT13-2016-U20	2. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Not supported by the Legal Commission. ( Interface: ‘ Vote! ’) ) Council Regulation (EC) No 1257/96 of 20 June 1996 concerning humanitarian aid (OJ L 163, 2.7.1996, p. 1).
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-31-PT13-2016-U21	Members want to vote. Please call me! We will vote in favour of 2. - The legal office's proposal! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-31-PT13-2016-U22	Please support the draft law at third, final, final reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-31-PT13-2016-U23	Please call me! We will vote in favour of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on the Prevention of Conflict of Interest in the Activities of Public Officials” in the third, final reading! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 76, for - 4, for - 1. The law is passed. Draft Law on Trade Marks, first reading. Member of the Commission for Education, Culture and Science Arvils Asheraden.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-31-PT13-2016-U24	Dear Chairman of the Saeima. Colleagues! See the draft Law on Trade Marks (No. 409/Lp13). This draft law is designed to take over the requirements of the Trade Marks Directive, as well as to update and restructure the regulations contained in the previous Law on Trade Marks and Geographical Indications. Given that the previous regulation on trade marks and geographical indications is almost 20 years old, the Ministry of Justice and the Government in general decided to direct a completely new draft law, which has also been submitted, examined by the Commission, and the Commission is leading it for first reading. Please support it at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-31-PT13-2016-U25	Please call me! We will vote for the first reading of the draft law on Trade Marks Act! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 87, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The draft law at first reading has been supported. Please set a time limit for the submission of proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-31-PT13-2016-U26	The Commission has decided that the deadline for submitting proposals is 15 November this year.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-31-PT13-2016-U27	Thank you. The deadline for submitting proposals is November 15, this year.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-31-PT13-2016-U28	Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-31-PT13-2016-U29	Draft law “Amendments to the Law on the Protection of the Rights of the Child”, first reading. On behalf of the Commission for Social and Labour Affairs - Member Ilmārs Dūritis.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-31-PT13-2016-U30	Hello, very honourable Speaker of the Saeima! Honourable Members! The Commission for Social and Labour Affairs has looked at the draft law “Amendments to the Law on the Protection of Children’s Rights”. In brief. The aim of the draft law is to strengthen state responsibility for timely assessment of development and diagnosis of possible disorders for all children. At present, legislation does not provide for an early assessment of cognitive and emotional mental development for all children at pre-school age. The Pedagogical Medical Commission shall give an opinion on the child’s development disorders and the special needs resulting therefrom only from Class 1 and on the basis of a decision of the parents, guardians, guardians or orphanage court. Therefore, in many cases children with special needs do not receive appropriate educational and psychological support when starting education at or outside an educational establishment. The Commission held a wide-ranging debate on this draft law. A child psychiatrist also took part in the meeting, which confirmed that this early evaluation is necessary to provide support for the development of the child in good time... and not only an assessment of physical development, but also cognitive and emotional mental development at an early age. Today, mental disorders are unfortunately quite widespread for children, and the faster they are found, the faster it is possible to provide assistance, thereby reducing the number of children with learning disabilities and reducing their social exclusion. The Commission for Social Affairs and Labour conceptually supported the draft law for the first reading and, when preparing the draft law for the next readings, will continue a serious work, bringing about a discussion with you, specialists, responsible ministries, thus the Ministry of Welfare, the Ministry of Health and the Ministry of Education and Science to arrange... solve such a topical issue for today's society. On behalf of the Commission, I call for support for the draft law at first reading. This was unanimously supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-31-PT13-2016-U31	Thank you. Let us start a debate. Name of Member Maria Golubeva.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-31-PT13-2016-U32	Dear President of the Saeima. Dear colleagues, I would just like to thank the Commission for its support and remind it of what these amendments were, because this is quite important. Everyone has the right to education and to an independent life, but not all children have real opportunities to exercise this right. In the current system in Latvia, children, as you have already heard, development problems or learning difficulties are usually only detected when starting compulsory education. It is best to have the opportunity to intervene and help children develop well earlier. Therefore, this proposal is essentially a two-step or two-level assessment. One is the early evaluation of development before a child reaches the age of compulsory education. The second is an assessment of the special needs or difficulties of learning, starting with compulsory education, which is our case at the age of five. So this second stage is also important, because preprimary education institutions are not always aware of the signs that a child is experiencing difficulties or developmental disorders. However, there are a number of countries, such as the Nordic countries, the United Kingdom and others, where it is done in pre-schools as well. And it's not very complicated if there's a methodology and if the educator has been trained to do so or at least has received information about how to do it. Basically, these amendments to the Law on the Protection of the Rights of the Child and not to any sectoral law, because the centre is the right of people, in this case children, to independent life and good education... And how the sectors provide this assessment to provide support later on is already a matter of sectoral responsibility, but that is not what should be at the heart of the law in this case. That is why I am asking for support for these amendments and thank my fellow Members from the other groups who have signed them with me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-31-PT13-2016-U33	Name of Member Anita Muižniece.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-31-PT13-2016-U34	Good morning, colleagues! First of all, thank you to the rapporteurs for this initiative. From the New Conservative Group, there is conceptual support for this draft law. It is a very good initiative, and I think it will lead to the intended goal. However, I think it is very important to point out that... attention was also drawn to this in the Commission when this issue was addressed... that, in fact, this is an issue which certainly has a fiscal impact. It's like a delegation for the time being... so that we simply record, just like we already have separate rules in the law, which for some reason it is impossible to really complete... There is certainly a need to think carefully at second reading about not only imposing an obligation on e.g. teachers from pre-school institutions or support staff to assess, but also taking this assessment seriously. And I hope that, at second and third readings, we will certainly deal with this proposal in such a way that it really works. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-31-PT13-2016-U35	I closed the debate. Mr. Dūris, is there anything to add on behalf of the Commission?
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-31-PT13-2016-U36	Thank you. There is nothing to add.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-31-PT13-2016-U37	Please call me! We will vote in favour of the first reading of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on the Protection of the Rights of the Child”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 79, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Draft legislation supported at first reading. Please set a time limit for the submission of proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-31-PT13-2016-U38	The Commission has decided that the deadline for submitting proposals is set at 9 December this year.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-31-PT13-2016-U39	Thank you. The deadline for submitting proposals is 9 December this year. Draft Act ‘Amendments to the Railway Transport Act’, first reading. On behalf of the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy, Member Sandis Riekstins.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-31-PT13-2016-U40	Good morning, colleagues! The Commission of Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy has examined the draft law “Amendments to the Railway Transport Law” submitted by the Cabinet of Ministers and decided to support the said draft law and to direct its examination at the first reading of the Saeima. The draft law was drafted by the Ministry of Transport and provides for an extension of the deadline for exemption from Regulation No. 1371/2007 on rail passenger rights and obligations. The above exemption from the application of this Regulation is valid until 3 December 2019 and it is therefore proposed to extend this exemption for a further period of five years, while at the same time reducing the scope of the exemption. Given that the exemption for the next year should enter into force on 4 December of this year, it is requested that the draft law be made urgent. The Commission has examined the draft law and is asking for it to be declared urgent.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-31-PT13-2016-U41	Please call me! We will vote for the urgent recognition of the draft law on rail transport law! Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about - 80, it's against and refrains from - it's not. The draft law has been declared urgent.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-31-PT13-2016-U42	On behalf of the Commission, I ask you to support the draft law at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-31-PT13-2016-U43	Please call me! We will vote in favour of the first reading of the draft law amending the rail transport law! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 78, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The draft law at first reading has been supported. Please set a time limit for the submission of proposals and the time for examination at the Saeima sitting.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-31-PT13-2016-U44	Deadline for the submission of proposals - 14 November this year, examination of the draft law at second reading by the Saeima - 21 November this year.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-31-PT13-2016-U45	Thank you. Consequently, the deadline for the submission of proposals - 14 November this year, consideration at the Saeima sitting - 21 November this year. Draft law “Amendments to the Law on Food Chain Monitoring”, first reading. Member Jānis Urbanovičs on behalf of the Commission on Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-31-PT13-2016-U46	Good morning, colleagues! We work with document number 1386. Draft law ‘Amendments to the Law on Food Chain Monitoring’. It was examined by the Commission on 23 October and was unanimously supported as this proposal fulfils Latvia's obligations towards the European Union, namely the implementation of the provisions of the specific regulation. Therefore, I also call on the Saeima to support this draft law at first reading, because Latvia's commitment is to introduce them this year.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-31-PT13-2016-U47	Okay. Please call me! We will vote for the urgent recognition of the draft law on "Amendments to the Law on Food Chain Monitoring". Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 81, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. The draft law has been declared urgent.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-31-PT13-2016-U48	We invite you to support this draft law at first reading on behalf of the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-31-PT13-2016-U49	Please call me! We will vote in favour of the first reading of the draft law on "Amendments to the Law on Monitoring the Food Chain"! Please vote mode! Please get the result! Not by - 82, not by - and refrains. The draft law at first reading has been supported. Please set a time limit for the submission of proposals and the time for examination at the Saeima sitting.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-31-PT13-2016-U50	The Commission will wait until 7 November and we plan to discuss them at its meeting on 14 November.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-31-PT13-2016-U51	Consequently, the deadline for the submission of proposals - 7 November this year, the time for consideration by the Saeima at its meeting - 14 November this year. Draft law “Amendments to the Waste Management Act”, first reading. On behalf of the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy, Mr Daniel Pavluts.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-31-PT13-2016-U52	Good morning, colleagues and colleagues! At the meeting of the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy on 23 October, the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Waste Management” was discussed for the first reading. The draft law was tabled by a group of Members from the Development/Par! Group. , and its aim is to solve competition problems in the field of waste management in Latvia... which have not been eliminated in previous versions of the Waste Management Act. So a number of problems are being addressed here. First of all, the aggravated crisis in Riga with waste management is resolved. Apparently, in advance, the law did not prevent Riga City Council from concluding such... to set up a tender and a public-private partnership procedure (PPP) such as that carried out with the “pure”. So, 20 years and one zone, and a real monopoly. In turn, it is proposed to reduce the maximum time limit for PPPs for 10 years and to establish that in Riga the minimum number of waste management areas and the minimum number of economic operators is three. In other municipalities with 50 thousand... thus solving problems in other parts of Latvia... The minimum number of zones shall be two. The problem is also being addressed that environmentally friendly operators currently have no choice on the market for their own waste managers. This issue is being addressed. It is also proposed to deal with crises. I mean, since in Riga... if waste exporters operating in the framework of a previous procedure... where those contracts are terminated and new contracts are not replaced, a transitional period shall be fixed during which the previous contracts on previous prices shall be valid. There was a debate in the Commission on the substance of this draft law, but in particular, a sharp debate was on the question of whether this draft law should be given urgency. The reason given here was that the Saeima is obliged to provide legal clarity as soon as possible about the rules of the game in the field of waste management in Latvia in the future, especially in the context of the expiry of the pre-defined state-decided state of emergency in Riga on 12 December and approved by the Saeima. This proposal was therefore controversial and the votes in the committee were divided into half. The urgency was not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-31-PT13-2016-U53	Let us start a debate. Name to Member Viktor Valain.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-31-PT13-2016-U54	Highly honored Speaker of the Saeima! Colleagues! The question is, ‘ What is the primary benefit of such a law? These are private waste managers who are undoubtedly linked to Andra Šķele's name, as we have seen and heard in the press on a number of occasions. But yet... I have already talked about this draft law before submitting it... I have not changed my thoughts. You take the problem flag of Riga and apply this problem to all the rest of Latvia. This bill... In my opinion, there is no assessment of the possible change in tariffs, the effect that could be. These are not so many companies that we are talking about. There's a real one in Vidzeme... And I can safely say that in Smiltene, Valmiera, Cesis, tariffs in Limbaži are unlikely to change. But outside these populated areas, the tariffs will certainly increase. It's just a question of how much they're going to grow. When speaking to representatives of these local government companies, they said that 15-20 percent - such an increase could be outside the populated areas. It is this cost-effective part that has always been fought for, because the cost-effective part is now equalising the single tariff. Colleagues! Looking further at this issue in the Saeima, I will also submit proposals for the second reading. If you want to arrange for Riga, limit yourself to taking care of Riga, but don't do it without evaluation for the rest of Latvia! Colleagues! In my opinion, this draft law must continue to be seen as such. If the commission proves that it will really be for the residents of Latvia... and a solution to cover the whole territory, I will also support it for second reading. But at the moment I do not see this and I do not think it is possible to support such a draft law already at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-31-PT13-2016-U55	Name to Member Krišjānis Feldman.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-31-PT13-2016-U56	Good morning! I have already had to speak on the issue of waste from the Saeima Tribute, mainly by providing for all the activities to be carried out by the Riga City Council in the near or distant future. And in this case too, it is very interesting. We in the Commission supported the opening of the Waste Management Act, and today too, of course, we must vote in favour of the conceptual support for the draft law. One thing is that we were... the majority of the committee was 'no', rather - there was equal distribution of votes... was "no" to be given urgency, so today too there is no request for urgency to this draft law. It was also a reason to check what the Riga City Council will do - how they will deal with their waste crisis and what binding rules they will try to adopt. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. R. Lochmele–Lunova: “It has already been accepted yesterday!” ) And at the end of yesterday, the Riga City Council adopted binding regulations which, in fact (I am not a lawyer, you will be able to come and correct me afterwards) are already in line with this future draft law that we would adopt here. This gives me some suspicion that the problem of the waste crisis in Riga will be a solution... it will have to seek in accordance with the principles of the free market. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. R. Lochmeles-Lunova’s intermediate call.) I met the record of the “Riga County Alliance” yesterday on social networks, where they invite you to stay in Riga zones, for example, in four... Either, even 50, because, you see, each zone means that there is a monopoly in that particular zone. Anyway. Then just a big city, four monopolies. I think it's... When I studied the economy... if there is one service provider in one part of the territory, it is a monopoly. And that is why I invited to send letters and submit proposals at the committee meeting and also yesterday at the same “Riga County Alliance”. It is likely that in the direction that free market principles should apply to waste management as a large and densely populated area in Riga. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. R. Lochmel–Lunova: “Yes, for each house your own car!” ) Similar to what we do, many Rigans who use the Internet, such as one buying Tet services, another who prefers perhaps some other nuances, buy Baltcom services, and so should waste. In small municipalities this principle is not working. The smallest. Because it's... there is no density for the participation of more than one operator in that market. But in Riga, where you produce (also you can repair me) more than half of Latvia's waste or even more (the whole Great Britain) it is possible to have a free market in the area of waste management. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. R. Lochmeles-Lunova’s intermediate call.) And the fact that the Riga City Council voted yesterday on the opposition and adopted binding regulations that already comply with this bill (which is interesting because it has not yet gone through us) means that they already have a plan to circumvent this forthcoming regulation and use it for their benefit. Because it is necessary to be a particularly naive person (and I definitely am not such after the acquired hardening in the Riga City Council) to imagine that the position of the Riga City Council is doing something in the public interest. I think that their statute, which is now being adopted, is being designed in such a way that one oligarham, here, has three companies, either there or there, two and a cartel, for example, three companies, and then there is a need for their area so that everyone can be happy. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. E. Grasses–Gross: “That’s it!” ) If such principles continue to govern waste management in Riga, the tariffs will rise and this will not be due to natural resources tax. Trust me! This will be because someone wants to live at the expense of society, and it will be completely legitimate because it will be accepted by the local government. As we know, the Criminal Law in Latvia lays down in fact that abuse is punishable. Lawyers can also correct what I have said, but I have always been guided by this principle and have tried to alarm me as much as possible about such situations to prevent them. Here we go! And that's why, in this case too, I get alarm about what will be. I call the citizens... NGOs, which are in the city of Riga, including “Riga County Alliance” and other non-governmental organisations, various neighbourhood associations, are intensively involved in this process. A deadline will be set for the submission of proposals. I call on the Competition Council to think in good time about the right proposals that will really tackle the competition problem on the substance of this issue, not to push the problem under the carpet and pretend that the problem has been resolved. There is a high degree of credibility that unscrupulous people will always remain unfair. Thank you. (Applause)
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-31-PT13-2016-U57	The name is Mr. Janis Wittenberg.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-31-PT13-2016-U58	Hello, colleagues! Krišjānis has already mentioned a few things. We received this draft law from the Commission, we thought there were various reservations, discussions... maybe also from the responsible ministry... for the delegation to the Riga City Council, which seemed so slightly strange, but for the second reading, I think, with the help of proposals, we will fix it. And also for the extraordinary... No, but this urgency... I did not see a real basis (I myself voted against) because the excuse that Riga has a certain situation and we have to help them quickly, does not endure any criticism, because, as it says, it burns itself. And then also what Krišjānis said about those zones... That was the question: why four zones? Why not six, why not eight? And... but, on the other hand, also quite comical - no matter what we would do... if you apply for a competition and there will be those two existing managers who are now, we can change the tiles we want, but they are only two. And then there is the question: why not make themselves known during the free economy? From neighbouring countries or, for example, from... Well, we have regional players, right? Then we can do what we want, but if they're two, they're going to divide that area between themselves, and the price will certainly climb if... So... and as the head of the commission to control this situation... What Krišjānis also said... Let's definitely call... Let us make a sitting where these alliances, associations, will be, to understand their interests and interests. It is enough to lobby some interests of businessmen or some groups of people. Let us listen to what the people say. We will also meet and talk with the Competition Council. So we're gonna work. And we definitely need to go on the way we went. Thank you. (Applause)
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-31-PT13-2016-U59	Name to Member Daniel Pavilut.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-31-PT13-2016-U60	Good morning! Colleagues, I would like to emphasise some of the things that I think are important in relation to the Waste Management Act. First of all, a little bit about history. This law was passed about 10 years ago 9. The Saeima. It's interesting that already then... In the original version of the law, the PPP procedure had the same 10 years. They were then redesigned by the Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy Commission for 20 years. Well, that's what we would have to do now, because we're a different Saeima, another Saeima, right? ( Internouncing call.) Hey, I told you right, huh? So, it's different. We're a different Saeima. It is not only in Riga that there would be a problem and that only there should be a solution. There are many different competition problems in waste management. For example, as the first reading session of the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy was held, Latvia has a whole range of municipalities where there has never been a competition for waste disposal. Why never? Because a number of municipalities also have their own waste management companies, which... You will probably have heard that there is such an English term - in-house purchases. In other words, if the municipality has its own company that does so, it can be entrusted to them without a competition through the exception provided for in the Public Procurement Act. Well, it's legal again! The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. R. Lochmele–Lunova: “It’s it!” ) But we can change the laws. In this case, one of the proposals in the draft law states that this should be done. But first... before entrusting your company, your daughters... i.e. a municipal capital company or a joint capital company... A tender procedure must be carried out before the waste is disposed of. If there are no results or the result is really unsatisfactory, then knowing what the market price offer is, what the competition test is, we can turn to the municipal company and entrust this function. You see, in the past - for 10 years - it has been very difficult to do things that are connected with the promotion of competition within the Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy Commission. This includes, in particular, waste, and today, I think, the vote at first reading will also show what it is. Now, when it comes to the Competition Council, which has been called on many times, I want to encourage those present that I have really talked to the Competition Council. I will remind you that it was as an economic minister that clearly led Abraham into office, and I am indeed generally satisfied with her work in the Competitiveness Council in these many years. These proposals, which we have tabled from Development/About! , is indeed many times within 10 years offered by the Competition Council. As you take this into account when you criticise the proposals that we put forward, you compete a lot... I am sorry, you criticise the Competition Council that you have repeatedly called for. Just take that into account! Now I want to point out one contradiction, a clear contradiction. On the one hand, Mr Feldman, for example, says that we should... Either, shames Riga's thoughts about such or such regulations, such as those submitted or adopted. I agree, there are many things that should be done differently. At the same time, in the Commission, when I call on colleagues, correct mistakes faster, give urgency, as legislator defines what minimum rules of the game should be! , at that point I said: “I... No, let the Riga City Council itself! Let it be f... “ You hope that then the Riga City Council will collect some soap to... for the Rigans to be worse and for you to be able to “carve out” at this expense? Is that the tactic? Well, that's what we say! ( Internouncing call.) But there's a contradiction there, colleagues! (Applause) On the other hand, we do not amend the law urgently to tell the Riga City Council how it will be. Why is that? Okay. We can, of course, debate all the proposals, and that is good. I hope that these discussions will not be used to delay the introduction of clarity in waste management. I think it is very important for the legislator to understand that the legislator takes responsibility both when he does and when he does not. By leaving Rigans under the current term of the Riga City Council, without defining the requirements of the law, without quick publication of legal clarity, we also take responsibility. Well, this is why I would call today to support these proposals at first reading and, when discussing future regulation of waste management, to take into account not only political tactics, but also citizens' interests throughout Latvia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-31-PT13-2016-U61	The name is Digit Schmidt.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-31-PT13-2016-U62	Good morning, colleagues! Ladies and gentlemen! You see, I hear: “It's lobbying something, it may be it.” If we had a public register of lobbyists, if we had the duty of officials to indicate our meetings, and if it had not come from a registered lobbyists, then require a detailed presentation of the meeting... If we had written in draft laws, not the author of the idea (amendment or otherwise) of the draft law, but the author of the idea... the annotation should be the author of the idea! Of course, even then, you could try to bypass it, but it would be much more difficult. Someone could already apply for the author of the idea, but it would be difficult to defend it in the long term, because the author of the idea should understand what he is presenting. And you could see quite well that... who is or is not the author of the idea. That's it. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. ( K. Feldman's intermediate call.) What surprises me... not surprisingly, but... If we're talking about contradictions... Krišjani, you say it's all there is... There's a scheme, huh? But vote in favour of progress. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. ( K. Feldman's intermediate call.) Okay, let's see what's going to happen at second and third readings. But one more thing, Krišjani, I wanted to say. You said that the opportunity for dishonest people to remain unfair is... It's about that... much more than becoming honest. I call on you to remember this when you decide to increase party financing seven times. ( Milestones.)
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-31-PT13-2016-U63	Name to Member Maris Kučinskis.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-31-PT13-2016-U64	Dear President, Honourable Members! Time is sufficient, so obviously a little bit will have to be talked about waste management as such. Because I think it's been once... Some years ago, when the Minister of Economics, Daniel Pavluts, together with the Competition Council, already led some initiatives, then quite quickly deciphered that it was a separate private waste manager, so to speak. D. Appendix: ‘What exactly?’ )... Yeah... It was... I'll tell you. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. D. Appendix: "Which proposals?" ) The proposal, which has already come in a similar way from the Competition Council... So this is... Competition... agreed with the Competition Council (I wanted to say that). And the Competition Council, which in principle... I very much respect Mrs Abraham, but I believe that waste management also has a free market. I would like to clarify and say that I will hardly be considered a dilettant in this respect, because Vidzeme was the first to set up its own waste management organisation, which is still in existence - the ZAAO. And in order to do this, we became acquainted with the experience of the whole world, and we traveled around many places, including the Gitterslo district in Germany, learning about the experience of Germany. And three things that are extremely important need to be adapted. First. Waste management, waste collection - this is the responsibility of local governments everywhere. The legislator will change his laws in four years' time, but the waste and the inhabitants will remain. That is the first truth. The second truth is that everywhere... that everywhere... waste... cities (The Head of the sitting knocked down with a hammer.) ... the city has given the fields. And there will be no place where in free competition three companies will go to the farm to collect the only small container once a month. It won't be! The cities pay for it. That is why the principle is that the entire organisation of waste is divided into areas. And there is also a manager with whom one or more municipalities enter into a contract. And the third truth to adapt is that there is no free competition in waste management anywhere in the civilised world, at least in Europe. It is a regulatory market. That is, so that we can cover the fields so that we can organise also sorting and everything else, it is organized. If there's free competition, then... Tell me again: where are you going to this farm for the sole container? Or - the same Riga. There are three containers next to the street of Grezinieku. And there's three cars in free competition for a week, each one by its own container. Of course, Riga is the couch. And I'm extremely sorry that it will be more difficult for us here to base the misgivings that you want to accept at the moment in Latvia. It will be more difficult to argue for Riga. It's on its own. That's why it's a point - even if forced in Riga to split into several parts... And I don't know how they came to one thing four years ago, with four lotes still standing in the project, four areas of Riga... Well, I suspect, but I'm not going to mention them right now... But Riga must be divided, because Riga is a big one. And there's enough. Another truth, so that you all do not praise free competition and say no... There is one statistical nuance. There are industrial waste that costs much more. And industrial waste produced by factories... They must also come into storage, but at a different price. And the paradox - it turns out that 80 percent of this waste is produced by the “Walmier Glass Fibre” factory. It is precisely because the sole account is ZAAO and the only one that also transfers them is the plant. The rest count for ordinary waste, plus the same... everything else. There's a lot to do in this area. But you can't untie it, look at the complex. What's this... first reading... Is that Vidzeme? You know... We've been... I don't remember when... All the municipalities of Vidzeme agreed with each other that we will control what happens to us, including... And in Vidzeme there are about 200,000... over 200,000 inhabitants. They set up their own organization, and they continue to follow it. Now you're gonna make it split into two parts or put it in... I don't know what the name it will be. All Riga companies will now run in free competition to my field in Yercene, in order to export my only small container once a month? They won't go there! That's why I'm calling... I understand that at the moment I am against the bardac that Riga did... I have to admit, no, it's not a barrack, it's a high-flying pilot to arrange for one territory to remain. But I call on you not to complete the entire farm in Latvia as a whole. I understand that today everyone will vote conceptually, everything - to the cave, because Riga is bad... But I call for a very careful look at and analyze, really meet with experts. I've been saying again about what Mr. Feldman said... I do not doubt your knowledge of the economy. — Dep. R. Lochmele–Lunova: “We both doubt!” (Laughter) , but in this area there are nuances in some areas where the state intervenes. And the management of the waste is one of those areas, and does not give God if he does not intervene. We'd really get to... I don't know. Thank you. (Applause)
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-31-PT13-2016-U65	Name to Member Vjačeslav Dombrovskis.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-31-PT13-2016-U66	Dear colleagues, I did not take part in all those discussions in the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy, because of course God, someone from the Group, will show some interest in the area of waste. Here, thanks to Riga, we cannot open our mouth on this topic. However, having listened to all those opinions, I somehow, to forgive the party leadership, could not refrain from saying anything. That's more questions in the form. First. Here, many of you say, “Monpoly, Monopoly! The problem is that of a monopoly." Let's look at two districts - Sigulda and Garkalni. Both are exported and monopolised. In Sigulda at all, for 30 years... from some ancient, ancient times. Shipment rate in Sigulda - 12 euros per cubic meter. There is also a monopoly in the Garkalne - EUR 18, if I remember correctly, per cubic metre. In Riga, where there is competition - about 16 euros per cubic meter. How? Monopoly everywhere! Second. You say this: if Riga is like a single zone at the moment, there will be a monopoly. In addition, a monopoly consisting of two companies that are now allegedly competing. But if they are divided into three zones or four zones, even ten zones, then you want to say that each zone - it will not be a monopoly? Will there never be a monopoly? Third. Much has now been said about the fact that there is an open cartel in the area of construction. So, the cartel is from what? Now at least 13 construction companies. Padsmit companies have managed to set up a cartel. How many companies, colleagues, are working on waste management? Three? There's no cartel there? In general. Can't be, can't it? Four. Competition Council, Competition Council! It was upon the proposal of the Competition Council that there was legal proceedings, court decision on free competition at Riga Airport. Well, I think many of you described it with the word “bardak” and “haoss”. Was it then necessary to take a decision by the government or to return in essence to the same point as Riga Airport... made a contract? We are right now, with the same restrictions on competition. Well, that is - about the Competition Councils, they don't always see an understanding of when competition works and when competition doesn't work. And the last one, colleagues. Here one of us has now proved to be a great economist (unnamed) who has anticipated all the recessions of the world... and who claims that he believes that free competition is possible in the area of waste management. There's a country like that, colleagues, Ireland. Many of our countrymen trust Ireland much more than Latvia because Latvians travel to Ireland and not to Ireland to live in Latvia. And in Ireland, colleagues, they also have their own competition council, and this competition council... I'm reading a report now... a year ago, a report was drawn up on... precisely the situation on the waste market. And this commission has concluded that in this market... and in Ireland, I remind you, there are five million people now... Well, yes... if there is competition, however, with more population, no less... has concluded that this market exists (I quote): ‘all the signs of a so-called natural monopoly’. I advise the great economist to go to Google or somewhere else to look at what is a natural monopoly. This is a situation where effective competition is by nature impossible. And the recommendation of the Irish Competition Council is to regulate this market because they consider that there is no free competition, effective competition. But we... Colleagues, of course, this is not Ireland. We understand why. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. E.Zālīte–Gross: “We have a Squeeze! Everything is regulated by the Chain!” ) Thank you. (Applause)
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-31-PT13-2016-U67	Name to Member Andris Kazinovskis.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-31-PT13-2016-U68	Dear Chairman of the Saeima. Dear colleagues, In his address, Mr. Pavilut, I heard practical stupidity. The accusation is that municipalities, which are also state authorities... elected mission... carry out its functions. In this particular case, they have set up their own company in waste management... At first - only Vidzeme... The municipalities of North Vidzeme... Now - “ZAAO” as an example. There are municipalities, practically starting from Pierīga, Līgatne including up to the eastern border; the municipalities of the Contracting Party are also in this “ZAAO” system. What is the way in which its management is not properly managed, if it is available, from the public and also from the firms are welcomed? I'll say that we also had companies on the Prize side that later passed through the chain. And these companies didn't perform their duties. There were competitions, they were wins, but they did not. Service is expensive, claims... Something you do, don't do anything... We were forced to get rid of them, and thank God had the opportunity to join this ZAAO system. I understand that one another, who has not met this ZAAO system, is perhaps not aware of this situation. But I would like to remind you that if we go by analogy, then we have to ask - why is there no competition for “Latvian State Forests”? Then let private companies manage the state forests of Latvia! And so on. I think that, since there was indeed an emergency situation in Riga with regard to waste management and this law is therefore open... Of course, at first reading there is obviously a need to vote on this, but in any case at second reading this draft law should provide guarantees that, let us say, a municipal company like ZAAO will continue to work successfully. And it could be, this company, an example also for Riga. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-31-PT13-2016-U69	The name of Member Arthur Tom Plesh.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-31-PT13-2016-U70	Hello, colleagues! I will be very brief in this debate. If waste management is a matter that requires very careful care (Sitting Manager knocks down with a hammer.) control and regulation to ensure a level playing field... For the very reason, as Daniels Pavluts said, these amendments to the Waste Management Law are necessary to ensure fairer competition both in Riga and in certain municipalities in Latvia. Firstly, I would like to point out that it is very interesting to discuss waste management and competitive conditions...
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-31-PT13-2016-U71	Just a minute, Mr. Plies! Wait a second! Colleagues, do you really have something to discuss so loud? Please leave the room, because I can't hear the speakers on the floor even when I'm sitting here! (Applause) Please continue!
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-31-PT13-2016-U72	Yes, yes (Interface: “Likeer microphone!” )... Yes, it is very interesting that this discussion comes in terms of waste management and competitive conditions until the ZAAO, and it has been almost always at the meetings of the Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy Commission, as well as here at the Saeima's debate, mentioning it as an example to be pursued. But I think this is a question that... which calls for a really broader debate. Secondly, what I would like to mention is what is important in the context of Riga. In essence, I see that we do not have any significant objections to how this problem should be regulated in Riga with colleagues from the JCPOA, because yesterday there was really a discussion in the Riga Council. The opposition did not take part in the vote, but Mr Kūlis, a member of the JPP Riga City Council, presented a proposal which is very similar to this version of the law. It provides for the establishment of four waste management areas in the territory of Riga with a specified waste management contract, which may not exceed 10 years, as well as the possibility to host no more than three waste managers in a given area in Riga city. So, I think rhetoric is one... But it's a pleasure that the process of thinking about how to solve the problem coincides with that. I call for support for the draft law at first reading and for further discussion.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-31-PT13-2016-U73	The name of Member Rainis Znotiņš.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-31-PT13-2016-U74	Good morning, honourable colleagues! Well, as a new Member, I have to say: once again, the Saeima sitting the next hour hearing these... this national debate on the Riga waste management story... I'm tired of it. To be honest, I'm tired! I would like to see much more debate about the country's development, about the country's long-term... long-term development and national perspective. I hope that we will continue to focus more on these matters. Thank you. (Applause)
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-31-PT13-2016-U75	Name to Member Ivars Zarins. ( The ring of noise.)
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-31-PT13-2016-U76	Hello, colleagues! I fully support what Reinis Znotiņš just said: that we really should focus more on the development of the country than on things that... with which, I am sorry, colleagues directly from the New Conservative Party, you are no longer working. Focus on your responsibilities! If we're talking about this today... on these amendments to the Waste Management Act, I also believe that these amendments are necessary, and indeed for us as legislator... It is our duty to create this framework so that some careful municipalities cannot use this business in the interests of some selfish business groups. This is our task! I hope that we will do something, at least something, with this draft law, but what I want to focus on, in particular - the attention of colleagues who want to make laws on the basis of revolutionary convictions, not on understanding and facts - to concrete things that bother me with this draft law. In fact, this business is really a monopoly, but as Vjačeslav Dombrovskis rightly pointed out, it is a natural monopoly. And the specific character of the natural monopoly is... Why is it called a natural monopoly? That it is very important for the efficiency of economic activity, to this extent... the scale of the operation. And that is why this natural monopoly is often retained. There, competition is not being allowed to go in full, because this competition will not be able to provide as efficient a range of services, as efficient to provide this service at the cost of a natural monopoly. And so it's reasonable to think here about how to regulate it effectively. And what would I like to point out? Where is the big problem with this bill, where is the real ball put? That provision provides for the possibility for certain economic operators to conclude these direct contracts. What does that mean? If we are talking about this business being a natural monopoly, and we are excluding them from this territory... permits to go out to those economic operators who are the largest producers of waste, with this we are creating a situation where all the rest of the tariff will increase significantly. And if we're still talking about the need to develop this waste management system so that it contributes to waste sorting, then... we make it almost impossible or very, very expensive in many places. And that is what I would ask my colleagues from the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy to think and debate about. Otherwise, you are proud to tell here how you will do something good... You're going exactly the opposite now - you're going to... In fact, you can ultimately create this market so absurdly structured that a large part of the public will have to increase these tariffs significantly as a result of these changes to the law. And this system is complicated... It will be difficult to meet the European Union's challenges for Latvia in terms of waste sorting. So that we should go very well here... properly structured - where possible, we are actually introducing competition opportunities. First of all, the competition to choose the most efficient operator, but where it is necessary to preserve this natural monopoly, it is better to think about how to regulate it so that it is effective. Because a regulated natural monopoly in this situation will provide the consumer with better, better tariffs, better conditions. He will be able to work effectively if we create this framework correctly. What is currently in this bill... There really is a real ball in here that can blow up and break down the whole system and get exactly the opposite effect. ( Internouncing call.) I will support this draft law at first reading, but I call on the Commission to debate this issue with great responsibility, because Mr Kučinska really rightly pointed out many things that are actually working. I've had to work with monopolies for many years, too. I know how they work, I know the benefits and disadvantages of this system. And I know that in fact many things are better to deal with with with with with effective regulation and the right legislative framework than with the natural monopoly - that is a natural monopoly! - by suddenly saying that there will be free competition. On the contrary! You will not achieve competition with this. You will achieve this free of charge for the provision of these services. And that can lead to the opposite effect. That is what I am asking you to think about. Really think of this important nuance of how we should properly incorporate it if we want certain operators to have this right to leave this market and to enter into these service contracts directly themselves, because it will have a significant impact on the tariffs of all the other users of this service, which will remain within the framework of this monopoly. This is a very important nuance, colleagues! In particular, I turn to my colleagues in the Commission. To debate it and make a sensible solution! Otherwise, society as a whole will very soon remember who is responsible for this. Thank you. (Applause)
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-31-PT13-2016-U77	The name of the Member, John Adamson.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-31-PT13-2016-U78	Dear colleagues, Undoubtedly, waste management is a very good business. Very good. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A. Geidan: “That’s it!” ) And whether it is a natural monopoly or partly free competition - it has no meaning. What would I expect from the Commission on Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy, the Ministry of Environmental Protection and Regional Development, as well as the Ministry of Economics? That's - watch not yesterday... but we're discussing yesterday... and to a great extent I also agree with Mr. Znotiņš... but look a little forward as well. Yesterday, we also passed that law on the introduction of a deposit system. What, then, is the future? I would like to hear discussions from the competent people here, from the parliamentary tribunal that would be devoted to these issues. Waste collection - this is one business stage. Sorting - that's the other one. The third is recycling. And the fourth is the end product. And if the law strengthened all this, then many problems would be eliminated and this business could develop normally. Then we should not think about the fact that one piece of waste is to be turned off, no matter where it is, but we can move on to the next process - how to get products from the waste as well. It will then be possible to talk here about the functioning of the OIC system, and it makes sense to pay something. I would, however, call on the Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy Commission to look a little further and to move forward in its development. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-31-PT13-2016-U79	Name to Member Aldi Gobzem.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-31-PT13-2016-U80	Dear colleagues! I would like to remind you of the second paragraph of Article 1 of the Commercial Law. It contains the following sentence: ‘Business is an open economic activity carried out on its own behalf by an economic operator for the purpose of making a profit.’ What do I mean by that? Any commercial activity is selfish conduct, because the law provides that a commercial businessman is to make a profit for himself, and it is a selfish conduct, a legal activity. Here we are talking today about honest and unfair businessmen. The only question is: what is then a criterion for an honest and unfair businessman. Selfishty? One businessman who's gonna make a profit, and the other one who won't make a profit? Such an argument does not stand criticism and, of course, it is only addressed to society. I completely agree with one of the previous speakers that the only issue that would resolve this debate on waste management is the Law on Lobbying. Because it is absolutely clear that these positions, which radicalise in Parliament, only mean that one or the other economic operator is behind one political force, which drives one or the other idea of how to manage waste in its own interests and how to make a profit. I am deeply convinced that such a businessman stands behind Development/About! , both behind the ‘CPV LV’ and behind the KIP and other political forces. I therefore emphasise once again that it is not selfishness that matters most. The most important thing in this debate is to understand which member of the Saeima defends what interests he is defending when he is on board and defending one or the other's position in waste management. If the Law of Lobby were passed in Latvia, we would know it. But today we don't know that, and that's why we have to know the coffee grounds. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. I. Zarins: “On 7 November you will forget to say it!” ) Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-31-PT13-2016-U81	The name is Digit Schmidt.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-31-PT13-2016-U82	Colleagues! I completely join Ms Znotiņš in saying this time that we should discuss something more about waste. But I would call (Jan, you lead the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy... as says, the position leads mostly all the commissions, except for a few) then also carry... It's a friendly call. I would really very much like to have a conceptual debate here on how we will develop agriculture, forestry, fisheries, all other economic sectors (Dep. I. Zarins: “Science!” ) and, yes, science, education. That would be what really should be done here. I am in the opposition, it has come to the opposition committee - the Commission on Sustainable Development. We're sure we're going to get here... At what stage of the National Development Plan... which, by the way, should be included in the sector in the most direct way possible. In a different way, the only most active themes are really... The most active is able to bring the most active topic. At the moment, the most active is the "waste" in the Saeima. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-31-PT13-2016-U83	Mrs Goldberg, would it be enough for you to have an eight-and-nine-minute debate? The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. I. Goldberg: “Yes.” ) Name of Member Inga Goldberg.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-31-PT13-2016-U84	Dear Chairman of the Saeima. Colleagues! All this time, while the negotiations on waste management took place, I watched and listened, and I remembered how waste management went to Daugavpils. Two months after the competition took place and a private company took over from the in-house waste management company in Daugavpils, after the transitional period, after two months of the transitional period, I started work in Daugavpils. And I had the task, as executive director, of collecting all of them... those piles of waste, arrange for them to finally be collected and analyse all the conflicts that occurred during this transitional period. It was very, very difficult. For three years there was a private company in Daugavpils. For three years the residents of the municipality overpaid for waste management. For three years, the company has been using loopholes of the law. There was nothing in the court trying to repudiate the money overpaid, because the law allowed this possibility to happen. We had no other way out to defend the population, and we used in-house and were extremely happy that the municipalities had such experience. And we organised a competition, Mr Pavļuta, about which you mentioned, to see if the price at which our municipal company could manage is lower. Currently managed on the basis of the in-house purchase... the municipal enterprise. I would, however, like to support the fact that the law is being opened up, that we are voting today on this draft law at first reading. But I invite you to look very, very, very carefully at how to regulate this area, how you can actually manage the whole territory of Latvia. And thank you, Mr. Kučinski. You have touched very, very many topics that I wanted to talk about. Thank you, colleagues. (Applause)
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-31-PT13-2016-U85	I closed the debate. Is there anything to add on behalf of the Commission?
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-31-PT13-2016-U86	On behalf of the Commission, I can only remind you that the draft law was approved at first reading at the meeting of the Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-31-PT13-2016-U87	Please call me! We will vote in favour of the first reading of the draft law on "Amendments to the Law on Waste Management"! Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about - 54, it's against - 9, it's not. The draft law at first reading has been supported. Please set a deadline for the submission of proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-31-PT13-2016-U88	The deadline for the submission of proposals for second reading is 14 November this year.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-31-PT13-2016-U89	Thank you. The deadline for submitting proposals is 14 November this year. Draft law “Amendments to the Law on the Movement of Genetically Modified Organisms”, first reading. Member Jānis Urbanovičs on behalf of the Commission on Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-31-PT13-2016-U90	Colleagues! This is also an important draft, entitled ‘Amendments to the Law on the Movement of Genetically Modified Organisms’, which is also, like I previously presented, only the first reading... the implementation of the requirements and conditions of the relevant regulation of the European Union. I therefore call for this draft law to be declared urgent.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-31-PT13-2016-U91	Please call me! We will vote for recognition of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on the Movement of Genetically Modified Organisms” as urgent! Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about - 85, it's against and abstains. The draft law has been declared urgent.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-31-PT13-2016-U92	We call for support for the draft legislation unanimously supported by the Commission at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-31-PT13-2016-U93	Please call me! We will vote for the first reading of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on the Movement of Genetically Modified Organisms”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 87, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The draft law at first reading has been supported. Please set a time limit for the submission of proposals and a time limit for consideration at the sitting of the Saeima.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-31-PT13-2016-U94	Let us wait until 7 November for proposals to be considered at second reading on 14 November.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-31-PT13-2016-U95	Thank you. Consequently, the deadline for the submission of proposals - 7 November this year, consideration at the Saeima sitting - 14 November this year. Time to break. Please call me! Please check-in mode for Members! Time for notification. Dear colleagues, This week, our colleague Ilze Indricsone celebrated a very beautiful anniversary, and we congratulate him! (Applause) Name of the Saeima Secretary Maria Golubeva. The results of the registration.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-31-PT13-2016-U96	Not registered: Jānis Adamsons, Vjačeslavs Dombrovskis... Yes, Jānis Dūklavs, Inese Ikstena, Artuss Neighbours (Interior: Yes!) )... There, Richard Coll, Armands Krauze, Ramona Petraviča, Eric Pucken... Yes, Dana Reizniece–Ozola and Jānis Vucans.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-31-PT13-2016-U97	Interruption until 11 a.m. ( Interruption)
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-31-PT13-2016-U98	Honourable Members! We're continuing the Saeima sitting after a break. On the agenda - draft law “Amendment to the Law on the Status of Member of City Council and District Council of the Republic”, second reading. On behalf of the National Administration and Municipal Commission - Member Eriks Pucens.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-31-PT13-2016-U99	Hello, colleagues! The State Administration and Municipal Commission worked at second reading with the draft law “Amendment to the Law on the Status of a Member of the City Council and District Council of the Republic”. 15 proposals have been made. 1. - Member Viktoras Valaiņš' proposal. There is no support in the Commission. ( Intercretion: “Rightly! ” ) Council Regulation (EC) No 1257/96 of 20 June 1996 concerning humanitarian aid (OJ L 163, 2.7.1996, p. 1).
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-31-PT13-2016-U100	Members... The Commission is therefore not supported. Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-31-PT13-2016-U101	2. - Member Viktoras Valaiņš' proposal. There is no support in the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-31-PT13-2016-U102	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-31-PT13-2016-U103	3. - A proposal from the Commission of Public Administration and Local Government. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-31-PT13-2016-U104	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-31-PT13-2016-U105	4. - Member Viktoras Valaiņš' proposal. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-31-PT13-2016-U106	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-31-PT13-2016-U107	5. - Member Viktoras Valaiņš' proposal. Partly supported by the Commission, includes 6. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-31-PT13-2016-U108	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-31-PT13-2016-U109	6. - A proposal from the Commission of Public Administration and Local Government. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-31-PT13-2016-U110	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-31-PT13-2016-U111	7. - Member Viktoras Valaiņš' proposal. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-31-PT13-2016-U112	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-31-PT13-2016-U113	8 / 8 - A proposal from the Commission of Public Administration and Local Government. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-31-PT13-2016-U114	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-31-PT13-2016-U115	9. - Member Viktoras Valaiņš' proposal. Partially supported, included 10. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-31-PT13-2016-U116	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-31-PT13-2016-U117	10............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - A proposal from the Commission of Public Administration and Local Government. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-31-PT13-2016-U118	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-31-PT13-2016-U119	11. - Member Viktoras Valaiņš' proposal. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-31-PT13-2016-U120	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-31-PT13-2016-U121	12. - Member Viktoras Valaiņš' proposal. Partially supported, included 13. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-31-PT13-2016-U122	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-31-PT13-2016-U123	13. - A proposal from the Commission of Public Administration and Local Government. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-31-PT13-2016-U124	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-31-PT13-2016-U125	14............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - Member Viktoras Valaiņš' proposal. The Commission was not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-31-PT13-2016-U126	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-31-PT13-2016-U127	15............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - A proposal from the Commission of Public Administration and Local Government. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-31-PT13-2016-U128	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-31-PT13-2016-U129	Request to support the draft law at second reading
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-31-PT13-2016-U130	Please call me! We will vote for the draft law “Amendment to the Law on the Status of a Member of City Council and District Council of the Republic” at second reading! Please vote mode! Please get the result! Not by - 82, not by - and refrains. The draft law at second reading has been supported. Please set a deadline for the submission of proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-31-PT13-2016-U131	November 7, this year.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-31-PT13-2016-U132	Thank you. The deadline for submitting proposals is 7 November this year. Draft law “Amendments to the Law on Payment Services and Electronic Money”, first reading. On behalf of the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission, Member Gatis Eglitis.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-31-PT13-2016-U133	Good morning! The draft law “Amendments to the Law on Payment Services and Electronic Money” was reviewed at the meeting of the Budget and Finance (tax) Commission on 29 October and was conceptually supported for the first reading. In brief. The draft law provides the Financial and Capital Market Commission and Consumer Protection Centre with the right, if necessary, to initiate administrative proceedings and take a decision establishing violations that cause or may cause serious harm to the interests of payment service users... penalties also applied to payment service users and electronic money holders. The Budget and Finance (Tax) Commission has conceptually supported the draft law for the first reading and is asking for the draft law to be declared urgent.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-31-PT13-2016-U134	Please call me! We will vote for the recognition of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Payment Services and Electronic Money” as urgent! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 87, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The draft law has been declared urgent.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-31-PT13-2016-U135	Yes, so the Budget and Finance (Tax) Commission conceptually supported the draft law for the first reading. Please support me.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-31-PT13-2016-U136	Please call me! We will vote for the first reading of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Payment Services and Electronic Money”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 87, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The draft law at first reading has been supported. Please set a time limit for the submission of proposals and the time for consideration at the sitting of the Saeima.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-31-PT13-2016-U137	Consequently, the deadline for the proposals is 4 November this year and the second reading will be discussed at the Saeima meeting on 7 November.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-31-PT13-2016-U138	Consequently, the deadline for the submission of proposals - 4 November of this year, consideration at the Saeima sitting - 7 November of this year. Draft law “Amendment to the Law on Detection”, first reading. On behalf of the Commission on Defence, Home Affairs and Anti-Corruption - Member Ivan Klementjev.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-31-PT13-2016-U139	Madam President, Dear colleagues, Draft Law Amending the Law on Detection (No. 457/Lp13) submitted by the Cabinet of Ministers according to implementation of system of codification of administrative infringements in sectors. The draft law provides for supplementing the law with an article on administrative liability in the field of detection and establishes the competence of the State Police in the application of penalties. It is foreseen that the law will enter into force at the same time as the Law on Administrative Liability on 1 January of next year. Within the framework of the implementation of the codification system for administrative infringements in sectors, a review of the composition of administrative infringements has been carried out and one updated composition has been proposed instead of the two previous compositions. It should be noted that the industry is very disciplined and so far no person has been called under administrative responsibility. The draft law was approved by the Commission at its meeting on 29 October this year. On behalf of the Commission, I call for support for the draft law at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-31-PT13-2016-U140	Please call me! We will vote in favour of the first reading of the draft law "Amendment to the Law on Detection". Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 89, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. The draft law at first reading has been supported. Please set a time limit for the submission of proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-31-PT13-2016-U141	The deadline for the submission of proposals for second reading is 5 November this year.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-31-PT13-2016-U142	Thank you. The deadline for submitting proposals is November 5 this year. Draft law “Amendments to law “On Judicial Power”, first reading. On behalf of the Legal Commission - Member Inese Lībiņa-Egnere.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-31-PT13-2016-U143	Dear colleagues, Dear colleagues, The Legal Commission of the Saeima has examined the draft law “Amendments to the Law “On Judicial Power”” and has decided to direct it to the Parliament’s first reading. This draft law provides, first of all, that from 1 January 2020 the existing immunity of judges in cases of administrative offences should be abolished. Secondly, this draft law clarifies the regulation of dismissal of judges from office, thus ensuring the operational efficiency and efficiency of the procedure. The amendments also provide for extension of the competence of the Chief Justice of the court by assessing the performance of professional work of judges, establishing that the Chief Justice of the court may propose an extraordinary assessment of professional activities of a judge, if shortcomings in the quality of work of a judge are established. Also, it is planned to introduce a new model of selection of candidates for the position of a judge, giving up the qualification examination as separate parts, as well as changing the form of traineeships and training, concentrating resources on training of judges. The amendments also strengthen, inter alia, the administration of time limits for the hearing of a court. These amendments, even before the examination of the committee responsible, have been left to the Court’s policy sub-committee on a number of occasions. Conceptually these issues have also been discussed in the sittings of the Council for the Judiciary, and the main aim of the draft law is to promote balance between principles of independence and responsibility of courts. The independence of the courts is a means of ensuring democracy and the rule of law, but it cannot be absolute and balanced by responsibility. The amendments provide for the development of instruments that allow the judicial authority itself to respond to possible non-professionality and violations of a judge. After the adoption of this draft law at first reading, it will also be sent for consideration to the Council for the Judiciary, as provided for in the procedure established by the Law “On Judicial Power”. Therefore, the deadline for the submission of proposals should also be fixed longer, so that it is possible to get to consider also the issues that will be indicated in the sitting of the Council for the Judiciary. On behalf of the Legal Commission, I call for support at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-31-PT13-2016-U144	Let us start a debate. The name of Member Juta Stricky.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-31-PT13-2016-U145	This is a historic moment for the judicial system, because the proposed draft law provides for waiver of administrative immunity for judges. Administrative immunity of judges - it is the Soviet heritage. For more than 10 years there have been discussions and various international organisations, including the Group of anti-corruption transnational groups GRECO, encouraged and pointed out that this Soviet avalanche should be abolished. In fact, judges are currently outside the system because they cannot be administratively punished, for example, for speeding, for parking in the wrong place; they cannot also be punished for driving under the influence of alcohol. The immunity of judges to some extent imposed judges outside the law. By amending this system, we will build confidence in the judiciary, because the law will also apply to them. I call for these amendments to be supported. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-31-PT13-2016-U146	I closed the debate. Is there anything to add?
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-31-PT13-2016-U147	As I have already mentioned, the Commission is asking for this draft law to be supported at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-31-PT13-2016-U148	Please call me! We will vote for the draft law “Amendments to the Law “On Judicial Power” at first reading! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 87, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The draft law at first reading has been supported. Please set a deadline for the submission of proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-31-PT13-2016-U149	The Legal Commission requests that the deadline for the submission of proposals be set at 2 December of this year.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-31-PT13-2016-U150	Thank you. The deadline for submitting proposals is 2 December this year. Draft law “Amendments to the Law on Disciplinary Liability of Judges”, first reading. On behalf of the Legal Commission - Member Inese Lībiņa-Egnere.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-31-PT13-2016-U151	Dear colleagues, Dear colleagues, This draft law is linked to the previous draft law that we already adopted at first reading. The said draft law provides for the exclusion of legal provisions on immunity of judges in cases of administrative offences, whereas these amendments to the Law on Disciplinary Liability of Judges exclude those legal norms which provide that a judge may be called to disciplinary responsibility for administrative violation. At the same time, it is foreseen that a judge will be able to call disciplinary liability not for the administrative violation committed, but for the fact that the judge with the administrative violation committed will have grossly violated the norms of the Code of Judicial Ethics or if the nature of the administrative violation committed will be disrespectful of the actions of the judge. Amendments to the Law on Disciplinary Liability of Judges also clarify the competence of the Chair of a district (city) court in the initiation of a disciplinary case, as well as provide for the extension of the limitation period of disciplinary responsibility. Having assessed the regulation of other countries, as well as taking into account the fact that in Latvia the average time period of progress of the case in all court instances is four years and the moment when it is found about a possible violation often coincides with the course of the case by court instance, the draft law provides for the extension of the limitation period of disciplinary responsibility from two to four years. This draft law has also been honored several times in the Subcommittee on Judicial Policy and also in the judges' associations, as well as viewed separately in the Council for the Judiciary. If the draft law is supported at first reading, we will send to the Council for the Judiciary for consideration at the meeting of 25 November this year. I call for support to be given to the draft law at first reading. ( Internouncing call.)
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-31-PT13-2016-U152	Please call me! We will vote in favour of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Judicial Disciplinary Liability” at first reading! Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about - 85, it's against and abstains. The draft law at first reading has been supported. Please set a deadline for the submission of proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-31-PT13-2016-U153	On behalf of the Legal Commission, I request that the deadline for the submission of proposals be set at 2 December this year.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-31-PT13-2016-U154	Thank you. The deadline for submitting proposals is 2 December this year. Honourable Members! The agenda of the sitting has been examined. With regard to answering Members' questions today, I must inform you. Member of the Ministry of Welfare of Klementyeva, Agešina, Rubika, Krišana and Zarina’s question to the Minister for Welfare “On the Inaction of the Ministry of Welfare without applying personal income tax relief, including disability relief, without complying with the requirements of the law”. The written replies received are not satisfactory, but the oral Members do not wish to ask further questions. Member Klementyeva, Agešina, Orlova, Krišana and Lochmeles–Lunova question to the Prime Minister “On a statement by the Minister for Welfare on a possible increase in the high pension tax from 20% to 50%”. The question was referred to the Minister for Welfare. The written replies received are not satisfactory, but the oral Members do not wish to ask further questions. On the question of Member of the Prime Minister of Augulis, Krauze, Valaiņa, Bergmanis, Kurke and Jalinska, “On possible damage to the reputation and authority of the prosecutor’s office and the Prosecutor General, the Minister of Justice, Janis Bordans, expressing unfounded accusations and inciting unjustified operational checks”. The question was referred to the Minister of Justice. The written replies received are not satisfactory, but the oral Members do not wish to ask further questions. Questions have been put to Members. Members Zarins, Klementjevs, Orlovs, Lochmele-Lunov and Kabanov raised the question ‘On the truthfulness of the replies of the Ministry of Economics regarding the participation of officials of the Ministry of Economics in the cover of possible criminal offences in relation to the results of the OIC power plant inspections’. The question shall be referred to the Minister for Economic Affairs for a reply. Members Zariņš, Klementjevs, Orlovs, Lochmele-Lunov and Kabanov submitted the question “On the legality of the actions of the Ministry of Finance in preparing for government approval the draft law on the state budget for 2020” and the draft law on the medium-term budgetary framework for 2020, 2021 and 2022”, which is submitted to the Minister of Finance for their response. Please call me! Please register the Members! Time for notification. Name to Member Oyars Eriks Kalniņš.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-31-PT13-2016-U155	Yeah. I wanted to remind the group of MEPs in support of the Occupational Museum that we are meeting today at the premises of the half-one Foreign Commission. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-31-PT13-2016-U156	Name to Marija Golubeva, member of the Saeima Secretary, for reading the results of the registration.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-31-PT13-2016-U157	Not registered: Inese Ikstena, Rihards Kols, Armands Krauze, Ramona Petraviča, Dana Reizniece–Ozola and Jānis Vucāns.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-31-PT13-2016-U158	Thank you. I'm closing the sitting.
