ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-18-PT13-2027-U1	Good morning, honourable Members! Good morning, Minister... Mr. Poece! Let us begin the extraordinary sitting of the Saeima on 18 December 2019. The agenda shall be accompanied by a report by the Saeima Bureau on the draft law submitted. The Saeima Presidium proposes that the draft law on the dismissal of Riga City Council presented by the Cabinet of Ministers be referred to the Commission of the State Administration and Local Government, stating that it is the committee responsible. ‘ On” applied to speak by Daniel Pavluts.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-18-PT13-2027-U2	Dear President of the Saeima. Dear colleagues, Dear colleagues, Well, hello, no more, no more, no more, no more, no more, no more, no more, no more, no more, Today in this extraordinary meeting we gather because the Ministry of Environmental Protection and Regional Development has prepared and the government has approved the draft law on the dismissal of Riga City Council. Local governments – where else are the biggest local governments in our country! – dismissal and emergency. For this purpose, the legislator has historically provided for a special procedure, has provided for such a decision to be taken in all essential branches of power, including the possibility, the right to appeal against such decisions, to assess up to our highest instance – the Constitutional Court. The dismissal of Latiņš municipal council in our legislation has been determined high. These have therefore been rare cases, and I hope and trust that they will continue to be rare in the future. Unfortunately, however, we must decide here today, in the Saeima. The draft law provides for the dismissal of the Riga City Council, the appointment of the temporary administration and the establishment that the new elections of the Riga City Council take place on the first Saturday, which shall become effective two months after the date of entry into force of this law. The Central Electoral Commission shall announce the elections in the municipality of Riga not later than five days after the entry into force of this Law. The reason for the dismissal is based on the failure of the Riga City Council to perform one of the autonomous functions of the municipality - the organization of municipal waste management. Colleagues! The Riga City Council has not only acted illegally, but has also destroyed citizens' faith in the ability of Latvia's largest municipality to work legally and in accordance with the best interests of its citizens. ( FROM a faction: “Word! ” “What demagogy!” ) Let me look back a little bit in the past. Both this convocation and the previous convocation the Riga Council did not comply with the decision of the Constitutional Court, which was adopted on 6 December 2012. The Constitutional Court decided that all agreements concluded or extended by municipal and municipal waste managers after 26 July 2005, without applying regulatory acts on public procurement, must be terminated not later than by 1 July 2013. The judgment of the Constitutional Court also directly applies to the agreements concluded by Riga City Council, for which the relevant laws and regulations were not applied. However, the Riga City Council maintained these agreements until 15 September 2019 without complying with the decision of the Constitutional Court for more than five years. In contrast to the existing binding provisions, no. 90 Riga Municipality, which was divided into three waste management areas... Contrary to these regulations, the Riga City Council, together with “Getliņi EKO” Ltd, announced procurement in one area in the framework of the public-private partnership procedure, dividing the entire administrative territory of Riga into only one area. This was in contradiction with the Waste Management Law, as well as significantly restricted competition over a long period of time, with a maximum legal deadline of 20 years. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. R. Lochmele-Lunovo and the deposit (See I. Zariņš's transcripts.) The Riga City Council did not meet its requirement to provide shared waste management service throughout the city, in compliance with both the Waste Management Law and the Cabinet of Ministers regulations. On the basis of all the above, VARAM indicated to the Riga City Council on 19 July 2019 the findings of non-compliances and invited the Council to take a decision, to plan and implement measures for the arrangement of waste management and provision of the service. By contrast, when the PPP procedure was completed, the municipality chose a manager who started work on 15 September this year. On 9 September, the Competition Council decided on a temporary settlement, suspended the process of contracting between the new waste manager, waste producers and managers. Following this notification of provisional regulation, the Riga City Council did not take any action to ensure the provision of the waste management service. As a result, on 12 September, the Cabinet of Ministers (Interface: “Time!” ) declared the exceptional situation in the administrative territory of Riga. After the adoption of this order by the Cabinet of Ministers, however, the Riga City Council failed to take action to start the waste manager (SASKAĪJA: “Time! Time!” ), according to the procurement law. After all, without being able to solve these problems (Dep. V. Agešins: “Your time is over!” ), the Cabinet of Ministers was forced to extend this...
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-18-PT13-2027-U3	Thank you. I'm sorry... There's no extension here. Time! ‘ Vjačeslav Dombrovskis has applied to speak against’.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-18-PT13-2027-U4	Yeah. Thank you. Please... ( From a political group, “You have to prepare harder! ” ; dep. I. Zarins: “What a decision, what a speech!” ) Council Regulation (EC) No 1257/96 of 20 June 1996 concerning humanitarian aid (OJ L 163, 2.7.1996, p. 1).
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-18-PT13-2027-U5	Dear colleagues, Here today this story is not about whether Riga City Council is good or bad. I will not tell you today how good the Riga City Council is. This story is about something completely different. This story is about values, colleagues! This story is about whether the funds justify the objectives. This story is about the fact that at the end of this day those who will release the Riga City Council will clearly demonstrate that they do not... not only have no Western values, but also no values as such. This is a story of democratic values, this is a story of equal treatment. This is the story of fairness and justice. The Riga City Council may be good or bad, but it has been elected by the Riga people in open and fair elections. Elections attended by all parties present, with the exception of the ‘CPV LV’... and had failed. And now the losers of this election want to release the Riga City Council. This bill, which records the specific names of the next Riga administration, accurately reflects your understanding of democracy. That's exactly what you'd like to do: to record certain names and names, and only cowardice prevents you from putting real names there... your names, right? This is also a story of duality. If you ask for something from others, ask them first of all. You claim here that Riga City Council would have violated the laws, so it must be released. But if that really is the case, then each of you members of the coalition needs to have a Member's mandate, because you have violated the law on medical salaries that you have passed. The entire government must be dissolved because it has failed to comply with the laws and decisions of the Saeima! It has not complied with the law on medical salaries, it has not complied with the decision of the Saeima to terminate the OIC. This is also a story of honesty, colleagues. For a whole year you have told the general public about corruption in the Riga City Council. Then why don't you propose to release the Riga City Council because of corruption? Yesterday, the Speaker of the Saeima told all of our ambassadors that the Riga City Council would be released because of corruption without saying anything about waste. But there is some kind of waste crisis in the grounds, which no Rigaian sees, which is artificially created and exists only in the heads of some politicians. Does this mean that you lied to all Latvians about their massive corruption in the Riga City Council? Are you lying about the waste now? In one place you say that the Riga City Council is dismissed because of corruption, not because of waste, in another place you say that the Riga City Council is dismissed because of waste, not because of corruption. That's how you lied. And all of you think that you do this because of noble purposes, but all of society see that these are lies; that you are not honest. What would politicians do with values, colleagues? If you have values, go to the voters! You can adopt the law on municipal referendums as lightly as possible, give local government residents the opportunity to initiate both the collection of signatures about municipal dismissal and to vote on it in the referendum. I... Colleagues, yesterday one of coalition politicians justified the dismissal of Riga City Council with such a slogan. He wrote: “It’s enough! It is time for Riga to become a prosperous city of Europe." Very good slogan, colleagues. But with this slogan you have to go to the voters, because it is the voter who has to convince you that you will be able to do so. You can tell him: “Look, the constituents, we have managed to make Latvia a prosperous European country over the last 10 years. We can do the same with Riga. Don't you believe our words, constituents? Do you not believe our promise? Have we ever deceived you?’ Go to the voters and tell them everything. And I look at you, my fellow Members, and it is clear to me why none of you, the coalition politicians, have yet expressed their readiness to qualify for the mayor's post and promise the European city of prosperity. Colleagues! I call on you to vote in accordance with your values. Thank you. (Applause)
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-18-PT13-2027-U6	Thank you. So one Member has spoken 'for', one for 'no'. There is a proposal to refer the draft law to the Commission of Public Administration and Local Government. Please turn on the microphone for Vita Anda Steel.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-18-PT13-2027-U7	I propose changing the commission responsible by referring the draft law to the Budget and Finance (Tax) Commission. ( The drug is noise. From a fraction ASSOCIATED: ‘Reason?Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, “; dep. I. Zarins: “What is it about?Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, “)
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-18-PT13-2027-U8	So there is a proposal to refer the draft law to the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission. We must vote on this. ( From a political group, ‘ Hate Is It? ’) ) Please call us! We will vote in favour of handing over the draft law “Law on the dismissal of Riga City Council” to the Committee on Budget and Financial (Tax) establishing that it is the committee responsible! Please vote mode! ( Milestones.) Please get the result! It's not about - 50, it's against - 45, it's abstaining - it's not. So the draft law has been passed on to the commission. Name of Member Viktoras Valainius' report on the grounds for voting. ( Internouncing call.) I have been told that the report on the motives for voting... ( Milestones.) So you do not want to talk about the motives for voting? ( Internouncing call.)
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-18-PT13-2027-U9	... I have applied to speak for a commission of responsibility.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-18-PT13-2027-U10	There is no such item on the agenda. You have submitted your own document, which has been read accordingly. If there is no wish to speak right now, we respect that too. Do you want to talk right now? Name of the reason for the vote: Viktoras Valainis. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. V. Valaiņš’ intermediate call.)
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-18-PT13-2027-U11	Name's name, yeah. Highly honored Speaker of the Saeima! Colleagues! The reasons for voting. There is or is not a waste crisis: we can all make sure that by looking at the wastebins, looking at whether anyone is exporting them or not. But is there a political crisis and power to combat the burden of sponsors... about the exclusive and autonomous functions of the municipality? First. Completely incomprehensible restrictions on development programming. The law directed by the MoEPRD. The second step. Waste crisis. Some time ago, when we voted on this issue, the municipality of Riga, together with VARAM, stood and fell into the government to declare a crisis in order to cope with the situation that had arisen... in which VARM with the Riga City Council had worked hand in hand for years. It takes three months and the Minister of Environmental Protection and Regional Development is already standing alone and tells about the crisis in Riga, as well as prolongs the state of emergency. As it turned out later, it was only the opinion of VARAM... Riga, which is responsible for this issue exclusively (and no one else - neither John nor Peter!) , says with full responsibility that everything is fine, and looks with amazement at how VARAM creates a crisis in Riga, telling about the rule of law. ( The head of the sitting was knocked down with a hammer.) What, then, are the reasons why? It is clear that this has nothing to do with waste, because no one wants to hear Riga's opinion here. Even when Riga has submitted an explanation. Who is interested in this in the legal state at all? Currently there are about 175 gaming halls and four casinos in Riga. At the moment we see how the government in this case goes to Development/About! and accompanied by their sponsors. What is the relationship with waste? Most direct. Waste, like gaming halls, should be removed from Riga outside, but their second Development/About! does not want to allow and is therefore ready for such steps as well. The Riga City Council deserves to treat it with all the harshness of the law (primarily - against those who are responsible for fictitious employment, questionable payments to consultants and other cases), with more harsh liability measures established by law than the political responsibility currently offered. It deserves to be released. And most importantly, it deserves to be released legally. Undoubtedly... I would like to mention that the Union of Greens/Farmers is not represented in the Riga City Council, and those starting from our list have not become vice-center, nor in any other way supports the coalition in Riga (e.g. the National Association and the "Latvian Development"). Anyone else who calls himself Riga City Council opposition... We're the only ones... and CPV... we can objectively assess the situation that is currently in Riga City Council... The only members of the Saeima. In essence, the government of Kučinska started to fight corruption in the Riga City Council... following the audit of the KNAB lines from those who are only talking about combating corruption and, unfortunately, continue to talk. Many lie have followed this law. The law is not about combating corruption or good governance. The law is only about the number of gaming halls in Riga, that is, about the excessive desire of some politicians to seek power, and this desire has already gone beyond any democratic boundaries. And it has nothing to do with the waste, no matter how it's tried to write. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. J. Izalnieks: “Who wrote the speech?” ; dep. S. Riekstins: “Aivars!” ) Council Regulation (EC) No 1257/96 of 20 June 1996 concerning humanitarian aid (OJ L 163, 2.7.1996, p. 1).
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-18-PT13-2027-U12	So we have listened to the report on the motives for voting. Colleagues, the agenda of the sitting has been examined. We have to register. Please call me! Please register the Members! Time for notifications. Honourable Members! I would remind you that the extraordinary sitting of the Saeima, in which we will discuss the draft law on ports and the draft law on Ventspils Freeport Law, will begin 10 minutes after the end of this sitting. Name to Marija Golubeva, member of the Saeima Secretary, for reading the results of the registration.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-18-PT13-2027-U13	Not registered: Artuss Kaimiņš and Lubova Švecova. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-12-18-PT13-2027-U14	Thank you. I closed the extraordinary sitting of the Saeima.
