ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-20-PT13-544-U1	Good morning, honourable Members! I invite you to take a seat in the Chamber so that we can start the sitting of the Saeima on 20 June 2019. Ladies and gentlemen, today we start our agenda with a speech by President of Latvia Raimonds Vējonis. Name to the President of Latvia.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-20-PT13-544-U2	(Pour in a glass of water. Thank you. Thank you very much. President-in-Office of the Saeima, very much. Thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen. High honourable Members! Together we have had a historic opportunity to celebrate the first century of Latvia's statehood. The conviction of the present and future of independent and democratic Latvia and the readiness of all to work together and fight for their country is the basis on which we have built Latvia and continue to do so now and in the future. We have a duty and a unique opportunity to form Latvia together for the next century. The centenary of Latvia reminded us of people whose actions or sometimes inaction, achievements or losses formed Latvia. The importance of every human choice in the history of the common country. We need to be aware of the teachings of the past in order to set goals and to be aware of our responsibility to achieve them. We have the opportunity to engage in and continue to build a kind of Latvia in which every person is a value. It is particularly important to be aware of this fact for everyone who has decided to contribute to Latvia's state policy-making, including decision-making, which will affect people's daily lives. In shaping our national policy, when making decisions and laws, we have an impact not only on the future of Latvia and its citizens: we have an impact on the common future of Europe. It is the responsibility of Members of the Saeima to see more than narrow interests. Interest, responsibility and courage to express your views should be our confidence in the years to come and in the decades to come. We must not be left behind. We must be prepared to engage and build better Latvia with our work, working in all regions of Latvia and also outside Latvia. Ladies and gentlemen! I am grateful for the opportunity I have given to serve Latvia as President of Latvia. All these four years I have worked for the people of Latvia for the best conscience. I am convinced that in these years we have managed to do much together to make Latvia even safer and stronger. My constant priority in the office of President of Latvia was strengthening Latvia's security. I started this work as a Minister of Defence and continued my work as President of Latvia. Today I can say that we live in Latvia, which is safer than ever. Increasing the defence budget to two percent of gross domestic product since 2018 allows us to improve our defence capabilities and confirms our willingness to fulfil our commitments to other NATO member states. The decision taken at the NATO Summit in Warsaw in 2016 on the expanded presence of NATO allies in the Baltic States and Poland is a historic event and is particularly important for us, as it strengthened our confidence that we can rely on the support of our allies. I called for changes to the National Security Act with the aim of giving our armed forces the right to act even if central leadership has been destroyed or paralyzed. As a country, we have clearly stated that 1940 will never happen again. We are ready to respond to threats and defend our country and freedom. No order or permit to protect your country is required. Neither the President of Latvia, the Saeima nor anyone else can ban resistance and fight for Latvia. I thank all those who took part and worked actively with me to strengthen Latvia's security. Only together were we able to achieve the objectives planned and achieve them. However, we must be aware that, however much has been done, it will always be too little, because the concept of security itself has changed at the moment. State security is no longer just a military defence capability and participation in international alliances. We, aware of our responsibilities, must be prepared for and face new challenges. Security must remain our country's national priority, but we now need a broader view of it - it is our human security, which means concrete decisions in social protection, education, health, as well as in tax policy. It is the public's resilience to the threat of hybrid war, or lies, the creation of which involves every policy error or even a clumsy expression. We have an important internal security of the country, because faith in the country is first and foremost rooted in our belief that the country cares for each of us, providing support from early childhood to old age, providing assistance in the event of accidents, protecting our families, homes, municipalities and national borders from any possible threat. I and every person in Latvia expect that the first and main goal of the Saeima and the Cabinet of Ministers will be to work to make each of us feel safe and able to grow, develop, learn, work, build a family, raise children and grow old, confident in our future in Latvia. Members of the Saeima! A strong democratic state and belonging to a single Europe mean belonging to a certain value system. It is a decision-making culture and a willingness to demonstrate understanding of our common values in our work. The rule of law and the rule of law are a question of our identity. Latvia is a legal state, and justice is the foundation of Latvia's existence. Our judicial system requires significant improvements - both human and material resources must be found, so that every citizen of Latvia can be confident of the opportunity to receive effective and rapid court protection and fair court judgement. The State has a duty to ensure this, but Parliament has a duty to take such decisions to ensure this. I am sure that we can achieve this in the near future. And my conviction is strengthened by the judges and the employees of the judicial system, who speak openly about the problems in the system and offer solutions as well. The rule of law means that no one is above the law and no exception can be granted to himself. The Presidents of the People and State officials are obliged to serve as an example by acting in the capacity of a state governed by the rule of law. It is not permissible for power or money to be used to gain privileges because it undermines trust in the country. It is from this Saeima that the public expects decisions and personal fairness in the area of the rule of law, and you have every opportunity to deliver on the promises made to society. Legislation is the basic work of Members of Parliament. The Saeima, as a set of leaders of the people, is obliged to draw up laws in accordance with the procedure and high quality. This is a difficult work that requires the hearing of experts and sectors so that decisions taken can be put into practice. That is why the public has the right to know what consultations have taken place on the intention of the law and which groups of society have defended the need of a law or, on the contrary, have prevented the adoption of a law. I would like to remind you that several laws have already been recognised by the Constitutional Court as adopted in an inadequate procedure. I call for this message to be taken very seriously that it is no longer possible to work for the old. The legislator must change time and according to the principle of good law. The Saeima must find time to continue working on amendments to the parliamentary order roll aimed at improving the legislative process. Legislative work must be thoughtful and balanced. The law is not an accidental decision by the legislator or a whim. Each law affects the lives of Latvian people. Therefore, every effort must be made to make the law effective and to achieve its objective. Nothing in this way undermines confidence in the legislator as an accidental and hasty law, the application of which brings confusion and chaos. Nothing so undermines the power of the law as the consciousness that the law can be amended very quickly and that it can be corrected in a hurry. The law cannot remain on paper only. Weaknesses in the implementation and practical implementation of laws in life both at government and municipal level weaken our country. Parliament must lay down the agenda for the executive power, and the executive must ensure that the decisions taken are implemented. Parliamentary control of the executive should be strengthened in Latvia. Ladies and gentlemen! A mature country and society are able to be aware of the suffering of the past and thus to be strong, building a better future. We have opened Czech bags, and the talk about our past continues. It is important that the evaluation of the past be made up of objective and scientific research, not myths and legends. It is important to be honest about ourselves and the past, no matter how difficult our history is, how much I would like to edit or even delete a page. Latvia is part of a united Europe. We are an integral part of it. Latvia will continue to exist and flourish safely only if we are able to ensure the principles of rule of law, democracy and equality in our own country. Latvia must not stop at what has been achieved. Good can also be made better, because the people of our country deserve the best. We are facing many challenges at the moment: internal and external security, socio-economic security, including a reduction in economic growth, and gaps in education and health. However, one of the biggest challenges facing our country is to reduce inequalities. It begins with the understanding that prosperity is not an economic figure, but a real life for people. Inequality is being spoken more and louder, but it is worse with concrete works and effective laws that will help to reduce inequality in our societies. It particularly affects many children’s families and seniors. I hope that consistent solutions in this direction will be visible in the near future. Especially in the preparation of the new budget, we should not forget the promises made to our constituents, but at the same time remember to create a balanced national budget when looking for funding for new initiatives. Our country must ensure a better future for the new generation. It begins with a safe and healthy childhood in a safe and conducive environment. A subordinate education system is a solid basis for both patriotic education and the development of brilliant talents in sport, culture and craft skills. There are still a lot of decisions to be made and implemented here. There are issues that simply need to be addressed. You have to stop putting your children in babyhouses. Every child should grow up in the family. We can grant Latvian citizenship to children already at birth. We must ensure equal opportunities for all children to obtain education in Latvian and create a full future in Latvia. The future issues of Latvia are related to the change of thinking from immediate convenience to long-term perspective. First of all, we need to learn to think and act at a time point longer than one election period. Thinking of our people in 10 or even 20 years' perspective. Thinking about the sustainability of Latvia and the world - even further. Latvia is still one of the greenest countries in the world, but unfortunately we cannot say that Latvia is greener than ever. Internationally, we have received unblemished assessments in a number of areas: air quality, effective pollution control and reduction, and intelligent use of resources are just a few of them. It is time to give serious attention once again to long-term environmental policy-making. Ladies and gentlemen! No terms of office have been set for the work of the state and the opportunity to participate in the formation of a better Latvia. Everyone in a democratic society has many opportunities to be active and to promote good change. Politicians must set an example in this regard. I don't give up on you today. I will continue to stand up for values that are important to us and will continue to strengthen Latvia. Thank you for your cooperation. Let us continue to work for Latvia! Thank you. (Applause)
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-20-PT13-544-U3	Thank you to the President of Latvia. (Applause) Dear colleagues, We just got the message of mourning. Yesterday evening a member of the Supreme Council who voted in favour of the independence of Latvia and a long-standing member of the Saeima Anna Seile left. On June 14, Vaira Paegle, a longtime member of the Saeima, was separated from life. Let's pay tribute to their memory! ( A moment of silence.) Dear colleagues, First of all, before we start to examine the agenda of the sitting, amendments were tabled to the agenda of the sitting adopted by the Saeima Bureau. Members Golubeva, Pavļuts, Rūkšāne-Ščipčinska, Lībiņa-Egne, Pleins, Steins, Voika, Staķis, Bluķis and Lejiņš are asking for changes to the agenda of the sitting and to include the draft law “Law on Members of the Life”. ‘ Marija Golubeva, Member of the European Parliament, applies to speak about’.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-20-PT13-544-U4	Dear President of the Saeima. Dear colleagues, Today we ask you to start examining in the Saeima the draft law “Law on Members of the Family”, which aims to protect all families of Latvia, including people with a sustainable social relationship, the union with the aim of caring for each other and for a common household. The draft law provides that the state also protects people who establish a relationship, a common household, but who are not spouses. There are very, very many such people in Latvia. There are several situations where, even with good will and the existence of monetary resources to contract common property or inheritance, two people cannot provide protection of the law for themselves, for example, they cannot make sure that you enter the hospital room with your spouse if one of you is seriously ill. The law does not mean that you will not leave the apartment if the rental contract is concluded in the name of the unmarried spouse and the spouse is dead. And if you inherit property after your spouse's will without marriage, the amount that you will have to pay in taxes will be disproportionately higher than that of your spouse. In his letter to the Saeima, the Ombudsman clearly referred to this latter fact, calling on the Saeima to provide regulation for these families as well. People with a social situation that is not enviable, people who have no money for wills, who have lived in poor conditions for life and are not able to study laws, but who... For many years, they have lived together while something does not happen to one of them, and then the other stays without accommodation and means to ensure their future lives. The draft law is intended to take care of these people, as it also provides that if the spouses have not entered into a marriage contract with a notary, but there is a need to protect the right to a common home or the right to be present in a hospital in an emergency and to decide on a medical intervention, the court may, within a few days, make a decision and establish an actual union of spouses, and there is a possibility for the law to protect the fragile world of these people. Let us respond to the call of society, let us be human! We will protect all people of Latvia! Thank you. (Applause)
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-20-PT13-544-U5	Thank you. Do Members object to the inclusion of a draft law on the agenda of the sitting? There is no objection. Draft law (Interface: ‘We're voting!’ )... There is no objection. Draft law on the agenda for the sitting (Dep. Bondars: “We are voting!” “We don’t vote!” )... Who demands a vote? ( Intercretion: Daniel!) ) The Members therefore want to vote. ( Internouncing call.) Mr Bondar wants to vote, he raised his hand. Members ask for a vote. ( The box “No! ”) ; “Do not vote!” ) Please call us! Mr Bondara, are you holding the vote? The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. Bondars: “Yes!” ) The Members therefore want to vote. ( The box “For whom? ”) ) Please call us! We will vote for the inclusion of the draft law “Law on Members of the Family” on the agenda of the Saeima sitting! Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about - 64, it's against - 9, it's not. Draft legislation shall be included on the agenda of the sitting. Members Voika, Rukšāne-Ščipčinska, Golubeva, Steel, Dūritis, Iksten and others are asking to include in the agenda the draft decision “On the withdrawal of Member Inese Voika from the Education, Culture and Science Commission”. Are Members opposed to this amendment of the agenda? There is no objection. The draft decision shall be placed on the agenda of the sitting. Members Golubeva, Steel, Rukšāne-Ščipčinska, Dūritis, Iksten and others are asking that the draft decision on the withdrawal of Member Maria Golubeva from the Foreign Affairs Commission be placed on the agenda of the sitting. Are Members opposed to this amendment of the agenda? There is no objection. The order of business has been amended. Members Voika, Rukšāne-Ščipčinska, Golubeva, Steel, Duritis and others are asking for a draft decision on the election of Member Inese Voika to the Foreign Affairs Commission to be on the agenda of the sitting. Are Members opposed to this amendment of the agenda? There is no objection. The order of business has been amended. Members Golubeva, Steel, Rukšāne-Ščipčinska, Dūritis, Iksten, Voika and others are asking to include on the agenda the draft decision on the election of Member Maria Golubeva to the Education, Culture and Science Commission. Are Members opposed to this amendment of the agenda? There is no objection. The order of business has been amended. The Cabinet of Ministers asks to include the draft law “Amendments to the Law “On Assistance in Addressing the Issues of the Apartment” on the agenda of the sitting and the National Administration and Municipal Commission asks to include the alternative law “Amendments to the Law “On Assistance in Addressing the Issues of the Apartment” on the agenda of the meeting”. Are Members opposed to this amendment of the agenda? There is no objection. Both draft laws shall be placed on the agenda of the sitting. The Committee on Social and Labour Affairs asks for item 41 of the agenda to be removed from the agenda of the meeting - draft law on Amendments to the Law on Support for the Unemployed and Seekers. Are Members opposed to this amendment of the agenda? There is no objection. Consequently, the draft law is excluded from the agenda of the sitting. The Budget and Finance (tax) Commission asks for the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Excise Tax” to be included on the agenda of the sittings. Or Members (interoperable: Vote!) )... Is that so? Members want to vote. Please call me! We will vote for inclusion of the draft law “Amendments to the law “On Excise Tax” in the agenda of the Saeima sitting! Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about - 74, it's against - 5, it's not. Draft legislation shall be included on the agenda of the sitting. The Budget and Finance (Tax) Commission is asking for the draft law ‘Amendments to the vehicle operating tax and company passenger vehicle tax’ to be included on the agenda of the sittings. Are Members opposed to this amendment of the agenda? There is no objection. The order of business has been amended. Let us start by looking at the amended agenda. Reports by the Bureau on draft legislative acts submitted. The Parliamentary Bureau proposes that the draft law “Amendments to the Law on the Compulsory Insurance of Civil Liability of Land Vehicle Owners” presented by Member Muižniece, Feldman, Riekstina, Strike and Zalīte-Grosa be referred to the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission, stating that it is the committee responsible. ‘ Anita Muižniece, a Member, has applied for the floor.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-20-PT13-544-U6	Good morning, honourable Speaker of the Saeima! Dear colleagues, The new conservative group has prepared a bill entitled ‘Amendments to the Law on the Compulsory Liability of Owners of Land Vehicles’, with two amendments. Looking at it historically... Article 14 is one that provides incentives for OCTA policies for disabled groups I and II (Sitting driver knocks down with a hammer.) and Group III persons with reduced mobility. In our view, the legislator did not provide for a fair and equal treatment for families that bring up children with disabilities, so we have made amendments to supplement the second paragraph with paragraph 3 of Article 14, by stating that parents, guardians or foster families who raise children with disabilities could also receive these benefits for OCTA policies of 40 per cent. Analysing what might be the impact (not on the local government, not on the public budget, but on the OCTA Guarantee Fund), we have calculated that, given that there are about seven thousand such families, the impact could be around 280 thousand per year. However, when we received data from the Latvian Vehicle Insurance Office, we also saw such a slightly absurd situation that so far the persons to whom this relief is provided sometimes receive it for two or three vehicles, sometimes five or even more. And the recordman was one person who had 23 such vehicles registered. We therefore ask for another amendment to the law, adding Article 14, paragraph 2.1, to read as follows: the reduction in the insurance premium provided for in the second paragraph can only be applied to one passenger vehicle for disabled persons and to families raising disabled children within a single family. I believe that these amendments to the law do equalize... avoid unequal treatment and provide additional relief for families raising children with disabilities. That is why I am calling for and asking for support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-20-PT13-544-U7	Thank you. Do Members object to a draft law being passed on to the Commission? There is no objection. Draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Saeima Bureau proposes that the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Audit Services” presented by the Cabinet of Ministers be referred to the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission, stating that it is the committee responsible. Do Members object to a draft law being passed on to the Commission? There is no objection. Draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Parliamentary Presidium proposes that the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Social Protection of the Victims of the Chernobyl Nuclear Power Plant and the Act on Social Protection of the Victims of the Chernobyl Nuclear Power Plant” presented by Member Clementyeva, Krišana, Tutina, Rubika and Orlova be referred to the Social and Labour Commission, stating that it is the committee responsible. Please turn on the microphone for Juta Strike.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-20-PT13-544-U8	Thank you. I propose that the Committee on Budgets and Finance (taxes) be designated as the responsible committee instead of the Commission on Social and Labour Affairs.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-20-PT13-544-U9	Budget and financial (tax) commission?
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-20-PT13-544-U10	Yeah.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-20-PT13-544-U11	Mr. Krishan, would you also have a proposal? The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. J. Krishāns: “I’ll talk about it!” ) Mr Krishan wants to talk about it. So “for” applied to speak Member Jānis Krišāns.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-20-PT13-544-U12	Good afternoon, Madam President of the Saeima. Honourable Members! In 1986 there was an accident at the Chernobyl nuclear power plant, which was, was, and would be, a major disaster and devastation, which has had a very long-term impact on ecology, human health and life, as more than 40 different types of nucleosides came into the atmosphere. I would like to remind you that the total explosion capacity was 100 times that of Hirosima and Nagasaki. Of course, the population of Belarus, Ukraine and Russia suffered the most from radioactive contamination, but the amount and impact of pollution would be even greater if Latvian people did not help to limit the pollution caused by the disaster. These people also protected Latvia, Lithuania, Estonia and the people of all European countries, but the impact of pollution has and will remain for many decades. Those who were disfellowshipped from their daily lives, their work, their children and families, in 1986, have had a very powerful impact on the traumatic experience of Chernobyl. The number of these people from small Latvia is about six thousand rescuers, and this is a huge amount for our small country. We must not neglect them. We must strive to help these people who have donated their health and lives to us, our children and also our grandchildren... reducing radiation exposure. The effects of radiation on the victims of an accident have had a devastating effect on their physical and mental health, which has a major impact on their lives and on the lives of their families. The range of diseases caused by radiation is very wide. It is unscrupulously ruining the body, and to fight it, it requires medication and a good diet. Yes, at present, medicines are being compensated by the state, but people's premiums remain very high, and not everyone is able to do so. By increasing the amount of the allowance, we will at least help to solve the serious material problems of these people and make life easier for them. We need to make sure that the survival of the liquidators of this accident increases and that they have a decent standard of living. One of my good acquaintances and colleagues was in 1986... But unfortunately, in the 1990 ’ s, his heart stopped. He was caught by this invisible and evil influence. He had a higher education, a wife, and children. But because of what he did, perhaps my children and my grandchildren can live in quality. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-20-PT13-544-U13	Thank you. So the applicants have submitted this draft law and there is a proposal from the Hall to refer the draft law to the Budget and Finance (tax) Commission as the commission responsible. Do Members object to the choice of this commission... on the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission? There is no objection. Do Members object to the transfer to the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission of the draft law on amendments to the Law on Social Protection of Parties to the Emergency Response to the Chernobyl Nuclear Power Plant and to the Social Protection Act for the Victims of the Chernobyl Nuclear Power Plant? There is no objection. Draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Presidium of the Saeima proposes that the Member Pavļuta, Lejiņa, Golubeva, Kalniņa, Bondar and other draft law “On compensation for the good will of the Jewish community of Latvia for the immovable property unlawfully expropriated during the Holocaust and Communist totalitarian regime” be handed over to the Budget and Finance (tax) Commission, stating that it is the commission responsible. ‘ On” applied to speak by Daniel Pavluts.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-20-PT13-544-U14	Good morning! Dear President of the Saeima. Colleagues! Colleagues! Last week, here in the Saeima, and also in public space, a proposal was made to return, in our view, in a pragmatic and constructive way to an issue that has been discussed several times before, but it has not come to a solution, namely the reimbursement of good will to the victims of the Holocaust to the Latvian Jewish Community Restitution Fund. Colleagues! As we have already explained, such a law would help to find a lasting and final solution for many years of discussion, which unfortunately contributes to the fragmentation of society, causes ethnic differences and in no way elevates the image of Latvia as a mature and organised state. Unsolved and painful issues are not lacking in our society. Here, in the Saeima, we are dealing with important issues that have been tribal for decades. Twenty-nine years after the restoration of Latvia's independence, we are discussing whether the children of non-citizens born and teaching in Latvia deserve automatic citizenship of Latvia. As the President of Latvia mentioned, for 28 years we decided to open Czech bags. The issue of the compensation of good will in the Holocaust and other Nazi crimes... There is a question about our values, justice, civil society building and understanding of Latvia's historical heritage. Colleagues! I believe that we are a strong nation. The people of Latvia in the 20th century have experienced incredible suffering, but we are strong enough to admit that both Latvians have suffered as a basic nation and other Latvians. Six days ago we remembered more than 15 thousand Latvians deported on 14 June 1941. Let me remind you that 25 thousand Latvian Jews were killed in the same autumn of 1941 in Rumbula. In March 1949, Stalin regime exported more than 40,000 Latvians. Visiting the Holocaust memorial in the Biķernieki forest, you will see that 35 thousand Jews and other people of Latvia and other countries - political opponents and soldiers of the Nazi regime - have been killed there for several years. The 20th century cannot be rendered original. However, it is up to us to overcome its consequences. It is absolutely clear that the opinion of the public and your dear colleagues on this issue is not clear. It is difficult to talk about this. We, the Latvian society, are not guilty of the sufferings of totalitarian regimes, but we are able to leave the injustices and symbolically compensate for the lost and unrecovered property of our fellow human beings in the past. If Mr Kirštein were to be in the hall - I don't think he is - I would say to him that by symbolically transferring some properties, we will hardly have fulfilled the quota of the good will of our country. Given the historical importance of this issue, it is clear that this topic will have to be addressed. What is more, this is a question of political leadership and responsibility. We should not cherish the illusions that this will happen by itself. The scars don't heal because we don't talk about them. As a society, we cannot mature and move fully forward, while in our history there are dark spots that we pretend not to see. Taking into account the opinion of our coalition partners that the issue of reimbursement of good will to the victims of the Holocaust has not been fully debated and further discussion is necessary, we, the signatories of the draft law, want to withdraw the submitted draft law in order to give you an opportunity to discuss it further between the Saeima political groups and the Latvian society. In my opinion, it would have been right to weigh it and to discuss it after the transfer to the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission, but today there is no willingness to vote on it. Let it be! We call on you to use coalition and Saeima discussion formats and to work together on this issue in order to find a lasting solution. We cannot change our history, but we are building the future today with our decisions and actions. ( Internouncing call.) I hereby submitted to the Speaker of the Saeima... I withdrew the signatures.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-20-PT13-544-U15	So the signatures are withdrawn. However, the 'no' bill is possible. Mr. Schnores, will you speak? So, Edwin Schnore, a member of the family, applied to speak against.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-20-PT13-544-U16	Hello, honourable Speaker of the Saeima! Dear colleagues, Although the draft law, as far as I understand, is being withdrawn, the discussions were encouraged and, I think, they are really necessary on this subject, because there are many myths and uncertainties that need to be voiced. As we know, last week, a very successful meeting between the Presidents of the United States and Poland was concluded in Washington. Shortly before this meeting, the President of Poland stated that Poland would not ensure a return on the Jewish property of the Holocaust victims, because under the law, property without an heir belongs to the state, that is to say, the whole nation. This is the case in Poland. This is also the case in Latvia, so we will vote against this tabled draft law; obviously there will be no such need anymore. The authors of the draft law state that Latvia has committed itself to resituation by signing the Teresin Declaration in 2009. I call on you to read this document carefully. First, it deals with the property of restoratives, which the Nazis took away during the Holocaust. The Teresin Declaration does not speak or apply to property withdrawn by allies. At that time, one ally - the USSR - acted like this, and it happened in Latvia in 1940, when the Jews of the USSR took away their property. Secondly, the Teresin Declaration emphasises that the restituation applies to all the victims of Nazism, not only to Jews, and therefore regardless of nationality. The authors of the draft law clearly ignore these two basic arrangements of the Teresin Declaration. The draft law provides that Latvia will transfer EUR 40 million from the state budget to the restorative fund established by the Council of Jewish Communities of Latvia, whose executive director is Gita Umanovska. My hand is an article in Israel's largest newspaper Israel Hayom, which says that Jewish leader of Latvia Gita Umanovska has been a KGB agent who has reported to the Czech Republic on his brothers. Here is a card of the Gita Umanovska agent in the Latvian archives. Thus, a person who, according to the KGB, has cooperated and has worked on a cheque on behalf of the USSR, who has supported the Soviet occupation regime, is now going to receive compensation for property withdrawn from the USSR regime. This, in my opinion, is similar to granting compensation for the stolen property of Nazi victims to one of the Gestapo's agents. I think there's nowhere else to go. (Applause) The draft law states that these 40 million will be used, among other things, for the health care of the Jewish community. So not only for the health care of the victims of the Nazi regime, as required by the Teresine Declaration, but for the health care of the entire community. This obviously means that millions paid by the state at Bikur Holim will be able to be treated freely, for example, Mrs Umanovsk, but someone who has been sent to Gulag after a Czech agent report and has lost his health there, but is not a Jew, will not be able to be treated in this clinic. More! From him, the taxpayer, the money will be taken for these 40 million. In my opinion, this is a clear injustice, it is a division of society and a ridicule for the people of Latvia. If once the authors of the bill call for crimes and repressions of totalitarian regimes, why is there no organisation that has been oppressed in the section consulted? Why not ask for an opinion to those who really suffered from totalitarian regimes rather than cooperate with them and report to the Czech Republic? I call for no support. Thank you. (Applause)
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-20-PT13-544-U17	Dear colleagues, The signature of the draft law has been withdrawn, and so we are moving to the next draft law. The Parliamentary Bureau proposes that the Member Stepanenko, Papule, Švekova, Liepāja, Gobzem, Slūde and other draft laws presented “Amendments to the Law “On the State Budget for 2019” be submitted to the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission, stating that it is the committee responsible, as well as to the Education, Culture and Science Commission. ‘ Jūlija Stepanenko, Member, has applied to speak about”
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-20-PT13-544-U18	Dear colleagues, Many good things have happened this week. I think we can thank Mrs Šuplinska very much. We can thank her for apparently, as we can only mention, for the great fight in the Cabinet of Ministers. We do not know how it was. But given that this decision to amend teachers' salaries was delayed, we can really only mention what is going on in the Cabinet. We're just seeing that sometimes ministers go and try... And when they don't win, they fight on the Twitter with each other and then complain. We can only... Indeed, we can only mention what is happening in the Cabinet. It is likely that this “ Santa Barbara” takes place there in very, very large amounts. In any case, we really thank Mrs Šuplinska very much. But, as today's time we will help Mr. Kariņš to fight against Estonia for excise duty... which has put off the excise duty... I think we're gonna do this... As Mr. Kariņš has requested help from the Saeima, we want to help Mr. Kariņš with this draft law... maybe not as urgent as today's alcohol to reduce excise duty, but to include a editorial clarification in the draft budget law, so that in the future, you might think that such things should be included in the base of the draft law. But it probably doesn't matter to Mr. Karins. In any case, I ask you, honourable colleagues, to support the inclusion of this draft law... transfer to the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission and vote in favour. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-20-PT13-544-U19	Ms. Anita Muižniece, Member, has applied for a speech.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-20-PT13-544-U20	Good morning! Thank you, Mrs Stepanenko, for the time being, to our Minister. Until the morning of today, you know, I had the hope that certain members of the opposition were reasonable... than previously seemed and will simply withdraw this tabled bill. Of course, someone will say that I haven't gone out of policy life school, and it's not just going to have to be seen for a little more than three years... or that, to put it quite simply, it is naive, as I said here a few sittings ago, to be good faith and to think that these strange and absurd draft laws, to put it mildly, are good will-driven rather than conscious harm. And again... Again, the opposition is targeting more or less hits, not on topics that affect a smaller part of society. Once again, I will agree with a sensitive sector - education, because, as a matter of fact, it will reach many... Publicly saying that the Saeima rejected this draft law, there will be few people who will get deeper, listen to the debate or go into the fact that in the Tuesday meeting of the Cabinet of Ministers it was approved... supports the proposal to raise teachers' salaries from 1 September to 750 euros per rate; that from the state budget... 74, which is also the subject of this draft law, the redistributable funding will be made available; the Ministry of Education and Science is asked to submit within two weeks a draft order for the re-allocation of appropriations between budget departments, programmes and sub-programmes for the allocation of this funding. The decision has been taken. The ministerial proposal is supported, the money for wages will be. All the teachers have a sunny, bright and peaceful vacation time! Point. But here we are - 100 members elected by the people of Latvia who have been elected, waiting from us not yet ambrasion, marasmatic and inappropriate speeches from this tribunal, but real, targeted and above all productive work, activities for the benefit of the whole society, for the benefit of Latvia. And perhaps we could also have worked well in these fourteen unnecessarily spent, paid-in minutes of taxpayers' money. Judging by the action of individual Members who have been training the question of teachers' salaries for almost half a year, ignoring normal processes, teaching it as a problem and not allowing things to run smoothly, I suspect that this will not end. Perhaps the next proposal, Mrs Stepanenko, will sound like that - bring money into a wooden box, hand it over to the opposition, we will protect it, because we do not trust the ministers. (Applause) Because, obviously, they can't believe that the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission makes it clear that the seven million found and reserved are only for teachers' salaries. It is not enough that the Cabinet takes a decision. The main thing is constantly, forgive me, behave almost like a circus arena. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A. Gobzem: ‘Where is ‘3 × 500’?’ ) In conclusion, I would like to ask a rhetorical question about what Mrs Stepanenko has read last night is concerned about not being able to defend at the same time three of her proposals for three draft laws in the various commissions. Perhaps it is worth making proposals and writing draft laws by nature, in the name of good objectives and productive ones, not just because it looks good in the context of creating a public image. Thank you. I call for no support. (Applause)
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-20-PT13-544-U21	Please call me! We will vote for the transfer of the draft law “Amendments to the Law “On the State Budget 2019” to the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission, stating that it is the committee responsible, as well as the Commission for Education, Culture and Science! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The draft law has not been passed on to the commissions. The Saeima Presidium proposes that the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Plant Protection” presented by the Cabinet of Ministers be referred to the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy, stating that it is the committee responsible. Do Members object to a draft law being passed on to the Commission? There is no objection. The draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Parliamentary Bureau proposes that the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Public Procurement” presented by the Cabinet of Ministers be referred to the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy, stating that it is the committee responsible. Do Members object to a draft law being passed on to the Commission? There is no objection. The draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Saeima Presidium proposes that the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Procurement of Public Service Providers” presented by the Cabinet of Ministers be referred to the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy, stating that it is the committee responsible. Do Members object to a draft law being passed on to the Commission? There is no objection. The draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Parliamentary Bureau proposes that the Member, Golubeva, Pavļuta, Rukšāne-Šchipčinska, Lībiņa-Egnere, Pleis and other draft laws presented be referred to the Social and Labour Affairs Commission, with responsibility for the Commission. Please turn on the microphone for Daniel Pavlut on the procedural issues.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-20-PT13-544-U22	Thank you. Colleagues, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that we are convinced in record-keeping... Member Stepanenko has applied to speak “on” the draft law “Law on Members of the Life,” before this issue was examined... The Bureau was on the agenda. I can only mention that such a step has been taken in order to deny the draft lawmakers the opportunity to speak about the draft law. Therefore, in view of this situation, I call on the Saeima to vote on whether the draft law can be referred to by Member Stepanenko or Member Bondar for Development/Par! on behalf of the ( across the line: “There is no vote! ”) ) Council Regulation (EC) No 1257/96 of 20 June 1996 concerning humanitarian aid (OJ L 163, 2.7.1996, p. 1).
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-20-PT13-544-U23	Just a minute! Colleagues, I have to ask the Legal Bureau's opinion. Colleagues, this is an unregulated issue and should be decided by the Saeima vote. Let us give our opinion here. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. Mr Feldman: ‘What are we voting on?’ ; “Steam the vote!” ; dep. Mr Col: ‘What will we vote on?’ ; ‘What will Members vote on?’ ) We understand that the situation has been the one that Daniel Pavilut described to us. ( Milestones.) On the procedure. Please turn on the microphone for the Member Artus Kaimiņš.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-20-PT13-544-U24	Listen, I understand it's "for" and it's "for". Member Stepanenko is Member Stepanenko. And if Member Stepanenko has decided and decided that it is 'for' and not 'for', that is her opinion. We must not vote... Now, in my opinion, to make a man... that one is better or worse than the other. Whatever the matter is under consideration, I think it is absurd to put Members to the vote on whether Stepanenko will be allowed to speak on the relevant draft law or against it. So, please, Daniel Pavlut, to be understanding - maybe Member Stepanenko's night has become... is now with another vision of this bill. I think... Let me say it! Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-20-PT13-544-U25	Please turn on the microphone for Daniel Pavlut.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-20-PT13-544-U26	Thank you. I... Maybe Artus Neighbours didn't listen. I will repeat my thought. My objection to the procedure is as follows. It is not a question of whether a Member is essentially ‘for’ or ‘for’... whether or not they are entitled to... I refer to the fact that Member Stepanenko has applied to speak on this subject before the draft law was put on the agenda... the amended agenda, thus denying the possibility - even a theoretical opportunity - for the draft lawmakers to talk about the draft law. I therefore call for this matter to be decided by the Saeima's vote, thus resolving this situation clearly.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-20-PT13-544-U27	Does anyone else want to talk about the procedure? ( Interface: “Yes... ”) Please, turn on the microphone for Juta Strieke.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-20-PT13-544-U28	Before putting this issue to the vote, careful consideration should be given to creating a precedent. Because if we start to assess what the applicant will talk about and how, then we will have to continue to explain... Because this is the basis for this request... This is the basis for this request: the desire to speak 'for', not to allow anyone to speak 'no' on the substance. Next question... was already scheduled for inclusion on the agenda today... possible inclusion in the agenda... and nowhere it is regulated... So why Mrs Stepanenko... I am currently legally speaking... on precedents... Why would Mrs Stepanenko not be able to submit an application if she sees that this question will probably be on the agenda? We should think very carefully about the consequences of this vote for future sittings. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-20-PT13-544-U29	Please turn on the microphone for Linda Liepiņš.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-20-PT13-544-U30	Colleagues! Someone accepted the wish of this Member, Stepanenko, to speak in favour, and no one mentioned to Mrs Stepanenko that this could cause problems. If someone had warned him, then perhaps the Member Stepanenko would do different things. So, in my opinion, this should not be put to the vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-20-PT13-544-U31	Please turn on the microphone for Victor Valain. (Laughter)
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-20-PT13-544-U32	I think this is not the first time and it is not the last time. In this Saeima too, the very “Development/About!” This exercise has already been demonstrated. So, I think, there's nothing to vote here. If Mrs Stepanenko was the first, she is the first. That's it! Well, the story's over.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-20-PT13-544-U33	Please turn on the microphone for Aldi Gobzem.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-20-PT13-544-U34	Hello! On the procedure, if we vote today on whether or not to allow Mr Stepanenko to speak in favour, then we must have a vote in all cases where Members have applied to speak for or against. So that there is no discrimination that only Members of Stepanenko are concerned. ( Internouncing call.)
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-20-PT13-544-U35	Please turn on the microphone for Janis Izalnieks.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-20-PT13-544-U36	In my opinion, if we introduce a practice of voting on whether a Member can speak with a presumption of what the content of his speech will be, it seems to me as a lawyer... It seems that there is an opportunity to bring such actions of the Saeima to court. ( Internouncing call.)
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-20-PT13-544-U37	Please turn on the microphone for Andrejs Judin.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-20-PT13-544-U38	I think, like or disliked, this is an issue that cannot be voted on.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-20-PT13-544-U39	Thank you. Please turn on the microphone for Raiv Dzintar!
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-20-PT13-544-U40	Hello! ( Internoint.) (Laughter) I, too, share the view previously expressed that the matter should not be put to the vote. At the same time, I would like to point out that this opportunity - to speak with one 'for' and one 'no' - is essentially intended to give rise to different views before the conceptual vote. The exercise of this possibility is, of course, not legally agreed, but from an ethical point of view, I think it would be obvious that, if the real aim is to speak the same thing as the other speaker, that is to circumvent the substance of this norm and perhaps the question should be seen in the Commission of Mandates, Ethics and Applications. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-20-PT13-544-U41	Please enable... Mr Bondara, do you want to talk about the procedure? ( Internouncing call.) Turn on the microphone for Mārtiņš Bondar!
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-20-PT13-544-U42	I fully agree with Mr Dzintara on what he said. To a certain extent, I would not have any claims if one of my colleagues, who is actually the author, talked about this matter. But at the same time, my de facto colleague Stepanenko has never supported this issue, has never been on the side of this issue, but now (Interface: "How do you know? She has not yet spoken!” ) here, in front of the Saeima, tries to pretend that she wants to talk "for" and vote "for". Now I'm sorry, it's more than blasphemy of this high house. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-20-PT13-544-U43	Please turn on the microphone for Andrejs Judys!
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-20-PT13-544-U44	I very much hope that Mrs Stepanenko will talk about the draft law and not abuse her right, but if we want to address this issue, then it must be stipulated in the Rule of Procedure that the applicant has the right to speak about and that everything will be clear. We are working on amendments to the Rules of Procedure, but the issue is not regulated at the moment, so we regrettably have to accept what we have. In other words, two people have applied to speak, one for, one for, one for, one for, give them a name.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-20-PT13-544-U45	Colleagues! You have convinced me that this issue cannot be voted on and that no Member would have the right to monopolise the only right opinion on a political issue. Unfortunately, applicants also do not have the right to privatise and carry any specific idea. This issue is not regulated at the moment. If it has to be adjusted, then in the Order Circle. Thank you. Thus, Member Jūlija Stepanenko will speak about it. ( The box “July, we will listen to every word! ”) ) Council Regulation (EC) No 1257/96 of 20 June 1996 concerning humanitarian aid (OJ L 163, 2.7.1996, p. 1).
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-20-PT13-544-U46	Thank you, dear colleagues. I would like to congratulate you today, honourable Members, for having a unique opportunity to return to the past. We have every opportunity to experience it today. It has to be said that no other initiative has yet been able to awaken the spirit of the past, as has been done by the bill “Law on Members of the Life”. Today, June 20, 2019, we will have the opportunity to look back on a 100-year-old history with you. At the time when our country had just been born and the first Latvian state institutions - Latvian Police, University of Latvia, Latvijas Pasts - were established, right next to the neighbours of the Great October socialist revolution, a very energetic man with a revolutionary idea came to power. It was Vladimir Ilych Lenin, who, along with the other one with no less energetic politicians, Lev Trocki took a bad look at reforming people's privacy. A family based on the spouses - father with mother - and their children - was declared remains of bourgeoisist life. ‘ The family needs proletarian, revolutionary!” - this was said by the big politicians at that time and decided to change the understanding of marriage in society by adding its definition of the importance of common ideology in this union, rejecting the marriages closed in church as the last folly and taking away all the legal consequences for them. Politicians were so impressed with the revolution of family life in their great ideas that after a few years the idea of recognising the actual cohabitation without the registration of the marriage also became real. The Second Soviet Code, which entered into force in 1927, provided for marriage and family marriage to be established by the existence of a common farm, mutual material care and joint raising of children. In the same way that we are now invited to submit the life partners’ bill. Over time, the values of the family in the Soviet consciousness were thoroughly disdained and took one of the last places in the value system. The ideology of revolutionary Marxism was much more important, and family values remained the last. By weakening family values and specifically rearranging the marriage institute, simplifying the divorce process and reducing responsibility for children, the power began to demand even more - that the family give up such hateful, anti-sovet elements as members of the family churchmates or critics of power. The system carefully selected all of its people for work, required certificates of social origin, evaluated the nature of the person and relations with family and friends. The sons gave up their fathers because they served in church or criticised the Soviet authorities. A poor, divided, frightened society, to which the authorities tried to subtract values, detracting attention from the extortion of the state! Dear Members! Perhaps Lenin has never stood as close to modern political decisions as today. Dear Members, you forbade the sickle and the hammer, but they shine through the draft of this law. You want more Europe and think about modern relations, but you forgot that the European Union was founded on Christian values. But those who believe that love and trust can be subject to the ideas of revolution, allowing the state to regulate the legal meaning of each kiss, certainly believe in the power of this law. Those people who played with social experiments are the past. Dear colleagues, The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. D. Paviluts: “You’re not talking “for”!” ) They enjoyed the consequences of the experiments: overcrowded children’s homes, a fall in public health and an irresponsible well-being in society. ‘ Lenin's ideas live and win!" - such posters decorated the walls of houses until recently. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. Ms Paviluts: “Speak about the proposal!” ) But only now understand ( Dep. I. Riena: “She’s also talking “for”!” ) that it was a warning to future generations. It should be borne in mind that there will always be someone in whom these ideas live. ( Insight: “You don’t talk about it! ” ) And if these ideas will be won, you will decide what to do today. I call for the vote to be taken on this draft law by those who have tabled it. ( Interface: “It’s not a ‘ talking’! ” ) Thank you, colleagues. (Applause)
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-20-PT13-544-U47	Ladies and gentlemen, Mrs Stepanenko has spoken about transferring a draft law to a specific commission. However, I call, my fellow Members, not to be concerned with the parliamentary procedure, but indeed then to talk about or against it and to call for a concrete opinion. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. U. Plant: “For Development/About!” It started!” ) “ Against” has applied to speak by Member Jānis Iesalnieks. ( The ring of noise.)
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-20-PT13-544-U48	Good morning, colleagues! To be clear to everyone, I will speak against this draft law. We all know that Article 110 of the Satversme provides: “The State protects and supports marriage – a union between a man and a woman...”. In 2005, by a constitutional majority of the Saeima adopted this clarification in Article 110 of the Satversme. Annotation of the draft law was concluded: “In view of the traditional view of marriage and family, which has developed in Latvia in the course of cultural and historical development, as well as the constant threats to this traditional value, it is necessary to include in Latvian legislation the definition of marriage.” The main purpose of the legislator, by adopting these amendments to the Constitution, was to clearly define what the Latvian State really understands with the term “marriage”. In other words, the legislator wanted to clarify what is this fundamental constitutional value which the State is committed to protecting by granting it special status and special privileges between all the other institutions and bodies of society. Thus, the aim of Article 110 of the Satversme is to defend marriage – the union of men and women – as one of the fundamental, traditional values of Latvian society by imposing a direct constitutional restriction on other possible forms of marriage. If we analyse the submitted draft law, the law on life partners, we can conclude that the purpose of the draft law is to create a very similar institution of law for marriage, with legal consequences for the parties concerned almost identical to the legal consequences of the conclusion of the marriage (Dep. R. Lochmele-Lunova: “Did you read the law at all?” ) - reciprocal property and personal rights and obligations, adoption rights, succession rights and so on. All rights specific to marriage. Question: "If the two legal institutes are almost identical, why do the draft law believe that such a new institution of the rights of spouses is needed with marriage?" The answer is known to all. Article 110 of the Satversme provides that only representatives of the opposite sex may conclude marriage, while the draft law submitted does not contain such a restriction. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. D. Paviluts: “The draft law is not about marriage!” ) It is also, in fact, the only legally relevant difference between the marriage and the institution of the proposed spouses. From this we can conclude that the sole purpose of the draft law is to circumvent the restriction set in Article 110 of the Satversme to enter into marriage between persons of the same sex, namely, by a simple law to circumvent the law of constitutional order. Colleagues, I hope everyone understands that such a construction - by ordinary law simply bypassing the constitutional law - is both ethically and legally incorrect. I would like to emphasise that, having regard to the right of a person guaranteed in Article 96 of the Satversme to respect privacy, any person in Latvia has the right to freely establish his private life at his or her own discretion. This right also includes the right to freely establish relations with other people, including co-habitation with a person of his own or the opposite sex. However, at constitutional level, the legislator has distinguished that it is the marriage, which is a union between one man and one woman, and not other forms of union - two or more persons - that is legally recognised and protected, regardless of the sex of the persons involved. The legislator has neither the right nor the obligation to regulate all possible forms of personal relations that are possible in the world. Colleagues, I call on you to respect the Constitution of the Republic of Latvia and not to try to bypass it with bend. If someone is not peaceable with the provisions of the Constitution, please submit amendments to the Constitution. I call for this draft law to be rejected as incorrect. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-20-PT13-544-U49	Please call me! Let us vote in favour of handing over the draft law “Law on Members of the Life” to the Commission on Social and Labour Affairs, stating that it is the commission responsible! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 23, for - 60, for - 1. The draft law has not been passed on to the commission. Dear colleagues, Members Strike, Paviluts, Dzintars, Pucens and Eglitis are asking to announce an hour long break. Do Members have objections? ( The box “Yes! ”) ) Then we must vote. Please call me! We will vote for the parliamentary session to be suspended for an hour, so by 11.20 a.m.! Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about - 54, it's 30, it's not. The decision has been taken. Please call me! Please register the Members! Time for notifications. Name to Member Rihard Cole.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-20-PT13-544-U50	Dear Members of the Commission on Foreign Affairs, I know that you have been told that we are going to have a commission meeting at the first break. As this is an extraordinary break, the commission meeting will be convened on a regular basis. But I will inform you on our communication devices.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-20-PT13-544-U51	Name of Member Janina Kursīte–Pakulė.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-20-PT13-544-U52	Members of the Commission for Mandates, Ethics and Applications! Right after registration, right here in the Yellow Hall, for a short sitting!
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-20-PT13-544-U53	The name of the Member, Martin Bondar.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-20-PT13-544-U54	The budget and financial (tax) commission, we also had a sitting at 10.30 a.m., but... It would be on a regular basis. There is an extraordinary break at the moment. So the sitting will take place on a regular break when there is a regular break. There is an extraordinary break at the moment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-20-PT13-544-U55	The name is Marija Golubeva. The results of the registration.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-20-PT13-544-U56	Not registered: Aldis Adamovičs (Interface: “I am, I am!” ), Aldis Blumbergs, Anda Čakša, Gundars Dauge, Sergey Dolgopolovs, Ilmārs Dūritis, Inese Ikstena, Andrejs Judins, Aleksandrs Kiršteins, Rihards Kozlovskis, Ainars Latkovskis, Ivars Puga (interim: Yes!) )... is, Dana Reizniece-Ozola, Jānis Urbanovičs, Jānis Vucāns and Ivars Zarins.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-20-PT13-544-U57	Thank you. Interruption until 11 a.m. ( Interruption)
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-20-PT13-544-U58	Honourable Members! I invite you to take your seats in the Chamber! We're continuing the Saeima sitting after a break. On the agenda - reports from the Saeima Bureau on draft laws submitted. The Parliamentary Bureau proposes that the draft law “Amendments to the Law “On Excise Tax” presented by the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission be referred to the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission, stating that it is the Commission responsible. ‘ For” applied to speak Member Aldis Gobzems.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-20-PT13-544-U59	Hello, colleagues! My talk of "on" will consist of two parts - a slightly less serious and a little more serious section. I'll probably start with the serious... With a minor or a serious - it's hard to say, judge it yourself. But I have to say that Yuszs has disappeared in the Saeima Hall. You've got a check and a consignment note. Where's Yusch? The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. S. Riekstins: “What connection?” ) But by nature of excise duty. On excise duty, I will support this proposal, but subject to a number of conditions. I will support for the reason that I have always thought that there are too high taxes in Latvia on entrepreneurs and ordinary people. There are, however, a couple of things that are important to call for a 'no' vote today, and this bill should be debated after it has been passed on to the commissions. This draft law does not include beer, but only spirit drinks. Consequently, the question arises: does moving such a draft law, given that Arturs Krišjānis Kariņš has declared a war against Estonia in relation to alcohol trafficking... Are there any statistical indications that most spirit drinks or still most beer? And what is this in the context of the issue of the coalition itself, which has only recently been driven by the coalition itself, of increasing the excise duty on beverages consumed by children? So we're going to reduce heavy alcohol, but for example, drinks that are consumed by children and are not alcoholic beverages, we're going to increase? That's one detail. The second detail, which is essential. I call on the ruling coalition - before applying for an alcoholic war in Estonia - to apply for a war on real estate tax reduction, to apply for a war on an increase in the non-negotiable minimum, to apply for a war on electricity prices that are higher for us - to begin with this. They should be priorities. It is not as it was before the elections, when I spoke to a single Member who, in fact, has much more experience on this issue and ought to have climbed into a tribunal. At that time, we spoke on the phone that, most probably, the main priorities in society were cotletettes and alcohol. It turns out that the new Unity Government has taken this into account, stating that the first issue that will be changed by reducing it will be the heavy alcohol. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. L. Ozola: “Behold of your constituents!” ) In this case, it is very important to say that when presenting such a draft law, it is also not understandable whether there are calculations or whether such a tax reduction will keep the Estonians going to Latvia and continue to buy alcoholic beverages in Latvia, because we know that in Estonia we have reduced excise duty by 25 percent, but we plan to reduce the excise duty by 15 percent on strong - and only on strong alcohol. If there are such calculations, then they should be put on the table, but if not, tax reduction, thinking that Estonians will continue to travel to Latvia to buy alcohol as before, is a stupid idea that is not based on any evidence and no calculation. If the Estonians stop travelling to Latvia... Under such a condition, reducing excise duty on heavy alcohol is, in fact, foolish. We're not going to collect so much. And in conclusion, what I want to stress... Excise duty... This is my subjective view, which has not been tested, but I am convinced that, by giving the country the hint that reducing alcohol prices is a priority, we must talk very much at the same time about the enormous problems of alcoholism in Latvia, but the priority must be reduced labour tax, real estate tax, electricity prices and everything else. We should be dealing with these issues as a matter of urgency. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-20-PT13-544-U60	“Pret” has applied to speak to Member Vjačeslav Dombrovskis.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-20-PT13-544-U61	President-in-Office of the Saeima, very much. Dear colleagues, Unfortunately, I was unable for some time to participate fully in the more active life of the Saeima, because I had to participate in the Tibetan Development Forum. I spent five days in Tibet. Very interesting, colleagues! I saw with my eyes the results that China has invested EUR 100 billion in infrastructure in the region over the last five years (inter-references). ... This is the introduction to the question. Patience, please! In the Himalayan Mountains, roads, railways, airports, and power lines were built nearly 4,000 feet [4,000 m]. “ Look at what’s in Riga! Nothing!” ) Thus, China forms an international tourist centre - Tibet. And also the transport bridge to South Asian markets. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. E. Zālīte-Gross: “You can’t drive on Chaak Street!” ) Yes. Really, colleagues! And... and what information do I read when returning to Latvia? ( Milestones.) The first news is that the police catch the Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Agriculture on farm milk illegal trade, moreover, at the very buildings of the Ministry of Agriculture. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. S. Riekstins: “Ušakovs already does not allow normal people to trade in Riga!” ) The next news - Prime Minister Karin declares that... I quote, colleagues: “...the Estonians have started a war of alcohol excises against Latvia, we have nothing but to answer.” ( Intercretion: “Rightly! ” ) Highly honored colleagues! That is really very serious. Please listen to me! ( Internouncing call.) Our Prime Minister admits that Estonians “started an alcohol excise war against Latvia”! I was just a week away, colleagues, and you have been able to pull our country into a military state with Estonia! ( Insight: “Do not go more! ”) ) Cous belli - which beak is cheaper?Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, And Kariņš coalition immediately prepared an answer for those Estonians - to immediately reduce excise duty on strong alcohol by 15 percent. There is a clear desire to be able to do so to bring good news to their constituents, at least to those who celebrate John with strong alcohol. This, of course, shows very well how high you, fellow Members, are in your voter's eyes. Highly honourable colleagues, you may have had this news, but the Estonians have long since started war against us. The Estonians have started a labour tax war. In particular, labour taxes for Estonians are significantly lower than in Latvia. ( Internouncing call.) The Estonians have begun a war of an uncomplicated minimum. The non-taxable minimum for Estonians with personal income tax is 500 euros. And, the new conservative party, what is the unobstructed minimum for us? What about this? The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. Mr Feldman: “Why didn’t you do anything when you were an economic minister?” ) The Estonians have started a scientific funding war. A much smaller country, Estonia, is able to give science almost twice as much as Latvia. ( Insight: “You were the Minister of Education! ” ) The Estonians have started their teacher wage war. Already next year, Estonian teachers will have to raise the minimum wage to 1250 euros per month. And you members of the coalition have just voted against the proposal to raise teachers' salaries... raise the minimum wage to 750 euros per month. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. E. Zālīte-Grosa: “There is no shame?” ) The Estonians have started a war of higher education. University of Tartu isn't already... It's not just Top 500, it's Top 300, colleagues! ( Internouncing call.) So the Estonians have begun - and, moreover, very successfully! - war on so many fronts that I suspect that your real goal, colleagues, is that you have finally found the formula of Latvia's success. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. Bondar: “It sounds like Tibet was better!” ) Yes. (Laughter) That we need to declare war to Estonians and then give up. And apparently this alcohol war is some initial element of this strategy. ( Milestones.) If, however, you, the highly honored Kariņš coalition, are planning a serious war with Estonians, I call for an immediate response with the war of science, the war of higher education, the war of the smallest minimum, the war of labour taxes, the war of teachers' wages... and also several other fronts. And then (Military: “Time! Time!” )... Colleagues, only when we win Estonians in all these wars, will I be in favour of winning also a war that is cheaper. Because... ( Not to be heard.) I cannot support this particular proposal!
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-20-PT13-544-U62	Your speaking time is over. Thank you. Please call me! We will vote in favour of handing over the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission to the draft law “Amendments to the Law “On Excise Tax”, which states that it is the committee responsible! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The draft law has been passed on to the Commission. Ladies and gentlemen, the Budget and Finance (Tax) Commission asks that the draft law ‘Amendments to the Law on Excise Tax’ drawn up by the Commission itself be put forward for first reading without re-examination in the committee responsible and under the heading ‘Provision of draft laws’ be included as item 1. Do Members have objections? Please call me! We will vote for the first reading of the draft law “Amendments to the Law “On Excise Tax” without re-examination by the committee responsible, including the draft law as item 1 of the agenda under “Review of draft laws”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Decision adopted. On the granting of leave. For unpaid leave granted to Member Armandas Krauzem on 13 June this year. The Saeima Bureau has received an application from Member Armands Krauze requesting unpaid leave on 13 June this year. The Bureau has granted leave and shall inform the Saeima thereof. For unpaid leave granted to Dana Reizniece-Ozola on 19 and 20 June this year. The Saeima Bureau received an application from Member Dana Reizniece-Ozola to grant unpaid leave on 19 and 20 June this year. The Bureau has granted leave and shall inform the Saeima thereof. On closing and opening the session of the Saeima. The Saeima Bureau proposes that the spring session be closed on 20 June following this regular parliamentary meeting and the replies to questions asked by Members and that the autumn session be resumed on 3 September 2019. Please call me! We will vote on the draft decision on the closure of the Saeima's 2019 spring session and the opening of the 2019 autumn session! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 82, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Decision adopted. On the re-reading of the law. Dear colleagues, On 14 June this year, the President of Latvia has sent the Saeima for re-reading the law “Amendments to the Law on the Society Integration Fund” adopted by the Saeima on 6 June this year. The Commission for Human Rights and Public Affairs is responsible for this law. The Saeima shall set a time limit for the submission of proposals as well as the date on which the law is re-examined at the sitting of the Saeima. Please turn on the microphone for the Member Artus Kaimiņš.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-20-PT13-544-U63	At the meeting of the Commission on Human Rights and Public Affairs, we decided that the deadline for submitting a draft law would be five days, so 25 June this year, and the draft law would be re-examined at the next extraordinary sitting to be announced by the Saeima Bureau.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-20-PT13-544-U64	Thank you, there are no other proposals. This means that the deadline for tabling proposals - 25 June this year - is the next extraordinary sitting of the Saeima to be announced by the Bureau. On the agenda - Election, approval, appointment, dismissal or dismissal of officials, expression of trust or distrust. Draft decision “On Release of Laima Kraule of the judge of the regional court of Kurzeme from the office of judge”. On behalf of the Legal Commission, Mr Valery Agešin, Member.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-20-PT13-544-U65	Good afternoon, dear colleagues! At the meeting of the Legal Commission of Saeima on 12 June, the draft decision on the release of Laima Kraule, a judge of the regional court of Kurzeme from the office of a judge was reviewed at his own wish due to retirement. The members of the Commission have unanimously supported the draft decision. The work of the judge was evaluated with two awards from the Ministry of Justice: in 2010 - the Honorary Diploma of the Ministry of Justice for responsible, fair and exemplary performance of work duties; in 2015 - the 2nd grade of the Ministry of Justice Recognition and Silver spade as an important contribution to the development of the Latvian judicial system and long-term and self-free work duties. On behalf of the Legal Commission, I invite Laimas Kraulis, the judge of the regional court of Kurzeme, to be released from office of the judge at his own wish due to his retirement with effect from 1 September 2019.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-20-PT13-544-U66	Please call me! We will vote for the draft decision “On Release of Laima Kraule, a judge of Kurzeme Regional Court from the office of a judge”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about - 83, it's against and refrains from - it's not. Decision adopted. Draft decision “On Dismissal of the judge of the Supreme Court Voldemārs Čiževska from the office of a judge”. On behalf of the Legal Commission, Mr Valery Agešin, Member.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-20-PT13-544-U67	During the meeting of the Legal Commission on 12 June, a draft decision on the dismissal of the judge Voldemārs Čiševskas from the office of a judge was reviewed due to his retirement. The members of the Commission have unanimously supported the draft decision. The work of the judge has been awarded with awards: in 1998 and 2008 Voldemārs Čiševskis received a certificate of recognition of the Supreme Court on a long-term, fair work and a significant contribution to strengthening the rule of law; in 2012 the award was awarded with a Class III Honor of the Judicial System on the performance of a long-term, exemplary, fair and creative judicial role, a significant contribution to the Latvian judicial sector; in 2014 received 20 years of importance of the Day for 20 years worked in the Supreme Court of the Republic of Latvia and the Award of the Supreme Court in the nomination “Themite Court”. On behalf of the Legal Commission, I call on the Supreme Court judge Voldemārs Čiževskis to be released from office of a judge at his own wish on 9 September 2019 due to his retirement.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-20-PT13-544-U68	Please call me! We will vote for the draft decision “On Dismissal of the judge of the Supreme Court Voldemārs Čiževska from the office of a judge”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about - 83, it's against and refrains from - it's not. Decision adopted. Draft decision “On Dismissal of the judge of the Supreme Court Anita Nusberga from the office of a judge”. On behalf of the Legal Commission, Mr Valery Agešin, Member.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-20-PT13-544-U69	At the meeting of the Legal Commission on 12 June, the draft decision on the dismissal of the judge of the Supreme Court Anita Nusberga from the office of a judge was reviewed at his own wish due to his retirement. The members of the Commission unanimously supported the draft decision. The work of the judge was evaluated with awards: in 2008 Anita Nusberga received a certificate of recognition of the Supreme Court on a long-term and honest work and a significant contribution to strengthening the rule of law; in 2010 the honors were awarded with a third degree mark of the Judicial System on the performance of a long-term, exemplary, honest and creative judicial role, a significant contribution to the Latvian judicial sector; in 2015 received 25 years of importance of the Day for 25 years worked in the Supreme Court of the independent Republic of Latvia. On behalf of the Legal Commission, I invite Anita Nusberga, a judge of the Supreme Court, to be dismissed from office of a judge at his own wish due to his retirement. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-20-PT13-544-U70	Please call me! We will vote for the draft decision “On Release of the Supreme Court Judge Anita Nusberga from the office of a judge”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about - 85, it's against and abstains. Decision adopted. Draft decision on the withdrawal of the Saeima Member Didžas Šmits from the Commission for Sustainable Development. Let us start a debate. Name to Member Aldi Gobzem.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-20-PT13-544-U71	Dear colleagues, Especially representatives of the government coalition! I have to admit - I love you very much! (Applause) I really love you very, very much. As an opposition Member... What would I do if you were to respect the Constitution if you were to care for Latvian society (Inter-Characters.) If you adopt laws that aim to make us as better as possible and vote against laws that make the situation in our country worse? But no, you're taking action so that I, as an opposition Member, have a job so that I can criticise you. That's what I love you very, very much. I love, for example, the New Conservative Party, which promised an uncompromising rule of law that has turned into a compromise of lawlessness, and the fact that they do not actually care about the people, but each sitting kiss their own cardboard. Today, although it has disappeared, although the cheque is and the bill of lading is. I love the rest of you, too. Therefore, in this speech, I would like to mention not only Didzis Šmits, but also Linda Liepiņš, whom you now want to replace with a Commission of Request, which is now a major national issue. So the country will very, very much benefit from the fact that Didzis Schmidt will not be able to replace the commission. Or that Linda Liepini you're now... you will not look at OIC issues, but you will throw Linda Liepina from the Commission's management, placing him in the chair, Mr. Pugas. The country will flourish right away - that's what you think, huh? It's your... In essence, start working! Not to share those crafts! Why do you divide posts? You divide posts to have bonuses! These are worrying, for example, about the superstar of the rock café. This superstar is worried that there will be no craftsmanship, there will be no 500 or 800 euros premium. But that doesn't make life better in the country! In the country, a better life does not come from restricting the right of Members of the Saeima to change commissions. A better life in the country doesn't get you every sitting of the Saeima kissing a cardboard of Jurasha. In the country, a better life does not become that you are defending and lobbying OICs or that you are pushing forward some other laws within the framework of your party members or any other commercial transactions. And that's why I love you very much, honorable position! The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. S. Riekstins: “Never from your mulling!” ) Sandi Riekstinu I love, I think, most of all ( Dep. S. Riekstins: “Don’t!” Thank you. Thank you very much. , because when Sandis Riekstins walks into the tributary, it is absolutely clear that the arguments in essence have come to an end at all! (Laughter) There is a feeling that Sandis Riekstins from the parliament wants to return to Riga City Council, where he still has nothing to do with it. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. Feldman: “Aldi, something about me!” ) I understand that you want each individual to be advertised, given that I am a popular member of the opposition. (Laughter) But I cannot do this because you are restricting other rights that the opposition Member has, for example, by launching today's loud and national debate on whether or not the opposition Member, Jūlija Stepanenko, will be allowed to debate or not. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. Feldman: “Do you love him?” ) Well, you are. (Laughter) And thank you for that. I hope in the next Saeima with some of you we won't. (Laughter) Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-20-PT13-544-U72	The name is Digit Schmidt. ( Insight: ‘ Do you love yourself too? ’) ) Council Regulation (EC) No 1257/96 of 20 June 1996 concerning humanitarian aid (OJ L 163, 2.7.1996, p. 1).
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-20-PT13-544-U73	Dear colleagues, Ladies and gentlemen! I have two messages in this regard: one for the Saeima stenogram and the other for the KPV LV party. Saeima stenograms. Just before you vote... and that, if you vote, how I can feel, "for" the fact that I do not have the right to change commissions, you know that in this way you violate the law, that is to say, the free right of a Member to choose commissions. Why am I saying that? Because when one day this issue will be dealt with by the Constitutional Court... so that this stenogram, what will now be written there, and that you may not say: “You know, we didn’t know. We didn't know the interpretation, we weren't informed." Or something else. You're informed. Before you vote... Well, yeah. The other thing. For the party ‘KPV LV’. I'll put a long story short, as you say. If you thought it was necessary to elect Ivars Pug... And that was the plan, then... That was not the plan! Yesterday, someone else had to be elected in a secret ballot if. And that will continue. The elections to the European Parliament have now come to an end and the presidential elections have come to an end, and the new era, which is in fact called the 'CPV LV' and the 'BIP' humiliation era, has now begun. As they say, they will try to check what the threshold is, how far it will allow you to laugh at you. This will continue until late autumn when the budget will have to be adopted. And then you as such kittens will be cast over the seat. From this government, I mean coalitions. There you will understand that the earth is round. (Laughter) And the tractor or tank that you are now pushing against the independent Members will turn against you and cross without pity. But one good news is. When you are in opposition and want to change commissions, you have one voice safe. I will always support your wish and the right granted by law to a Member to choose his or her own commissions. You can count on it. That may not be enough, but you certainly have one voice. Thank you. (Applause)
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-20-PT13-544-U74	I closed the debate. Please call me! We will vote on the draft decision on the withdrawal of the Saeima Member Didžas Šmits from the Commission for Sustainable Development! Please vote mode! Please get the result! - 30, 51, abstain - not. The draft decision is therefore rejected. Consequently, the next draft decision - "On the election of the Saeima Member Didžas Šmits to the Commission of Petitions" - is not to be considered. Draft decision on the withdrawal of Member Inese Voika from the Commission for Education, Culture and Science. Please call me! We will vote on the draft decision on the withdrawal of Member Inese Voika from the Commission for Education, Culture and Science! Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about - 83, it's against and refrains from - it's not. Decision adopted. Draft decision on the withdrawal of Ms Marija Golubeva from the Foreign Affairs Commission. Please call me! We will vote on the draft decision on the withdrawal of Ms Marija Golubeva from the Foreign Affairs Commission! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. Decision adopted. Draft decision on the election of Member Inese Voika to the Foreign Affairs Commission. Please call me! We will vote on the draft decision on the election of Ms Inese Voika to the Foreign Affairs Commission! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. Decision adopted. Draft decision on the election of Ms Marija Golubeva as a Member of the Commission for Education, Culture and Science. Please call me! We will vote on the draft decision on the election of Ms Marija Golubeva, Member, to the Commission for Education, Culture and Science! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. Decision adopted. Examination of draft laws. Draft law “Amendments to the Law “On Excise Tax”, first reading. On behalf of the Commission for Budget and Finance (Tax) - Member Rihards Kozlovskis.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-20-PT13-544-U75	Very honourable Speaker of the Saeima! Dear colleagues, Yesterday, the Budget and Finance (Tax) Commission examined the draft law “Amendments to the Law “On Excise Tax””, which was prepared in cooperation with the Ministry of Finance. Representatives of the ministries attended the meeting of the Commission. As we all know, on 1 July this year, Estonia's amendment to the excise duty law, which provides for a 25% reduction in excise duty on certain groups of alcohol, comes into force. The Ministry of Finance expressed a view within the Commission on the possible negative fiscal impact, given that we were not expected to amend excise duty by 1 March next year. Excise duty amounts to EUR 92 million per year. The Ministry of Finance also informed that this tax... not only from excise duty, but there are other taxes, both personal income tax and value added tax. There was, of course, a debate in the Commission on this. Members unanimously acknowledged that this is perhaps not the best way to promote economic development, but the situation is that, after the debate, we have understood that there is a real fiscal impact already this year. If we count 92 million per year, it is about 46 million for half a year. The commission therefore supported this draft law after a debate and first asked for its urgency, second, it decided that this draft law should be examined in both readings at today's Saeima meeting. On behalf of the Commission, I would therefore ask for support for this draft law.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-20-PT13-544-U76	So we must decide first of all on urgency. Mr. Kučinski, do you want to talk about urgency? Mr. Smith, will you talk about urgency? Please call me! We will vote for the recognition of the draft law “Amendments to the Law “On Excise Tax”” as urgent! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 66, no, 10, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The draft law has been declared urgent. The Commission has asked to support the draft law at first reading. Colleagues, if you want to debate, then there is now room for debate. Let us start a debate. The name is Mr. Wallary Ageshin.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-20-PT13-544-U77	Dear colleagues, When there is a strong lobby and motivation, the law can be adopted at an impact rate. One day too. We are all very well aware that alcohol is not a first-needed item (Interior: “How to whom!” ), and I think there are much better things to take from Estonia's experience. I therefore call on the coalition to seriously, carefully and comprehensively assess Estonia's experience in the economy without hysteria and fanaticism. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-20-PT13-544-U78	The name of the Member, Lubov Svekov.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-20-PT13-544-U79	Mr. Karin's government likes to fight. I guess the government tastes and tastes the taste of war. The first war brought forward by Mr Kariņš was with the financial sector, when legislative changes were made behind the cover of the Moneyval report, which resulted in the dismissal of Mr Putniņš, Head of the Financial and Capital Market Commission from August 1th, which allowed him to oppose the breakdown of a bank belonging to national capital within the insolvency administrator's group. But a war-loving government... In fact, with the announced fight against money laundering, the strategic partners were lobbying... they belong to the Blackstone Group... Inflow of capital into the market and its re-allocation in the case of the acquisition of Luminor with a reduced... or better prices... the result of the prices. Now the government is declaring a new war, because of the excise duty on Estonian alcohol. What actually lies behind the war? Do you think - people's interests, strengthening competition in the trade in alcoholic beverages? But why was this unique way chosen - the reduction of excise duty on spirit drinks? Most likely, in fact, the government wants the population to consume more strong drinks. I guess so! Because a person in the ambiance cannot critically think and see the deceptive things that those in power hide behind loud slogans. Drinking alcohol helps people to perceive things more positively by wearing fog glasses. — Dep. ( K. Feldman's intermediate call.) - Change... increasing the poverty gap and other major challenges. Do you think that there is actually an expected increase in excise revenue? You're wrong. Of the total exported alcoholic beverages only 10.7% are exported to EU countries, including Estonia. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. S. Riekstin’s intermediate call sign.) In fact, 89.3 percent of alcoholic beverages are exported to Russia. So, higher revenue in the budget... taxes are levied not on Estonian border trade, but on a company owned by Mr Šefler, who sells alcohol in Russia. The winner of the war announced by Kariņš will again be a foreign capital-owned company that will earn an excess profit from the reduced rate of excise duty on spirit drinks. The unpaid excise revenue will be offset by the next year's increase in taxes on other groups, including value added tax and on micro-enterprises. This transfer of the tax burden from a rich company affects the most vulnerable groups of the population. And for those who will now vote in favour of the reduced excise duty on strong alcohol: historically, excise duty was created as a tax on richers, but in time it turned into a tax on harmful and unhealthy products. The coalition lacks consistency in the implementation of tax policy, as it is absurd to raise excise duties on soft drinks and to reduce alcoholic beverages. I will personally vote against the reduction of excise duty on spirit drinks and ask also logically-thinking other Members of the Saeima not to support this legislative initiative. (Applause)
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-20-PT13-544-U80	The name is Digit Schmidt.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-20-PT13-544-U81	In that regard, three cases are brought forward. I really don't know where it's gone... why Latvian beer producers are discriminated against, why do not reduce them. I don't understand. Because in fact, if we look at what alcohol is traded at the border, then we see that beer is more national capital... the local product available. But we're gonna fix it. At least we will have a proposal, and I call on all of us to really support it. In the period between first and second reading, let us submit a proposal, and also a beer... it is attributable to beer. That's one thing. The other thing. This is an interesting situation that I think will somehow enter economic thinking history. On the one hand, Prime Minister... If it was his... Well, at least I heard it was his... perhaps someone recommended, I do not know, but the public prime minister shows (this is very positive!) that he sees the economy more difficult than the Excel table, that is, sometime it is necessary to reduce the tax in order to get more, or to keep the difference that has actually arisen now because of Estonian folly rather than because of our wisdom. It's very good... That is very good. But sometimes you can see a combination of the Ministry of Finance Excel with this will. We won't put the beer, because if we put the beer, we'll get less... Well, after all, we're talking about it on the ladder... The idea is to keep the ladder so that, when shopping in Latvia, Estonians and others pay more. But there is still an Excel in this thinking. It's interesting. There is one important thing to which I do not know the answer. I hope that's the answer... that this proposal is included, but nothing crazy, if not, because simply thinking about the future... Estonians are reducing... Suppose we will include beer in our drinking alcohol; Estonians reduce by 25 percent, but we offer a reduction of 15 percent. And here's a very good question. I don't know the answer. Is that a trench... Is that so? Trepe will remain smaller in any case. Will it make it possible for Estonians to still go to us to buy alcohol? Because if the ladder is too small and the Estonians won't do it, then we give up additional revenue by aligning rates. The idea of keeping a lower rate is only one condition: we have a calculation that exactly as it has been until now, Estonians and other tourists buy more trips to us. If they stop doing so, if that difference is too small, we will lose money. I hope there is a calculation. In any case, the truth will soon be seen. I call on you to support the addition of beer, but I very much look forward to the reasons why it... that we're going to be smaller than 25... difference if... only on 15... whether it will bring the fiscal effect we want. At any rate, however, it is interesting that there has been a desire to think outside Excel and we see a fight outside Excel - Excel against some wiser idea. It is the hope that one day we will really get out of Excel. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-20-PT13-544-U82	Name to Member Maris Kučinskis.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-20-PT13-544-U83	President-in-Office. Dear Members, I'll be unpopular... Especially before the Johns, it is very popular to decide on a reduction in the price of strong smiling, and I am convinced that (Dep. Feldman: “Jauns are before! He won’t come to John!” ) support... Many will appreciate it. And the more people enjoy alcohol, the less they think about other things. At least it was before. However, I ask for a word, taking into account what has been heard in rhetoric, so as to give a little outline, in my view... A pretty unfair insult to Estonians that they have started some kind of war in this area, as well as to prevent some digital manipulation, because we talked here about excise duty on alcohol, which is just under 200 million, of which 30 million are beer and about 160 are strong... then there is wine and cider. Not all this alcohol is sold in Valka and Ainaži, which means that very many domestic alcohol users will receive more bonuses. Ladies and gentlemen, in my view, this is a relatively bad signal that will bring joy where it is not necessary, because in fact the losses of alcohol for the economy as a whole are much greater. Next. I understand the border cities and I know where this lobby comes from. I have discussed a lot of things, I see and understand Venta Armanda Kraukle, my friend in Valka, but I have often told him that hearing neighbors is not a thing of honor. In any case, for some time (Interior call.) it can roll, just like the Finns go to Estonia... Now, this situation, after a rather imprudent decision by the previous government of Estonia, is extremely rapid, without respect, without taking into account that we did not do so, to raise excise duties... The situation was, of course, what we saw, including with our respectable Finnish neighbours who, when they arrived on board ships, sat on special buses with extended luggage that brought them to the Ainaži checkpoint. The buses were filled with the strong and also the weak alcohol, and then, already in the evening, went back to Helsinki. You can build a business like this, but... Well, I think... Are you sure you will now also record in the Latvian National Development Plan that the great challenge and business opportunity of Latvia's future is low excise duty on alcohol and alcohol trade, raising the economy at its expense throughout Latvia? What the Estonians have done now is, of course, they have corrected their error, which they made some years ago. But they don't cut us. Their alcohol excise duty was two and a half times higher than for us (this is not about any percentage - two and a half times higher!) . Naturally, something had to be done. So now that they're not dumping us, we're going to dumping the Lithuanians. Bauska can start preparing for its business breakthrough and wait for Lithuanians from Panevėžys, because now we... in advance we synchronised this building with Lithuanians. We told the Estonians that what they have done we simply cannot afford and that we will not do like Estonia, but that all the agreements with the Lithuanians were fulfilled - a gradual build-up, a gradual work to make alcohol not as available as before. Ladies and gentlemen, now a rather unwise step! We voted against, but I appreciate this: John will be viewed by many people as a fantastic gift. Next Best (Interior) gift, the next good job done by the coalition (for the sixteen-year-olds can now shoot), - alcohol will now be cheaper.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-20-PT13-544-U84	The name to Anda Chakša.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-20-PT13-544-U85	Dear colleagues, An ancient paranoid says that you will not build your own happiness on each other. I think that alcoholism is the great disaster on which we cannot build our wealth and our happiness in our country. In my view, this issue, although being dealt with only by the Committee on Budgets and Finance (taxes), is much broader. This is a public health issue, so I am a little surprised that the coalition does not support its health minister, who has made it very clear that such a reduction in excise duty will have a very significant impact on the alcoholism situation in Latvia today. And the fight for the fact that it is in this particular case that the excise duty must be higher... The only... Well, some of the rare ones who have shown very clearly in various studies that these are instruments that reduce alcoholism, reduce cigarette consumption, so reduce the number of smokers... For us, the first cigarette is still smoked at the age of 12 and half or 13; for us, the first episode of drunkenness is at the age of 12. I think it's dramatic! Now we are talking about war or not about war, but we completely forget that we are ruining our future potential, because alcohol affects the brain, alcohol affects the health of the general public. And this is a very, very unthinkable decision. The other side. Perhaps the Minister of Finance (less for other ministers) has met at meetings of the various European ministers and has always been asked very loudly: ‘When will you increase excise duty?’ Because this story is about how public health is improved and not - on the contrary - about the road that increases the availability of alcohol and alcoholism. Instead, we... Say one thing, but think another. We are talking about the need to increase the price of sugar drinks, but on the other hand we say, “Let us drink alcohol instead of sugar drinks!” It has an even worse effect on the brain. What do we want to touch? What eyes? What don't you see? Don't think? Why is such a decision necessary? I call, however, for consideration to be given to public health.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-20-PT13-544-U86	The name to the Member Digim Schmit for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-20-PT13-544-U87	It seems interesting to me that this issue could lead to such an emotional debate. They are absolutely rational. We have retained opportunities to earn from the fact that our neighbours have made a mistake and want to buy alcoholic beverages on the territory of Latvia. I would, of course, be incomparably more happy if Estonians were to come to Latvia not after alcohol, but work in Latvian factories, because here would be the best labour taxes and other things. That would, of course, be fantastic. We have to work on this. I do not believe that this alcohol issue, which is very important... or it's just an educational question that shows that you can make a break from Excel and get more... what I said before. With regard to public health, which is, of course, an important issue. I do not know what research is and on what it is based on, but there is some practice in world history, which shows that the price of alcohol, which in a way also contributes to its unavailability if it is very high, the only thing it does, is to facilitate the illicit circulation of alcohol, not to reduce consumption. Even during the “dry law ” in the United States, alcohol consumption in absolute litres did not fall by any amount of money; however, in the United States, the mafia, which was based on it, was born. I agree that public health is very important and that alcohol should be used as little as possible, but it is changing. If we look, for example, at countries such as Scandinavia, Sweden and also England in the last 50 years, then it changes with serious national policies, youth policies, where sport and other things become more popular than sitting on a bench and drinking beer. It is a complex public policy that does not end up starting and ending with the value of legal alcohol. If there is any connection with it at all, then very, very minimal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-20-PT13-544-U88	Name to Member Aldi Gobzem.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-20-PT13-544-U89	As I said earlier, I will be voting in favour, but there are a few details that I think society needs to be very much explained. This example of an excise duty on alcohol shows that the government can reduce taxes very quickly. If a government or coalition on television tells serious faces that tax reductions are not possible, no change is possible, 2028 and then maybe something... teachers wages and so on... Then don't believe! If we can actually reduce the taxes on heavy alcohol in one day, we can do so in other areas. This is proof. The other thing. This is also proof of a certain duality. And now I have to withdraw my previous speech, which was more of humor. We have several doctors in the hall. One - Mr Skride - who, very recently at the Saeima, and very seriously together with other colleagues, defended the increase in excise duty on sweetened drinks, is sitting in the opposite. In principle, what Mr. Skride is basically... don't go to the pub and don't talk about alcohol being harmful to your health... says: “Do not drink alcohol cocktails in the future. In the future, drink clean alcohol. Don’t drink rum with cola, just drink rum!” I think that Mr Skride should climb into the bar and talk about a problem that is in Latvia as a medical doctor. This is a very serious problem that we may be swaying about, but which we must talk about very seriously. I fully agree with Mrs Čakša: there is a huge problem of alcoholism in Latvia. A huge problem. The problem is also evident in a parliamentary building. And it's not a joke. It is an inheritance from the times of the Soviet Union, from the thought of the Soviet Union. And with this heritage, of course, we... There I do not agree with Mrs. Chash... we cannot fight by raising or not raising excise duties on alcoholic beverages, because banning alcohol in itself does not mean that alcohol will not be consumed. Not those who drink the most expensive alcohol; those who drink it cheaply - smuggled and so on. Drinks are those who are not educated at school. We have a very weak quality education system, and we... In fact, the culture of alcohol consumption is being maintained in our societies. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A. Muižniece: “Aldi, read some research!” ) What I would like to say about tax reductions and... I would like to draw the public's attention to another factor that makes me concerned... because of the draft law that has been tabled, I have no answer as to why the heavy alcohol has been chosen here, not to say, the alcohol produced by local capital, namely beer, which is a light alcohol and which is, in fact, also the most exported at the border. I have these concerns, and I would ask the public to pay attention to whether behind such an hasty question... below the objective of fighting and fighting Estonia in this area, there is, in fact, no commercial interest for individual politicians. Yeah, why is heavy alcohol being treasured, not actually the entire alcohol industry? It is an issue that we will probably not receive a direct answer, but which we can assess and follow in the context of several and different events. Another matter to be discussed in connection with the reduction of excise duty is the progress of this draft law in such a hurry... The draft law is driven in fact without any calculation. And here... It's also proof that... The ruling coalition usually says: we cannot and cannot accept it, because we have no calculation, we have not analysed it. Reducing the tax on heavy alcohol shows that this is possible without calculation, without a specific analysis. Another point I would like to highlight in this regard. I very much hope and want the ruling coalition... that the ruling coalition's only "success story" in this parliament would not be alcohol, but that the "success story" would be electricity price reductions and everything else that I said in my previous speech. Finally, I would like to highlight and call on the members of the Latvian Parliament, talking about alcohol and alcohol problems in Latvia, not to perceive it with humor, but... I want to repeat: alcoholism in Latvia is one of the most important problems, it is faced by many many families. As a lawyer, I have to say that when reading almost every criminal case... the first sentence of almost every criminal case starts with the words “after a common drink”. It's not a joke! We should talk about it from the platform to doctors, not just to me as a lawyer. I also call on Mr Skride, as a doctor, to climb this platform. And at the same time... justifying... I will also vote in favour of a tax reduction, because I believe that there are too high taxes in Latvia. But at the same time, we have to talk... We must be an example, not a Member who is detained in a café, but... We need to be an example, we need to explain and create a sense that drinking alcohol is not stylish, that drinking is not stylish, that heavy alcoholic beverages are not stylish. We must be those who talk about it, even if it is not popular. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-20-PT13-544-U90	The debate time is 15 minutes. Mr. Leeni, would you have had seven? The name to the Member Atm Lejny.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-20-PT13-544-U91	Colleagues! I think the debate has gone completely cross-cutting. Allow your humble servant to use institutional memory. You may have heard that there is an institution in the Baltic States called the Baltic Assembly. In the Baltic Assembly, we have been trying for a long time to get some sort of harmonised excise duty policy in place. That's one. Second. Mr Kučinski, it was your government, and Mrs Čakša, it was your government, during which we began to gradually raise excise duty. And I don't know if it was formal or informal with the Estonians, but we did - we were slowly approaching not just their level, but almost to their level. And, as you know... Look at the stenograms... Look at the prices, that's what we did. There is now one problem. I also remember that while I was in the previous Saeima, I spoke to the Estonians, “So will you reduce taxes?” The debate started already in the previous Saeima. In Estonia, they said: “No, no, no. We will not reduce, because we deserve from the Finns for so long, now your turn will earn from us!” But! This new... A very, very conservative party called EKRE said: "No, that's it! The pelts must be given a proper hand of this!’ And one day made a decision. Mr. Kariņš called Mr. Ratas: “Please, let’s talk! Let's talk! We cannot, after all, be so fast that we are approaching your level." Mr Ratas replied: “Hi, it’s too late! Let's talk in Brussels! The President has already signed.’ What's Karin's gonna do now? Go to the big round table in Brussels with Mr Ratas: 'Listen, we wanted to harmonise!' “Well it didn’t happen, dear neighbors!” We are now giving our Prime Minister a gun so that Mr Ratas cannot avoid negotiating with our Prime Minister. That's politics! I'm sorry. That's politics! Mr Ratas will have to talk to us because he already has a public idea that alcohol policy in Lithuania, Estonia, Latvia needs to be harmonised to avoid these enormous fluctuations. Do you agree? Vote 'for', Mr. Karin, is not going to Brussels with his hands empty! If they can help us, they must learn from... We got them, too. Now, to be honest... I already mentioned it, didn't I? The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. R. Bergmanis’ intermediate call.) I already mentioned that the real war is not between us and the Estonians; the real war for the Estonians is with Finland. They deserve hugely from Finland, as I have already mentioned. Now they look terrifyingly, the Finns are starting to go to Ainaži. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. R. Bergmanis’ intermediate call.) That is why, colleagues, it is also a broader field. Let us be realists, no one wants us to be alcoholics in this country. I'm very little drunk, to be honest. I don't need it at all. ( Interface: ‘ Really? ’) ) Yes, indeed. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A. Gobzem: “How little is it?” ) And... I'm even trying to count -- in the last two weeks... Even in the hottest summers, even after a sauna, I have not been drinking beer, but my own mint tea. Okay. (Applause) Let's go back to the Baltic Assembly. Let us do it in a human way. And to conclude, we were in Estonia two weeks ago... Mr. Wittenberg, we were two or three ago. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. J. Witenberg: “One beer!” (Laughter) No, no... Well, three weeks have passed... And those Estonian neighbors who sat next to us didn't say anything about this, but only laughed at us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-20-PT13-544-U92	Mr. Dombrovskis, would you have two minutes to break? ( Internouncing call.) Yes or no? Name to Member Vjačeslav Dombrovskis.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-20-PT13-544-U93	I... Colleagues, this is a rather informal message to you. For the most part, those who are relatively young here. I was surprised that at the meeting of the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission one of your Members... from the New Conservative Party, I think... Well, but the next one will definitely be this our “3 × 500”... one of them... And so... If you think that tax revenue will be higher, you're stupid. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. Feldman: “There will be no bigger!” ) That will not be the case! This is the overall effect (Dep. A. Muižniece: “We’ll just lose less!” )... Total... Well, but I have to say things in the right words. Bullshit is stupid if, Mr. Pavilut. Overall, there are three effects here. First. Will the Estonians continue to buy? As this difference will become smaller for the price, it is not written... The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. S. Riekstins: “You’re also a blind buy!” ) Maybe yes, maybe not, maybe somewhere in the middle. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. Feldman: “After inertia!” ) Second. People will drink more, won't they, Mr. Skride? More than that, it will generate more revenue. Plus. Okay. But the third effect is that on all alcohol consumption... a lower tax of 50 per cent will apply to all consumption. And this effect will be greater, absolutely greater than those of the previous two. As a result, revenues will fall. As a result, you will be even further away from your 3 × 500, your teachers' salaries and the rest of it. That's all that's here. Perhaps as a member of the opposition, I might be thrilled by the fact that the position pushes myself into the abyss, but... Well, but we live in one country. Thank you. (Applause)
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-20-PT13-544-U94	Colleagues, we will obviously continue the debate after the break. Colleagues, there is a break for John's bite. Without mint tea, unfortunately... and without beer. But (Interior call.) Suiti wives will be, and Johns will be bitten in the Saeima! Given the size of the agenda, the Saeima Bureau has a proposal: break for half an hour, and then let us continue. ( The box “Yes! ”) ) Do Members have objections? ( The box “No! ”) ) Members............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ Do Members have objections? ( Interface: “No! ”) ) Half an hour break. Thank you. Please call me! Please check-in mode! Name for the statement to Member Rihard Kola.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-20-PT13-544-U95	Dear Members of the Commission on Foreign Affairs, Now let us set a tight time when we have a meeting of the Foreign Affairs Commission. So today at 2.30 p.m. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-20-PT13-544-U96	Thank you. Name for Maria Golubeva to read the results of the registration as soon as they are prepared.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-20-PT13-544-U97	Not registered: Aldis Blumbergs, Gundars Dauge, Sergey Dolgopolovs, Ilmārs Dūritis, Inese Ikstena, Aleksandrs Kiršteins, Ivans Klementjevs, Ainars Latkovskis, Vitalijs Orlovs (Dep. Orlov: “I am here!” )... is, Dana Reizniece–Ozola, Jānis Urbanovičs, Jānis Vucāns and Ivars Zarins.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-20-PT13-544-U98	Interruption until 1 p.m. ( Interruption)
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-20-PT13-544-U99	Honourable Members! I'm inviting you to come back to the Chamber. We're continuing the Saeima sitting after a break. On the agenda - draft law “Amendments to the Law “On Excise Tax””. First reading. The draft law has been declared urgent. We are continuing the debate. The name to Member Aldi Gobzem for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-20-PT13-544-U100	Dear colleagues, In the previous time, I simply did not say to the end a few things that should be said from the parliamentary tribunal, emphasising and proving that alcoholism is a serious problem in Latvia. In particular, in the last year of 2018, 1870 particularly serious crimes were committed, that is, five particularly serious crimes per day. The number of murders increased by 15 percent. To understand better, 80 percent of these murders and many of these particularly serious crimes are of a social nature. Thus, 80 percent of murders are of a social nature, perhaps after a common drink between “friends ” or family members. I think that these are issues that we are talking at the same time not only about how we are going to increase the budget revenue that we should increase, but these are also issues on which I once again call on the Member, who, last week and in the past week, actively supported excise duties on sweetened non-alcoholic drinks, to climb the tributary and to talk about the harmful effects of alcohol, precisely because we already understand that alcohol will also be used more or less by society as a whole. But when we talk about this problem, if not at a time when we are discussing potential price reductions for alcoholic beverages to compete in Estonia. Once again I stress that 80 percent are domestic murders, of which almost all occur under the influence of alcohol. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. S. Riekstins: “Aldi, we love you very much!” ) I am referring to a very serious subject. Member Sandis Riekstins, when he enters the hall and delays the sitting, says that he loves me very much, which I, of course, have to answer from Parliament. Today, we did not accept and reject the Lifecycle Law. But if I had accepted it, it is likely that you might find signs that Sandis Riekstins wants to have a real relationship with me that can be proved. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. S. Riekstins: “Dream!” (Laughter) Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-20-PT13-544-U101	The name of Member Julia Stepanenko.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-20-PT13-544-U102	Yes, my dear colleagues, really... Mr. Skride, maybe you could come and tell me if there's really no more research, no more magazine... You mentioned it. Is there really no study on harmful effects of alcohol on health? The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. M. Bondar: “What has Lenin and Tuck said about it?” ) Lenin and Tucky - we'll put them in peace. They are the past, as we understood today. But if we talk about the duality with which this decision is made today in a terrible hurry, if we talk about the duality with which we turn our eyes to other, much more important, problems, then... We also read LETA’s message (June 19, 2019) that teachers’ salaries for 2020 are still being searched for. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A. Muizniece: “Well, Julia!” ) We are still looking for money for them, but we are fine-tuning our excise duties today in even a few hours. And... Ma'am! (Applause) Dear Muižniece, instead of reading my feisbuck and looking for the missing Juiša, really help them find their money faster! Thank you. (Applause)
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-20-PT13-544-U103	The debate is not yet closed. Name to Member Krišjānis Feldman.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-20-PT13-544-U104	Hello! Today's the first time I'm on the table. But the subject is very important, so it will not be possible to avoid speaking. What did I notice? There were too few specific figures in this debate. Even if they were in the form of assumptions or only roughly calculated, they still... Some figures need to be drawn from the platform to explain some possible decisions. In this case, I am familiar with the calculation by the Ministry of Finance of this change. Tax reduction for spirits by 15 percent... Reduction of excise duty... I would like to emphasise that we are no longer talking here about the fact that we will get something in the budget; we are talking about the fact that we need time to absorb potential losses, which can be much greater in the budget this year and next year. Therefore, in 2019, even if we do this, we will lose seven million of the budget, but this will be compensated to some extent by the over-exploitation of the budget. (Interface: “3 × 500!” ) And this should be explained, of course, by more representatives of the Ministry of Finance. Next year we will lose 32 million of the fiscal space, so a budget that has not yet been adopted. So the fiscal space will be narrowed. If we don't... and I have to trust the calculations of the Ministry of Finance in this case, even though... My question, which I asked the Minister of Finance quite openly this morning, was: "What assurance do I have that these calculations have not been made by the same person in the Ministry of Finance, who calculated, in an organised manner before the elections, that "3 × 500" would cost EUR 1.7 billion? What assurance do I have that this is not the same person who can manipulate Excel?” ( Interface: “But it’s just a technical budget! ” ) There was no clear answer. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A. Gobzem: “And what? What is the guarantee?’ ) There was no clear answer! But I have to trust, I have to... economists need to develop this quality over time. It's not possible for everyone. The figures must be able to be assessed first of all - whether they are reliable or not. For example, Lemberg. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A. Gobzem: ‘3 × 500’ is likely?’ ) When he says – “3 × 500” will cost 1.7 billion –, it seems credible. For sound economists, this seems obvious... Unbelievable, because they immediately reason: ‘ Wait, yes, the income of the IIN - even how much is there? And if we're going down there... either, the figure is incredible.’ Hence, it determines the reliability. In this case, it seems to me that these calculations are reliable. I am not saying that they are completely objective, because I am not counting. As we know, and as I said earlier, the Ministry of Finance is very dramatic, even ten times wrong. If we do not, we lose more than 90 million of the fiscal space next year. Unfortunately, the period that we have to balance next year's budget is not enough to depreciate in any other way the possible narrowing of the fiscal space. It does not have to be told to me; it was to be told to a representative of the Ministry of Finance. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. Mr Bergmanis: “May we reduce more?” ( ) Why has this situation developed? Didn't it be known during the reign of the lie champions that there are parties, there are trends in Estonia... who are talking about excise duties... that there has been an error, excise duties are very high raised and now need to be reduced. Didn't you know that? No, the champions who were about to come after me were busy with the unbuilt sports halls of the Laistkalne as advertising their work. Well, it was! But less than them, more than work. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. R. Bergmanis: “Where are you Estonians at the Beauty Hill?” ) It was perfectly possible to prepare and start thinking in good time on how to depreciate the fiscal space if a change of the vector really takes place in Estonia and they also decide to rapidly reduce excise duties. This was possible during the previous government. The new government has been talking about this for a long time too, and of course the subject is very unpleasant, difficult to explain. But you have to come and explain the numbers, so I'm trying to do it. ( The interscribing from the political group, “Where are the numbers? ” ; dep. A. Gobzem: “Why did you try to do this?” ) I have named some figures before. You should have listened, not drilling your nose! ( Internoint.) Thank you very much. Why do anti-state forces come in this tribunal and in the trap and vote... Is that so? They say, “Vote “no”, vote “no”!” It's all that next year's minus 90 million in the budget, and there's no time to get out of this situation. Shunt with everything! Why? Because they do not tend to take responsibility for anything, as is traditionally the case, and as can be seen in Riga. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. L. Schvecova: “What about the wife’s cheater?Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, “ Never do they take responsibility! They never want to be constructive... Today, for example, we have seen that teachers have been given salaries, the increase will be from 1 September. For 70... 750 euros per rate. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. L. Schvecova: “3 × 500” execute!” ) But no, they continue to maintain the bill and do not withdraw it. Principle after principle. It is called a destructive opposition. They don't want coalition parties... I am not talking here only about the new Conservatives, but other parties have also made similar, really selfless promises in their programme... they don't benefit from it. Just thinking about society. They do not want to be able to do something next year. That is why it is from this flank that there are a number of Members who do not want to take responsibility, who want to give in to the first fight, which would also immediately bring potential occupations, as has already happened. ( Insight: “Why did you give up for unity? ” ) They come and say, “No, reduce fiscal space, don’t make promises!” After all, they want to continue to lull us at the time of budget adoption, next year and the next three years. In the light of all the above, on the basis of approximate estimates, which I do not believe, but believe... I do not believe entirely, but I believe that they are sufficiently credible to take into account the political decision I call for support for this draft law at first reading. Thank you. “ Alcohol helps us not to become a traitor! ” Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-20-PT13-544-U105	Name to Member Viktor Valain. ( Internouncing call.)
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-20-PT13-544-U106	Hello, honourable Speaker of the Saeima! Dear colleagues, As for the figures, I did not hear how much this "3 × 500" actually costs. One, comma, seven billion isn’t paying (Dep. Feldman: “250!” )... I'll have to ask the Minister of Finance a question... then officially comes a new coalition with such a offer, but... provide at least the following information. What Mr Feldman mentioned before - you know, the head of previous government had some kind of communication with our neighbours - Lithuanians, Estonians - and often met, and there were no such problems. There are such problems now, when this Prime Minister and the government that you support are in place. And the problems are not because of any previous decisions, but they have now happened. And now it's the moment you're... Supporting such a decision (Dep. Bondar: “ Viktor, I have to read the international news! Estonia had elections!’ )... supporting such a decision, you actually distance yourself from fulfilling your promises. However, I call for this to be rejected.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-20-PT13-544-U107	Name to Member Janis Dombrava.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-20-PT13-544-U108	Dear colleagues, I see that this is an issue where, at least, the majority of positions and opposition have similar views that, in the long term, alcohol should not be reduced, but increased in order to reduce the various negative consequences for society. At the moment a situation has arisen where a sufficiently rapid solution is needed, and Latvia is certainly ready to go ahead with this solution. At the same time, we must throw out of all political rhetoric such words as "war with Estonia", "arms against Estonia". We have to talk to the Estonians, not play some wreaths. ( The intermediate call: “The sword is playing! ” ) It is important to us now... reach agreement not only with Estonia but also with Lithuania by the beginning of 2020 that... these rates of excise duty have changed. If we lower the excise rate, we will influence what is happening in Lithuania. But we, the three Baltic countries, must create common rates of excise duty, which are coordinated and harmonised with each other. The Prime Minister, the Minister for Finance, the Minister for Foreign Affairs at the negotiating table and the Minister for Foreign Affairs must go to coordinated action as soon as possible so that, ideally, in 2020 all these countries would not reduce their excise rates on alcohol but, on the contrary, increase.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-20-PT13-544-U109	Name to Member Vjačeslav Dombrovskis for the second time. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. Feldman: “The figures are named, Vjačeslav, otherwise... ( 1 )
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-20-PT13-544-U110	Colleagues! The main reason I have come up again on the platform is that one of the Members of the New Conservative Party... At least it seemed that you really tried to understand something. (Laughter) I think this behaviour should be rewarded. There you go. Introduction to what is happening. A few years ago, the Estonian Social Democratic Party decided to raise significantly the excise duty on alcohol. It was their pre-election programme - public health. Well, just like... about that Mr. Skride here... He got up. This was, of course, very unpopular in Estonia. The Socialist Party lost its election, other parties promised to turn this step back. The rest is history. But a few years ago, there was a big difference in alcohol prices, which allowed some vulnerable people to open all those shops on the Latvian border with Estonia and earn money. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. V. Dombrovskis pours water into a glass. Impression: ‘You came for a drink?’ ) The Estonians now decided to reduce. So what does the Ministry of Finance tell you? If this bottle contains all this consumption (Dep. V. Dombrovskis shows water bottle.) - The export of strong alcohol... both what is consumed internally and what is bought by all those tourists from Finland and Lithuania... And, for example, from that... Here is a relatively small part of it, which is all that alcohol tourism - Estonians and Finns... Now the Ministry of Finance comes to you, or those who hold it all in the lobby, and says: “Behold, the Estonians have now made a decision to cut by 25 percent, and now people will no longer come... We also need to reduce our excise duties so that our losses, budgetary losses, are less." It all sounds logical, of course, from the first perspective, but you've forgotten one elephant in the room. In particular, it is domestic consumption. ( Internouncing call.) Because, you understand, by reducing the tax by 15 percent, you're going to be reducing... the planned revenue this year is EUR 223 million from alcohol excise duty. You will reduce all revenues, and it will be a much bigger number than what you intend to depreciate... or what you say. As a result of the decision made by the Estonians, there will, of course, be a loss of budget revenue. But if the Ministry of Finance (or who puts pressure on them there) tells you that with this step your loss will be less... No, it's going to be a bigger loss! And guess who are those in this room who have promised the most financially? Not A NEW Unity! Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-20-PT13-544-U111	Name to Member Krišjānis Feldman for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-20-PT13-544-U112	Obviously, I must repeat once more to those who did not listen: losses in the next year's budget, actual fiscal space cuts of EUR 32 million, logically, it is possible to take direct account of the unacquired excise duty on internal consumption. Of course it is. That's why there's already a loss. Not from something else. But I want to have a positive hope that they might not be so big because I can't see any objective reason, because alcohol, although we feel that demand for it is very flexible... I would not want to overstate the flexibility of demand for alcohol. The situation will be similar to that of the reduced VAT rate for vegetables. There's no one... Insufficient competition in the internal market, where there are only two supermarket chains, all of which we know where people are mainly buying alcohol... in order to lower the price on the shelves of the shops, the so-called equilibrium price. No such pressure! No pressure! The demand will not increase so rapidly. Flexibility is low. Consequently, I believe there is reason to believe that the narrowing of the fiscal space, which is in these estimates by the Ministry of Finance, which I do not fully believe, because they make the mistakes that have been made, ten times the error, could be potentially even less. We will therefore have the opportunity, and also a large enough fiscal space, to do many good things, including an increase in the non-equitable minimum for people who are currently under-equitablely small. And also compete in this respect with the same Estonia. Thank you. (Applause) ( For the debate, a third application was made by the dep. V. Dombrovskis.)
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-20-PT13-544-U113	Colleagues, one bill can be spoken of once and then one extra time. If no one else has applied for a debate, I will close the debate. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A. Gobzem: “But this is an important question!” (Laughter) Is there anything else to be added on behalf of the Commission, which can be explained? No, no. Please call me! We will vote for the draft law “Amendments to the Law “On Excise Tax” at first reading! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The draft law at first reading has been supported. Please set a time limit for the submission of proposals and a time limit for consideration at the sitting of the Saeima.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-20-PT13-544-U114	Colleagues, I have to say that the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission has decided that this issue should be dealt with today in two readings without tabling proposals. ( Insight: “How is this possible?Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, “)
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-20-PT13-544-U115	Consequently, no deadline has been set for the submission of proposals. Please turn on the microphone for Juta Strike!
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-20-PT13-544-U116	I call for the deadline for tabling proposals to be 21 June, that is, tomorrow, at 12:00. I also call for the next extraordinary sitting of the Saeima to be announced by the Saeima Bureau. That is my proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-20-PT13-544-U117	Do Members have objections? Consequently, the deadline for submitting proposals - at 12.00 a.m. on 21 June this year - for the next extraordinary sitting of the Saeima, which the Bureau will publish. Are there any other proposals? Please turn on the microphone for Aldi Gobzem.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-20-PT13-544-U118	I call for an extension, however, of the deadline for tabling proposals, given that the extraordinary sitting of the Saeima is unlikely to be 21, 22, 23 or 24 June. I call for a week (from this date) to be set as a deadline for the submission of proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-20-PT13-544-U119	It's not... Name the date! ( Interface: “27 June! ” ) So on 27 June - deadline for the submission of proposals if? 27 June. And the examination - in an extraordinary sitting. Please turn on the microphone for Member Julia Stepanenko.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-20-PT13-544-U120	Dear colleagues, I urge you to set one hour as the deadline for tabling proposals - today. And re-examination - Saeima at today's sitting. ( Internoint.) Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-20-PT13-544-U121	So there are a number of proposals. Let us first vote on the deadline for tabling proposals. First of all, we must vote on the further date proposed by Mr Gobzem, 27 June. Please call me! Let us vote for the deadline for tabling proposals for the draft law - 27 June this year! Please vote mode! Please get the result! About - 5, against -63, abstaining - 3. The proposal is therefore not supported. The next item is 12 noon on 21 June this year. Please call me! We will be voting for the deadline for the submission of proposals at 12 noon on 21 June this year! Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about - 55, it's against - 15, it's not. The proposal is therefore supported. Consequently, the deadline for submitting proposals was 12 noon on 21 June this year. And consideration - in the next extraordinary sitting of the Saeima, which the Saeima Bureau will announce. On the agenda: Draft law on Amendments to the Criminal Law, second reading. On behalf of the Legal Commission, Member Juta Strike.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-20-PT13-544-U122	Dear colleagues, On 6 June this year, the Parliament at first reading was in favour of the draft law "Amendments to the Criminal Law", as well as the fact that the draft law is being dealt with as a matter of urgency. Briefly, I would remind you of the substance of the draft law. This draft law criminalises large amounts of cash, i.e. more than 50 minimum monthly salaries, non-declaration or false declaration when crossing the internal or external borders. I would like to emphasise that the amendments to the Criminal Law provide for criminal liability for the non-declaration or false declaration of such cash when crossing the internal border, if the cash declaration has been requested by an official of the competent authority. I will also remind you that the procedure by which the officials of the competent authority request the completion of such a declaration is provided for by the draft law which we supported at the third reading at the previous sitting of the Saeima - Amendments to the Law on the Declaration of Cash at the State Border. Moreover, with regard to the criminal liability for the non-declaration or false declaration of cash when crossing the external border of a country - namely the external border - it is important to emphasise the fact that the words 'if it is committed with criminally acquired cash' are excluded. At the same time, as I said earlier, there is also a precise cash threshold. Large amount not declared or false declared in the event of crossing the external border. We have examined this bill before the second reading at the Legal Commission. The Legal Commission, as well as the Subcommittee on Criminal Law Policy, assessed and discussed four proposals. The proposal was received from the Minister of the Interior Ģirgens. The Commission meeting was not supported. This proposal aimed at reducing the level of sanctions in cases of particularly serious crime where a court can impose a conditional conviction. By its very nature, the proposal is correct, it was debated, but it was agreed within the Commission that this proposal should not be pushed forward in this draft law, because it... This specific proposal does not fall within the scope of urgency and will certainly be incorporated and discussed... probably will be clarified and directed to the Saeima in another draft law containing amendments to the Criminal Law. The debate?
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-20-PT13-544-U123	Let us start a debate. The name of the Member, Andrejs Judin.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-20-PT13-544-U124	Dear colleagues, The proposal provides for a prohibition of conditional conviction for a period of more than three years in the case of a particularly serious crime. We dealt with this proposal in a sub-committee, and we incorporated it into a new draft law on "Amendments to criminal law". In particular, the work has been completed in a sub-committee, the project has been submitted to the Legal Commission, and we will have the opportunity to examine this proposal in three readings. But in this draft law, the proposal was resubmitted, there is no annotation; in fact, there is a letter from the Minister of the Interior, but it is not an annotation. Adopting at first reading and immediately at second reading would be wrong. It is very important that the procedure is followed, because, however, we want to address a very important issue. Under the Commission and, I think, the Legal Commission will continue discussions, but I do not need to support this proposal at this point in time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-20-PT13-544-U125	I closed the debate. Is there anything to add on behalf of the Commission? Members agree with the Commission's view? ( Interface: ‘ Vote! ’) ) Members wish to vote. Please call me! We will vote in favour of 1. - a proposal from the Minister for the Interior! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 7, for - 65, for - 1. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-20-PT13-544-U126	2. - The motion by the Member is moving. The Commission meeting was supported. This proposal is editorial, provides for changes to the second and second paragraphs of Article 195.2, which was supported at first reading, and proposes that less sanctions be imposed for non-declaration of cash or false declarations at the internal borders of the country. In particular, different sanctions for non-declaration or false declaration on the external and internal borders are provided for at the external borders. This proposal was endorsed at the Commission meeting.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-20-PT13-544-U127	Let us start a debate. The name to Member Karin Scratch.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-20-PT13-544-U128	President of the Saeima! Ladies and gentlemen, Since the draft law on “Amendments to the Criminal Law”, I feel that many of you have a distorted mind and there has been no desire to go into the ground to understand the possible consequences of these changes. I believe that this draft law should be rejected. I don't want to choose the smallest from two evils. Mr Judine's motivation to submit such a proposal is not clear to me. I would understand if only the commission were run according to the method “Slice and dominion!” , but this should not be allowed at national level. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. Mr Judins: “On the proposal!” ) The use of such a method at national level is not acceptable. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. Mr Judins: “On the proposal!” ) Why not? If the new Conservatives are in favour of a "uncompromising rule of law", the Parliament provides a legitimate reason (the inter-sentences of the UK Group). - execution of prison sentences. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. Mr Judins: “There will be something on the proposal?” ) Let us all be subject to severe penalties and imposed on everyone in prison so that Europe can then justify the current waste of European Union resources? The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A. Judin: “She’s not talking about the proposal!” ) Because the goal will be achieved - prisons will be filled. We will still be able to ensure respect for human rights, because we will be automatically declared in prisons. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A. Judin: “She violates the Rally of Order!” ) These amendments were adopted in advance. We are violating human rights, the presumption of innocence (Dep. J. Kursīte-Pakule: “On the proposal!” ) - it must be at the heart of everything. What is the next step planned? It will soon be necessary to declare a stoper, because you never know who's backpacking. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. Mr Judin: Mrs Mūrniece, there is no proposal! ) Let us declare passengers that they should not be held liable for foreign offences, and then let us charge everyone of the car for committing the crime in an organised group.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-20-PT13-544-U129	Mrs Smurfs, could you turn to the specific proposal? The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. L. Liepins, dep. A. Gobzema, dep. A. Movement and deposit ( See K. Feldman's Intersense.)
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-20-PT13-544-U130	And that's the thing... then not only three years... or by limiting... Or more, isn't it? Let us not burden people's lives! Two years too! Two years is a lot. In the draft law on the need to declare amounts of cash in the border area of Latvia you did not even foresee the possibility that there is a human factor and a possibility of error. People make mistakes. And it is not only Members who are wrong to fill in the declarations made by their officials. Perhaps we also need amendments here. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. Col: “We don’t need criminal law! People make mistakes!” ) We rely too much on the recommendations and advice of foreign experts on how we should act better and what should be done from the defence budget to the risks of poverty and social inequality. How close we are, how obedient and serious we take counsel and recommendations! For the first time, I see such a joy in Members who fly the Moneyval recommendations and are treated like a hot poplar. Perhaps we exaggerated once again to please everyone, but not my own people, because I did not find there any word that without declaring cash, we should be punished by deprivation of liberty. Here I would like to remind you of paragraph 221 of Moneyval: if the amount exceeds 10 thousand, but is less than EUR 19 thousand, criminal proceedings will only be initiated if the person cannot reasonably explain the origin of the cash. And now a little statistics about the State Revenue Service. Some 700 cash declarations are submitted each year. In 2017, 41 undeclared transactions were detected for a total of 540 thousand euros. In 2016, eight undeclared transactions of a total of 1.33 million were detected. In 2015, 19 undeclared transactions were detected for a total of 330 thousand euros. Colleagues, I would like to emphasise once again that paragraph 221 of the Moneyval provides that criminal proceedings are to be initiated only if a person cannot justify an explanation of the legitimate origin of cash. We are exaggerating, or we are interpreting the Moneyval Statement too grossly. To the advantage of who is bad - I do not know, but I do not want our people to suffer from these amendments to the law. Such a penalty may be accepted and accepted if the money is indeed obtained illegally or if the person cannot explain where the money comes from, but cannot amend the laws in such a way that it is possible to interpret them in grammatical terms rather than in nature. And now we create an opportunity for the absurdity of applying the law. More. The additional issue worth considering is: what is happening in other European countries on the issue of undeclared or falsely declared amounts of money. No criminal liability in Luxembourg, Estonia, the United Kingdom, Slovenia, Spain, Bulgaria. I would like to see that we are building a national system (Interface: “Time!” )... I want to combine the two times of the debate.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-20-PT13-544-U131	Are there any objections to merging the two times of the debate? ( The box “Yes! ”) ) Then we must vote. Please call me! Let us vote for combining the two times of the debate with Member Karina Sprūdė! Please vote mode! Please get the result! There's no one for - 61, against - 1, refrains. Please, speak!
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-20-PT13-544-U132	More. The additional issue worth considering is: what is happening in other European countries on the issue of undeclared or falsely declared amounts of money. No criminal liability in Luxembourg, Estonia, the United Kingdom, Slovenia, Bulgaria, Spain. I would like to see that we are building a national system that is able to guarantee a standard of living such as that in Luxembourg, but unfortunately we are exaggerating other countries only on issues of penalties and cuts in excise duties on spirit drinks. Once again, I ask you to reject this draft law in a few years' time (interim.) at the door of the house of the Saeima, we have unscrupulous cords with soap instead of cannons. ( Internouncing call.) Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-20-PT13-544-U133	The name of the Member, Andrejs Judin.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-20-PT13-544-U134	Yeah, it's all very nice to hear. I hope you yourself are the author of the text that you have read here. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A. Neighbours: “Yes, I too!” ) However, I would like to draw attention to the fact that at second reading we are not discussing the concept, we are talking about a specific proposal. And what is my proposal? I propose a reduction of the penalty. In particular, if a person does not declare (Dep. L. Liepiņa’s intermediate call.) ... if a person does not declare large amounts of cash, the maximum penalty would not, as we supported at first reading, be three years of imprisonment, but two years. So I think if you have something to say, you can talk about the proposal. In addition, I would like to inform you that you, as Members, have every right to submit your proposals, both to Mr Gobzem and others. If, in your opinion, two years too are not an appropriate punishment, why do you not take advantage of the opportunity and do not offer forced labour or even rule out at all? But I see colleagues who, unfortunately, have not had time to read the Rules of Procedure. You have the right to submit your proposals. You also have the right to criticise the proposals made. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. K. Slaughter: “You will support?” ) Instead of talking about the proposals, you are using the platform to repeat your stories. I now hear that we are very active. But... I call again on both Mr Gobzem and my colleagues here before me to take the opportunity to table proposals, and we will discuss them! The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A. Gobzema and the depot D. Schmitt’s intermediate names.) Today, however, there are discussions on proposal 2, which provides for a reduction of the fine. Please support it!
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-20-PT13-544-U135	Name to Member Aldi Gobzem.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-20-PT13-544-U136	Mr. Judin, you are noble, you will cut back on punishments. Mr Judins: “Where is your proposal?” ), but the problem with your dignity is that the legal nature of this proposal... and you should know it as a lawyer (Dep. Mr Judins: “Where is your proposal?” )... that there is no internal customs border in the European Union. Number one. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. Mr Judins: “Where are your proposals?” ) Stop being hysterical! I already have that actual relationship with Sandy Riekstin, I cannot with two at the same time. (Laughter) The second thing. In the law, what you're talking about are restrictions and penalties... you cannot name any Moneyval recommendation that would demand to be punished in the way you imagine it. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. Mr. Judin: “Why don’t you submit your proposal?” ) There are no such recommendations! I would like to highlight one example so that the whole of society can remember. When there was a Unity in power and nothing was done for the benefit of Latvian society, it talked to very serious faces about structural reforms that we have. We are reforming something there, we are reforming... At the end of the year, almost half of Latvia has left. Now you are doing nothing again and speaking to very serious faces - Moneyval recommendations, Moneyval reforms and so on. There is no one in Moneyval's recommendation talking about what you are offering - that people should be punished on such matters. The third thing. From a legal point of view. Crossing the internal border of the European Union, moving from Latvia to Lithuania or from Latvia to Estonia... You are talking today about cheap alcohol at the border. For example, I'm going to Ainaži or Bauska for its cheap alcohol. How will you determine whether or not I want to cross the border? What will be these legal instruments? The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. R. Kols: Border zone! ) It is in what way I do not have the right to be... Is that so? And I don't even want to cross the borders of the territory of Latvia. Mr Kola, as a Member, you should know that I can move in cash and no one can stop me ( Dep. R. Cols: ‘Reviews may be carried out!’ ), legally requiring the presentation of... shake out the pockets or the car. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. R. Kols: “The border guard is allowed! The customs police may!’ ) Another thing. From the human rights point of view. Without a court decision to search people, test something under the pretext that you may cross the internal border. — Dep. R. Kols: “There is no hard border, but a border check may be carried out! You should know that too!” )... Mr Cole, you are a fan of the European Union. You are a fan of the European Union! I'll remind you. One of the European Union's fundamental rights is the free movement of capital within the European Union. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. R. Collas: ‘Tests may be carried out!’ ) This proposal therefore contains a number of contradictions. We are basically renewing some mystical customs border inside the European Union, where we will now have a mystical search and a check on whether or not there is cash without a judicial decision. This problem, which you are discussing here, is artificially vicious. Moneyval does not ask for such a question at all. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. J. Strikķe: “A demand for it!” ) You hide it under Moneyval. And finally, I appeal to all those who think like Judin, that now we're going to call everyone in prison... or, like my beloved Juta Strike, that we'll all be in prison and then let's get out one by one. There is no case in world history in any country of the world that the country would be rich in such thinking. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. J. Strike: “We are the first!” ) Only the countries where citizens... and on which territory people can feel free, not where all thinking is based: let us punish, punish, punish and punish people! There is no evidence in any country in the world at any stage of history that such a country would flourish. The prosperity of countries where people enjoy freedom of movement gives them freedom of movement and therefore also of movement of capital. That is what I wanted to say.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-20-PT13-544-U137	The name of Member Julia Stepanenko.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-20-PT13-544-U138	Dear colleagues, Mr. Judine, why do you think we need to fix something like that? Why do you believe that the draft law is passed through the Legal Commission (not through the Cabinet of Ministers, but through the draft law guided by the Commission!) which, as a matter of urgency, is simply put together... Why should we take part in the desperation of this bill? I told you in the Commission, I also told you here from the troupe that this penalty was disproportionate. You have taken this into account - very well. It's very noble. But if we're talking about your attitude towards colleagues, you don't even let me talk to the Commission sometimes. And now you just want to humiliate a new colleague who is just not aware of the fuel once in a trip and really wrote a speech so that she has a clearer mind right now. ( Internouncing call.) You, Mr. Judin, just understand that... You understand very well that this draft law is being passed on as a matter of urgency, not to comply with the Moneyval recommendations, because there really is no point in the Moneyval recommendations that we should now increase penalties... There are problems with the fact that we have a question of the quality of the investigation. And this cannot be improved in any way at present, obviously. It is much easier to insert an article, of course, and it is much easier to intercept colleagues from the platform. That's what you're doing all the time. But if we're talking about (Interior call.) ... if we are talking about these proposals - I understand that what we are seeing at the moment is that it is not possible to lie if? Don't lie, very well. The fact that you're going to lie on the internal border, you're going to get two years at maximum, but that you're going to lie on the external border, you're going to get three years. ( Internouncing call.) That's how it works. Maximum three years. So at the moment we ban people from lying for fear, perhaps for some more reason, I don't know whether to be careless or to be wrong, but at the same time we allow some minister to lie sometimes, tells wrong things like... Forgive me, Mrs Muižniece, but Mrs Šuplinska, in fact, she also lied about the fact that teachers' salaries will be improved. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A. Muižniece: “At what point?” ) Well, it was! Three times, though, teachers were deceived! Do we forgive? Yes, we forgive ministers that they lie, but that man on the border... in inexplicable circumstances, on the internal border, somewhere in the shrubs do not declare their money, the money legally acquired... I found that out at the commission meeting. You were a witness. I asked. So also for money legally received if a person lies or is wrong at that time... irrespective of whether this money was legal or not... Even for legally acquired money, a person receives a criminal penalty. That's what it is. I call for this proposal not to be supported. And I also call for the whole of the bill to be rejected. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-20-PT13-544-U139	The name is Digit Schmidt.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-20-PT13-544-U140	I will have a reply to Mr. Judin. I would simply like to show this absurdity. You pass a completely marasmatic law that changes the substance of the presumption of innocence in its very roots. I think it is obvious that the move of these amendments is from the English-saxon law; probably, as Billingsley or Dentley say, or as the people who came to dinner said, what needs to be done. The whole spirit of this draft law is from English-saxon rights, not legal systems such as those in Europe. You suddenly change something at second reading and say: “It’s... I made a plague, and now it's made less of it.” And everyone... What did you not do? It's clear that it's so absurd... I will neither give nor support! Neither with your soft proposals nor with the solids. It's about that you don't judge people for 10 years, but then everyone needs to be happy that the judge urges someone to be released after five.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-20-PT13-544-U141	I closed the debate. Is there anything to add on behalf of the Commission?
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-20-PT13-544-U142	On behalf of the Commission, I would like to remind you that we have just discussed 2. - Member Andreja Judina's proposal for a reduction of the fine. The Commission has supported this proposal by Mr Judine. The Commission meeting consisted of representatives from the Ministry of Justice, the Prosecutor General's Office, the Ministry of National Police and the Interior (Dep. D. Smith: ‘For the prisons!’ ), so that all proposals were carefully assessed and discussed. I call for support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-20-PT13-544-U143	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 2. - Member Judea's proposal! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 58, for - 1, for - 4. The proposal is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-20-PT13-544-U144	3. - The legal commission's proposal. This is an addition to the transitional arrangements and was endorsed at the commission meeting. The proposal provides for a precise time-frame for the application of these rules.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-20-PT13-544-U145	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-20-PT13-544-U146	4. - The legal commission's proposal. The Commission meeting was supported. It is envisaged to determine the date of entry into force of the law.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-20-PT13-544-U147	Members are in favour. ( Interface: ‘ Vote! ’) ) Members want to vote? Please call me! Let us vote in favour of 4. - The legal commission's proposal! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 61, for - 5, for - 1. The proposal is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-20-PT13-544-U148	On behalf of the Commission, I ask that this draft law be supported at second, final, reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-20-PT13-544-U149	Please call me! We will vote in favour of the draft law on the second, final, reading of the Criminal Law! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 50, for - 5, for - 14. The law is passed. Dear colleagues, Changes to the agenda of the sitting have been tabled. Members Krapāne, Ģirgens, Geidāns, Wittenbergs, Pucens and others are asking for a draft decision to be included on the agenda of the sitting on “On the withdrawal of Member Ata Zakatistov from the Request Commission”. Are Members opposed to this amendment of the agenda? There is no objection. The order of business has been amended. Members Ģirgens, Krapāne, Puga, Kursīte, Kaimiņš and others are asking to include on the agenda the draft decision “On the withdrawal of Member Janina Course from the Commission on Citizenship, Migration and Social Solidarity”. Are Members opposed to this amendment of the agenda? There is no objection. The order of business has been amended. Members Ģirgens, Krapāne, Puga, Kursīte, Kaimiņš and others ask that the draft decision on the election of Member Janina Kursite to the Sustainable Development Commission be put on the agenda of the sitting. Are Members opposed to this amendment of the agenda? There is no objection. The order of business has been amended. Members Dzintars, Kols, Teirumnieks, Kursīte-Pakule, Indriksone and others are asking for a draft decision to be included on the agenda of the sitting "On the election of a Member of the Roman Money Commission". Are Members opposed to this amendment of the agenda? There is no objection. The order of business has been amended. Members Beitnere-Le Galla, Dzintars, Puga, Asheraden and Pavlut are asking to include in the agenda the draft law “On transfer of real estate to the Riga Rihards Wagner Association on 4 Rihards Street, Riga”. Are Members opposed to this amendment of the agenda? There is no objection. The order of business has been amended. And Members of Beitnere-Le Galla, Dzintars, Puga, Asheraden and Pavlut are asking for the draft law on the protection of cultural monuments to be included on the agenda of the sitting. Are Members opposed to this amendment of the agenda? There is no objection. The order of business has been amended. Draft law “Amendments to the Code of Administrative Violations of Latvia”, second reading. On behalf of the Legal Commission, Mr Aldis Gobzems.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-20-PT13-544-U150	The Legal Commission reviewed the draft law “Amendments to the Code of Administrative Violations of Latvia” and prepared it for second reading. There is one proposal from the Legal Commission which has been supported by the Commission. The proposal is of a technical nature - the date of entry into force of the law has been set. The amendments also concern the so-called Moneyval. The coalition parties voted and supported these amendments within the committee. So the draft law was supported by the Commission. I invite you (Interface: “Vote!” ) to support the draft law at second reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-20-PT13-544-U151	Wait, wait! Members of proposal 1...
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-20-PT13-544-U152	On the proposal... Yeah...
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-20-PT13-544-U153	... Members support or wish to vote? Members ask for a vote on proposal 1. Please call me! We will vote in favour of 1. - The legal commission's proposal! Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not 65, it's two, it's not. The proposal is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-20-PT13-544-U154	Please support the draft law at second reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-20-PT13-544-U155	Please call me! We will vote in favour of the draft law “Amendments to the Code of Administrative Violations of Latvia” in the second, final reading! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 54, for - 3, for - 9. The draft law at second, final, reading is supported. The law is passed. Draft law “Amendments to the Law on Electronic Media”, second reading. The draft law has been declared urgent. On behalf of the Commission for Human Rights and Public Affairs, Member Artus Kaimiņš.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-20-PT13-544-U156	The Committee on Human Rights and Public Affairs submitted for consideration at the second, final, reading session of the Saeima and as a matter of urgency the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Electronic Media” (No. 339/Lp13). We have received seven proposals. 1. - a proposal from the Commission on Human Rights and Public Affairs. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-20-PT13-544-U157	Let us start a debate. Name of Member Vita Anda Steel.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-20-PT13-544-U158	Dear colleagues, With these amendments, we are trying to put an end to the situation we experienced at the beginning of the year. I would like to remind you that the National Council for Electronic Media suddenly released the members of the Board of “Latvijas TV” without due justification, held a competition, abstracted from the principles of good governance, did not comply with the procedure laid down by the law on corporate governance, and it came to the conclusion that they were prepared to place in office a person who seemed not to comply with the law and did not meet the public expectations. When examining compliance of candidates with the law, the Public Prosecutor’s Office indicated that the competition process organised by the Council was open to doubts as to whether the most appropriate candidate had been selected. Today's amendments raise the line. The first amendment lays down stricter criteria for candidates from the board of directors and further amendments impose specific requirements for the organisation of the competition, ensuring that the competition will take place at the highest... professional quality and will be able to attract professional candidates. I call for support for both proposal 1 and all other proposals supported by the Commission. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-20-PT13-544-U159	I closed the debate. Are Members in favour of proposal 1? Members want to vote.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-20-PT13-544-U160	The proposal is supported by the Commission for Human Rights and Public Affairs. Please support!
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-20-PT13-544-U161	Members want to vote. Please call me! We will vote in favour of 1. - the proposal of the Commission on Human Rights and Public Affairs! Please vote mode! Please get the result! There's no one for - 53, against -14, abstaining. The proposal is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-20-PT13-544-U162	2. - the proposal of the Commission for Human Rights and Public Affairs, which provides that the candidate for a member of the Management Board must have a degree in higher education at least at master level. Supported by the Commission. Please support!
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-20-PT13-544-U163	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-20-PT13-544-U164	3. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Partially supported, included 5. - the Commission's proposal. Proposal No 4 is also included in proposal No 5. The third proposal has questions or no questions? Support? You don't?
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-20-PT13-544-U165	Members support the opinion of the Commission on proposal 3.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-20-PT13-544-U166	4. - Mr. Cilevič's proposal. Partially supported, included 5. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-20-PT13-544-U167	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-20-PT13-544-U168	5. - the Commission's proposal, and this has been supported. Please support!
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-20-PT13-544-U169	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-20-PT13-544-U170	6. - Member Boris Cilevič's proposal. Partially supported, included 7. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-20-PT13-544-U171	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-20-PT13-544-U172	7. - the Commission's proposal, which has also been supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-20-PT13-544-U173	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-20-PT13-544-U174	Consequently, we have examined all seven proposals. On behalf of the Commission for Human Rights and Public Affairs, please support the draft law on Amendments to the Law on Electronic Media at second, final reading. I would like to say a great deal of thanks to Vita Anda Steel for the work that has been invested in the sub-commission so that we can realise it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-20-PT13-544-U175	Please call me! We will vote in favour of the draft law on Amendments to the Law on Electronic Media at second, final, final reading! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 54, for - no, for - 15. The law is passed. Draft law “Amendments to the Law on Designs”, third reading. On behalf of the Commission for Education, Culture and Science - Member Ivars Puga.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-20-PT13-544-U176	Dear colleagues, Ladies and gentlemen! The Commission for Education, Culture and Science discussed for the third reading the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Designs”, whose original aim is to bring the laws and regulations into line with the Law on Administrative Responsibility, which will enter into force in 2020. No proposals were submitted for the third reading. On behalf of the Commission, I ask you to support the draft law at third reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-20-PT13-544-U177	Please call me! We will vote for the draft law “Amendments to Design Law” in the third, final, reading! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 66, against and refrains. The law is passed.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-20-PT13-544-U178	Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-20-PT13-544-U179	Draft law “Amendments to law “On meetings, moves and pickets”, third reading. On behalf of the Commission for Human Rights and Public Affairs, Member Artus Kaimiņš.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-20-PT13-544-U180	So, honourable Members, we are considering the draft law "Amendments to the law on meetings, moves and pickets" (No. 122/Lp13) for the third, final reading. We have received 10 proposals. 1 is the proposal from Member Edwin Schnore, which has been partly supported and included 2. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-20-PT13-544-U181	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-20-PT13-544-U182	2. is a proposal from the Commission. This is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-20-PT13-544-U183	Members want to vote. Please call me! We will vote in favour of 2. - the proposal submitted by the committee responsible! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No. - 53, no. - 13, don't. The proposal is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-20-PT13-544-U184	Thank you. 3. There is also a Commission proposal and it has been supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-20-PT13-544-U185	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-20-PT13-544-U186	4. is the proposal of Member Judina, which has been partly supported and included 5. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-20-PT13-544-U187	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-20-PT13-544-U188	5. There is a proposal from the Commission. And it is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-20-PT13-544-U189	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-20-PT13-544-U190	Proposal 6 has been withdrawn.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-20-PT13-544-U191	The proposal has therefore been withdrawn.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-20-PT13-544-U192	Proposal No 7 is the proposal of the Member, Schnore. Not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-20-PT13-544-U193	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-20-PT13-544-U194	Proposals 8 and 9 have been withdrawn.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-20-PT13-544-U195	So 8 and 9 have been withdrawn.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-20-PT13-544-U196	10............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - The proposal of the Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Justice, Jušas. Not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-20-PT13-544-U197	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-20-PT13-544-U198	We have therefore examined the whole draft law. Please support the third, final, reading of this bill.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-20-PT13-544-U199	Please call me! We will vote for the draft law “Amendments to the Law “On Meetings, Steps and Pickets” in the third, final reading! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The law is passed. Draft law “Amendments to the Law on Aviation”, third reading. On behalf of the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy, Member Arthur Rubik.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-20-PT13-544-U200	Hello, colleagues! We work with two documents: one - No. 1124 and second document - No. 1124A, separated by a separate sheet. In general, four proposals have been examined by the Commission. 1. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-20-PT13-544-U201	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-20-PT13-544-U202	The second document, which is on a separate page, contains proposal 1A - a proposal from the committee responsible, which is of a technical nature. The Commission has supported this.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-20-PT13-544-U203	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-20-PT13-544-U204	3. ...
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-20-PT13-544-U205	Proposal No 2 Second!
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-20-PT13-544-U206	2. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-20-PT13-544-U207	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-20-PT13-544-U208	And 3. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-20-PT13-544-U209	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-20-PT13-544-U210	On behalf of the Commission, please support the draft law amending the Act on Aviation at third, final reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-20-PT13-544-U211	Please call me! We will vote for the draft law “Amendments to the Law “On Aviation” in the third, final reading! Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about - 71, it's against and refrains from - it's not. The law is passed. Draft law “Amendments to the law on the disposal of real estate for the installation of the state border band of the Republic of Latvia and the Russian Federation”, third reading. On behalf of the Legal Commission - Member Jānis Butāns.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-20-PT13-544-U212	During the meeting of the Legal Commission on 12 June, the draft law “Amendments to the Law “On the Expropriation of Real Estate for the Installation of the Border Strip of the Republic of Latvia and the Russian Federation” was reviewed. The draft law provides for the disposal of 11 real estate, including real estate “Cielavas 1” in Briģu parish, Ludza district, which consists of a plot of 0.74 hectares (Intersarmens.) whose owner... The reason for not reaching an agreement on the voluntary disposal of this land. In particular, the owner of this property disagrees with the level of compensation and did not wish to communicate further on possible solutions. The same owner is intended to dispose of the real estate “Mežsēta 1” in Zaļesjes parish, Zilupe municipality, which consists of an area of 0,0117 hectares. In this case, the same thing is true: disagrees with the scope of compensation and avoids further communication. Go on. Real estate “Turpes” in Līdumnieki municipality, Cibla municipality, which consists of a plot of 0,53 hectares of land. Does not agree with the amount of the remuneration. Fourth - real estate “Kaki” in Līdumnieki municipality, Cibla municipality, which consists of an area of 1.22 hectares of land and an area of 10.87 hectares of land. Does not agree with the amount of the compensation. Real estate “Krupji” in Līdumnieki municipality, Cibla municipality, which consists of an area of 4.32 hectares of land. Does not agree with the amount of the remuneration. Real estate “Mestiņš” in Līdumnieki municipality, Cibla municipality, which consists of a plot of 1,69 hectares. Does not agree with the amount of the remuneration. Real estate “Marsils” in Līdumnieki municipality, Cibla municipality, which consists of a plot of 7,59 hectares of land. Does not agree with the amount of the remuneration. Eighth - real estate “ Zemtur R” in Vecumu parish, Viļaka municipality, which consists of an area of 0.19 hectares of land. The owner wanted another form of compensation which the State could not offer, so no agreement was reached. Does not accept compensation and avoid mutual communication. Nine - real estate “Old road” in Liepnas parish, Alūksne municipality, part - land plot in an area of 0,1041 hectares. The owner disagrees with the level of compensation as it considers that the property is not valued at market value and avoids further communication. Decimal - real estate “Tribe” in briģu municipality, Ludza municipality, part - land area of 0,84 hectares. The owner has not responded to the invitation, does not conjure. The eleventh - the real estate “Mazesmajas” in the Parish, Zilupe municipality, the part - the plot of land in the area of 0,0628 hectares. The owner agrees with the amount of compensation but has brought actions which are not within the competence of the State and cannot therefore be enforced. In view of all the above, forced disposal of real estate for public use must be carried out. The Legal Commission has supported the draft law for third reading. I call on my colleagues to support this.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-20-PT13-544-U213	Please call me! We will vote for the draft law “Amendments to the Law on the Installation of the State Border Strip of the Republic of Latvia and the Russian Federation” at the third, final reading! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 65, for - 1, for - 2. The law is passed. Draft law “Amendments to the Law on the Protection of Cultural Monuments”, third reading. On behalf of the Commission for Education, Culture and Science - Member Ivars Puga.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-20-PT13-544-U214	In the Commission for Education, Culture and Science, the draft law “Amendments to the Law on the Protection of Cultural Monuments” was discussed for the third reading. These amendments to the law are necessary to ensure that the laws and regulations are brought into line with the Law on Administrative Liability, which will enter into force in 2020. There were also editorial clarifications in the composition of administrative offences according to the actual situation and objectives of the legal provision. Four proposals were received by the Commission. 1. is the proposal of the Legal Office. Improvement of the structure of the draft law, clarification of the title of the chapter, distinguishing the monitoring process from the application of liability in the event of infringements. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-20-PT13-544-U215	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-20-PT13-544-U216	2. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Provides for changes to the structure of the draft law. Linked to supporting proposal 1. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-20-PT13-544-U217	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-20-PT13-544-U218	3. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Related to changes in the structure and editorial development of the draft law. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-20-PT13-544-U219	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-20-PT13-544-U220	4. - a proposal from the Legal Bureau on the conditions for the entry into force of the transitional provisions of a draft law. The new provisions shall enter into force at the same time as the Law on Administrative Liability. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-20-PT13-544-U221	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-20-PT13-544-U222	On behalf of the Commission, I ask you to support the draft law at third reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-20-PT13-544-U223	Please call me! We will vote for the draft law “Amendments to the Law on the Protection of Cultural Monuments” in the third, final reading! Please vote mode! Please get the result! On - 74, against and refrains - not. The law is passed.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-20-PT13-544-U224	Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-20-PT13-544-U225	Draft law “Amendments to the Law of the State Audit Office”, third reading. On behalf of the National Administration and Municipal Commission - Member Viktors Valainis.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-20-PT13-544-U226	Colleagues, so we work with the draft law “Amendments to the Law of the State Audit Office” at third reading. Overall, 16 proposals have been prepared by the Commission. Most of them are of a technical nature and clarify the wording voted at second reading. An exception is one proposal that I will tell you more when we get there. But let's start looking at it. 1. - a proposal from the committee responsible which is of a technical nature. The Commission is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-20-PT13-544-U227	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-20-PT13-544-U228	2. - a proposal from the committee responsible which is of a technical nature. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-20-PT13-544-U229	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-20-PT13-544-U230	3. - a proposal from the Legal Office which is of a technical nature. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-20-PT13-544-U231	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-20-PT13-544-U232	4. - a proposal from the committee responsible, which shall be of a technical nature, specifying. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-20-PT13-544-U233	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-20-PT13-544-U234	5. - a proposal from the committee responsible which is of a technical nature. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-20-PT13-544-U235	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-20-PT13-544-U236	6. - a proposal from the committee responsible which is of a technical nature. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-20-PT13-544-U237	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-20-PT13-544-U238	7. - a proposal from the Legal Office which is of a technical nature. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-20-PT13-544-U239	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-20-PT13-544-U240	8 / 8 - a proposal from the committee responsible which is of a technical nature. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-20-PT13-544-U241	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-20-PT13-544-U242	9. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau that is technical. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-20-PT13-544-U243	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-20-PT13-544-U244	10............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - a proposal from the Legal Office which is of a technical nature. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-20-PT13-544-U245	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-20-PT13-544-U246	11. - the proposal of the Minister of Defence Art Pabriks. Partly supported by the Commission. The substance of the proposal is that in order for special institutions, national security authorities, this norm should have been applied in accordance with the procedure established by other laws, in the view of the Minister, it should have been strengthened by this law, even though it has already been strengthened by other laws. We accepted it in the commission and developed an alternative - 12. - the Commission's proposal, which has been supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-20-PT13-544-U247	Members share the Commission's view on the 11th proposal. The proposal is supported by Members.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-20-PT13-544-U248	13. - a proposal from the committee responsible. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-20-PT13-544-U249	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-20-PT13-544-U250	14............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - a proposal from the committee responsible. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-20-PT13-544-U251	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-20-PT13-544-U252	15............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - the proposal of the committee responsible, which makes it clear that the State Audit Office comes with a report in 2020 and not right now. This was also supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-20-PT13-544-U253	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-20-PT13-544-U254	And 16. - a proposal of a technical nature of the legal office concerning the date of entry into force. The Commission is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-20-PT13-544-U255	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-20-PT13-544-U256	All the proposals have therefore been examined. I call for support to be given to the draft law at third, final, reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-20-PT13-544-U257	Please call me! We will vote for the draft law “Amendments to the Law of the State Audit Office” in the third, final, reading! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 70, for - no, for - 1. The law is passed. Draft law “Amendments to the Law on the Expropriation of Public Property”, third reading. On behalf of the Commission of Public Administration and Local Government... ( Interface: “There is no Regina! Thank you!’ ) Council Regulation (EC) No 1257/96 of 20 June 1996 concerning humanitarian aid (OJ L 163, 2.7.1996, p. 1).
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-20-PT13-544-U258	Yes, colleagues! We work with the draft law “Amendments to the Law on the Expropriation of Public Property”. The only thing I would like to draw attention to is that there are, for the third reading, two proposals from the committee responsible to rule out two draft laws, but a working group has been set up within the Commission to deal with these specific issues, and we will come back to these issues and to this draft law at the autumn session. The third reading was followed by 12 proposals. All of them are editorial in nature, and conceptual in nature does not change. 1. - a proposal from the committee responsible to delete Article 2 of the draft law. In essence, the dispute is about the definition - which is an “terrestrial of land”. The Commission is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-20-PT13-544-U259	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-20-PT13-544-U260	2. - a proposal from the Legal Bureau to take over the provision from several articles and to incorporate it into one article in order to exclude duplication. The Commission is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-20-PT13-544-U261	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-20-PT13-544-U262	3. - a proposal by the Legal Bureau of a editorial nature. The Commission is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-20-PT13-544-U263	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-20-PT13-544-U264	4, 5, 6 and 7. - the legal bureau's proposals, which exclude the duplication of rules. In essence, one sentence is removed from each article, as all of this is reflected in 2. - a proposal from the Legal Office. 4. - A technical proposal from the Legal Bureau. The Commission is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-20-PT13-544-U265	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-20-PT13-544-U266	5. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-20-PT13-544-U267	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-20-PT13-544-U268	6. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. The Commission is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-20-PT13-544-U269	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-20-PT13-544-U270	7. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. The Commission is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-20-PT13-544-U271	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-20-PT13-544-U272	8 / 8 - a proposal by the Legal Bureau of a editorial nature. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-20-PT13-544-U273	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-20-PT13-544-U274	9. - Legal Bureau's proposal, editorial. The words ‘within five working days’ shall be replaced by ‘within seven days’. The Commission is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-20-PT13-544-U275	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-20-PT13-544-U276	10............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - Commission proposal. Article 14 of the draft law, as I mentioned at the outset, is to be excluded. The Commission is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-20-PT13-544-U277	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-20-PT13-544-U278	11. - a proposal from the committee responsible for the date on which the provision enters into force. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-20-PT13-544-U279	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-20-PT13-544-U280	And 12. - the proposal of the committee responsible in relation to the time limit by which the Cabinet of Ministers must draw up regulations. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-20-PT13-544-U281	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-20-PT13-544-U282	On behalf of the Commission, I call for support for the third, final, reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-20-PT13-544-U283	Please call me! We will vote in favour of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on the Expropriation of Public Property” in the third, final, reading! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 73, against and refrains. The law is passed. Draft Act ‘Amendments to the Value Added Tax Act’, third reading. On behalf of the Commission for Budget and Finance (Tax) - Member Lubova Švecova.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-20-PT13-544-U284	Draft law on Amendments to the Law on Value Added Tax (No. 271/Lp13). 10 proposals were received by the Commission. 1. is a proposal from the Minister of Finance, Mr Reira. The Commission shall be supported by a corresponding change in the numbering of the following articles.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-20-PT13-544-U285	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-20-PT13-544-U286	2. - a proposal from the finance minister, Mr Reira. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-20-PT13-544-U287	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-20-PT13-544-U288	3. - a proposal from the Minister of Finance. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-20-PT13-544-U289	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-20-PT13-544-U290	4. - a proposal from the Minister of Finance. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-20-PT13-544-U291	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-20-PT13-544-U292	5 and 6. - the proposals of the Minister of Finance. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-20-PT13-544-U293	Therefore, proposal 5 is supported by Members. And the 6th proposal is supported by Members.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-20-PT13-544-U294	7. - a proposal from the Minister of Finance. Supported by changing the numbering of the following points accordingly.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-20-PT13-544-U295	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-20-PT13-544-U296	8 / 8 - a proposal from the Minister of Finance. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-20-PT13-544-U297	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-20-PT13-544-U298	9. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-20-PT13-544-U299	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-20-PT13-544-U300	And 10 is a proposal from the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-20-PT13-544-U301	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-20-PT13-544-U302	Please adopt the draft law at third reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-20-PT13-544-U303	Please call me! We will vote in favour of the draft law on "Amendments to the Law on Value Added Tax" in the third, final, final reading! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. The law is passed. Draft law ‘Amendments to the Law on Investment Management Companies’, third reading. Member of the Commission for Budget and Finance (Tax) Reinis Znotiņš.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-20-PT13-544-U304	It's gonna be time to vote. Okay. Hello, colleagues! The Budget and Finance (Tax) Commission examined the draft law ‘Amendments to the Law on Investment Management Companies’. The draft law aims to promote transparency of the activities of investment management companies in relation to investments in shares of a public limited liability company whose registered office is established in a Member State of the European Union and a country of the European Economic Area and whose shares are admitted to the regulated market of a Member State. Versional corrections were made to the third reading. Two proposals have been received. 1. is a proposal from the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-20-PT13-544-U305	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-20-PT13-544-U306	And 2. is a proposal of a editorial nature of the Legal Office. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-20-PT13-544-U307	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-20-PT13-544-U308	On behalf of the Commission, I call on you to support the draft law at third, final, reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-20-PT13-544-U309	Please call me! We will vote for the third, final reading of the draft law "Amendments to the Law on Investment Management Companies"! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 73, against and refrains. The law is passed. Draft law “Amendments to the law on private pension funds”, third reading. Member of the Commission for Budget and Finance (Tax) Reinis Znotiņš.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-20-PT13-544-U310	Dear colleagues, The budget and financial (tax) commission examined the draft law ‘Amendments to the law on private pension funds’. These amendments aim to promote the transparency of the activities of pension funds as institutional investors and fund managers of pension funds in relation to investments in shares of a public limited liability company established in a Member State of the European Union and a country of the European Economic Area whose shares are admitted to the regulated market of a Member State. Four proposals have been received. 1. - the proposal of the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission, which is a editorial nature. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-20-PT13-544-U311	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-20-PT13-544-U312	2. - a proposal from the Legal Bureau, which is editorial in nature. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-20-PT13-544-U313	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-20-PT13-544-U314	3. - the proposal of the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission, which is also a editorial nature. The proposal was supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-20-PT13-544-U315	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-20-PT13-544-U316	And so do 4. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. The Commission is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-20-PT13-544-U317	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-20-PT13-544-U318	I call on Members to support the draft law at third, final, reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-20-PT13-544-U319	Please call me! We will vote for the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Private Pension Funds” in the third, final reading! Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about - 71, it's against and refrains from - it's not. The law is passed. Draft Act ‘Amendment to the Law on Audit Services’, third reading. Member of the Commission for Budget and Finance (Tax) Reinis Znotiņš.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-20-PT13-544-U320	Colleagues! This is also a draft law examined by the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission. No proposals have been received. I invite you to support the draft law at third reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-20-PT13-544-U321	Please call me! We will vote in favour of the draft law on “Amendment to the Law on Audit Services” in the third, final, reading! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. The law is passed. Draft law ‘Amendments to the Insurance and Reinsurance Act’, third reading. Member of the Commission for Budget and Finance (Tax) Reinis Znotiņš.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-20-PT13-544-U322	This draft law provides for the implementation of the requirements of the Directive, which was published on 17 May 2017 by the European Parliament and the Council. In principle, the promotion of long-term shareholder involvement is at stake. This draft law has been examined by the Commission and seven proposals have been received at third reading. 1. - the proposal of the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission, which is a editorial nature. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-20-PT13-544-U323	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-20-PT13-544-U324	2. - a proposal from the Legal Bureau, which is editorial in nature. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-20-PT13-544-U325	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-20-PT13-544-U326	3. - a proposal from the Legal Office, which is also editorial. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-20-PT13-544-U327	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-20-PT13-544-U328	There is also the proposal from the Legal Office. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-20-PT13-544-U329	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-20-PT13-544-U330	5. - a proposal from the Legal Office, which is also a editorial nature. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-20-PT13-544-U331	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-20-PT13-544-U332	6. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-20-PT13-544-U333	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-20-PT13-544-U334	And the 7th is also a proposal from the Legal Bureau. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-20-PT13-544-U335	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-20-PT13-544-U336	I call on Members to support the draft law at third reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-20-PT13-544-U337	Please call me! We will vote in favour of the draft law “Amendments to the Insurance and Reinsurance Act” third, final reading! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 79, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The law is passed. Draft law ‘Amendments to the Law on the Markets in Financial Instruments’, third reading. Member of the Commission for Budget and Finance (Tax) Reinis Znotiņš.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-20-PT13-544-U338	These amendments to the law will contribute to the long-term involvement of shareholders in the management of public limited liability companies as well as the strengthening of shareholders' rights. For the third reading, the Commission has received two drafting proposals. 1. is a proposal from the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-20-PT13-544-U339	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-20-PT13-544-U340	And 2. - a proposal from the Legal Office, which is also a editorial nature. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-20-PT13-544-U341	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-20-PT13-544-U342	I call on Members to support the third final reading of the draft law on Amendments to the Law on the Markets in Financial Instruments.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-20-PT13-544-U343	Please call me! We will vote in favour of the third, final, final reading of the draft law "Amendments to the Law on the Markets in Financial Instruments"! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. The law is passed. Please call me! Please register the Members! ( Milestones.) Name to Marija Golubeva, member of the Saeima Secretary, for reading the results of the registration. ( Milestones.)
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-20-PT13-544-U344	Not registered: Arvils Asheradens, Iveta Benhen-Beekena, Dace Bluķe, Aldis Blumbergs, Gundars Dauge, Sergejs Dolgopolovs, Ilmars Dūritis, Inese Ikstena, Aleksandrs Kiršteins, Ivans Klementjevs, Ainars Latkovskis, Regina Ločmele-Lunova, Dana Reizniece-Ozola, Sandis Riekstins, Jānis Urbanovičs, Jānis Vucans and Ivars Zariņš.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-20-PT13-544-U345	Interruption until 3 p.m. ( Interruption)
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-20-PT13-544-U346	Dear colleagues, We're continuing the Saeima sitting. We are continuing with the examination of the draft laws. Draft law ‘Amendments to the Law on Alternative Investment Funds and their Managers’, third reading. Member of the Commission for Budget and Finance (Tax) Reinis Znotiņš.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-20-PT13-544-U347	Hello, dear colleagues, again! I will remind you of what this bill is about. This draft law is very important, because in fact Latvia had for a long time... The most friendly alternative investment fund regulation, namely, Latvia was the Member State of the European Union that collected the highest supervisory fees... Thus, the regulator collected the highest supervisory fees. What does this mean for the Latvian economy? In principle, it makes investment more attractive, it makes it difficult, let us say, to develop an innovation environment. I would like to thank the Information Technology and Innovative Business Sub-Commissions, who were the first to deal with this issue, and also the members of the Budget and Finance (Tax) Commission, who approved these amendments. 17 proposals have been submitted to the third reading. Proposal No 1 - The proposal of the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission, which, in principle, defines... It narrows the circle... So this is about fund managers who can be registered. The Commission shall be supported by a corresponding change in the numbering of the following articles. I call for support.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-20-PT13-544-U348	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-20-PT13-544-U349	Proposal No 2 - Technical clarification of the Budget and Finance (Tax) Commission on the recommendation of the Legal Bureau. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-20-PT13-544-U350	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-20-PT13-544-U351	3. - the proposal of the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission, which requires the Financial and Capital Market Commission to publish the list of managers on its website. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-20-PT13-544-U352	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-20-PT13-544-U353	4. - the proposal of the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission, which provides in principle that... in principle eliminates various norms that would have increased the rule of law and unnecessary... create unnecessary bureaucracy. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-20-PT13-544-U354	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-20-PT13-544-U355	5. - the proposal of the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission, which determines what... the extent to which the manager’s share capital must be registered. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-20-PT13-544-U356	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-20-PT13-544-U357	6. - The budget and financial (tax) commission's proposal, which, therefore, says... So they say that if all the registered members of the fund... the members of the fund are registered, so that they sign the instruments of incorporation of the fund and do not need to publish this information for the second time. It also reduces regulation and improves the environment. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-20-PT13-544-U358	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-20-PT13-544-U359	7. - a proposal from the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission. Defines that... To date, this Article has been applicable to all participants, but now it is being separated which specific rules apply to licensed managers and which apply to registered managers. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-20-PT13-544-U360	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-20-PT13-544-U361	8 / 8 - a proposal from the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission. The numbering of the following articles has been supported. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-20-PT13-544-U362	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-20-PT13-544-U363	9. - a proposal from the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission. In principle they say that in the event of liquidation... case-by-case order... the procedure for the notification of the winding-up of the fund, as is the case. The Commission has been supported by a change in the numbering of the following articles.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-20-PT13-544-U364	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-20-PT13-544-U365	10............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - a proposal from the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission. It states that if operational rules are included in the instruments of incorporation of the Fund, it is not necessary to re-report, as in the proposal referred to above. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-20-PT13-544-U366	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-20-PT13-544-U367	11. - the proposal of the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission, which requires registered managers to provide... define the manner in which the information will have to be provided. This proposal is driven by the Commission on the Financial and Capital Markets. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-20-PT13-544-U368	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-20-PT13-544-U369	12. - a proposal from the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission. It is, in fact, a technical correction on the recommendation of the Legal Office. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-20-PT13-544-U370	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-20-PT13-544-U371	13. - the proposal of the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission, which clarifies the supervision of the funds registered, and hence the rules to be respected. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-20-PT13-544-U372	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-20-PT13-544-U373	14............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - a proposal from the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission. A specific specification of the time at which documents are submitted, a technical specification. This is also supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-20-PT13-544-U374	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-20-PT13-544-U375	15............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - a proposal from the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission. It is about sanctions that can be applied to licensed funds, as well as sanctions that can be applied to registered funds. So that's a list. The Commission shall be supported by a corresponding change in the numbering of the following articles.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-20-PT13-544-U376	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-20-PT13-544-U377	16. - A editorial proposal from the Legal Bureau. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-20-PT13-544-U378	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-20-PT13-544-U379	And 17. - a proposal from the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission. Related to proposal 1, which in principle does not allow the inclusion of levers in this classification... and the open fund... exclude such funds that are not currently located in Latvia. Supported by the Commission. I invite you to support this draft law at third reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-20-PT13-544-U380	The last proposal is supported by Members. Please call me! We will vote in favour of the draft law on Amendments to the Law on Alternative Investment Funds and their Managers, third, final, final, reading! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 54, for - no, for - 14. The law is passed. Draft Act Amending the Law on Credit Institutions, first reading. Member of the Commission for Budget and Finance (Tax) Mārtiņš Bondars.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-20-PT13-544-U381	Madam President, Dear colleagues, Dear colleagues, The Budget and Finance (Tax) Commission has provided you with another job: the draft law “Amendment to the Law on Credit Institutions” (No. 330/Lp13), which is now under consideration at first reading. This draft law provides for the right for every employee of a credit institution to report potential infringements to the Financial and Capital Market Commission. Provision is also made for an obligation for credit institutions and investment firms to establish an appropriate internal reporting mechanism. Since we have examined and supported the draft law in the Budget and Finance (Tax) Commission for first reading, please support it at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-20-PT13-544-U382	Please call me! We will vote in favour of the first reading of the draft law Amending the Law on Credit Institutions! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. The draft law at first reading has been supported. Please set a deadline for the submission of proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-20-PT13-544-U383	The deadline for submitting proposals is 2 September this year.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-20-PT13-544-U384	Thank you. The deadline for submitting proposals is 2 September this year. Draft law: Amendments to the Law on the Markets in Financial Instruments, first reading. Member of the Commission for Budget and Finance (Tax) Mārtiņš Bondars.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-20-PT13-544-U385	The Budget and Finance (Tax) Commission also examined the draft law ‘Amendments to the Financial Instruments Market Act’. This draft law is to be examined at the same time as the draft law “Amendment to the Law on Credit Institutions” in order to ensure a systematic approach to the transposition of the European Union directive and regulation into Latvian legislation. The draft law provides for an obligation for financial market participants to develop an internal procedure for employees to report irregularities detected to the Financial and Capital Market Commission in the performance of their duties. Since within the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission, the draft law has been approved for first reading, please support it at first reading. Please call me! We will vote for the first reading draft law on Amendments to the Law on the Markets in Financial Instruments! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 69, against and refrains. The draft law at first reading has been supported. Please set a deadline for the submission of proposals. The deadline for submitting proposals is 2 September this year.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-20-PT13-544-U386	Thank you. Proposals should be submitted by 2 September of this year.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-20-PT13-544-U387	Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-20-PT13-544-U388	The law project “On disposal of real estate at Mežezera iela 3, Aizupe, Tīnižu parish, Ikšķile municipality, part for public needs – implementation of the reconstruction project of the National Regional Road P5 Ulbroka-Ogre”, second reading. On behalf of the Legal Commission - Member Jānis Butāns.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-20-PT13-544-U389	During the meeting of the Legal Commission on 11 June, the draft law “On disposal of the part of real estate in Mezezera Street 3, Aizupe, Tīnižu parish, Ikšķile municipality, for public needs – implementation of the reconstruction project of the National Regional Road P5 Ulbroka-Ogre”. The draft law intends to dispose of the real estate part of the National Regional Road P5 for the 20,54-25th kilometre of the Ulbroka-Ogre section... the implementation of the reconstruction project. One technical and two editorial proposals were submitted to the second reading from the Legal Bureau, which were supported by the Commission. 1. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-20-PT13-544-U390	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-20-PT13-544-U391	2. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-20-PT13-544-U392	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-20-PT13-544-U393	And 3. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-20-PT13-544-U394	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-20-PT13-544-U395	The Legal Commission has supported the second reading of the draft law. I call on my colleagues to support this.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-20-PT13-544-U396	Please call me! We will vote for the draft law “On the disposal of real estate in Mežezera Street 3, Aizupe, Tīnižu parish, Ikšķile municipality, part for public needs – implementation of the National Regional Road P5 Ulbroka-Ogre reconstruction project” at second reading! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 69, against and refrains. The draft law at second reading has been supported. Please set a time limit for the submission of proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-20-PT13-544-U397	The deadline for submitting proposals is June 25.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-20-PT13-544-U398	Thank you. Proposals are due by 25 June this year. Draft law “Amendments to the Law on the Movement of Seeds and Varieties”, first reading. On behalf of the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy, Member Janina Kursīte.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-20-PT13-544-U399	Hello, colleagues! We work with the draft law “Amendments to the Law on the Movement of Seeds and Varieties” at first reading. The purpose of this draft law is as follows: in view of the system of codification of administrative irregularities in sectors, it is necessary to lay down administrative penalties for infringement of the marketing requirements for seeds. The draft law also provides for clarification of the functions of the State Plant Protection Service, the procedure for registration of seed growers and removal from the register, as well as the norms related to the creation of a catalogue and a list of varieties. Please support the draft law at first reading. Please call me! We will vote for the first reading of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on the Movement of Seeds and Varieties”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. The draft law at first reading has been supported. Please set a deadline for the submission of proposals. August 22nd.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-20-PT13-544-U400	22?
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-20-PT13-544-U401	August.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-20-PT13-544-U402	August. Thank you. Proposals are due by 22 August this year. Draft law “Amendments to the Law on the Movement of Energy Drinks”, first reading. On behalf of the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy, Member Atis Lejiņš.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-20-PT13-544-U403	Colleagues! Say hello again! Draft law “Amendments to the Law on the Movement of Energy Drinks” (No. 335/Lp13). This is part of the decoding process that we do here in the Saeima, where, from the large book of punishments, we divide penalties by sector - the smaller books of punishment. We took this decision in 2016. This is about verses 5 and 6. Article 5 provides that small persons shall not be allowed to sell energy drinks and that sellers and legal persons shall be punished. Article 6 and Article 6 provide that the application of penalties shall be carried out by the State Police or the municipal police. In fact, we are not doing anything special, but moving from one pictorial book to another, a smaller pictorial pictorial pictorial pictorial pictorial pictorial pictorial for the health sector. Please accept first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-20-PT13-544-U404	Please call me! We will vote in favour of the first reading of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on the Movement of Energy Drinks”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about - 75, it's against and it's abstaining. Please set a deadline for the submission of proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-20-PT13-544-U405	I'm sorry! Yeah. For the second reading, August 22.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-20-PT13-544-U406	Thank you. The deadline for submitting proposals is 22 August this year. Draft law “Amendments to the Law on General Education”, first reading. On behalf of the Commission for Education, Culture and Science - Member Anita Muižniece.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-20-PT13-544-U407	Hello! At its meeting on 12 June, the Commission for Education, Culture and Science examined and supported Members' initiative on amendments to the General Education Act. I would remind you that we produced these amendments in relation to the shift in schools (primary education) so that they can continue to receive additional funding for the implementation of the in-depth programmes after 1 September 2020. School representatives were also invited to the Commission’s meeting. There was quite a debate about what the criteria should be, whether the Ministry should not set out separate programmes. It also received an opinion from the Ministry of Finance. In the Commission, we supported the draft law, so I call on Members to support it at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-20-PT13-544-U408	Please call me! We will vote for the first reading of the draft law on amendments to the General Education Law! Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about - 75, it's against and it's abstaining. The draft law at first reading has been supported. Please set a deadline for the submission of proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-20-PT13-544-U409	September 10th.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-20-PT13-544-U410	Thank you. The deadline for submitting proposals is 10 September this year. Draft law “Amendments to the law on the disposal of real estate for the installation of the state border band of the Republic of Latvia and the Russian Federation”, second reading. On behalf of the Legal Commission - Member Jānis Butāns.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-20-PT13-544-U411	During the meeting of the Legal Commission on 12 June, the draft law “Amendments to the Law “On the Expropriation of Real Estate for the Installation of the Border Strip of the Republic of Latvia and the Russian Federation” was reviewed. The draft law provides for the disposal of a part of the border between the Republic of Latvia and the Russian Federation in Zaļesjes parish, Zilupe municipality, part of the area of 0,0875 hectares of the immovable property “Mužnījas” adjacent to the border. No proposals were submitted for the second reading. The Legal Commission has supported the second reading of the draft law. I call on my colleagues to support this.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-20-PT13-544-U412	Please call me! We will vote for the second reading of the draft law “Amendments to the Law “On the Divestment of Real Estate for the Installation of the State Border Strip of the Republic of Latvia and the Russian Federation”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. The draft law at second reading has been supported. Please set a deadline for the submission of proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-20-PT13-544-U413	Deadline for the submission of proposals - 28 June.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-20-PT13-544-U414	Thank you. Consequently, the deadline for the submission of proposals is 28 June this year. Draft law “Amendments to Law on the Divestment of Real Estate for the Installation of the Border Strip of the Republic of Latvia and the Russian Federation” (No. 246/Lp13), second reading. On behalf of the Legal Commission - Member Jānis Butāns.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-20-PT13-544-U415	During the meeting of the Legal Commission on 12 June, the draft law “Amendments to the Law “On the Expropriation of Real Estate for the Installation of the Border Strip of the Republic of Latvia and the Russian Federation” was reviewed. The draft law provides for the disposal of real estate adjacent to the border by the border between the Republic of Latvia and the Russian Federation: the first property – “First Kumeliņš” in Zaļesjes parish, Zilupe municipality, land of 0,0157 hectares; the second – “Klusumiņš” in Zaļesjes parish, Zilupe municipality, part of the area of 0,0825 hectares. No proposals were submitted for the second reading. The Legal Commission has supported the draft law for the second reading. I call on my colleagues to support this.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-20-PT13-544-U416	Please call me! We will vote for the draft law “Amendments to the Law on the Divestment of Real Estate for the Installation of the State Border Strip of the Republic of Latvia and the Russian Federation” (No. 246/Lp13) at second reading! Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about - 71, it's against and refrains from - it's not. The draft law at second reading has been supported. Please set a time limit for the submission of proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-20-PT13-544-U417	The deadline for submitting proposals shall be 28 June this year.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-20-PT13-544-U418	Thank you. The deadline for submitting proposals is 28 June this year. Draft law “Amendments to the Packaging Act”, second reading. On behalf of the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy, Member Arthur Tom Ples.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-20-PT13-544-U419	Dear President of the Saeima. Dear colleagues, honourable colleagues! After long discussions at the meetings of the Committee on Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy, we have examined the draft law “Amendments to the Packaging Law” prior to the second reading, which provides for the introduction of a deposit system in Latvia. We have received six proposals and I have proposed them for consideration today. Proposal No 1 is the proposal of Juris Pūce, Minister for Environmental Protection and Regional Development. This provides for the definition of a number of terms, such as “deposit packaging”, “deposit packer”, “deposit system”, “deposit system operator” and other binding elements. The proposal is supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-20-PT13-544-U420	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-20-PT13-544-U421	Proposal 2 is a proposal by Juris Pūce, Minister for Environmental Protection and Regional Development, which states that the law in this case also applies to the deposit packer, the deposit system operator. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-20-PT13-544-U422	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-20-PT13-544-U423	Proposal No 3 is a proposal from Member Wittenberg. Partly supported by the Commission, included 5. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-20-PT13-544-U424	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-20-PT13-544-U425	Proposal No 4 is a proposal from the Minister for Environmental Protection and Regional Development, Pūce. This is also partly supported and included in 5. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-20-PT13-544-U426	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-20-PT13-544-U427	Proposal 5 and proposal 5 are a proposal from the committee responsible, bringing the previous proposals together in one. This proposal provides for the operation of the deposit system, determines the responsibility of the deposit system operator, the deposit packer and sets the basic principles of how the deposit system will be organised in Latvia in general. The proposal is supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-20-PT13-544-U428	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-20-PT13-544-U429	And the last one is the proposal of the Minister for Environmental Protection and Regional Development, Jurs Pūce, which lays down transitional provisions. The Commission is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-20-PT13-544-U430	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-20-PT13-544-U431	I call for support for the draft law at second reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-20-PT13-544-U432	Please call me! We will vote in favour of the second reading of the draft law on "Amendments to the Law on Packaging". Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about - 71, it's against and refrains from - it's not. The draft law at second reading has been supported. Please set a time limit for the submission of proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-20-PT13-544-U433	12 July this year.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-20-PT13-544-U434	Thank you. The deadline for submitting proposals is 12 July this year. Draft law “Amendment to Labour Law”, second reading. On behalf of the Commission for Social and Labour Affairs - Member Vitaly Orlovs.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-20-PT13-544-U435	Thank you, Presidium. Dear Members, Working with the draft law “Amendment to Labour Law” (No. 115/Lp13), second reading. The Commission received 11 proposals for a second reading. The proposal was tabled by Mr Schnore. He has not received any support.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-20-PT13-544-U436	Let us start a debate. Name to Member Edvin Schnorem.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-20-PT13-544-U437	Hello, dear colleagues! I will talk about all four of my proposals in this draft law. All of them concern one thing - strengthening the state language in the working environment. But given that this draft law concerns decoding, and therefore another area, I now withdraw all my proposals - the first, the second, the third and the fourth - and I will submit them separately. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-20-PT13-544-U438	Thank you. So Proposal 1-4 has been withdrawn.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-20-PT13-544-U439	Yeah. The proposals were not supported because the Member Schnore did not honour the Commission with his presence and these proposals were not addressed by the National Trilateral Cooperation Council. Move to 5. - a proposal from the Legal Office. He's got support.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-20-PT13-544-U440	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-20-PT13-544-U441	Proposal No 6 was tabled by Mr Spruč, Parliamentary Secretary at the Ministry of Welfare. He was partly supported by the proposal included in proposal 7.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-20-PT13-544-U442	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-20-PT13-544-U443	Proposal 7 has been developed by the Commission responsible. He's got support.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-20-PT13-544-U444	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-20-PT13-544-U445	Proposal No 8 has also been drafted by the commission responsible and is supported. ( Intercretion: “It! ”) ) Council Regulation (EC) No 1257/96 of 20 June 1996 concerning humanitarian aid (OJ L 163, 2.7.1996, p. 1).
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-20-PT13-544-U446	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-20-PT13-544-U447	Proposal 9 was submitted by the commission responsible and received support. ( Intercretion: “It! ”) ) Council Regulation (EC) No 1257/96 of 20 June 1996 concerning humanitarian aid (OJ L 163, 2.7.1996, p. 1).
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-20-PT13-544-U448	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-20-PT13-544-U449	Proposal No 10 was submitted by former Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Welfare, Robert Spruč. ( Intercretion: “It! ”) ) He partially supported and incorporated... Supported by proposal 9.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-20-PT13-544-U450	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-20-PT13-544-U451	Proposals 11 and 11 were drawn up by the committee responsible. He's got support. ( Intercretion: “It! ”) ) Council Regulation (EC) No 1257/96 of 20 June 1996 concerning humanitarian aid (OJ L 163, 2.7.1996, p. 1).
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-20-PT13-544-U452	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-20-PT13-544-U453	Therefore, on behalf of the Commission, I ask you to support the draft law at second reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-20-PT13-544-U454	Please call me! We will vote in favour of the second reading of the draft law on Labour Law! Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about - 70, it's against and abstains. The draft law at second reading has been supported. Please set a deadline for the submission of proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-20-PT13-544-U455	August 30th.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-20-PT13-544-U456	30? Consequently, the deadline for the submission of proposals is 30 August this year. Draft law “Amendments to the Streek Act”, second reading. On behalf of the Commission for Social Affairs and Labour, Member Evita Zālīte-Grosa.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-20-PT13-544-U457	Hello! We work with the draft law “Amendments to the Streek Act”. The draft law was drawn up on the basis of a system for the codification of sector-specific administrative infringements. In order to ensure that system, it was necessary to develop a new part of the Streek Act, which should include a framework on administrative liability in the area of strike law and define the competent authority subject to the imposition of a penalty. Amendments to strike law will replace the relevant norms of the Latvian Administrative Violations Code. Six drafting proposals have been tabled for the second reading. 1. - The proposal of the Commission on Social and Labour Affairs. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-20-PT13-544-U458	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-20-PT13-544-U459	2. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-20-PT13-544-U460	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-20-PT13-544-U461	3. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-20-PT13-544-U462	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-20-PT13-544-U463	4. - The proposal of the Commission on Social and Labour Affairs. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-20-PT13-544-U464	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-20-PT13-544-U465	5. - The proposal by Robert Spruč, Parliamentary Secretary at the Ministry of Welfare. Commission-supported, includes 4. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-20-PT13-544-U466	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-20-PT13-544-U467	And six. - The proposal of the Commission on Social and Labour Affairs. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-20-PT13-544-U468	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-20-PT13-544-U469	Please support the draft law at second reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-20-PT13-544-U470	Please call me! We will vote in favour of the draft law “Amendments to the Strek Law” at second reading! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 68, against and refrains - not. The draft law was approved at second reading. Please set a deadline for the submission of proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-20-PT13-544-U471	The deadline for the submission of proposals for third reading is 30 August this year.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-20-PT13-544-U472	Thank you. The deadline for submitting proposals is August 30 this year. Draft law “Amendments to the Labour Protection Law”, second reading. On behalf of the Commission for Social and Labour Affairs - Member Normunds Gunna.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-20-PT13-544-U473	Hello, colleagues! The Commission for Social and Labour Affairs has prepared for second reading the draft law “Amendments to the Labour Protection Law”. Three proposals have been put forward: Proposal No 1. It has been presented by Robert Spruč, Parliamentary Secretary at the Ministry of Welfare at that time, and aims at cutting red tape. It requires the electronic signature and submission of documents and obliges the employer, in the event of a dispute, to prove that the requirements laid down by laws and regulations have been met in respect of the electronic document and the electronic signature. The proposal was supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-20-PT13-544-U474	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-20-PT13-544-U475	Proposal No 2 It has been tabled by the Commission for Social and Labour Affairs and it is a editorial proposal to replace the word ‘in a point’ with the word ‘in an article’. The proposal was supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-20-PT13-544-U476	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-20-PT13-544-U477	3. It is also the proposal of the committee responsible that the provision for the entry into force of the law be excluded. This proposal is also supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-20-PT13-544-U478	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-20-PT13-544-U479	On behalf of the Commission, I call for support for the second reading of the draft law on amendments to the Labour Protection Act as a whole.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-20-PT13-544-U480	Please call me! We will vote in favour of the second reading of the draft law "Amendments to the Labour Protection Law". Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. The draft law at second reading has been supported. Please set a time limit for the submission of proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-20-PT13-544-U481	The deadline for the submission of proposals for third reading is August 30.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-20-PT13-544-U482	Thank you. The deadline for submitting proposals is August 30 this year. Draft law “Amendments to the Archive Act”, second reading. On behalf of the National Administration and Municipal Commission, Member Uldis Budriķis.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-20-PT13-544-U483	Hello, fellow Members, again! This draft law is also linked to decoding. In total, seven proposals have been submitted. They all concern decoding, and there are also editorial proposals from the Legal Office. 1. is a proposal from the responsible commission, which defines the activities that are prohibited in the archives premises. The Commission is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-20-PT13-544-U484	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-20-PT13-544-U485	2. is a proposal from the commission responsible, which excludes the duplication of articles. The Commission is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-20-PT13-544-U486	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-20-PT13-544-U487	3. is the proposal of the Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Culture, Mrs Zeimule, which has been partly supported and included in the proposal 4. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-20-PT13-544-U488	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-20-PT13-544-U489	4. - a proposal by the Commission which lays down the liability for infringement of the law and specifies the amount of the penalty. The Commission is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-20-PT13-544-U490	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-20-PT13-544-U491	5. is a proposal from the Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Culture, Ms Zeimule, who is editorial, replacing the word "intended" with the word "specified". The Commission is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-20-PT13-544-U492	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-20-PT13-544-U493	6. is the proposal of the Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Culture, Mrs Zeimule. Partially supported, included 7. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-20-PT13-544-U494	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-20-PT13-544-U495	And seven. - a proposal from the committee responsible specifying the transitional provisions relating to the date of entry into force of the law. The Commission is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-20-PT13-544-U496	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-20-PT13-544-U497	Please support the draft law as a whole at second reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-20-PT13-544-U498	Please call me! We will vote for the draft law “Amendments to the Archive Law” at second reading! Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about - 71, it's against and refrains from - it's not. The draft law at second reading has been supported. Please set a time limit for the submission of proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-20-PT13-544-U499	4 July.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-20-PT13-544-U500	Thank you. The deadline for submitting proposals is 4 July this year. Draft law “Amendment to the Law on Information and Consultation of Employees of European Union-wide Commercial Companies and European Union-wide Commercial Groups”, second reading. On behalf of the Commission for Social Affairs and Labour, Member Evita Zālīte-Grosa.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-20-PT13-544-U501	Draft law “Amendment to the Law on Information and Consultation of Employees of European Union-wide Commercial Companies and Employees of European Union-wide Commercial Groups” was developed within the framework of the implementation of the codification of administrative infringements in sectors. Six proposals have been submitted. All proposals are editorial and relate to the fact that the terminology used in the draft law is consistent with the terminology used in the Administrative Liability Act. 1. - The proposal of the Commission on Social and Labour Affairs. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-20-PT13-544-U502	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-20-PT13-544-U503	2. - A editorial proposal from the Legal Bureau. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-20-PT13-544-U504	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-20-PT13-544-U505	3. - The proposal of the Commission on Social and Labour Affairs. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-20-PT13-544-U506	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-20-PT13-544-U507	4. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Incorporated 3. - the proposal of the Commission on Social and Labour Affairs. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-20-PT13-544-U508	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-20-PT13-544-U509	5. - The proposal of the Commission on Social and Labour Affairs. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-20-PT13-544-U510	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-20-PT13-544-U511	6. - The proposal of the Commission on Social and Labour Affairs. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-20-PT13-544-U512	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-20-PT13-544-U513	I call for support for the draft law at second reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-20-PT13-544-U514	Please call me! We will vote on the draft law “Amendment to the Law on Information and Consultation of Employees of European Union-wide Commercial Companies and European Union-wide Commercial Groups” at second reading! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. The draft law was approved at second reading. Please set a deadline for the submission of proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-20-PT13-544-U515	Proposals for third reading should be submitted by 30 August this year.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-20-PT13-544-U516	Thank you. The deadline for submitting proposals is August 30 this year. Draft law “Amendment to the Labour Protection Law”, second reading. On behalf of the Commission for Social Affairs and Labour, Member Evita Zālīte-Grosa.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-20-PT13-544-U517	The draft law “Amendment to the Labour Protection Law” has also been developed within the framework of the system of codification of administrative infringements in sectors. There are eight proposals, and all of them editorial. 1. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-20-PT13-544-U518	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-20-PT13-544-U519	2. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-20-PT13-544-U520	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-20-PT13-544-U521	3. - The proposal of the Commission on Social and Labour Affairs. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-20-PT13-544-U522	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-20-PT13-544-U523	Proposal No 4 was submitted by former Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Welfare, Robert Spruč. Partly supported 3. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-20-PT13-544-U524	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-20-PT13-544-U525	5. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-20-PT13-544-U526	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-20-PT13-544-U527	6. - The proposal of the Commission on Social and Labour Affairs. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-20-PT13-544-U528	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-20-PT13-544-U529	7. - The proposal of the Commission on Social and Labour Affairs. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-20-PT13-544-U530	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-20-PT13-544-U531	And 8. - The proposal of the Commission on Social and Labour Affairs. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-20-PT13-544-U532	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-20-PT13-544-U533	I call for support for the draft law at second reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-20-PT13-544-U534	Please call me! We will vote for the second reading of the draft law on labour protection law! Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about - 75, it's against and it's abstaining. The draft law at second reading has been supported. Please set a deadline for the submission of proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-20-PT13-544-U535	The deadline for submitting proposals is August 30 this year.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-20-PT13-544-U536	Thank you. The deadline for submitting proposals is August 30 this year. And now on the agenda - draft law submitted by the Cabinet of Ministers “Amendments to the Law “On Assistance in Addressing the Issues of the Apartment”” (No. 263/Lp13) and Alternative Draft Law elaborated by the Commission of the State Administration and Local Government “Amendments to Law “On Assistance in Addressing the Issues of the Apartment”” (No. 352/Lp13). On behalf of the National Administration and Municipal Commission - Member Eriks Pucens.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-20-PT13-544-U537	Hello, colleagues! We worked with the draft law “Amendments to the Law “On Assistance in Addressing the Issues of the Apartment” at the Commission of Public Administration and Local Government. The essence of the draft law is to provide for the possibility for municipalities to promote the construction of rental houses. This draft law was drafted by the Ministry of Economics, but, given the opposition of the Legal Bureau, I would like to reject it on behalf of the Commission, because the commission working group has developed an alternative law.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-20-PT13-544-U538	Thank you. Colleagues! The debate on both draft laws must be held together. Does anyone want to debate? Thank you. Please call me! We will vote on the draft law submitted by the Cabinet of Ministers “Amendments to the Law “On Assistance in Addressing the Issues of the Apartment”” (No. 263/Lp13) at first reading! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Draft law has been rejected. Please call me! We will vote on the alternative draft law “Amendments to the Law “On Assistance in Addressing the Issues of the Apartment”” (No. 352/Lp13) at first reading! Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about - 75, it's against and it's abstaining. The draft law at first reading has been supported. Please set a deadline for the submission of proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-20-PT13-544-U539	Deadline for submission of proposals - 3 September.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-20-PT13-544-U540	Thank you. Please accept, Sir, the assurance of my highest consideration. ... Wait a second, Mr. Valaiņš! Please turn on the microphone for Victor Valain.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-20-PT13-544-U541	There would be a proposal to set a different deadline of 13 August.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-20-PT13-544-U542	So Mr. Valaiņš' proposal - 13 August. Please turn on the microphone for Uldim. ... Don't you? It's like, isn't it? So, 3 September and 13 August. Colleagues, we have to vote. Let us first vote on the next deadline, 3 September this year. Please call me! We will be voting in favour of the deadline for the submission of proposals being 3 September this year! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 2, for - 65, for - 5. Thus, 13 August of this year remains the deadline for the submission of proposals. Thank you. Draft Act ‘Amendments to the vehicle operation tax and company light vehicle tax’, first reading. Member of the Commission for Budget and Finance (Tax) Mārtiņš Bondars.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-20-PT13-544-U543	At the meeting of the Budget and Finance (Tax) Commission, the draft law ‘Amendments to the vehicle operating tax and company passenger vehicle tax law’ was discussed. Currently, a 50 percent discount for multi-child families is calculated for cars with an engine capacity of up to 3,500 cubic centimetres (without additional conditions regarding the technical characteristics of the car in terms of the number of passenger seats). The need for a tax credit is justified on the basis of additional expenditure in the family budget. The purpose of the draft law is to facilitate the operation of vehicles capable of carrying four or more children safely. This is a vehicle with seven or more seats. When discussing and deciding on the progress of this draft law within the Commission, Members voted as follows: -7, against - 4 and abstained - 1.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-20-PT13-544-U544	Let us start a debate. The name of Member Julia Stepanenko.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-20-PT13-544-U545	Dear colleagues, Thank you very much to the Budget and Finance (Tax) Commission for its support. Thank you also to Mr Bondara for putting this bill on the agenda. I just want to make it clear that this additional... The tax rate per 3,5 litre of engine has been introduced since 1 January this year and that this additional... The tax rate also applies in principle to large families... cars used by large families for the carriage of large families. In our view, the application of this additional rate, although subject to 50 percent discount... So 150 euros in the multi-child family budget... So more from many children's families is required... from 1 January this year... to those families that... they have such a car at their disposal. That is, according to data, a little over 180 families. In the meantime, while we were waiting for the draft law to be examined, perhaps another family bought it. We don't know. I would also like to remind you that, in our view, perhaps it was not really right to point out from the Ministry of Finance that large-scale families had to prepare for these amendments in good time, because somewhere in the Cabinet, from 2016 we had these negotiations on the application of the additional rate. It seems to me - and also to the applicants, other colleagues who have tabled this draft law - that it is not right to impose this additional burden and obligation on large families when buying a car, to keep track of whether it will not have to be changed to less powerful if someone starts some discussion in the Cabinet. We therefore call for support for this draft law. And once again, thank you very much to those Members who supported and voted in favour of the Commission. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-20-PT13-544-U546	The name of the Member, Martin Bondar.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-20-PT13-544-U547	Dear colleagues, Dear colleagues, It is very important, however, that this type of proposal has some level of credibility. But without its credibility, it is very difficult to support it or those who submit and defend this draft law. Today, a very popular topic in the world to talk about is a face news, but perhaps soon the most popular topic in the world to talk about will be a face MPs, or false Members, false parliamentarians. These are Parliamentaries who think one, do the other and speak the third. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. D. Schmidt: “Mārtiņš, it’s you!” ) If we look at it, then (Minimum: “Then you have to go home!” ) A person who stands here today in the trek (Dep. D. Schmidt: “Yes!” ), on the one hand, supports these amendments for multi-child families, while at the same time telling about the draft law... It's like "for", but it's actually "for". Speak one thing, do the other and think the devil knows something else... third. It's not normal. It's not normal! You lose credibility. ( Insight: “Tell us something about the law! ” ) On the law speaking. You know what? In Latvia, as in other countries, money does not grow in trees. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A. Gobzem: “Are you sure?Oh, no, no, no, "We can already put forward various proposals for social nature, but there is one problem: we need to identify the source of what we're going to take... and to whom. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. D. Schmidt: “For the savings bank!” ) If there is no source, the soap is large. Soap big! Then just that path to hell is paved with good intentions. That's right. That's it! And what can you do? Well, then we need to show who we're going to take that money away and give it to who we're going to give. Right? And finally, colleagues. Colleagues! The big question is that if one of the applicants himself has a car with an engine capacity above 3.5 litres (Dep. K. Ridge: “And four children!” ), then I have a question... Then I would like to say the way in which that Latvian song sings: “I know these words don’t come from your heart.” I therefore feel that what would be necessary - in this case, reject the specific proposal and find a solution to this issue in the budget package for 2020. Investigate everything and find a solution. Not like that, yeah, I'm going to have a discount today! There's no Rimi, no Maxima, no other supermarket. This is the Saeima of the Republic of Latvia. And we should, however, approach this issue in a responsible manner. Thank you, colleagues.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-20-PT13-544-U548	The name to Member Julia Stepanenko for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-20-PT13-544-U549	Dear colleagues, Those with three or more children have solved the problem of finding a safe family (I stress – safe and comfortable!) the vehicle. I will once again explain to you that this is an additional rate that has entered into force on 1 January this year. I believe that this is 12. The Saeima's mistake, which we have to correct here today. If we're talking about fiscal impact... It could be said that almost half of these families may not yet know that they will have to pay an additional EUR 150 when they go for a roadworthiness test. According to our calculations and according to CSDD data... in addition... These uncollected funds amount to EUR 27 450. We are talking about that amount at the moment. I do not really think we should punish large-scale families because they need a car to carry children. Especially in view of the fact that we met with the Hungarian Ambassador recently and all Members were informed about what demographic measures are in Hungary. Hungary permits large families to even subsidize the purchase of a car! Here we punish large families for having such a big car. About 300-400 euros every year multi-child families will now pay for a powerful car just because there is this law! Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-20-PT13-544-U550	The name of Member Linda Liepiņš.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-20-PT13-544-U551	Mr Bondara, your speeches sometimes really make us think very much. This time is no exception. You have just criticised Member Julia Stepanenko for her proposed draft law... that it is perhaps because she has four children and she is also moving with a bigger car ( well, as you may be, Mr Bondara). And I had that question when I listened to you... As Chairman of the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission, you are currently heading the reduction in excise duty on alcohol as a matter of urgency. Why, Mr. Bondar? You are drinking too much, or are you just missing money and too expensive? The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. M. Bondars: “Derru!” (Laughter) Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-20-PT13-544-U552	The name of the Member, John Isal.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-20-PT13-544-U553	Colleagues! First of all, I want to call you... Whoever is a draft law or a proposal... But be right about your... other colleagues, whether from position or opposition (Applause.) , and do not refer, for example, to the applicant’s family situation or similar circumstances which... Well, anyone can also turn this kind of argument against you. Secondly, I would also like to call... In this case, we do not need to look who is the applicant - the position or the opposition. This is a good proposal in substance and I call for support for it. (Applause) Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-20-PT13-544-U554	Name to Member Aldi Gobzem. ( Internouncing call.)
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-20-PT13-544-U555	First. Mr President, thank you very much for what you said from the platform. Very much (Laughter) ... Very human. Very human! The other thing. Marty Bondar! Martin Bondar, I ask you not to stand with the bottom against me. (Laughter) Martin Bondar, we're talking about many children's families... We're talking about many children's families, and you're standing down against me right now. ( Internouncing call.) But don't... ( Internouncing call.) That is the attitude of the Head of the Budget and Finance (Tax) Commission of the Saeima towards large families of children! Now that this proposal is under discussion, Mārtiņš Bondars is here in front of... standing in the first row, demonstrationally turned his back on the speaker who speaks from the podium. ( Internouncing call.) And before they talked from the pub, they're talking about it... for Members who say one but do another. I'll remind you of 12. The Saeima. There were two friends like Mārtiņš Bondars and Artuss Neimins, huh? The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A. Neighbours: “Two friends – so what?” ) It was... These people entered the parliament together...
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-20-PT13-544-U556	On the proposal! ( Milestones.)
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-20-PT13-544-U557	And the result? The result is that these gentlemen have changed their point of view, just because they have had some kind of post to change their position. Both of them. Both of them! That's what an example... Mr Bondar is on the verge of saying that we cannot support a large family today. At the same time... Today we are talking from this same platform about reducing excise duty on strong alcohol at a time when there is no calculation on this subject, and at a time when there are huge problems with alcohol in Latvia. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A. Muižniece: “There is no need to repeat!” ) What I want to say is that today Mr. Nemiņš is very happy because alcohol will be cheaper in Latvia. (Laughter) I really understand that. He has a lot of experience in this field. But he has no experience in child rearing. In Latvia, it is a problem - the more children you have, the less materially it gets for you because in fact, the Republic of Latvia is now punishing those people who are allowing more children in the world. ( Internouncing call.) I think that with this attitude, we will not be able to break the demographic problem that exists in Latvia. We also need to make radical changes in our thinking. And when you get up in the troop... I am sorry, Martyn, but to blame Julia Stepanenko, who has given birth to four children, that she is the promoter of such a proposal - that is cynical. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. I. Voika: “She is not the only one who has four children!” ) It is not essential whether she is alone or not; but every woman who spends a child on the world deserves respect. She deserves respect for this fact alone. Where are we talking about large families... And it's really capeic, funny capeic... Your party today, realizing that there are no votes... I wanted to give you 40 million... He said it was a trifle. We are talking here about a ridiculous amount of budgetary resources linked to support for large families of children. You say you don't have time... Reminds of 2020, 2021... and so on. Multiple families are the first to be supported. Poor people are the first to be supported. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A. Muižniece: “We will now support!” ) I understand that here some are very angry that we are openly talking about this from the tribunal, but it may be that at least... Questions, I understand, may like, may not like... Position, opposition and the like... The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A. Neighbours: “Go sit down!” ) But maybe you shouldn't... simply because a particular opposition person has submitted... I mean, I mean, I mean, I mean, I mean, I Medicines cause noise.) And there's another thing I have to say. I understand, Members of the Saeima, until four in the afternoon to work - well, it is difficult, of course. But maybe we'll work to the end! I want to finish my thought and say it. — Dep. A. Neighbours: “No, man, don’t finish! Don’t!” )... Artus Nemiņi, I realize that there is again a drunkenness or penny as usual, but (Sitting driver knocks down with a hammer.) ... It's an important request: Martyn, the next time you talk from the tribunal, don't hurt, please, a woman who has given birth to children! The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A. Neighbours: “Aldi Gobzem, go sit down!” ) This is not promised! The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. J. Strike: “Ethics Standard!” ) Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-20-PT13-544-U558	The name is Digit Schmidt. ( Internouncing call.)
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-20-PT13-544-U559	I want to thank two people. First of all, Martyn, you have the courage to climb into the barn and make such a sin... make yourself a false Member. There needs courage and principle. I completely hear the band “Galaxy” in the background... ( Dungo.) But if seriously, I would like to thank Janis Izalnieks for what he said, and I really hope that we can not touch each other and deal with matters that affect many children's families and their parents, in essence, as it should be. This is a very small, little, little question. We still have a whole range of standing in front of us if we want to take care of and defend it least... as they say, the most oppressed groups, namely families with many children. Unfortunately, this is one of the most repressive groups in our country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-20-PT13-544-U560	Name to Member Artus Neminis.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-20-PT13-544-U561	We're talking here for 15 minutes about how one social group or another can weep, but... We have long agreed that the proposals of the opposition, rationally, normally, will be supported. This 21 thousand that these people need will be found. And you have to understand that the Chairman of the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission has to do his job and he has to know where this money comes from. In this case, it is not listed here where the money comes from. That's why Mr Bondara told me about how... What the right way. I believe, in turn, that... I think it would be even more correct if this law were to enter into force on 1 January. Here... in this case, this is scheduled to happen in April. So... if it were like a coalition in the budget, it would already be 1 January. But I call for support. We have agreed that we support this. And Julia Stepanenko has long recorded in the Twitter that she has won this money. And what the Twitter says is true! Please, support! And a happy Ligo festival for all!
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-20-PT13-544-U562	I closed the debate. On behalf of the commission, is there something to add? No, no. Please call me! We will vote in favour of the first reading of the draft law on vehicle operation tax and company passenger vehicle tax law! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 67, for - 6, for - 3. ( Internoint.) Thank you very much. The draft law at first reading has been supported. Please set a time limit for the submission of proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-20-PT13-544-U563	September 2, this year.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-20-PT13-544-U564	Thank you. The deadline for submitting proposals is 2 September this year. The next item on the agenda - Election, approval, appointment, dismissal or dismissal of officials, expression of trust or distrust. Draft decision on the withdrawal of Member Ata Zakatistov from the Request Commission. Mrs. Liepaja, do you want to speak in the debate? Let us start a debate. The name of Member Linda Liepiņš. Are there any objections to merging the two times of the debate? There is no objection.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-20-PT13-544-U565	Colleagues! For those who do not know, the Request Commission has become the most popular parliamentary commission for this moment. There are 17 Members in the Commission. Mrs Strike, I do not know why you once proposed that the Committee on Petitions should be dissolved. Not because it's so popular, yeah. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. J. Strike: “I still think so!” ) Here! But it's good that it stays, we'll probably discuss it at another time. I will be very brief about what is happening now and why such changes - withdrawals and appointments. Someone is allowed to go, someone is not allowed to go. Someone is allowed to take part in a commission, someone is not. What is being done by the coalition at the moment is understandable: the coalition is trying to regain a majority in the Appeals Commission, given that two Members of the Commission have become members outside the political groups and one of the Members of the Appeals Commission has been extradited for prosecution. So far, no one has explained what is the real reason for this desire at such a pace and all possible and also impossible means to change the management of the commission. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A. Neighbours: “Do you really not understand?” ) The question is, is it fear? It is an expression of such power - it is probably also - and an indication of such a place, if so. And they're probably an agreement that doesn't provide neither a roll of order nor any other document that would regulate the Saeima's work. Yesterday, when Members wanted to include the question of my resignation from the chair of the committee, I also mentioned at the meeting of the committee the case that the Saeima Bureau had received an application from six non-attached Members, asking them to respect the equality of these six Members and to respect proportionality both in the organisation of the work of the Saeima and in the representation of the committees and other institutions. And for a miracle, although we have not received an official reply from the Saeima Bureau, today one of the members of the Saeima Bureau (I do not know who, and I don't think I want to know that) has commented that Members outside the political groups should be specifically condemned for having... Aldi, you, Julia, you, Bigby, you, Karina, you and Inguna, you, you... we have transferred our constituents. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. M. Bondars: “On withdrawal of Ata Zakatistov from the commission!” ) Well, he was! In my opinion, if we are talking about the handover of voters, everyone here should look in the mirror and think about how many times you have voted against your conscience when sitting here in the Saeima... What does the Constitution actually determine? That is how you should vote and make decisions to the Saeima. It is clear that everything is going on under the discipline of political groups, and there are some people who are baffling here all debts, but that's what it is. And then what will happen? The Members of the Request Commission representing the coalition will try to convene an extraordinary meeting of the Request Commission. Everything is nice, charming - you refer to the decision of the Saeima in 2004. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. R. Kols: “On the draft decision! On the withdrawal of Ata Zakatistova!” ) This decision taken by the Saeima in 2004 requires such an extraordinary meeting to be convened by the chairman of the commission. And I'll call it. This sitting will be convened within 48 hours of such a decision and... How did you say there, Mr. Cole, more dignity at the committee sitting yesterday? Indeed, Mr. Cole, more respect! I call on all Members to have more respect for the law, against the Constitution and also against your colleagues... which have also been elected by the people, Mr Kola, and some of us have been elected by a substantially greater majority than you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-20-PT13-544-U566	Name to Member Rihard Cole.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-20-PT13-544-U567	Dear President of the Saeima. Dear Members, honourable Members, With regard to the draft decision itself on the withdrawal of Ata Zakatistov, I think it is quite a rational group decision. Given that the Member is physically unable to take part in these sittings, I have not heard from you any argument about this particular draft decision, instead you have referred to rather distorted facts. Yesterday, Members called for the issue of change of management to be put on the agenda. You have refused to put it on the agenda in violation of the parliamentary roll. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. L. Liepiņa: “ Did you find a point of order?” ) Members are entitled to do so. And in practice, you pointed out your ineligibility by taking up the post of Head of the Request Commission. It's just a rational thing. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. Mr Gobzem: ‘What was the vote yesterday?’ ) Council Regulation (EC) No 1257/96 of 20 June 1996 concerning humanitarian aid (OJ L 163, 2.7.1996, p. 1).
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-20-PT13-544-U568	The name is Digit Schmidt.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-20-PT13-544-U569	Rihard, is that... Richard, I'm sorry, but this time... What John Isalnieks called for is for you too. One point. Show me what you just said in the Saeima's order line. One point where it is written. And the withdrawal of Ata Zakatistov. Clearly, it is necessary to take that decision. But if we're not bluffing here and talking, as it is, then it's clear what's going on. Well, what's going on... Every attempt to create such a situation in the Commission for Request to stop Linda Liepiņš. That's clear! Essentially. That's one. Basically, as let's say... I have one more... what I wanted to use at this point, and this is not just about this issue; it is about many other issues. I would like to make a small, correct remark to the Saeima's Legal Office. You are not an office for cover up stupid decisions by the coalition. You are the Legal Bureau of the Saeima and your task is to protect the rule of law in this house. You don't have to trust that the next coalition will do this for your services in this way. You can come in a way that you won't want at one point. So you don't have to rely on it. And, Richard, what John said applies also to you.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-20-PT13-544-U570	Colleagues, I will allow one remark. Let us respect the members of the Saeima! Politically, we can be satisfied or dissatisfied with the decisions, assessments and statements of our fellow Members, but let us respect the members of the Saeima without going into their political events. I respect the Saeima's Legal Office and call on everyone to do so. Name to Member Aldi Gobzem.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-20-PT13-544-U571	It is quite clear that Atis Zakaistov should be withdrawn from the Commission. So that society can understand the changes that are being made today... It shall be put to the vote both in this vote and in the following votes on amendments to the Committee on Petitions. They relate to one single issue - not to the substance of the request to the Commission, one thing, but simply to replace Linda Liepini's chairmanship with another representative of the coalition. In principle, it's the same... It is the same old policy that the JPN and the political party KPV LV promised to destroy... and so on. In essence, all that intrigue why such votes take place (for the public to understand... those who listen live or watch this broadcast from the Saeima House!) , is because the Request Commission currently divides votes equally. So those who are in position and those who are in opposition - equally. Consequently, no change is possible. And the position is concerned. The biggest problem, I think, with regard to the Request Commission is one that a Member said about in the previous Parliament... that the head of this commission was one of the former in power who (Dep. A. Neighbours: “Communist Brigmanis!” )... Communist Brigmanis, as such (Laughter) one Member shall be designated. And in fact, the task of the Request Commission in the previous Saeima was to cover the coalition. That is what the coalition wants to do now - to cover itself so that there is nothing in the Request Commission. ( Interface: “It really is! ” ) Basically, the coalition does not learn from the mistakes of history. Where is Brigman today? Well, probably the same place as a Member here, right of me, after this House. The problem I want to say to you is that if you were not afraid of your work and of your ministers, then in fact... Well, if I had been in the ruling coalition and the opposition had, for example, made a request, and I would have worked for Latvian society, but I would have been happy to come as a minister to the Request Commission and explain what I have done. I would come to Parliament, to the public who would have been taken away from this tribunal, to be proud of the work that I have done and to show that everything has been done on this subject. Now, in fact, the nature of the Request Commission... what the coalition wants... is the opposite - to hide that nothing has been done. And it's such a certain duality. It's, in principle, the same duality as... For example, today two parties - mostly the New Unity and Development/About! - Well, it's a big deal about life... for the family, for the spouses and for everything else. And now we are looking at the previous vote, which was about large families, about supporting large families... Who has voted against? Bondar, Pavilut, Pleas, Stein, Steel, Voika. Who has abstained (i.e. the same against)? Judin, Kozlowski, Leyin. ( Internouncing call.) New Unity and Development/About! - these are those who say on public television and from the platform that they are in favour of the family, but then vote completely the opposite. And in fact, this is also a question of the Request Commission. You're saying you need to make technical arrangements... Fairly tell the public the reason. The only reason for all these changes is to remove Linda Liepiņš from his post as head of commission, so that this post can be given to one of you, so that there is nothing in the Committee on Petitions. That would be a fair answer that you should say to the public. If one of you could say it to the public, the coalition could also respect such a person for the honest answer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-20-PT13-544-U572	The name of Member Julia Stepanenko.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-20-PT13-544-U573	Dear colleagues, The question is, does Linda Liepiņa not manage the commission well? I think none of you will say that she is bad in running the Commission, that she is biased, that she has at some point threatened the existence of a coalition. She's a very correct one, too... does not vote if she sees, for example, that one of the ministers may receive more votes for than for... The question of why Mr Zakatistova wants to be withdrawn from the Commission is really not clear, because... The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. J. Strike: “He is not!” ) No. You see, she really isn't... This question really is not clear, because Mr. Jušas... his image is not present today in the hall, but he is still present (CPV LV fraction dep. Sub-word: “How not clear?Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. “)... he is still in the Defence, Home Affairs and Anti-Corruption Commission. At least he shall be present in the composition of that committee. You have not withdrawn Mr Juša from this commission because there is probably no conflict at all. And he can be there (just - for a quorum or something else). You have withdrawn him from the National Security Commission because the roll of order of the Saeima demands that each group elect one member. That is understandable. But he is still in the Commission for Defence, Home Affairs and Prevention of Corruption, and no one has any problem with Mr. Jušas's presence there. But Mr Zakatistova, you only want to be withdrawn because his presence on this commission is disrupting your quorum. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. S. Riekstins: “Let’s not talk to people who don’t! It's not a good tone!” ) And what you want to do is clear: for incomprehensible reasons, the chair of the commission, under whose leadership 13 requests have been dealt with, which is by nature a very good instrument of opposition. They have in no way disrupted your work (Dep. Feldman: “I am! There was no quorum!’ ), you have voted quietly against them, the opposition has clarified all the issues of opposition interest, and this is how parliamentary work is being done in a truly self-respecting Parliament. But what I also saw yesterday, unfortunately, made me disappointed because, contrary to what the agenda was at the Appeals Commission, it seemed important for some Members not to defend their own minister who had come to tell us about the request, they had an important first question: to change the chair of the committee as soon as possible. Why? It's not clear. Although the Minister had arrived, no respect for him. There is absolutely no interest in Parliament's work. The first question was to change the leadership! The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. Col: “No, it wasn’t! It was put on the agenda! Pleasant information!’ ) Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-20-PT13-544-U574	The name of the Member, Martin Bondar.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-20-PT13-544-U575	Colleagues! I'll ask for your understanding, though. At this moment, the Riga Council takes place the mayor’s removal from office of “God to Serve Riga”. Perhaps this is why some people have an increased level of stress. That is why that is also the case. But I would advise you to support the withdrawal of Member Ata Zakatistov from the Panel, and here I can only say one thing with full responsibility: yes, most have decided to remove Linda Liepiņš from his post, to replace the chairman of the Panel. There's nothing unusual there. It will happen sooner or later, and the commission will only start working at the moment Linda Liepiņa is replaced. What is the surprise? The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. Feldman: “No!” ) No. That's what it's supposed to do. If here, in the platform, several of my colleagues come to raise someone, how to live, how to live, how to do, and how to avoid doing. — Dep. D. Schmidt: “To yourself again!” ), then, I have a feeling that next, 14th, in the Saeima, these Members... will want to switch to kindergarten and become kindergarten tutors. ( Insight: ‘ Bondar to kindergarten! ’) ) And is already training today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-20-PT13-544-U576	Name to Member Ivar Pug. ( Insight: “The new head of the commission! ”) ) Council Regulation (EC) No 1257/96 of 20 June 1996 concerning humanitarian aid (OJ L 163, 2.7.1996, p. 1).
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-20-PT13-544-U577	As one of the potential candidates for the post of head of commission... (Applause) (Laughter) I just have such a brief question. I would like to hear the answer to the statement: the coalition will bring forward its candidate so that nothing happens. Can the person who made the claim explain this sentence?
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-20-PT13-544-U578	The name to Member Aldi Gobzem for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-20-PT13-544-U579	I will remind you of the meeting of the Appeals Commission, which dealt with the request... on Prime Minister Karina and former cinema “Pionier”. Legal Office (Interdependence.) ... Among other things, the Bureau recommended that coalition Members not take part in the vote in order to avoid a quorum. Number one. Number two. In the Commission, which had to deal with the issue of granting citizenship to non-citizens... A member of the Speaker of the Saeima and the Chairman of the Saeima did not attend these sittings specifically so that there was no quorum. Then the coalition has no arguments if. The opposition has the task of showing in this parliament... and that's why we're going to the troupe - to show the public that you're not fighting for the interests of the state of Latvia, you're fighting for the positions. ( Département département in the UK) Sub-heading: “On the question!” ) You do not have any arguments why such changes are necessary. Your only argument is that we have more votes, and that is why we will replace it, not because someone would work well or bad in a commission. You have left the Juard in a commission where he doesn't even work. Still! Just like that, Zakaistov could stay in the commission where he doesn't work either. So why don't you cancel Jurashu? Well, I understand, you have a special relationship with Jurash. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. S. Riekstins: “Do not speak to people who are not present!” ) Our task is to educate and show the public that your only wish is to fight and get posts to have an extra premium. We are also doing this successfully: the public is getting to know and seeing it.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-20-PT13-544-U580	Dear colleagues, Members Adamovičs, Augulis, Pavļuts, Girgens and Strīķe ask to continue the sitting without interruption until all items on the agenda are examined. Do Members have objections? There is no objection. We are continuing the debate. Name to Member Viktor Valain.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-20-PT13-544-U581	Colleagues! I think that the draft decision is understandable and should be supported, because from Mr Zakatistov, there is probably no great point in that commission. But in essence, what colleagues are talking about today about what could happen next... That is the right of Members on the Commission to do so. That is absolutely normal. But on my part... I've been watching for quite a long time... Really all respect for the coalition! To leave the request commission to chair the opposition... I was in this commission myself many times... And all the respect to Mrs. Liepiņa for how she managed this process! That is so deeply symbolic - it would be such a commission, however, that the Member of the opposition would be led. And what happened in this case... it shows more... not something about Mrs. Liepiņa, but rather it is your own weakness that you want to remove him from office. ( Internouncing call.)
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-20-PT13-544-U582	The name to the Member Digim Schmit for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-20-PT13-544-U583	Ivar, since you asked me to get out of here, I'll answer you out of here. I probably wasn't the one who said it, but I'll explain it. So that nothing happens in this case... or just as well, it would be... In this sense, so that the coalition could roll so that no minister would feel threatened that he could be called to the Saeima sitting to account... That's what... You'll be welcome... But I said it, there's all the games there... that maybe it won't come in the secret vote that you, Ivar, will be... But... After this... The devil knows him... If it's out loud now, then it's going to be more difficult... That's it... This is the simple task and task. Nothing else.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-20-PT13-544-U584	I closed the debate. Please call me! We will vote on the draft decision on the withdrawal of Mr Ata Zakatistova from the Commission for Petitions! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 70, for - no, for - 1. Decision adopted. Draft decision on the withdrawal of Member Janina Kursīte from the Commission on Citizenship, Migration and Social Solidarity. Please call me! We will be voting on the draft decision on the withdrawal of Member Janina Kursīte from the Commission on Citizenship, Migration and Social Solidarity! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. Decision adopted. Draft decision on the election of Member Janina Kursīte to the Commission for Sustainable Development. Please call me! We will vote on the draft decision on the election of Ms Janina Kursīte as a member of the Commission for Sustainable Development! Please vote mode! Please get the result! On - 74, against and refrains - not. Decision adopted. Draft decision on the election of a Member of the Committee on Petitions of Roman Money. Let us start a debate. The name of Member Julia Stepanenko.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-20-PT13-544-U585	Dear colleagues, I will be very brief, not trying to harm Mr. Money in any way. I respect her very much. I appeal to the coalition. Dear colleagues, Most recently, you did not allow me to change the commissions on the basis of the decision of 13 November on the principle of proportionality within the commissions. Roman Money, like his other colleagues, has also been elected from the National Association. In my opinion, this decision violates this principle. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-20-PT13-544-U586	Name to Member Aldi Gobzem.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-20-PT13-544-U587	I call on those who preach that they are about the rule of law and so on to really raise alarm when Parliament does not comply with its own decisions. Let's start with OIC, but let's finish... Also what Jūlija Stepanenko said about the principle of proportionality. You make your own decision to comply with certain rules of the game, but now you violate these rules of the game yourself. There are guardians of the rule of law in your coalition who are declaring 'uncompromising justice', but these guardians of the rule of law are always in a strange silence. In the event of a breach of the principle of proportionality, it shall remain silent when Asheraden is appointed by the OIC Commission in the conflict of interest. Not only shall they remain silent, but they shall also vote in favour of such matters as run counter to the law or decisions taken by the Saeima. You were appointed... Mr. Znotins, by the way... Remember, Mr Znotiņš, as you voted in favour of the appointment of Mr Asheraden to the OIC Commission. I call simply on the coalition partner who has always said that we are about the rule of law and so on... Perhaps to start alarming about the many cases where you have violated the rule of law in this House after you have adopted the rules of the game. This is not even about the rules of the game developed by others, but about your own decisions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-20-PT13-544-U588	I closed the debate. Please call me! To be put to the vote on the draft decision on the election of Mr Romanas Money as a Member of the Commission for Petitions! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 68, for - no, for - 1. Decision adopted. Reports by the Saeima Bureau on draft laws submitted. The Parliamentary Bureau proposes that the member Beitneres-Le Gallas, Dzintara, Puga, Asheraden and Pavluta be referred to the Legal Commission for the Transfer of Real Estate on Riharda Vagnera Street 4, Riga, to the Riga Rihards Wagner Society, which states that it is the committee responsible. Please turn on the microphone for Juta Strike.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-20-PT13-544-U589	I propose that this draft law be referred to the Commission for Education, Culture and Science as the Commission responsible, given that the next draft law, which is very closely linked to this, is intended to be examined by the Commission for Education, Culture and Science. In particular, I call for the Legal Commission to be replaced by the Commission for Education, Culture and Science as a responsible Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-20-PT13-544-U590	Thank you. Consequently, there is a proposal to refer the draft law as responsible to the Education, Culture and Science Commission. Do Members object to a draft law being passed on to the Commission? There is no objection. The draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Saeima's Bureau proposes that the member Beitneres-Le Gallas, Dzintara, Pugas, Asheraden and Pavluta's draft law "Amendment to the Law on the Protection of Cultural Monuments" be referred to the Education, Culture and Science Commission, stating that it is the committee responsible. Do Members object to a draft law being passed on to the Commission? There is no objection. The draft law has been passed on to the Commission. Colleagues! I must inform you of the answers to Members' questions that are planned today. On the question of Member Liepiņa, Stepanenko, Gobzem, Srūde and Smitas, Minister of Finance Janis Reirs, about possible problems in public communications of the State Revenue Service. The written replies received shall not be satisfied. The Minister informs that a planned measure cannot give rise to an oral response. Therefore, the answer to Members' questions is no longer available today. Members Urbanovičs, Kucins, Krišāns, Zarins and Orlovs submitted the question “On the actions of the Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Agriculture”, which we submit to the Minister of Agriculture for reply. The Members Papule, Cilevičs, Švecova, Goldberga, Agešins and Pimenov put forward the question “On the Government’s position in addressing refugee-related problems” that we hand over to the Prime Minister for a reply. Members Valainis, Dūklavs, Augulis, Bergmanis and Kučinskis submitted a question to the Minister of Finance “Are the Ministry carrying out an assessment of the budgetary impact of the new conservative party’s pre-election promises”. (Laughter) Name for motivation to Member Viktor Valainis.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-20-PT13-544-U591	Colleagues! Today, one of the draft laws raised questions about budgetary costs. We are sending this question to the Minister for Finance to give us an answer as to how much the cost of these proposals is then really great.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-20-PT13-544-U592	The question shall be referred to the Minister for Finance for a reply. Members Augulis, Kučinskis, Valainis, Jalinska and Bergmanis submitted a question “On the State Treasury loan for building reconstruction works at Alojas Auskļa Secondary School and for building a building of Vecumnieki Secondary School”. Name for motivation to Member Viktor Valainis.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-20-PT13-544-U593	Colleagues! This is a very serious issue for Minister Pucem, because it is on the basis of his letters that this funding for these two municipalities was suspended on the basis of his point of view. We want to understand what action the Minister will take, but unfortunately it seems that these two will not be the only cases. As such, we wish the whole Cabinet of Ministers to look at all the others very carefully, because behind these projects parents, children, these projects are very important for Latvian society and regions, and we need to take them seriously. And I wish all my colleagues a happy Christmas and a productive summer! (Applause)
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-20-PT13-544-U594	The question shall be referred to the Minister for Environmental Protection and Regional Development for a reply. Dear colleagues, The members of the Committee on Petitions Pucens, Staķis, Riekstins, Budrikis, Nadiņš, Kols, Bondars, Kozlovskis and Pug are asked to convene the Extraordinary Session of the Commission on Petitions 10 minutes after the sitting of the Saeima on 20 June. Dear colleagues, Time... There is no debate. Time for registration... Is there any statement? ( Interface: “Yes. ”) ) For a moment! After registration. Please... “ I’m sorry... “)
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-20-PT13-544-U595	So a statement has been received, honourable Members. On the basis of the 2004 decision on the way in which extraordinary commission meetings can be convened... I declare this sitting... as the head of the commission, which I am still in, this sitting must be announced within 48 hours. And this sitting is announced on Saturday, June 22, at 4 p.m. ( Internoint.) Thank you very much. So all of you, please... please read the details of the decision to which you refer. There is a reference to how many Members can convene an extraordinary sitting, and there is a reference to the fact that an extraordinary sitting is convened by the chairman of the commission. And I am the head of the commission for this moment. See you on June 22 at 16:00. Thank you. (Applause)
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-20-PT13-544-U596	Dear colleagues, The agenda of the sitting has been examined. Please call me! Please check-in mode for Members! Name to Marija Golubeva, member of the Saeima Secretary, for reading the results of the registration.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-20-PT13-544-U597	Not registered: Arvils Asheraden, Iveta Benhen-Beeken, Dace Bluķe, Aldis Blumbergs, Gundars Dauge, Sergejs Dolgopolovs, Ilmars Dūritis, Inese Ikstena, Aleksandrs Kiršteins, Ivans Klementjevs, Ainars Latkovskis, Regina Ločmele-Lunova, Ramona Petraviča, Daina Reizniece-Ozola... I am sorry, Dana Reizniece-Ozola, Ivans Ribakovs, Jānis Urbanovičs, Jānis Vucāns and Ivars Zarins.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-06-20-PT13-544-U598	Thank you. I'm closing the sitting.
