ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-20-PT13-526-U1	Good morning, dear colleagues! I invite you to take up seats in the Chamber so that we can start the extraordinary sitting of the Saeima on 20 March 2019. Good morning, honourable Members, Prime Minister, ministers! Let us begin the extraordinary sitting of the Saeima on 20 March 2019. On the agenda - Draft State Budget for 2019 and accompanying draft laws. We start with the examination of the draft decision. Draft decision “On the exclusion of the draft law “Amendments to the Law “On Assistance in Addressing Apartment Issues”” from the 2019 State Budget Package”. Member of the Commission for Budget and Finance (Tax) Mārtiņš Bondars.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-20-PT13-526-U2	Madam President, Mr. High Prime Minister, Ministers! Colleagues and colleagues! The Budget and Finance (Tax) Commission has examined the 2019 draft state budget package and has come to the conclusion that we propose to exclude the draft law “Amendments to the Law “On Assistance in Addressing Apartment Issues”” from the 2019 draft state budget package. Request, colleagues, to support this decision of the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-20-PT13-526-U3	Please call me! We will be voting for the draft decision “On the exclusion of the draft law “Amendments to the Law “On Assistance in Addressing the Issues of the Apartment” from the 2019 State Budget Package”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about - 83, it's against and refrains from - it's not. Decision adopted. On the agenda - examination of draft laws. Annual examination of the state budget and related draft laws at first reading. On the agenda - Draft Law Amending the Law on Budget and Financial Management. Dear colleagues, I would remind you that, in accordance with the order of the Saeima, Members will be able to debate the whole budget package when we start the debate. So the debate will be on the whole package of draft laws. Member of the Commission for Budget and Finance (Tax) Mārtiņš Bondars.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-20-PT13-526-U4	Colleagues, thank you for your support for the previous question. As regards the budget for 2019 and the budget package, I would first of all like to thank all my colleagues at the Budget and Finance (Tax) Commission, who spent two days listening to the members of the Cabinet of Ministers, ministers and officials for the intentions that have been set for the 2019 budget. Second. I would like to thank Prime Minister Arthur Krišjānis Kariņš, who outlined what the government has undertaken to do both in 2019 and beyond. And, of course, it is very important in 2019 that the budget law is implemented as soon as possible - many people in Latvia, our fellow citizens, are waiting for this budget. That is why a decision was made immediately after the approval of the government to push it forward, and that is why, to some extent, some ideas that perhaps... Yeah, well, everyone wanted to see, but he couldn't see it in this budget package... At the same time, clearly aware that there are very many people waiting for this budget. And that is very important. Thank you, Prime Minister. Thank you also for marking very clearly that your government... at least the intention is to do strategic things now and not to delay them later, not to solve only the details, because strategic things are, by their very nature, important things. If we do not do so now, it is like trying to avoid the future, but it is impossible to avoid the future. And that is why I am really pleased that the Prime Minister is determined. I would also like to thank all the ministers for their time, explaining to the people of the Committee on Budgets and Finance (Tax) what each ministry intends to do. This is important because, in order to approve the budget for 2019, we need to understand what is going on there... and you each dedicated your time, came to the Budget and Finance (Tax) Commission and explained to us, so thank you for that! Overall, on the budget package... on the budget, I would like to say that I often hear from people: “Did you not find the money?” You know, the money doesn't find it, it doesn't transfer it. Latvia is not a wonder land where money is hidden in the land or in one of John Reira's... In the basement of the Ministry of Finance or in the Budget and Finance (Tax) Commission somewhere... or Freedom Street. Money is as much as it is, and it is transferred from one restaurant to another, from one person to another, and that is what happens. And the miracle story of finding money somewhere is, to a certain extent, linked to how we look at our constituents, at our fellow citizens. Are we looking at them in the context of the budget as consumers or as citizens? If we look at citizens, then citizens are clearly aware that money is being reallocated rather than being found somewhere. And another brief insertion of promises. I know that in this process of election, every political power and every politician has promised. And I know that every political power and every politician, whether it is in position or in opposition, take very seriously what they say to the voters. I have no doubt at all: in the budgetary process in the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission... there are intentions to fulfill the promises. And these intentions will be realized in the next four years. So, colleagues, I have a request for you: let us support this budget and the budget package, but before we do it, before we get involved in the debate, we have, I understand, to vote in favour of urgency. That is why I am asking for and supporting the urgent nature of the draft law on budgetary and financial management.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-20-PT13-526-U5	So we will first vote on setting urgency for each draft budget package. Please call me! We will vote for the recognition of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Budgetary and Financial Management” as urgent! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The draft law has been declared urgent.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-20-PT13-526-U6	I would also ask, colleagues... Thank you for your support for the previous draft urgent law. I ask you to recognise the draft law "Amendments to the Law on Municipal Budgets" as urgent.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-20-PT13-526-U7	Please call me! We will vote for the recognition of the draft law “Amendments to the Law “On Municipal Budgets” as urgent! Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about - 83, it's against - 1, it's not. The draft law has been declared urgent.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-20-PT13-526-U8	Colleagues! I ask for urgent recognition of the draft law on "Amendments to the Law on Payment Services and Electronic Money".
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-20-PT13-526-U9	Please call me! We will vote for the recognition of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Payment Services and Electronic Money” as urgent! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The draft law has been declared urgent.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-20-PT13-526-U10	Colleagues! I request support for the urgency of the draft law on "Amendments to the Law on Electronic Communications".
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-20-PT13-526-U11	Please call me! We will vote for the recognition of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Electronic Communications” as urgent! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The draft law has been declared urgent.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-20-PT13-526-U12	Colleagues! I request that the draft law “Amendments to the Latvian Code of Administrative Violations” be declared urgent.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-20-PT13-526-U13	Please call me! We will vote for recognition of the draft law “Amendments to the Code of Administrative Violations of Latvia” as urgent! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The draft law has been declared urgent.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-20-PT13-526-U14	Colleagues! I ask you to acknowledge the urgent nature of the draft law on amendments to the Law on Gambling and Gaming.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-20-PT13-526-U15	Please call me! We will vote for the urgent recognition of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Gambling and Gaming”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 81, no, 3, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The draft law has been declared urgent.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-20-PT13-526-U16	Colleagues! I ask for the urgent draft law on amendments to the State Social Benefits Act to be recognised.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-20-PT13-526-U17	Please call me! We will vote for recognition of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on State Social Benefits” as urgent! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 84, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The draft law has been declared urgent.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-20-PT13-526-U18	Please declare urgent draft law “Amendments to the law on the Maintenance Guarantee Fund”.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-20-PT13-526-U19	Please call me! We will vote for recognition of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on the Maintenance Guarantee Fund” as urgent! Please vote mode! Please get the result! Not by - 82, not by - and refrains. The draft law has been declared urgent.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-20-PT13-526-U20	Colleagues! I ask for urgent draft legislation on amendments to the Road tolls Act.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-20-PT13-526-U21	Please call me! We will vote for the recognition of the draft law “Amendments to the Road toll Law” as urgent! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 64, no, 20, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The draft law has been declared urgent.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-20-PT13-526-U22	Colleagues! I ask you to recognise the urgent draft law on "Amendments to the Law on State Social Insurance".
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-20-PT13-526-U23	Please call me! We will vote for the recognition of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on State Social Insurance” as urgent! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The draft law has been declared urgent.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-20-PT13-526-U24	Colleagues! I ask for the urgent draft law on Amendments to the Natural Resources Tax Act to be recognised.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-20-PT13-526-U25	Please call me! We will vote for the recognition of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Natural Resources Tax” as urgent! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The draft law has been declared urgent.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-20-PT13-526-U26	Colleagues! I would like to acknowledge the urgent draft law “Amendments to the Latvian Environmental Fund Law”.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-20-PT13-526-U27	Please call me! We will vote for recognition of the draft law “Amendments to the Latvian Environmental Protection Fund Law” as urgent! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 84, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The draft law has been declared urgent.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-20-PT13-526-U28	Colleagues! I ask you to recognise the urgent draft law "Amendments to the Law on Taxes and Fees".
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-20-PT13-526-U29	Please call me! We will vote for the recognition of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Taxes and Fees” as urgent! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 64, no, 20, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The draft law has been declared urgent.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-20-PT13-526-U30	Colleagues! I ask for urgent draft legislation on amendments to the Education Act.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-20-PT13-526-U31	Please call me! We will vote for the recognition of the draft law “Amendments to the Education Law” as urgent! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The draft law has been declared urgent.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-20-PT13-526-U32	Colleagues! Finally, I would like to acknowledge the urgent draft law on the state budget for 2019.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-20-PT13-526-U33	Please call me! We will vote for the recognition of the draft law “On the State Budget for 2019” as urgent! Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about - 65, it's 20, it's not. The draft law has been declared urgent. And now, colleagues, let us start a debate on the draft law on the state budget for 2019 and the accompanying draft laws at first reading. Name to Prime Minister Arthur Krišjānis Kariņš.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-20-PT13-526-U34	Dear President of the Saeima. Dear Members, Honourable Members! Colleagues Ministers! Friends! Those who may not be so friendly right now too! Good morning, everybody! I have a vision of the future of our country. I see that in reality we can be one prosperous Nordic country. Food in the Nordic country, where people live in security, prosperity and are actually satisfied with life and happiness. To come from here, where we are, to there, certain things must happen. We need to put together quite a number of systems in our country. I don't know how to call it... For example, our financial sector. Our reputation has been seriously damaged in recent years. We have moved into the government what I call capital repairs under the supervision of our financial system. There is also here our Minister for Finance, Mr Reira, here today, who is one of the main ones that directly govern... how we will organise this system in such a way that our country is an example and an example and others can learn how to control possible money laundering properly, for example, and reduce this risk. (Applause) Second. We need to sort out our administrative territories. We know that the administrative division of our country does not correspond to how people live. We are going to have ambitious reforms in order to add this point once too... We have Mr Puce, who is the responsible minister under whose direction we will implement these reforms. Third. Education. We know - and today the teachers kindly remind us - that our system is not arranged, that money is inefficiently used. In the state budget also this year... nine per cent of total expenditure - EUR 799 million - in the proposed state budget is earmarked for education. This is more than we will spend on our armed forces with all arms, with all equipment, with all soldiers, with all international operations. This is more than we will spend on our police and our internal protection. It is one of the largest expenditure items in the European Union. We are the fourth of the leading countries, which spend most of their budgets on education. Relatively more than our Estonian neighbours. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. L. Liepiņa’s intersaxes.) However, our Estonian neighbours do not know why the lowest teacher's salary is much higher than in Latvia. We have a bigger cash mass. They have bigger wages. Why? Because they have a set-up. And we have the Minister for Education and Science, Mrs Šuplinska, here today, under whose direction we will put this system in order. I. Zarins: “We also heard about OIC!” ), and as a result also, of course, salaries will go up. ( Interface: “We have already heard that! ” ) Fourth. We have a healthcare system. We all know here, too, that there are some shortcomings and that improvements are needed. We have Mrs Viņķele here today, who is the Minister responsible, under whose direction we will also implement these reforms in such a way that we, all citizens of the country, have health care. And fifth, but it's not insignificant. The justice system and the rule of law as such. I have one of my two members sitting next to me today - Mr Bordan, our Minister for Justice, under whose leadership we will arrange this system so that all citizens of the country can count on justice to win. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A. Gobzem: “And start with School Street 2, huh?” ) All these things - that is why our government was created. And that is the cornerstone and purpose of our and my activities. Now, today, you all have the budget for 2019, which is just a step towards... I call it a technical budget. This is technical because government building took three months after the elections. Only at the end of January, maybe eight weeks ago, we set up a government. And the promises... what the previous government and the previous Saeima accepted... are all incorporated into this draft law. This is in line with the rest of the euro area... what all countries in the euro area have to do. This is not for us specifically. And we can move forward. Revenues are ambitious: EUR 9.2 billion. Expenditure is slightly more ambitious: EUR 9.4 billion. That means that we are drawing up a budget with a deficit. There's no room, but maybe the audiences are, let's say, our... a financial board that gives, in my opinion, a good advice that, in the years of growth, there is no need to build a budget with a deficit. You should have some of those fat accumulated for the rest of the day. But there have been promises. A Promise... also what has been recorded... That is what we are implementing. And the result... Unfortunately, I would say, however, there is a deficit. But this is a deficit within the normal limits, as the European Commission says... No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, appropriate. At the same time, the Estonians and the lilies are creating this year's budget with a surplus. So, as Mr Bondar rightly said... I don't know... As he said, the money's not growing in trees. It's earned. ( The box “OIC Cancel! ”) ) and the government redistributes it. This year, we are actually redistributing more than the public has earned. ( FROM a fraction DECLARES: “Remove OIK! ” ) And so I call on all those who want to re-allocate even more to think better about how we can increase our income before we have what to re-allocate. ( Internouncing call.) Now, of these expenses... There are a number of big positions that I would like to mention. We've got... In order to sort out our financial sector, we have spent an additional little over seven million euros in order to be able to reward properly qualified people in order to sort out this system. We will invest more than EUR 87 million in healthcare to raise employees' salaries. And health care... We spend proportionately much more on education than in other European countries, whereas we have so far spent less on healthcare. And these 87 million are starting to equalise their investments in the healthcare system. But the challenge will be to use this money usefully. ( Interface: ‘ That’s it! ’) ) Next. We have more than 40 million dedicated benefits... and so on... For those working in the field of home affairs and justice, who have also been working for a long time, let us say, unreasonably low wages. Pedagogic salaries... This draft budget already provides for more than €11 million to raise teachers' salaries. This is already in this budget. For the indexation of pensions - more than 10 million. And for the remuneration of judges and prosecutors - almost nine million. Thus, there are large new additional investments. The frame isn't optimal because it... Unfortunately, there is a deficit. But that deficit is permissible in volume. And it is also in line with our other partners in the euro area. But, colleagues, we still have... After the adoption of this budget, we will also begin... this government will work on our priorities. And we will have a great challenge working together on the 2020 budget... and of course also in 2021 and 2022. Why? Because those promises... what has been adopted so far... Next year, in 2020, we are all given a legacy not only with a deficit, but with the deficit hanging over... almost EUR 100 million, which is not available. That means... The challenge will be to curb expenditure, find programmes and spending that are really useless and unfavourable, so that we can find the necessary money for the financial sector, for administrative territorial, for education, for health and for justice reforms that are necessary for us to achieve the prosperity that we all want. I see the work of our government in the context of four years. No reform can be implemented in the short term and its fruit cannot be enjoyed in the short term. With the reform of the administrative territorial and education system in mind, during this year we will adopt the relevant laws and move everything, but it will take about two years until it is felt, tangible and understandable, and it will take another two years until we start, if we can say so, to get dividends from this. So we have to look in the long term. But I haven't taken this job for just one short period of time, let's say this year. I work, and my government will work in the long term to really sort out... and I am very happy with my fellow ministers, who have also come here today, that we are from five different political forces. Five! But we have already proved that we can agree on the specific objectives, that there is real sazobism and cooperation between ministries and ministers, which come from different political forces, because we are able to overcome that apparent obstacle... because this is an obstacle for us. Our values unite us, our goals unite us. And if we are patient and hard, we will achieve all of this, and we will be able to tell Latvian society, now, in the translation - to our voters: “Re, we committed ourselves and did it!” But this year's budget is just the first step in this long process. And I call on you fellow Members, of course, not only to support the budget that is being offered, but also to be prepared for hard and patient work, because the fruit that we are going to bring will come to our children. I work here for my kids. I think each of you also works for your child and not for yourself. Let us keep this in mind, let us work on it, let us seek common denominators, let us seek ways to cooperate, and let us not fight against one another, O God. Thank you for your attention. I invite you to support the prepared national budget for 2019! Thank you. (Applause)
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-20-PT13-526-U35	Thank the Prime Minister. The name is the Minister of Finance Janis Reirs.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-20-PT13-526-U36	Highly honored Chairman of the Saeima. Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council of Ministers. Dear Members of the Saeima! Ministers! Resurrection! Today is 20 March 2019 and this year's draft budget is on the Saeima's agenda. The current annual budget submitted so late in the history of the restored independent Latvia has not been so late. This is the first time. In relation to 13. The parliamentary elections and the protracted process of government formation also delayed the preparation and approval of the 2019 state budget accordingly. That is why this year was started with the so-called interim budget. With the approval of the government of Prime Minister Arturs Krišjānis Kariņš, work on this year's draft state budget began immediately. The temporary budget was based on commitments made by this Saeima to Latvian society. For this government, the draft state budget for 2019 is a technical project. The government has not included new policy initiatives, but there are a number of key sectors for substantial additional funding. Once again, it must be stressed that the budget complement does not lead to increased taxes, thus ensuring the stability of society and, in particular, the business community over the years. Despite the difficult situation after the elections, the government has prepared a budget in line with the economic situation. This is in line with the requirements of fiscal discipline and provides substantial funding for a number of sectors. Colleagues! This budget is well thought out and will be able to ensure economic development in Latvia, even faster than in other countries of the European Union. Latvian gross domestic product will reach 31 billion euros in 2019. But now there are some basic budget figures. The national consolidated budget is planned for EUR 9.1 billion in revenue and EUR 9.4 billion in expenditure. Compared to last year's budget, this year's planned revenue from the state budget is estimated at EUR 416 million. In turn, state budget expenditure next year... This year, 430 million euros are expected to be larger than in 2018. In 2019, the general government budget and the deficit are planned to amount to 0.5 per cent of gross domestic product. Growth, on the other hand, is planned to be three per cent. This is an appropriate figure for our development, but it must be taken into account that the basic budget needs are six per cent deficit and that the social budget surplus is eight per cent deficit. In practice, the large surplus of the social budget ensures that we can meet the criteria of the euro area countries and go to 0.5 per cent of the budget deficit. If you speak in a sectoral section, then the largest budget headings in 2019 will be: 3.3 billion in social protection, pensions, benefits; one billion in 345 million in national economic development; one billion in public debt management and contributions to the European Community budget; one billion in health care. As the Prime Minister said, 779 million - for education; 632 million - for defence; 630 million - for internal security; 158 million - for culture; 48 million - for environmental protection. Last year, the expenditure lines of the public budget were also revised. As a result, ministries prepared proposals to find financial resources to finance emergency measures in their sectors. The total result of the expenditure review this year is EUR 51.3 million, of which EUR 7.7 million has been allocated to improving the overall fiscal space and EUR 43,6 million to the priorities set by the ministries of the sectors. Beyond these macro-economic figures, there are real benefits for workers in several sectors. For example, an additional EUR 87.5 million is earmarked for raising the salaries of health care workers, EUR 8.9 million for increasing the remuneration of judges and prosecutors, EUR 4.8 million for increasing the remuneration of long-term employees of social care institutions, EUR 41.3 million is earmarked for benefits for retirement pensions... Staff Regulations of Officials of the European Union, and in particular Article 24a thereof. Some of the main societal benefits are also in the area of health and social protection. In its draft budget, an additional three million have to be found for ensuring access to medicines for patients with rare diseases, 2.7 million for increasing the special care allowance for children and adults with disabilities since birth. Around EUR 1 million is earmarked for the provision of benefits... for each adopted child, which is very important to promote adoption directly in Latvia. An additional €5.4 million will also be allocated to ensure the costs of the Maintenance Guarantee Fund. In turn, EUR 10.4 million is planned to ensure the indexation of pensions and bonuses and increase of benefits for the deceased's spouse. Apart from these issues, which were left to the former government, the Prime Minister has applied for "capital repairs" in the financial sector. Our task is to help the financial sector transform. The financial sector must be effective, respecting investor protection and consumer and business interests. It should provide traditional and innovative financial services at competitive prices. At the same time as its business model, it must not jeopardise the overall reputation of the country, but, on the contrary, it must contribute to the sustainable development of the economy. In order to improve the supervision of the financial sector and to reduce the risks of money laundering and terrorist financing, it is essential to carry out reforms that will allow for a strong response to financial crime, the elimination of dirty money and the improvement of communication between supervisory authorities. Therefore, €7.2 million is earmarked for the implementation of the plan of measures to prevent money laundering and terrorist financing. The financial sector must be a good foundation for a growing business environment in Latvia. In turn, in order to reach two percent of Latvia's gross domestic product, which we were determined to fulfil in our agreement with our NATO partners, an additional 60.3 million have been allocated to the protection of the country compared to last year. Dear Members of the Saeima! The tax reform came into force last year. It shall remain in force until 2021. The government has already agreed that, following the adoption of this year's budget, we will start work on the 2020 budget and on the assessment of the tax system introduced, primarily examining the new measures of the tax reform. This commitment allows entrepreneurship to work on a stable basis for at least three years without any change in taxes. The results of this evaluation and its analysis will determine the orientations and improvements needed for tax changes, with a view to the timely development of the tax system. As part of its fiscal options, the government will continue to seek solutions to ensure an increase in income for the low-income population. It is also planned to continue to shift the tax burden from labour to property, consumption and environmental taxes. The impact of the new Corporate Tax Law on donations received by public benefit organisations will be assessed by 30 November of this year. The government has already started to work on improving this system, because, as we all see, there is a rather sad situation, both in welfare and in sport and in other areas of non-governmental organisations, with the financial attraction to carry out programmes. The reform has led to a reduction of 24.6 percent in the number of employees receiving salary to EUR 430 and an increase in the number of employees receiving remuneration above the minimum wage. This shows a positive return on tax reform measures such as reducing the shadow economy and improving tax administration. Moreover, both the personal income tax relief for dependent persons and the differentiated non-taxable minimum are increased in 2019 and 2020. Since this is the first year in which this system is applied to every citizen, the Ministry of Finance has submitted a bill that allows for more adaptation to this system. People who are in debt will be able to delete them within two years. Colleagues! The role of private partners in the fight against the shadow economy in different sectors has become more active last year. Joint work has led to proposals for the introduction of new measures to promote the fair functioning of sectors and to curb the shadow economy in the country as a whole. This year, it is planned to continue working with sectoral non-governmental associations to jointly find complex solutions to reduce the shadow economy in the sectors where it is most common. It is planned to take new measures to restrict the circulation of cash and the availability of unlicensed interactive gambling and slots in Latvia. It is also planned to introduce extended requirements for the operation of electronic working time accounting systems in construction as well as in other sectors. A smaller shadow economy will increase the budget revenue that can be diverted and used to raise public well-being and state development - the health sector, education, infrastructure and other priorities. This year's budget process included not only active discussions in the government, but also with the government's social and cooperation partners, sectoral associations and local authorities. In 2019 a significant increase in funding for municipalities in the amount of 85 million euros was secured for their functions, with personal income tax for municipalities together with special grants... income of at least 1.47 billion. It should be stressed that the Government is committed to guaranteeing to municipalities a forecast of personal income tax revenue, which allows municipalities to count on stable income in their budgets. Compared to last year, all Latvian municipalities will be able to increase their revenue, which will allow to ensure the performance of functions in the interests of Latvian citizens. The draft state budget also includes an agreement reached by the government with municipalities on priorities in the area of municipal loans in 2019. Local governments will be able to borrow without co-financing the municipal budget for projects co-financed by European Union funds and to continue and complete the projects. Other investment projects will be possible with co-financing of the municipal budget. Such an approach will require local authorities to assess more carefully the necessity, effectiveness and effectiveness of planned investment projects. A targeted cohesion policy for investments by EU funds will continue to be a factor contributing to economic development and social welfare this year. The budget provides for EUR 700 million in financing of projects of important areas of interest to Latvia. Major investments will flow to the environment and culture, transport, education, energy, research and innovation. In total, at the beginning of this year, projects of European Union funds have been approved in Latvia for more than three quarters of the available EUR 4.4 billion in national funding. This year, the high project implementation intensity will continue, ensuring effective management of the investment portfolio of EU funds for cohesion policy 2014-2020 programming period. In January of this year, Latvia has already fulfilled its target of 80 per cent of the expenditure of the European Union funds to be declared to the European Commission for 2019. Thus, the strong investment intensity and activity of EU funds in the private sector have been ensured. These investments will contribute to Latvia's development, economic growth and social welfare. Dear Members of the Saeima! The Latvian economy has increased by 4.8 percent last year. This is the fastest rate of growth since 2011, going beyond what was achieved in 2017. GDP growth in 2018 is linked to strong developments in the construction sector and investment, as well as more favourable developments in the transport and financial services sectors than previously foreseen. On the other hand, the growth rate is expected to decline in the global economy this year. According to forecasts by the Ministry of Finance, this year's GDP growth (and it is also included in the budget law) will amount to three per cent. The government has already started preparing the Latvian Stability Programme for 2019-2022, which will be the first step in the work on the new budget for 2020 and the medium-term budget for 2020-2022, which is expected to grow by 2.9 percent of GDP. Forecasts of macroeconomic indicators have been developed on the basis of conservative assumptions and an assessment of external and internal environmental risks. The risks to the outlook are now more downward and relate mainly to the possible acceleration of growth in external markets, including the growing protectionist trends in the world, uncertainty about the UK's withdrawal from the European Union, a significant slowdown in German economic growth and an increase in financial risks in Italy. To sum up, however, I have to say once again that this year's budget is a technical budget, but this will enable us to ensure both the ongoing reforms in the area of health and the external and internal security of our country, as well as the necessary support for the financial sector. Therefore, I call on the Saeima to evaluate the draft law prepared and also to support it. Thank you. (Applause)
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-20-PT13-526-U37	Thank you to the Minister for Finance. Development/About! on behalf of the Member, Daniel Pavlut.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-20-PT13-526-U38	Good morning, Madam President-in-Office of the Saeima. Members of the Bureau! Mr. Prime Minister and Ministers! Colleagues! Colleagues! Today we have been doing the second most important work since the election of the new Saeima and since we established a government. Of course, government-building has been retracted, and work on the preparation and approval of the 2019 state budget has also taken place. But today we have achieved this. I want to say a few words about a vocabulary that we have heard very often - the 'technical budget'. What's that about the technical budget? I will admit that I do not quite like this term, and I have also quite often noticed that it is embarrassing people, and maybe it is a little misleading, because they feel that it is not a real budget, that there will be something else after that - it is more real. This is a real budget with the most real, real consequences in Latvian society. And I would call it a budget for continuity or succession. We call it technical, probably because we, the new Saeima... The new government that we have created has less to do with this budget than it might have wanted, because there is not enough time to fully recast it. We probably would have. I hope, in any case, that the FAO, which, of course, has felt quite as much of an opposition as it is, will, however, vote in favour of the budget actually drawn up by itself. I think one of the best things about creating this temporary or rolling budget is that taxation did not change on 1 January. Both businessmen and accountants and taxpayers in general breathed. We are continuing this practice. We are determined that taxation will not change significantly more frequently than once during this term. We are determined to do this in 2021 - seven times to measure, evaluate and only then make significant changes to tax rates or other things. This does not mean that we will not correct the mistakes. And let us talk about this in the context of the 2020 budget. It is important to think about the abolition of the differentiated non-equitable minimum and similar issues that cause inconvenience to many people of Latvia. However, this budget, although it is a rolling budget, contains a number of things that I want to stress today. Of course, in the areas under the responsibility of "Development/About!" Ministers first. I'll start with health. This budget for 2019 is estimated at EUR 1 billion for healthcare at €170 million, or 3.8 per cent of GDP. In terms of both the euro and the percentage of GDP, this is the largest in history. The biggest positions in addition to this budget are intended for those medical professionals who care for our health and are less remunerated to increase their pay. We will also be able to increase the availability of countervailable medicines. In addition to what was originally foreseen, which was yet to be included in the interim government, there are three million additional patients with rare diseases. I would particularly like to highlight one of the priorities of Ilze Viņķele, our Minister for Health, namely improving the availability and quality of psychiatric services. The aim is to provide citizens with evidence-based, up-to-date, high-quality mental health care that meets their needs. It is a duty of a modern and just state. I would like to thank the previous government for its understanding of drawing up the initial draft budget for this year, and at the same time appeal to all of us, colleagues, to point out that a one-off investment does not solve the chronic shortage of funds in healthcare. Budget growth over the past three years is not linked to skilled management but primarily to the use of deficit derogations, which goes hand in hand with living over funds. That is why we, the current Saeima, should, I think, set this for ourselves as a goal of ensuring that, in the future, at least an equal increase in the health budget is achieved every year... for at least the following 10 years. Make it a task for yourself! On administrative territorial reform. This year, of course, the budget is not implementing this reform, but we are laying the foundations. The budget provides EUR 500 000 to take all the necessary measures so that, after a year and a half, we have implemented an administrative territorial reform. The foundations are laid. Some words about protection. Not only do we fulfil our obligations towards NATO, our partners, whose protection and support we rely on; we have provided for additional funding to increase the number of soldiers, to change the remuneration of the National Armed Forces and to pay additional compensation to the National Guards, because the number of national guards is growing, and we can feel more secure. There are many other important things in the budget, but let me conclude with a few words about the teachers, of which so many hundred were here today on many buses to express our indignation and protest against the lack of remuneration. There is no doubt that the educators deserve more pay and more pay, and I think that we will work together to find ways to increase this reward. Of course, it must go hand in hand with the implementation of education reforms. What I want to call for is that we are all aware that health, education and other reforms are implemented by those people who work with them on a daily basis, that reforms are good on paper, but in practice they are implemented by teachers, doctors and nurses. Our task is to get into their shoes and help them implement these reforms. And I look forward to working with you on this. I invite you to support the budget for 2019. Thank you. (Applause)
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-20-PT13-526-U39	Thank you. Member of the ‘Social Democratic Party’, on behalf of the Group.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-20-PT13-526-U40	Good afternoon, dear colleagues! The draft law “On the State Budget for 2019”, as well as the draft laws accompanying amendments, raises several issues. One of them is why pre-election promises are not being honoured? When, for example, will the new conservative party's promise of a minimum pension of EUR 200 this year be fulfilled, as well as the exemption from personal income tax for salaries and pensions of EUR 500 per month? For natural gas, this party promised to reduce prices by 30 percent, for all doctors - salary of at least EUR 1700 per hand, for nurses - by at least EUR 800. Development/About! promised to raise the minimum wage and the non-deemable minimum to EUR 500 per month. And what do we see now? The national purse simply does not have a source of finance for the implementation of the 3 × 500 plan and other promises. That is why the draft budget, as a whole, looks very weak in the social field, and it has almost nothing to do with raising people's welfare. This means that a large part of the population will still have to live in poverty, waiting for pension beneficiaries to simply go to another sun. For the educators. Before the elections, all parties promised to support the timetable for raising teachers' salaries. And it is absolutely clear that if the government does not comply with its commitments from September this year, then it is not known how the timetable from January next year will look like and whether any wage increases are expected. At the moment, the educators are left with a long nose once again: there will be no increase in the promised salary. It's a total shame, colleagues! As a result, in Latvia, teachers' salaries will remain lower among OECD countries - about two and a half times lower than the OECD average. We are also far behind Estonia and Lithuania, where the teachers' salary is well ahead of the level of Latvia. Moreover, since 2008, our educators have been moving away from the average gross wage in the country on an annual basis. At present, this difference has already reached more than EUR 150. Obviously this is the attitude of the government towards teachers, whose task is to shape the future of Latvia. The government is unlikely to be aware of how to keep teachers' pay schedule. However, I would like to remind you that the Cabinet of Ministers must comply with the third paragraph of Article 53 of the Education Law, which provides for an increase in remuneration. This time, particular reference should be made to the difference between these norms and the promises made during the pre-elections. It's not a promise, it's a rule! Laws and contracts, as you know, must be enforced. We therefore believe that the requirements of the teachers are fair and absolutely justified. If the revenue from the consolidated budget is planned to be EUR 9.2 billion, then nine million is only 0.1%, which is necessary to ensure that the promises are met by the teachers in 2019. In addition, 3.87 million educators will repay... these millions of educators will be reimbursed to the budget in the form of tax. Is it really impossible to find a solution to this issue? Unfortunately, there is a habit in Latvia to say and promise everything that comes in mind before the elections, but to pretend after the elections that this has already been just a pre-election rhetoric. It turns out that people can also come to the drawing up of the state budget by promising everything, but not even mentioning it later. Clearly, the trick of public relations with a new policy and a new government is a failure, because the promises made during the pre-elections are forgotten as such a misunderstood misunderstanding. The violation of the promises does not make you honorable, honourable colleagues. And ignoring the problem does not mean professionalism. Ignoring the problem shows that the promises made by several coalition parties for election are only false news. The new forces (at least for the time being) are able to do so as to make dive as empty as they are left behind. On the other hand, we often hear from other members of the coalition that the 2019 budget is technical. What does that mean? Well, obviously this means that Arturs Krišjānis Kariņš heads the government only as a technical prime minister and the Cabinet continues to work as a technical government until the next one. Dear colleagues, The promises made during your pre-elections and those made during the campaign have not been forgotten. Therefore, on behalf of the Group, I can assure you that we are prepared to correct your mistakes and will submit a number of proposals to the draft law on the national budget for 2019. Thank you for your attention. (Applause)
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-20-PT13-526-U41	The name of Member Julia Stepanenko.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-20-PT13-526-U42	Dear colleagues, Latvia is thirsty for more rapid economic development. But no faster economic development is foreseen in the 2019 budget. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A. Lewis: “There is! Listen!” ) A breakthrough is possible at a time when there is investment in science and global knowledge, skills and skills. I can't find such a thing in the 2019 budget. Okay. If we cannot make a breakthrough, then maybe we can achieve faster economic development by improving the business environment in Latvia? But there can't be found either about improving the business environment. Therefore, the 2019 budget is not appropriate. Dear colleagues, It is past 176 Wednesdays since that sitting, when Mr Bondara came to the Saeima with a box of shoes and showed us shoes of different sizes. 176 Wednesdays have passed since this speech by Mr Bondara, for which we can very well adapt the 2019 budget. On that occasion he spoke of 2016, with Mrs Straujuma as Prime Minister and Mr Reira as Minister of Finance. But Mr Bondara's view has changed diametrically. And it didn't even take three years. That's enough for a few months. For - what we read in “Development/About!” Pre-election in the program? Raising teachers' skills and salaries by triple funding for science. Colleagues, this is not the case! We don't have money for growth, we don't have money for development, and I understand that Mr Bondara no longer... can't do anything about this, he's even gone. But, Mr. Karins, did you talk to the teachers this morning? ( Prime Minister Kariņš: “Yes! ” ) Did you really talk to the teachers who were here this morning at the Saeima... and told the Members? Did you understand what they told you? Did you realize that teachers are not against any system defects or, for example, against climate change? — Dep. E. Herbs-Gross intermediate call.) But did the teachers actually talk about being deceived? And you have done this. We don't have money for teachers, we don't have money for growth, science. We have the money for prisons, we have the money for the rental of premises for the Ministry of the Interior, we have the money for different blunders and the fight to get in touch with. Like a cat who will always find a place in his fur to arrange to look busy. We have the money to simulate the action. Mr Asheraden, where did you hide the money for the compensation of the tenants of the denationalised houses, with whom were you so proud last year before the elections? Has Mr Nemiro refused to move this initiative or has your colleagues in the government taken it? Because we can see this with initiatives that are not supported by the Ministry of Economic Affairs. Mr Reira, it is regrettable to add to the state budget at the expense of the disaster of the dependent people! You want to punish now those people who play games at casinos, online casinos, various unlicensed sites. And you have also foreseen that the state budget will benefit from it. I would suggest that you extend this course of action, because if we put this new approach into practice, then we can also punish the victims of fraud. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. E. Herbs-Gross intermediate call.) In principle, we can punish all those who suffer from problems which the country cannot put in order. Because the victims of fraud are visible, their bank accounts are transparent, we can punish them, we can't. Likewise, we cannot punish illegal casino distributors. But if we cannot do that, we can punish the victims! This approach is really great! And finally. You have found the biggest money-launderers - pensioners who receive a pension in cash post. You want to introduce cash restrictions at a time when we can't even trust... that one day the bank payment system is falling and we are simply staying without money. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. ( K. Feldman's intermediate call.) Colleagues, this is not a technical budget, it is not a technical budget! This is the new budget for the old policies. And old politics has covered so many young people that only quotes have been left behind. Now Mr. Kaimiņš will not say so, but once again he said about the 2017 budget, which I can also apply now: “Thank you for your love of concrete! Thank you for your love for the irons and not for the people! Thank you for the shadow terror against taxpayers! Thank you for nothing!” Thank you, colleagues. (Applause)
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-20-PT13-526-U43	Name to Member Igor Pimenov.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-20-PT13-526-U44	Highly honored Presidium! Ministers! Thank you, ladies. Ladies and gentlemen, I will vote against the draft budget. No wonder, isn't it? Because the government has not coped with its tasks. Because, in the draft budget, the government did not even take on a key role, namely strengthening the competitiveness of the country, and because the government ignores the state's promises to educators for raising wages. The Prime Minister called this budget technical - perhaps trying to interpret it as a continuation of the adopted, really technical budget in winter. That is something I cannot agree with. Although only seven months are left for the 2020 budget, this year's budget can be used as a jump board to achieve the new objectives. Any budget places a strong emphasis on public policy in the area of economic and financial affairs. This is the most powerful state action in economic and financial policy. However, in my view, such actions are not even named... for the future. With this conclusion, I could conclude my speech, but... The first reading of the draft budget is more than reading; it is, in fact, an economic debate (as we are having a foreign policy debate at the end of January). In addition, the reading of this technical budget may serve as an indication to the Government for the next year's budget. This government, as well as the previous government, is proud of the high growth rate of gross domestic product in the European Union. In particular, 4,8 % in 2018. Is 4.8 percent a lot? Yeah. More than in other Member States of the European Union. However, let us remember that Latvia had the deepest drop in GDP in the European Union in recent, historically transparent times - by 24 percent; that Latvia ranks as third in terms of GDP decline in the history of the world economy - following the great depression of the United States and Argentina; that in an economy that was emptyed by internal devaluation policies, any initiative, attempts in a context of weak competition are much easier and more successful than in a well-balanced market. Of course, seven years after the crisis, this V-type exit from the crisis is not so visible, but its spring is struggling now. Let us remember the price that Latvia paid for the “failure story”, which has become as ironic as nothing special. ‘ The success story” was in reality a macroeconomic “success story” on the arrangement of things in the cloud. On earth this meant a dramatic increase in unemployment, emigration, depression, alcoholism and suicide. The pistet of the teachers today at the Saeima is a direct consequence of its policy. Can we be satisfied with the GDP growth achieved? No, because the Latvian economy is facing serious challenges. The country's economic competitiveness indicator is the current account balance - the difference between exports and imports, measured as a percentage of GDP. For a competitive economy, the current account balance is above zero. The negative balance, or deficit, means that the country imports more than it exports. It is a weak country. As the international crisis begins, the flow of imports is falling rapidly, but a weak country has little to offer for exports. As a result, budget revenue is shrinking and the state cannot fulfil its responsibilities towards its citizens. This was Latvia's situation in 2008, which was even more difficult with a real estate bubble. On the eve of the international crisis, Latvia's current account deficit was 22 percent of GDP. That was the real cause of the Latvian crisis, not the waste of the country. What is the situation now? In 2018, overall, the current account deficit was EUR 283 million, or one per cent of GDP. It is a deficit, but a relatively small deficit is close to zero. That's why there's little reason to worry. However, what awaits us even under the favourable conditions of the world economy? Latvia is at the threshold of the new economic era. The indicator of the country's wealth - GDP per capita - approaching 75 per cent of the European Union's average level will be significantly reduced by the funding of the European Union's funds. As it is included in the current account balance calculation, the account deficit will become even greater. This will mean falling economic competitiveness. What do we do without the cushion of the European Union? What is the solution? And yet, what action can we take to really achieve the European Union's average level? The World Bank already published a growth report in 2008. Let me tell you how the economist and successful entrepreneur Jānis Ošleis explained to the Latvian reading society in his March 2011 issue of the magazine “Rīgas Laiks”, i.e. the Growth Report, based on 13 country development studies, concluded that in order for the state to double its income even in one generation, continuous growth should be ensured – on average seven percent per year. Seven percent! One of the most important findings of this report is that such a rate of growth can be achieved if the total level of investment in the country reaches 25-30 per cent of GDP every year, including private and public investment. For a short time, Latvia had a total investment of 32 per cent in 2007, in the thick year. So we grew up so fast. Unfortunately, at that time private investment in real estate, which ended, as we know, in the wake of the global financial crisis, was dominated. In its presentation at the meeting of the Committee on Budgets and Finance (tax) last night, the Ministry of Finance confirmed that the share of investment last year was 23 percent of GDP, which is lower than the minimum 25 percent of GDP growth indicated by the World Bank. The specialists of the Ministry of Finance also explain that one tenth of these 23 percent are European Union money and co-financing. If the European Union's cash flow disappears, up to 25 percent will be even further. Private funding is a guest - we know it well. Here it comes, here it goes. What do we always have? Public money. Public investment needs to be increased. If there is public investment, private investors become bolder and private investments follow public investment. It is the key to solving the problem of a fall in investment. In the meantime, I call for this draft budget not to be supported, but, if it is supported, to support the proposals that will still be put forward for increasing the proportion of budget revenue and meeting public demands, above all for increasing teachers' salaries. We owe it to teachers. Let us not forget that. It's a stone in our neck. You can't just stay these people with slogans, swings, balloons... He stood by the Saeima. All the Saeima, not only the ruling coalitions, are obliged to get this money and meet the demands. In the meantime, I call for this budget not to be supported precisely because it does not guarantee it. Thank you for your attention. (Applause)
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-20-PT13-526-U45	Thank you. The time allowed for the debate is 15 minutes. Mrs. Svekov, are you going to have nine? Yeah. So the name to Member Lubov Svekov.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-20-PT13-526-U46	Dear Voters! Taxes can be compared to blood that runs in a human body and supplies it with vital oxygen so that a person can live and develop properly. We can compare the budget package figuratively with the heart, which drives impulses and blood to every organ. If we see clearly that in this budget package, in the heart, there is no oxygen for the brain - education and science, the remuneration of educators, salaries for educators of pre-school education, research and scientific activities - then it is clear that in the near future this man, or the state, if not dead, will at least operate in a vegetarian regime - will remain without development and will not be competitive. When we vote in favour of such a budget, we will take the future away for our children, we will not comply with the laws that we have previously adopted. Personally, this is not acceptable to me. And I believe that, by doing so, the Members who support this budget are immoral and illegal. Both the Prime Minister and the Ministers call this budget a technical one. But why don't they call themselves technical government and technical ministers? And you know why? Because it is not good for the government to call the budget a full budget. It's good for them to call it technical, because they take away their responsibilities. They are unable to take responsibility for the promises they made before. Personally, I cannot support a budget that deprives my children of the future and prevents the country from taking a step towards growth and competitiveness through education. Thank you. (Applause)
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-20-PT13-526-U47	Mr. Krishan, would you have had a debate with seven minutes? Seven? Name to Member Janis Krishan.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-20-PT13-526-U48	Dear President of the Saeima. Mr. Prime Minister, Dear colleagues, Resurrection Ministers! ( Insight: ‘ Dear Voters! ’) ) I would like to draw attention to one of the most important sections of the state budget, namely the budget for health care, when considering the draft law “On the State Budget for 2019. Yes, additional funds were indeed allocated to raise the salaries of healthcare workers. But the reality is more harsh than planned, because the vast majority of medical staff have not received this 20 percent increase in salary. This means that there will continue to be well-prepared, well-educated and able young people from the state budget to move abroad, but we will not be able to provide people with decent and timely health care in our country. Only by ensuring good wages, we can hope that these specialists will stay in Latvia, work here, live here, raise their children and help their parents to ensure respectful old-age. There is already a shortage of doctors and sisters in cities, but the most turbulent situation is in the Latvian countryside. There is an urgent need to find a solution to maintain and develop feldher points in the countryside. In the fields, the doctor’s assistant has always given first medical attention. If a family doctor has established his second place of practice, then he only arrives there well if two or four times a month. But people need help every day, not on certain dates. It is difficult to go to clinics and health centres, as public transport travels once a day or only a few times a week. A doctor’s assistant can do much to prevent disease and monitor chronic patients. And then diseases will not be allowed, which are later to be treated in a hospital, where the cost of treatment is many times higher. It would also relieve the work of the Emergency Medical Care Service, encourage doctors and family doctors to work in the countryside. We could stimulate it with a fixed additional payment for the distance from the center to a certain point of the Feldshers. More. I also find it wrong that nurses working in schools and kindergartens are under the authority of the Ministry of Education and Science. In my opinion, they should be one-size-fits-all, under the supervision of the Ministry of Health and associations. The problem of acute lack of money is found in child dentistry. There are still dentists, although there are fees in dentistry. However, most of them do not want to work with children, because the national price of child dentistry manipulation is low and the work with children is psychologically heavy and time-consuming. Without a review of service tariffs in dentistry, the consequences will be irreversible for children whose parents are unable to pay for paid dental services. They will be severe oral and dental abnormalities. The tariffs should also be reviewed for rehabilitation services, increased funding for replacement and a number of other areas where patients are waiting for a row not only for months but even for years. Only a healthy individual will contribute to the development of our economy, pay taxes and increase the prosperity of his or her country. And I hope that the honourable Prime Minister will be able to listen to the opinion of the Ministry of Health because, by putting money into the small branches that I am talking about, we will get a lot of money back. People will not enter the hospital, they will not call for rapid help, and this will bring great benefits to our people, because at the moment, the reality is that we are at the heart of death in Europe, in fact, with regard to all the diagnosis, but not more than human life. Thank you. (Applause)
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-20-PT13-526-U49	Thank you. The debate will continue after the break. Please call me! Please register the Members! Name Marija Golubeva, member of the Saeima Secretary, to read the results of the registration as soon as they have been prepared.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-20-PT13-526-U50	Not registered: Raimonds Bergmanis, Aldis Blumbergs, Boriss Cilevičs, Vjačeslavs Dombrovskis, Jānis Dūklavs... ( Interface: ‘ I am! ’) ) is, yes, Inga Goldberga, Janina Jalinska... The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. J. Jalinska: ‘ Yes!’ ) and?... Andrey Clementyev, Richard Cole... ( Interfaces: “Here! ”) ; “Ir!” ) is, Ieva Krapāne, Armands Krauze, Edgars Kucins... ( Interface: ‘ Yes! ’ ) is, Janina Kursīte, Evija Papule, Ivars... I'm sorry, Ivan Ribakov, Jānis Vucans and Atis Zakaistovs.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-20-PT13-526-U51	Thank you. Interruption until 12 noon. ( Interruption)
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-20-PT13-526-U52	Honourable Members! I invite you to take office in the Chamber so that after a break we can continue the extraordinary sitting of the Saeima on 20 March 2019. On the agenda - Draft State Budget for 2019 and accompanying draft laws. We are continuing the debate. The name of Member Regina Lochmele-Lunova.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-20-PT13-526-U53	Hello, colleagues! Hello, Latvians! The government led by the new Unity will enter Latvia's history with an unprecedented innovation in the terminology of public administration, because until now the Saeima has never been offered to debate a permanent state financial plan called "technical budget". I think that this budget could also be spent with a motto. And so the motto will be from the Prime Minister of one major power, saying, “There is no money, but you stay!” How many times the promises of government parties were mentioned! They were promised to you, the Latvian voters, on the shores of the milk river keel. Well, for example, a single batch plan “3 × 500”. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A. Neighbours: “What parties?” ) I would like to quote exactly from the website of the Central Electoral Commission The historical entry of the new conservative party programme: “ Plan “3 × 500” implementation: minimum wage, with ICN unlimited minimum salaries and pensions – 500 euros per month, minimum pension – 200 euros per month already in 2019. Family state allowance of EUR 50 per first child, EUR 100 per second and EUR 150 per third and per subsequent child.’ End of quote. Looking diligently and honestly, looking for all these figures in the 2019 budget. I didn't. Another party. KPV LV promised us Latvia 13 works, none of which were implemented and not included in the 2019 budget. The same CPV LV, which promised all the pre-elections during the debate the abolition of the OIC and the reduction of electricity bills. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A. Neighbours: “But you wait!” ) It is coming to 31 March. In January, the highest electricity price was recorded in Latvia over eight years. ( Interface: “The program is for four years! ” ) But as it has heard, the new Minister for Economics does not plan anything more than simply to inform the Saeima about the price of the OIC cancellation procedure and to shift this impossible mission - to decide what to do next - to whom, how do you think? The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A. Neighbours: for Regina! ) Do not believe! All of us members of the Saeima. This morning, the Prime Minister mentioned that he already knows the price, and that would be one billion euros. So that 31 March, too, will not facilitate the promise made by the Minister for Economic Affairs. Other promises are the same. Increase salaries for doctors... it turns out that there will be no 20 percent increase for all doctors. Only the lowest wages will rise. Do you want to raise your salary for your teachers? Nothing! Don't get up! Of course, this morning suddenly promised and said that 1.7 million had already been found and that by mid-May the remaining 7.3 million would be found. But at what expense? Of course, by optimizing the school network. We all know exactly what lies behind the word "optimisation". The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. L. Ozola: “Quality education!” ) It is normal, however, that already in spring forget what it promised in autumn. The next elections will be in three and a half years! Let us come up with something new and beautiful for faithful people! Technical budget. Is it really not our country that deserves anything better? Are you sure? You have such strong and professional ministers! Here, Mrs Petraviča can afford to combine the positions of Members of the Saeima and Minister for Welfare. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A. Neighbours: “Learn!” ) In the welfare sector everything is so well-ordered, so good that citizens smile when they wake up every morning thinking about their pensions and benefits. How's that? After all, the Minister has done such a good job - found an excess of 49 million in the Ministry of Welfare budget. That's what the Minister was doing! Fewer children were born than planned, Latvian people were so kind and sick less, we iconomed on the sick leaves. Pensioners die smoothly - to pensions also economy. Now is a real paradise of prosperity! How do I not give up 49 million?Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, And Petravič gave it up. They were welcomed by the government and the deficit of the general budget again with high fees, but according to the formal requirements of the European Commission, was kept within half a percentage point, directly through the surplus of the social budget. Of course, it is a small thing that according to the latest data, the Gini coefficient measuring income inequality worldwide is not decreasing but increasing in Latvia and, unlike Estonia, Latvia has not even managed to draw closer to the average level of the European Union. And that is in a situation where our economy is growing and even being talked about the threat of overheating. Recent data from the Central Statistical Administration show that household disposable income has increased by 11.8 percent in 2017, the fastest increase in the last 10 years. As the publicist Ansis Dobelis pointed out in his article on the Delfi portal in a very precise way recently, if the income grows so fast, there should also be an increase in the overall prosperity of the country. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. J. Iesalnieks: “The prosperity of US consultants is growing!” ) But in reality, looking at the CSP data on the average pension-net wage ratio, it reveals a very interesting picture. In 2010, the average pension in Latvia was 1.8 times lower than the average wage in the country, but in 2017 this difference had already increased to 2.3 times. In addition, we are devoting a smaller share of our economy to old-age pensions, or our older generation: in 2010, we allocated 9.8 per cent of GDP, whereas in 2017, we lost only seven per cent of GDP. ‘ Can we really not afford to increase the smaller pensions more significantly?" It's rhetorical asking Ansis Dobelis. I think that he could safely address this issue directly to the Minister for Welfare. Unfortunately, he will hardly receive the answer. Members of the political group SASKAR sought to ask the Minister for Welfare certain questions about plans for raising the minimum pension and about draft laws to be submitted to the Saeima in this regard in 2019. Unfortunately, everything that the Minister answered could be cut to two phrases after the water was exhausted: in 2019, a pension indexation, which is not her merit, will be planned, but some draft laws on raising the minimum amount of pensions will not be planned in the near future. In order to increase the minimum pensions of EUR 70 to EUR 215, only EUR 60 million would be needed. Almost as much as Mrs. Petraviča gave her basic budget without even trying to fight for the welfare of pensioners. Therefore, we will not be surprised if, in the regular reports of the European Commission and OECD, Latvia will once again figure out the top of the inequality leaders, because this technical budget and a obedient welfare minister will only contribute to this. Already a year ago, even when the Minister for Welfare was Mr Reira, the OECD recommended that Latvia significantly increase the amount of the minimum pension and use the same indexation rules as at the first pension level. The OECD pointed out that our country has quite a chance of increasing the level of the basic pension from eight percent to around 20 percent of the average wage, as is the case in OECD Member States on average. Therefore, the OECD called on Latvia to reduce the 15-year period of social contributions, or so-called insurance period, needed to enable a person to receive a minimum pension at all. Latvia was also encouraged to introduce into the pension system mechanisms which would provide a correspondingly higher minimum pension for each year of social contributions. None of these recommendations have been implemented in this technical budget. And according to the content of the welfare minister's answers, there are concerns about their implementation in the next year's budget as well. Of course, the fact that, in January this year, according to Eurostat data on the level of the minimum wage, Latvia was overtaken by a country such as Romania - by this indicator we are now ahead of Bulgaria alone in the European Union - and the fact that according to the CSB data, Latvia was still exposed to the risk of poverty in 2017 (not yet in the 2018 data). , almost half a million, or 23.3 per cent of the population, which is 1.2 percentage points more than in the previous year, 2016. Last December went into the history of Latvia also with the anti-record of the centenary of Latvia, which I already told about here: there is the lowest birth rate in the history of the country - only 1292 newborns throughout the country. However, I did not find any indication in this technical budget that the government would really be a priority. In particular, it should be borne in mind that absolutely all attempts by the parliamentary opposition to raise the amount of family benefits in the country by the governing parties were rejected. There are also no 4.2 million in this budget that the Ministry of Economics promised to tenants of denationalised houses in its official press releases. Less than five months ago, following the current pick-up of the denationalised house tenants on 30 October, the Ministry of Economics officially stated (i.e.: ‘... that it is working on a compensation mechanism and the payment of compensation for providing funding to ensure greater social protection for these people’. For these purposes, already at the end of 2018, the Ministry of Economics reserved 3.57 million euros of funds for unforeseen cases to provide co-financing to the tenants of denationalised buildings in accordance with the actual expenditure of municipalities. In addition, at the end of 2018, the Ministry of Economics submitted a request for funding of 578 thousand euros for payment of these compensations in 2019 in preparation for the State budget expenditure for 2019. At the same time, the Ministry of Economics expressed hope, to be reminded, that all this took place only five months ago, that [I quote] ‘... the new government and Saeima Members will support the inclusion of such expenditure in the State budget for 2019’. Where? Where is this money? I did not find such a position in this budget at all. The increase in the salaries of NMPD staff is also not a merit for the authors of this budget. I would remind you that 8,3 million were found on 6 December last year only thanks to the proposal from the Group's SASCAN Member, Vjačeslav Dombrovsky, even before this government was established. I would also like to remind you that the UK and the CPV LV factions voted for this proposal from the SACUA Member, together with the SACUA, which I think you are truly grateful to all the employees of the NMPD. I very much hope that within this technical budget, too, you will be able to objectively evaluate those really constructive and valuable proposals for the whole of Latvian society, which will already be submitted by the members of the opposition tomorrow. For example, there will be a proposal for a very small amount of EUR 211 000. We want this money to be allocated to the Latvian Transplantation Centre for the establishment of a certified tissue compatibility laboratory, which will allow our country to finally join the international donor organ exchange platform FOEDUS and ensure more effective and targeted...
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-20-PT13-526-U54	Mrs Ločmele-Lunova, your debate is over!
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-20-PT13-526-U55	Thank you. Let me just say that: until these opposition proposals are included in the budget, I will not vote for this and I am also calling on you not to do so. (Applause)
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-20-PT13-526-U56	Name to Member Maris Kučinskis. Please, Mr. Kučinski!
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-20-PT13-526-U57	Dear Chairman of the Saeima. Honourable Members! Ministers! For many things I also want to say thank you today, namely that I will continue the reforms in health care, continue the accents... in education, in the organisation of school networks... We should not just call this budget a technical budget. The previous speaker has often emphasised this, but the technical budget would be either one twelfth or an accurate three-year budget. And we remember that, with a vote by all 100 Members, we found an opportunity at the end of the last year to raise the pay for healthcare workers, which was very necessary. We carried out all decisions of the Constitutional Court... increased salaries for judges... and the technical budget is definitely not. I fear that this rhetoric has appeared and has been implemented only to justify the failure to honour the false promises, because, by the way, they were neither UNIQUES nor the ZZS nor the National Alliance, because we knew that the budget would never be large enough that we will not be able to defeat all of us, and in fact it is hard work and very difficult choices. Have you sometimes thought so purely philosophical as many of you sit here because people believed that the prices of electricity would be on the ground right away; how many sit here because people believed that “3 × 500”... that we won't have any taxes, we'll be all very well? And how many of us don't sit here because we didn't allow irresponsible promises to be made. ( Interface: “Very many of us don’t sit down! ” ) (The driver of the sitting is knocked down with a hammer.) And they too ( Dep. S. Riekstins: “We don’t sit!” ), which promised... The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A. Kaimiņš: “I think it’s even good that Brigman doesn’t sit here!” ; the intermediate statement: “It’s a pity that you don’t sit down!” ) I see only a person where... I would like to put on flowers, but... Okay. (Laughter) On the 2020 budget. About 2019... I think I'll touch the teachers' salaries, but... Probably a lot... Well, you can't deny that Latvians will feel and feel certain positive... reviews... But 2020, when the government reads all the information reports it adopts, it begins to remind it of such a great basket, because now all the big promises are being met in 2020. And, of course, I myself... I remember New Year's speech, where I spoke about those three envelopes... In the first envelope, the advice: “For all the faults of the old government!” But already in 2020: “I am guilty.” Interesting, by what year... But... Well, okay. If this is easier for you, let us wait until you write the envelopes. 2020 will be really very difficult. Maybe we shouldn't have voted... And now, not to adopt a three-year budget... Because, again, people's gonna wait for the autumn... But in 2020 the derogation from health care granted by the European Commission ends. This means that large sums have already been booked there, so that nothing can stop. There are still a variety of developments in 2020, as no government has been working for one year. Both myself and, I am sure, the Karina Government has been working for at least four years and is planning for the long term. That's why the accusations about this being from the previous government... Well, those accusations are out of place. We also plan for a sufficiently long period. The next point. However, there are shortcomings in this budget. And the reason why we are today is absolutely unequivocal! - no one will vote - this is a reform of education, which is already successfully trying to "play" with the old government. Says: “You haven’t put anything in there! Wherever we go, we can't... “ Of course, reforms need to be continued. And our demographic situation and the changes in the structure of the population, the differences between cities and the countryside - all this leads to the necessary adjustments. And I am sure that, together with the previous Minister of Education and Science, we too would have gone further. But also... Regarding wage increases. I remember that happened on 1 September... And I know it's possible, too, to find... I took note of the action plan put forward by the government yesterday in front of the trade union. And yes, I think that's the way, the right choice... putting in place a very heavy job for a respected Minister for Education and Science, who, of course, has taken time to get to know the whole farm that needs to be accepted... This is a task for Mr. Pouce. This is a task for the whole government together. But it is a task for the government, not for the trade union. The trade union is now a hostage. The next point. It is offered for nine million bookings... Yeah. I think that the solution could be, because it was also the case in 2016 when our government started to work. But there was a clear reservation with clear financial sources... not by painting either... At the moment, this text, forgive, rewording sounds: we are ready to book nine million euros for teachers' salaries, but you will only get them if you help the Minister for Education and Science, Mr Puce and the government as a whole to carry out the reforms that they actually have to carry out this or so. So I suggest that nine million or seven... the exact number you will tell you, but it must be reserved... and we will definitely help to find sources for the second reading. I offer not to come with any populist and unrealistic offers... work together! Social block. Of course, only one thing can be said: this government is continuing the same, I think, the rather bad trend that has been taking place over the last years, including in our government, that gradually more and more we credit the basic budget with social money. This is a very dangerous trend. But in this case, Mr. Reira, when he found the money, he worked very well... using the fact that the Minister for Welfare... Mr Reira could have asked for even 70 per cent of the money for his industry, not for the basic budget as a whole. But this is your internal problem. And the last one is the economy. Of course, in all rhetoric and in all reforms... Thank you once again to the new government for continuing with all the necessary reforms. But you have mentioned in your speech the rapid economic growth that has been in recent years and continues this year. Of course, one large percentage can be written down to the fact that with or without government the economy goes its way and actually the money is already produced by businessmen, the biggest court comes from them. But is the government a business partner? My answer today, unfortunately, does not seem to be positive. Okay, in the budget... We're not talking... But then I'd like to provoke an economic minister who's busy talking... you come with an action plan. I don't know how long. Two months, at least I think it's necessary. But I very much hope... If there is nothing in the budget to make economic growth continue to stimulate it to work hand in hand with the social partners from the business environment, then maybe it will be in the action plan? We are, of course, giving an advance for the time being. But it is a very dangerous thing, and the economy must be talked about. Thank you. (Applause)
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-20-PT13-526-U58	Thanks to Maris Kučinskis. Name to Member Viktor Valain.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-20-PT13-526-U59	Highly honored Speaker of the Saeima! Colleagues! Ministers! It's been almost six months since we were working. In my opinion, it has been a long time to meet even part of the electoral promises you make to your constituents. At this time, there are many problems with each other, but the problems that led to your election have not been addressed. I can't say that for all the lots, but for some absolutely sure. Today, teachers are being blamed for no reform. So there would be no wage supplement. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. E. Zālīte-Gross: “Localities also need to think!” ) Colleagues, what is that? How can you make teachers suffer from a school, but if they don't close, there will be no wage supplement... This work must be done by the Saeima, the government, municipalities, but not by teachers. Teachers need to make sure that our children have the best possible education, that teachers have high heads up when they go to school and receive appropriate pay. Colleagues in the Saeima! If you have not noticed, I would remind you that there is nothing in this budget from your pre-election promises. ( The intercretion between the new Conservatives.) There is no ‘3 × 500’, there is no indication that anyone plans to reduce the OIC. None of this is here! This budget is evidence of the fact that, in my view, the largest public fraud in the pre-election period has taken place in the history of Latvia. ( The utterances are: “Ooo! ” ) If there were any ideas in this budget, I would not say it, but there is nothing here, as I said. Instead of this promise I see really “excellent” – “excellent”! - ideas that come from the government, like, for example, that we will punish those who visit some sort of websites... We can't control whether they are allowed to enter or not - that's nothing, but let's be punished! The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. S. Riekstins: “You are not coming to the Commission where we are talking about it!” ) It's okay! Well, there's no problem! ( The intercretion between the new Conservatives.) Likewise, in this draft law, in these budget proposals, it really... Instead of ensuring a minimum wage of EUR 500, we are obliged to: if someone wants to do something about real estate or buy a car, he will have to go to the bank and put that money there, so that someone may see better how people spend this money. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A. Neighbours: “Wainni, stop waking up!” ) I very much hope that the Members of the Saeima, whom I am talking about today, will present to the second reading some of what you have promised, because society really is waiting for it. Why wait for 2020? Why cannot this be done now? The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. E. Herbs-Gross intermediate call.) The Prime Minister mentioned five priorities today. High honourable Members! Among these five priorities, nothing was mentioned about the reduction of the public administration apparatus, although a large part of you said that the number of ministries would fall by half... and more, God knows what he had come up with there! But none of this was mentioned as a priority. It was mentioned as a priority for municipal reform - let's halve or three times... Very good! The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. K. Feldmans: “How is it successful in Ventspils Municipality?” ) Next week... This week, we in the Saeima will decide on this draft decision. But the number of ministries - no words! Colleagues, have you forgotten you promised it yourself? This may have been a source of teachers’ salaries. I call on my fellow Members to present, for the second reading, real proposals that would even slightly reflect your pre-election promises. (Applause)
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-20-PT13-526-U60	Name to Member Martin Stein.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-20-PT13-526-U61	Hello, honourable Speaker of the Saeima! Members of the Bureau! Ministers! Colleagues! Resurrection! On this year's budget, I would like to thank the Minister for Environmental Protection and Regional Development and the Ministry, who found a solution in this budget already, in order to substantially increase funding for the non-governmental sector, thereby helping to strengthen civil society. Thank you also to the Minister for Education and Science and the Ministry for additional funding for the development of youth policy. But now on the bill “Amendments to the Education Act”. Last year, five associations that had set up their schools worked in the Saeima to convince Members to introduce equal access to education... that the parent can choose an educational institution that the state already grants targeted grants for salaries and teaching materials to accredited private educational institutions. Local authorities would also be obliged to participate in the co-financing of private schools – similar to the current intergovernmental settlement of education services and co-financing of pre-school programmes. 12. In autumn, the Saeima adopted amendments to the Education Law, which stipulate that the municipality is obliged to conclude a contract for participation in the financing of maintenance expenses of the private educational establishment in question, if this private service provider is a public benefit organisation or a social enterprise. These amendments do not apply to other privately-established educational institutions. The amendments included in the 2019 budget package call for this order to be interrupted, and we disagree with this for a number of reasons. Firstly, because we believe that this is not a matter for the budget package. The Ministry has also submitted estimates that have been overstated by several million, justifying the amendments and their budgetary implications, although the calculations made by the Ministry are for everyone - I stress! - privately founded schools, although the specific article of the law currently applies to eight schools in Latvia. Secondly, the principle of legitimate expectations is being undermined at the moment, because one Saeima decides and the next three or more months have passed away. Amendments to the law have not yet entered into force, but are now being encouraged to repeal them. Thirdly, the amendments would prevent many municipalities that have now decided to fund schools of different owners on a voluntary basis from continuing to do so. This would happen, for example, in Cēsu, Jaunpiebalga, Mārupe, Babītes, Sigulda municipality and several other municipalities of Pierīga. Most - about 90 per cent of the funding, which is more than EUR 350 000 - are already following the child to private public schools if the parents have chosen to do so. I express my full respect for the Latvian Municipal Union for its ability to defend its interests, but this time I cannot support this proposal and will submit amendments before the second reading. In conclusion, I would like to call on the state and local authorities to support the activities of public benefit organisations, not to fear them. The activities of public benefit organisations contribute to the participation of society, to the development and implementation of ideas, including in the field of education. I would also like to remind Mr Kučinska that you made a promise to increase the salaries of educators, only money now needs to be found for us, which we will also do. Thank you. I call for budget support.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-20-PT13-526-U62	Name to Member Aldi Gobzem.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-20-PT13-526-U63	Good afternoon, people's servants, and good afternoon, Latvian society! What the coalition thinks about the budget of the Republic of Latvia is clearly visible in this hall, where the Prime Minister Arturs Krišjānis Kariņš is not present. He went to the Saeima canteen, because there can be cheap but good eating. ( Internouncing call.) At a time when society lives in poverty, while the coalition lives in prosperity, it is necessary to recall events that last 10 years. 10 years ago, Prime Minister of Unity Valdis Dombrovskis said that structural reforms were needed. Ten years have passed, and Mr Kariņš says today that systemic reforms are needed. We have gone one step from structural reforms to systemic reforms. The rest of the coalition is not interested, because during the discussions on the state budget, the members of the coalition stand, turned their backs against the Saeima Bureau, and speak loudly to each other. They are not interested in Latvian society and they are not interested in this discussion. If we are talking about the money laundering that Arthur Krišjānis Kariņš has described as one of the essential things that this government has to do, then I would like to remind you that Arthur Krišjānis Kariņš should start with himself. He should explain loudly to the public how he's in time... when the released “Pionieris” cinema in Riga, Skolas iela 2, was sold to people who had no income, but who had received this income as if from Cypriot offshores and then successively from Russian mayors... Or, in this case, Artur Krišjānis Karins... for money laundering... should not first check your transaction and disclose to the public all details of the transaction? If we are talking about an important matter, that the budget is just a redistribution of money (as Mr Bondara said), then I have to admit that this was probably the reason for the bankruptcy of Latvijas Krajbanka. Because the budget is not a redistribution of money. The budget is a means to help Latvian people generate money. And how can we help? Already this morning, Arturs Krišjānis Kariņš publicly told and frightened Latvian society that OIC will not be abolished on 31 March, as it seems to be threatening court proceedings against Latvia for one billion. The beneficiaries of unlawful state aid in court with the State of Latvia for one billion, and therefore, in a constructive atmosphere Arturs Krišjānis Kariņš will continue to pay these recipients of unlawful state aid two billion. Minister for Economics Ralph Nemiro, who promised to cancel OIK by 31 March (Minister for Finance J. Reirs: “The Saeima tasked!” ), no decision has been taken. And it will also not be accepted because Mr Nemir would lose his post when he decided to abolish the OIC. If we are talking about what should have been included in this budget, which is called a technical budget by Finance Minister Reir, then I have to remind you that Finance Minister Reir of Unity was a former Government welfare minister and did not raise any objections to this budget. ( The interdependencies of the Minister for Finance, Mr Reira.) In the present case, it is important to stress that what should have been in this budget was a tax reduction for small wages in order to promote competitiveness. Similarly, the abolition of the OIC should have been in this budget in order to promote competitiveness. And then there would be money! The money would be found for teachers, not for prisons. It is already customary that in a country where we have hundreds of millions... This is the usual practice for us: when we need 100 or 200 million or billion, we find this in one day, but when we need a few million to raise teachers' salaries, we cannot. In a country where there is money for prisons, we obviously think that our children will be prisoners and they will be educated there. Education must be a priority. And education as a priority - it has proved in the history of the world... I will give you an example. Finland has set itself the goal of becoming a country with the best education system in the world. And today we can enjoy and watch Finland evolve! In Finland, by the way, there are only a little more - two and a half times more - inhabitants than in Latvia, while gross domestic product is more than eight times greater than in Latvia. Finland! If we are talking about effective public administration, this government is unable to do so - to reduce its bonuses. My proud cars... And every minister - press secretaries and offices... The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. J. Butan: “I can show my monthly ticket!” ) This government could learn from Finland. I would like to give just one example. ( Milestones.) In Finland, for example, in the home system... And that's just one example of many... There is a new objective in the home system - Finland wants to become the safest country in the world. Our government, by the way, has no objective to name, which would be the point of reference. There are about 7200 police officers per five million inhabitants in Finland. There are more than 8,000 policemen and more than 1 000 policemen per 1.9 million inhabitants in Latvia. twice the number of officials in the ministry. Perhaps, however, we need to reduce public administration this year, not after four years, so that taxpayers, those who pay... who receive lower wages can pay relatively lower taxes... they would not be afraid of being deprived of their cash. Because these are the people who are tax-laundering, not the proud gentlemen, who, in strange transactions eight days before the decision to sell Citadele, reach the sale of the Pioneer cinema through the Cypriot offshores... from income of unknown origin... ( Internouncing call.) One thing I want to say... I would like to say about the uncompromising rule of law promised by this government. The election of this government is, in fact, based on two very wonderful examples of an uncompromising rule of law. One example of this is Meroni's rocky village, suspected of serious crimes. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A. Neighbours: “Hi, man, you still have six minutes to go! Hold it!’ ) The other thing I want to say. In the situation of uncompromising justice, our justice system does not evaluate the issues of money laundering affecting Kariņa family transactions at Skolas iela 2, but allows the situation that the second senior officer of our justice system is involved in criminal proceedings. This does not happen in any developed country of the world. Today, teachers stood at the Saeima door. Teachers, one of the most intelligent parts of Latvian society. And I am sure that the hearts of those who stood at the door of the Saeima burn more about Latvia than those who are not here today, like Arturs Krišjānis Kariņš when it comes to the state budget. Do those who speak loudly to each other by showing the floor to the Saeima Presidium. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A. Neighbours: “Do you!” Thank you. Thank you very much. Today it is important to say that you can already yell about Latvian society... The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A. Neighbours: “You’re already in the pit, don’t get more!” ) You may wonder what budget you are adopting. But the only question I can answer... your slogans for systemic changes, your slogans for promises that have not been fulfilled by either KPV LV or, Artus Neiminin, you who promised everything possible to voters before the elections... ( Insight: “Like you! ”) ), not the UKP, which promised a non-negotiable minimum of EUR 500, which promised pensions to the science... The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A. Neighbours: “The operators have turned off the cameras!” ) You are currently only in a situation... that you are in the process. You process, you get wages and you do nothing. You think you're in the place of gods. ( The box “No, you think! ”) ; dep. A. Neighbours: “A man, you talk about yourself!” ) You think that you are doing good to the state by not taking decisions and finding hundreds of arguments why you do not accept them, rather than one argument why you make a bold decision today. You need a Prime Minister today, who is a weak Prime Minister. And why do you need it? So so that you can do nothing for those teachers who stand on the street and demand a better future for our children. And that is why I will vote against the budget of the Republic of Latvia. I will vote against it... The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A. Neighbours: Against whom? ) I will vote against what was in the previous term... ( Minister for Environmental Protection and Regional Development, J. Pūce: “Do not show the bottom to the Presidium!” ) which was not supported in the previous term by the largest lawyer, of course, who does not mean standing intelligence on the street, because he is simply not... Artus Neighbours. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A. Neighbours: “You must be in love with me!” ) “I will not support this budget because, in this budget, we put money back on iron and concrete, not on man.” And that's your words, my dear friend. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A. Kaimiņš: “I and the girls, the honor! I'm with the girls! I'm sorry!’ Noise in the hall. (Laughter) I want to show to Latvian society today that the discussion of the Latvian Parliament on the state budget is simply sitting and diving. That's what you're always doing! If you look at the debate in every developed country's parliament on the future of the country, there are no people who are disgusting about the future of the country, about the state budget. There, by the way, are not people who have been tried by the courts for the violation of competition in melioration, Mr. Riekstins. ( Internouncing call.) There are no people sitting there in court for cash transactions at ATMs. There are no people sitting there in court for the disclosure of state secrets. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. E. Zālīte-Gross: “Who sits there?” ) People who may well be in prison rather than MEPs are not sitting there. Thank you. I mean, I mean, I mean, I mean, I mean, I Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-20-PT13-526-U64	The name to Anda Chakša. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A. Neighbours: “from a medical point of view!” ) Council Regulation (EC) No 1257/96 of 20 June 1996 concerning humanitarian aid (OJ L 163, 2.7.1996, p. 1).
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-20-PT13-526-U65	Hello, dear colleagues! I would certainly like to start by thanking you - and thank you for the fact that a great many things that were already begun in the previous government are going on. And if we look at the budget as a mirror of politics, then it should not be called technical. I think for a long time what this word means - "technical". And so the answer came to me: all the good things that are now in the budget are like the new ones or ours, but what's bad is something else from you. If that's the explanation, let it be! But I think it is very good that many of the things that have taken place in the area of healthcare are going on. And the fact that medical pay has already been increased this year from 1 January (and now it will be reflected in the budget) and that 87 million have been diverted to medical pay is very good. But I would like to wish enough strength next year. No one else at any time knows how much it is necessary to fight for health funding and how difficult it is sometimes for their government to prove that health matters, because only healthy people will be able to develop the Latvian economy. There are, of course, some things that cause confusion in the health budget as well. If we're looking at it right now, the only thing that's so new... its technical... The new case that has come is the additional funding for rare diseases medicines - three million. At that point, I thought I had to start thinking about the following joke: “Do we have to set up an association of common diseases to see us more seriously as well?” Because, I would say, there's still a lot of medicine that we don't have if we're talking about oncology, if we're talking about diseases that really are everyday. Yes, funding is needed not only for the treatment of rare diseases, but for all groups of diseases, especially oncology patients, who are currently receiving 13 new medicines, but are still as lacking. That is why the health challenge certainly remains sufficiently high. Yes, there is a position and there is opposition, the government comes and the government goes, but what is important is that with this budget... or, when we talk about development in general, we are not only thinking about one year, but looking to the future. And if we talk about teachers' salaries, we don't really think about teachers, but think about our children, what Latvia will be like in the future, whether children will learn to make full sentences, or how to count, and that's why we need the best people who work in schools. And we need funding to attract the best people. Therefore, a request to the government for second reading, however, finds additional funding for teachers' salaries, because it is not possible to put teachers' salaries together with the reorganisation of the school network, because it is not already teachers who go and reorganize the school network. ( Insight: “Lands... “ It is a request to think about children who need good teachers, and it is a request to find funding for teachers’ salaries. The third thing I would like to mention, and which made me somewhat confused, is that the Prime Minister said in his address that, it turns out, we are not living in the places where we need it. And then I started to think, is the place where I live right or wrong? In my opinion, all places in Latvia where people live are equally important. Of course, it is important that the infrastructure is well organised so that everyone can access both schools and medical institutions. But there is one important moment in this regard: the environmental sector should not just be left as an extension or even as an obstacle to regional development, and should think about these taxes... which comes as a natural resource tax, but would be returned to environmental conservation and climate change. Thank you. May we succeed together! The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A. Neighbours: ‘Are you going to support it?’ ) Council Regulation (EC) No 1257/96 of 20 June 1996 concerning humanitarian aid (OJ L 163, 2.7.1996, p. 1).
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-20-PT13-526-U66	The name of Member Janina Yalinska.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-20-PT13-526-U67	Highly honored Presidium! Ministers! Dear colleagues, I will not criticise the new government from this troupe today, but I will highlight just a few figures from the point of view of the municipalities. I represent Daugavpils municipality, I have worked as the head of the municipality for a long time. In 2009, we were all preparing for the reform so that the municipal elections in 2009 would take place in line with the new territories. In Daugavpils municipality there are 19 parishes, 24 thousand inhabitants. I believe that it is large enough, sufficiently viable to develop around the large city of Daugavpils. It is an agricultural area and, of course, we have agriculture in these areas. But in these 19 parishes, seven schools have disappeared over time. Currently, there are no seven schools in 19 parishes. This is very bad. Four schools, including before administrative reform, have been abolished since the decision of the municipality in 2009. And today, believe me... I think many of you, those of you who have been in the hall who have been members of the county, have come to work with a hard heart here, because we saw our teachers here. I also saw my teachers. They have come from a faraway region of Daugavpils, travelled here, spent their time, money and so on... It's very far away! And I very much hope... Why do I call these numbers? Because everything cannot be attributed to it. We say: municipalities are now bad, they are small. But we have enough municipalities, which are currently self-sufficient in terms of capacity. Municipalities have also worked so far. And in the media, we see that they still optimise their schools. This was also done by Daugavpils municipality. Ilūkste municipality set up a single administration for all schools. Everything is happening today. So... Dear colleagues, we are a hundred, and we need to find a solution to the question of teachers' salaries. I will today vote in favour of the national budget for 2019 at first reading as an opposition Member - with the hope that a very normal administrative territorial reform will be carried out and that the school network will also be arranged and teachers will also receive salaries.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-20-PT13-526-U68	Name to Member Ivars Zarins.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-20-PT13-526-U69	Good afternoon, everybody! In this debate in the Saeima, when the budget is being discussed, the Prime Minister is not present, and I think it symbolically points to the role that the parliament, that is to say, the leaders of the people, currently in our country, in a democratic republic. Perhaps it also shows the role of Arthur Krišjānis Kariņš in the adoption of this budget. Because when I listened to his speech, it reminded me of an anecdotes. That is, the pastor arrives in a village where he has to tell the sermon. He can't find a church and he asks a guy to show him where... to tell him how to get to that church. When the guy has told him, the pastor tells him, “Well, you come to church in the evening.” The guy is interested in demanding: “A why?” The pastor says, “I will tell you how to get to heaven.” That's what the guy says, "What? Are you kidding me?Oh, You can’t even find a way to church!” It's about how we talk about this budget... What does Mr. Karin say? He says that resources are being wasted inefficiently. Okay. But where is an analysis of what concrete resources are being spent inefficiently? Why are you spending them inefficiently? Why not talk about this? Perhaps because it will then be necessary to put forward proposals for how to spend these resources more efficiently? It's nothing! Instead, we are told here that money does not grow in trees. You know, very valuable information for all of us, right? We didn't know that! If you're talking... but I'll take concrete examples of how to look at this money... As Mr. Karin said, the money has been redistributed. Indeed, he has not understood that the budget is an instrument for the development of the country. How to develop the country to ensure social justice, well-being... No, it turns out, it's a redistribution of money! And that's what it's like for years! - Since the times of success told, it has been demonstrated... It made a success story at the expense of the rest of society, the consequences of which we still buy, because it is precisely because of this success story, with which someone boasted and got into good jobs, that we now have no money either for roads, health or education, because this success story has been made very successfully. What can you do? What can be done to help the same teachers? It's very simple! That money could be found! The nine million elements could be found. The whole question is about the priorities: how you look at how you manage the country and how you manage its resources. Practically, an example that I already mentioned at the beginning of this year, when it was also about education: not enough money for education, science, but when Latvenergo appeared in excess of 80 million, at the moment these 80 million were given over to the feeding of the Oikis. At that time, 80 million okists could be fed immediately, but nine million teachers could not be found! At that time, I proposed a solution, as I could have done. Instead of feeding these 80 million in to those who may not have to, they were able to take just one million and, for this one million, put this sector in order - make legislation in accordance with the law, test all these businessmen. And it would seem that these 80 million would not have to be paid at all. That is what I could say to the teachers: if you want and really are determined to get your fair pay, you can just do it. One of the solutions is to make the government sort this sector out! It's not... I am not talking here now about the liquidation of the OIC; it is about simply putting this sector in order from the beginning to understand what is happening there. And maybe then it will turn out that nothing needs to be done away with, because many things will have resolved in themselves. On the other hand, as we can see, a new cover is being created for the afer so that it can continue. It is not surprising, because it is the party that is now leading the government that is to a large extent responsible for having received such a serious, serious heritage. That is why I would call on the teachers in principle to demand and say that money... Here it is... and require the government to arrange this sector. What has to be done? These are basic, obvious things. Firstly, appropriate checks in this sector. Secondly, perhaps even before these inspections, it would be right to regulate this sector in order to bring it into line with the law. And in this respect, the works have already been done. The six-monthly Saeima has the draft law “Amendments to the Law on the Electricity Market”, which is now being interrupted by the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy, which is not being reviewed for fuel months at second reading. These amendments would put all of this in order. If these amendments were adopted, the liquidation of OIC should not be discussed at all today. I wouldn't have to talk about some billion... imaginary proceedings, which no one can justify, and all other folly, because simply this sector would be arranged and the problem solved. There is no political will. But there's a lot of money in there. And then instead of paying tens of millions and feeding the oikists, the money would be sufficient for both teachers and other needs, for which the government is now simply laying hands on because there is no money. Therefore, my fellow Members, I call for this budget not to be supported. And I call on the whole community to follow what the government does, so that it may first account for its promises. Because, as we see, the slogan “how can you not be sold and then do not do” is still valid. I call for this budget not to be supported, for the government to work and finally for society to take care of itself in a skilled, thoughtful and sustainable way, which we are unfortunately not seeing at the moment.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-20-PT13-526-U70	Name of Member Anita Muižniece.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-20-PT13-526-U71	Hello, colleagues! I would first like to thank you, Mr Kučinski. Thank you for reminding me, let me remember why I am here, why I am elected. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. M. Kučinskis: “This can also be cut out!” ) At the same time, it was the government’s attitude towards educators and the annual surprise every September... I didn't know how much my and my colleagues' wages would be, I was encouraged to be here. Today, we have heard a lot about the salaries of educators, for whom, I would remind you, it was Mr Kučinski's government that had not provided for the sources of funding - for law enforcement and for wage increases in the budget for 2019. I am really ashamed today that the teacher has been set as hostage. I am ashamed that colleagues have allowed us to point out to the existing government, which we have not managed during the two-month ministerial period, with a pretending blindness, and we do not know that we can thank the champions of lies for this dirty room, which must be wiped out first so that it can, for example, be painted on the floor. The champions of lies, who, as we know, also have good septics in local governments. ( Insight: “You are for yourself? ”) ) In municipalities where every teacher had to knock on the door today. The picket had to be at the door of each municipality. And I have to ask: why are municipalities that do not want good education for their children, why do not provide full time for their teachers, and why does the education system not work to pay decent wages? But again for the teachers, my colleagues. I invite you to think, to listen and to understand that the teacher is often the beginning of a person, including each of you. The teacher does not start at €40 or less. The teacher starts here. And remember that this government, contrary to the champions of lies, will work. Working through quality prism, working not only on wages, but also on quality and sustainable education. I therefore call for support. (Applause)
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-20-PT13-526-U72	Name to Member Janis Butan.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-20-PT13-526-U73	It is planned that road users will pay 103 million euros in the vehicle operation tax in 2019, 32 million euros in the road use tax, 576 million euros in the excise tax on petroleum products. The Ministry of Transport is expected to have a budget of almost €450 million, of which €81.4 million will be financed by European Union funds. We are not shouting because we understand that everyone does not have enough money. We are in solidarity with the health, education and welfare sectors, because man is in the first place. In our hands, the sector is in a sad state, and it also urgently needs a financial pencil. We all know the roads are breaking and the trains are breaking. In order to ensure public transport, €110.8 million was spent in 2018; for example €45 million is needed to repair roads to “Sennet”. And where else are the trains and other needs! No, we're not. We're working. We see opportunities and solutions. There is a need for reforms that previously have not been understood by the owners or have not been willing to do so. I believe that we will join forces on the road to prosperity, while at the same time not forgetting that man is a value for our people. I call on you to work and vote in favour of the budget. Thank you. (Applause)
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-20-PT13-526-U74	The name is Digit Schmidt.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-20-PT13-526-U75	Hello, colleagues! Ladies and gentlemen! Some things. First. Why do I think this budget is called technical? I mean, to call it your own as if you don't want to, right? Because, objectively, the performance of their promises - I am talking about the big promises - the unfeasible minimum and so on - does not exist in this budget. And then, of course, the question arises: well, if it's ours, what are we different from the previous ones? Also, you don't want to call it the ‘ZZS’ or ‘Māra Kučinska’ budget, because the same question arises: if it's a ‘Māra Kučinska’ budget, with whom do we differ? Well, maybe only with cardboard products here in the hall. It really is a certain difference. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. S. Riekstins: “It’s not cardboard!” ) Thus, we find such a definition in the past, but we do not associate it with the previous premiere: it could be said of the past... technical... the budget of the past. That led me to think like that... it is said or legends, whose original author no one really knows, but calls a variety of sources. That is, it's a legend about a government leader who leaves two envelopes for his next... to his alternate. ( Intercretion: “Tri! ” ) There are versions - even three, yes. But I know the version of two envelopes. I'll tell you the shortest story. ( Internouncing call.) In particular, he calls for the first envelope to be opened when problems arise for this new premiere. And it is written in the envelope, saying, "Throw all things upon me." Without taking responsibility for this technical budget, not calling it your own, but the first envelope of technical, past, is now open. When next problems arise, a second envelope should be opened. It reads: “Sit and write two letters and place them in two envelopes.” So, in my opinion, the first one today has been deleted, leaving the second one. I think it's a lot faster... It is clear that it will be open from the start of work on the next budget for 2020, because the promises that have been made and have not been included in this budget will not be included in the next one. I believe that the majority of people in this room understand this, and those who may not yet understand it hope naive... and, who took part in the renewal of the Unity power, could ask the New Unity, Mr Kariņš, one question: What is the difference between structural reforms and systemic reforms? The answer to this question will show what is the prospect that, under the New Unity, your promises will be fulfilled one day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-20-PT13-526-U76	The name to Member Aldi Gobzem for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-20-PT13-526-U77	Let's talk about the champions of lies! EKP 4000 sign election programme, responsible person: Dagmara Beitnere-Le Galla. Science funding - 1.5 percent of GDP. Where is it in the budget? Establishment of an international ICT university. Where is it in the budget? Let us save small schools and introduce fair school funding. Just before, the Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Education and Science, Ms Muižniece, joined the platform and invited teachers to knock at the door of local governments. She called on the teacher to do so apparently for the reason that the teachers asked for the small school to be closed, because it could also be understood from Arthur Krišjānis Kariņš that the German teacher or some other language had to solve the problems that the government really had to solve. ‘ Before the elections, KPV LV promised to deal with education problems, not by extortioning its municipalities, but by taking over the school system in public administration. Two of the 13 programme points were devoted to this issue. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A. Neighbours: “Who wrote the program?” ) Where is it in the budget? That's not the case. Clearly, this program was not written by Artuss Kaimiņš because he was unable to write the program. A. Neighbours: “He can’t read!” ), it was written by other persons, but he should at least have fulfilled what he promised. What I want to say today... Thank you to the teachers who protested against the Saeima. I call on the whole of society to take an example from teachers, to take courage from teachers. I call on the teachers to start a strike for the reason that it is the only means for the coalition to listen to you. I also call on other social groups not to be afraid, wake up and come to the Saeima in large numbers, and to stand up for their rights, because at the moment, the coalition's only task, unfortunately, is to sit here and try to speak about Latvia's society, not seriously, in essence and intelligently, about the problems that should be addressed: the abolition of the OIC, which would help to promote competitiveness; the reduction of labour taxes, which would help to promote competitiveness and thus increase budget revenue; the need for education to become an export product, and the goal of the education system, as it should become the best education system in the world. Because people in our country have enough genes and our people in general have very high intellectual properties... so that they can achieve good results in the world. However, prisons are now a priority for our government. It is for this reason that I call on the public to be present at the Saeima every Thursday, to organise these demonstrations and myths and to ask the government to finally start working in the public interest of Latvia... not forgetting that in the previous government the Minister of Education and Science was of Unity and his name was Kārlis Shadurskis. And it was the Minister of Education and Science who promised teachers what the Government of the New Unity with Arthur Krišjānis is not fulfilling at the forefront of Karini. I call on the coalition and the parliament to show the place of parliament and coalition on the part of the public. The coalition's place is not the warm positions for those who may have previously been drivers or who have worked in some other low-paid jobs... And the parliamentary seat is their greatest and most inconceivable achievement. I call on the public to show politicians their place. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A. Neighbours: “You won’t remember me?” ) The politician’s place is to serve society as a whole, not to immerse himself, as Krišjānis Feldman does from his place at the moment. ( Milestones.) I call on the public to wake up. The sooner the society wakes up, because in the past the Latvian Government and the Latvian Parliament will start working for the public. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-20-PT13-526-U78	Mr. Lewis, would you have had a debate with seven or eight minutes? The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A. Leijs: “Very short!” ) The name to the Member Atm.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-20-PT13-526-U79	When I listen to the opposition, I think of Shakespeare’s “Hallett” plays. Shakespeare put in Queen Gertrude’s mouth the following words: “I think he protests too much!” I think you understand what I said. The budget is very good. They really don't believe what they're saying and what they're talking about here. And let's take it! (Applause)
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-20-PT13-526-U80	Mr. Adamson, is it enough for eight minutes? ( Independence: “Start with a quote! From Pushkin!’ ) The name of Member John Adamson.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-20-PT13-526-U81	Highly honored Presidium! Dear colleagues, Mr. Lewis does not believe in the opposition. In that case, today's speech by the coalition, especially by the Prime Minister, is associated with one such quite old anecdotes. The head of the institution speaks at the general meeting and says: “You know, I have two messages: one good, one bad. Where to start?’ - “bad.” - “You know, we don’t have any money.” - “All right,” everybody sighs. ‘ What is the good news?” “You know, we don’t have money, and now there’s shit, but we have plenty of manure.” You know, soon after a year, we will mark 30 years since the declaration of independence was declared. By adopting this declaration, the members of the Supreme Council apparently hoped that within 30 years, we will guarantee people a decent life. Colleagues, do you find it strange that we are discussing one rate for teachers, some minimum fees for doctors, we are discussing some salary for police officers, and we are aporizing one elementary thing that both teachers, doctors and educators can do in a number of work that is essential (Dep. A. Neighbours: “What are you talking about now? You have two pensions! One from Russia, one from Latvia!” )... Unlike you, Mr. Kaimiņš, I from Latvia (The Head of the sitting knocked with a hammer.) And I haven't stolen anything for the people. ( Internoint.) The Chair of the sitting: ‘Let me have a debate!’ ) And the next one. Today we are discussing many different topics, but we are not talking about security, although security is obviously one of the priorities. At the same time, we do not see in this budget the financial resources for building the eastern border not only with Russia, but also with Belarus; we do not see those funds that are necessary... Take a closer look! necessary for fire extinguishers. We do not see, I personally do not see the development of the security system as such. Where are the new technologies? I do not see in this budget the possibility of restoring... or a National Security Academy, where he will finally start making specialists. What are you discussing? The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. (A. Leanny's intermediate call sign.) You look at the opinion of the international bank, Mr Leiens, where it is precisely determined how much money has been stolen in these decades. “ In Riga! Riga! It's in Riga!’ ) And you will have all the answers. Where to take the money? The question is not how much money is in the budget, but the question is how it is spent. If you use it correctly, the money will be enough for everything. If we think the educators... By investing in educators, is this not development? Investing in security is not development? Colleagues, then I have nothing to discuss with you.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-20-PT13-526-U82	Mr. Eglys, would you have enough four minutes? The debate will continue after the break. Please call me! Please check-in mode for Members! Name to Marija Golubeva, member of the Saeima Secretary, for reading the results of the registration.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-20-PT13-526-U83	Not registered: Raimonds Bergmanis, Boriss Cilevičs, Vjačeslavs Dombrovskis, Inga Goldberga, Aleksandrs Kiršteins... is, Ieva Krapāne, Armands Krauze, Janīna Kursīte, Evija Papule, Dana Reizniece-Ozola, Ivans Ribakovs, Inese Voika, Jānis Vucāns and Atis Zakaistovs.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-20-PT13-526-U84	Interruption until 2.30 p.m. ( Interruption)
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-20-PT13-526-U85	Honourable Members! I invite you to take up seats in the Chamber so that we can continue the extraordinary sitting of the Saeima on 20 March 2019 after a break. On the agenda - Draft State Budget for 2019 and accompanying draft laws. We are continuing the debate. Name to Member Gatis Eglitis.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-20-PT13-526-U86	Dear colleagues, I must admit that the first months of the Saeima and now the government have not been easy. Because we have to collect the barrack we have left the champions of the “good work”. And I will only mention three points. First. In shaping the government, we found that medical salaries - 90 million euros, prosecutors, judges - 10 million euros, home affairs workers - 40 million euros, teachers' salaries - 40 million euros have not been placed in the base of the budget for 2019. So, in total, almost EUR 200 million had forgotten to put it into the budget base. We corrected it all. All this is at the base of the budget for 2019. Second point: Today we have to fight the consequences of tax reform, or, as presented to us by Dana Reizniece-Ozola, a centenary gift to Latvia. We all see the remaining tens of thousands of taxpayers owe to the State Revenue Service. We see that accountants should build a monument that is able to deal with the administrative insanity created by the tax reform brother. The third point. Today, too, the government and the Saeima have been working hard to restore Latvia's financial sector reputation, which is at its lowest point since the times of nothing special or saving. The former Minister for Finance has left us not only with FinCEN's severe punishment, but also with the Moneyval report. TOWARDS. Today we hear a lot of hypocrisy, I would like to say. You manage a billion euro budget in Riga. You have all the opportunities to set an example of a modern, beautiful city. Instead, we see every day new examples of how Nils, Andris and their co-runners carry out a naked, brutalft through Riga City Council structures, through “Riga traffic”, through “Riga Water”, through the port of Riga. On what is happening in the Riga farm, SASKANE is placed in prison in Singapore. For the plan ‘3 × 500’. We want to work for the entire four-year period, not just for a few months, in this government that, thank you, we have managed to establish without the STECF. Therefore, with full conviction, I can say that in 2020, in 2021, we will implement the 3 × 500 plan and work on it will start immediately after the adoption of the 2019 budget in April. Thank you. (Applause)
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-20-PT13-526-U87	Name of Member Dagmara Beitner-Le Galla.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-20-PT13-526-U88	Dear colleagues, I would like to thank all those members of the opposition... Mr Krauze and Mr Gobzem, who is absent, and all those members of the opposition, who will remind us every time of the demand made by us, the new Conservative Party, of the necessary 1.5 percent for science. Thank you all for being a shameful reminder to all the governments and the Saeima so far. Because if we don't have science... There's no scientists here at the door, there's teachers here today... He was standing. There are scientists, people who have left Latvia because they have not received funding. For 30 years, Latvian science has been systemically depleted. It's a huge blemish stain. And thank you to everyone who will remind us every time of this requirement, which has been put into our programme. I ask you to remember that if there is no science, there is no education. Mrs. Chash, there's no medicine if there's no science. No business, no agriculture, nothing if there is no science. There is no ethics that would remind the Saeima of paragraph 19 of the Code of Ethics. Please read it and think deeply about it. Thank you all for working for us to finally have funding for science is a late thing for the nation that we have to recover. And we want to recover this within four years, not within two months, as the opposition demands us. Learn to be a constructive opposition! This will help you to really develop Latvia. Thank you. (Applause)
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-20-PT13-526-U89	The name of the Member, Inese Ixten.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-20-PT13-526-U90	Good afternoon, dear colleagues! First of all, I would like to express my support for our educators. This morning, going to work, I really had difficulty passing through this living human wall, and it was for the first time in my life. Before I was picky, but now I had to go through... and I also had the shame of educators, of people we trust in our children, giving the same price in our life... and they stand and simply demand, ask for fair pay. I would say that we have a budget... We need to look positively at this. We have a country, we have a budget, we have to work. We must work in good faith, ensuring that all people are fairly rewarded. Secondly. I would also like to say something good about what we have done when we start working as new Members, namely the State Social Benefits Act. During a month, perhaps a few days longer, in cooperation with the Social and Labour Commission, including Member Andris Skridi and Member Normunds Gunna, we have fought that children with disabilities, people born with disabilities, have an increased allowance. Thank you for hearing us from the Ministry of Welfare, thank you to Minister Petraviča, and that is the good news. I call on everyone to work with the existing budget, whatever we call it. We're hard, and then we're all good! I call for our budget to be supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-20-PT13-526-U91	The name of Member John Adamson for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-20-PT13-526-U92	Colleagues! I would like to clarify one single case during my speech. I have said that, unlike Mr. Kaimiņš, I have not stolen, but it would be precise that, unlike Mr. Kaimiņš, I am not suspected of certain criminal offences. ( Internouncing call.) Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-20-PT13-526-U93	The name to Member Karin Scratch.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-20-PT13-526-U94	Dear colleagues, Latvia has been born thanks to the belief that we are a capable and independent nation that deserves its country, territory, language and people. The existence of a state requires the trust of its citizens in sovereign power. How do I realize that? In my opinion, it is quite simple to trust each other. At the moment, all actions show the opposite. The administration does not trust the people because it gets... repression and widely interpreted norms of the law. The people, in turn, do not trust the civil service, ask for detailed statements of officials, and dream of the day when an official will be taken into custody. Trust develops over a longer period of time, but it can be lost on one day with one draft decision. Amendments to the draft law... on the limitation of cash... 660 thousand euros - so much is the limitation on citizens' fundamental rights? The State Revenue Service detects millions of turnover in private accounts, but limits the amount of cash of the residents who do not trust the Latvian commercial banks system. On the other hand, those who are genuinely involved in the legalisation of money derived from crime also remain outside of control and punishment. Of course, we can adopt every law, but let us remember that Latvia has not only a small, open economy, but also that we are in the European Union and borders are open. Would it not be wise, however, to start with the big tax optimists? Is it not more reasonable to create tax policies and restrictions that bring greater economic returns? Would it not be more sensible to reduce VAT on food and other first need items so that it would not be beneficial for VAT schemers to steal the whole of society? Our task is to create an environment in which everyone feels secure about their future, so that people can pay taxes rather than cheat because the state provides quality services. This is a way to ensure prosperity for all of us. How else can confidence in society be fostered? Restore referendums. I already mentioned that we need to change our vision, start trusting the public and trust that every individual is wise and knowledgeable to take care of himself. If not, it is the responsibility of the State to teach it. We are always talking about the fact that Latvia is abandoned by our citizens, but we have increased the number of votes to organise a referendum. Is this justified and, above all, democratically? Citizens' interest in elections is decreasing, dissatisfied with public administration is increasing. Entrepreneurs are the ones who form our economy. Can we really pay all taxes in our country - additives so that there is an adequate return on time and work? Small and medium-sized entrepreneurs are in the worst position. There are no millions to schedule. You have to live with the minimum. At best, they become workers or simply leave their homeland. And there is also the fault of the entrepreneurs themselves, who do not pay all taxes and make up double accounts, because the tax burden is not adequate. But do we not have double-accounting in Parliament? We foresee relief with one draft law, but with another law we take twice as much. Example - vehicle taxes and taxes, road taxes... operation... Then the road was further transferred to the light vehicle if there were more than 3,000 kilograms of mass... As well as with corporate tax. We decided to do the same as Estonians and reinvested profits do not tax to invest in development. But from 2020 onwards, we raise the tax to 20 percent. How, then, can the businessman do it? Sell your investments? We are always experimenting with the tax system, there is no common strategy and objectives. We blame each other and oppose proposals that have not been tabled from the right party. Or why not just start working and fill this building with content and use each of our strengths to really have what to leave to your children? For children. In the area of well-being, one of the objectives was to keep the children empty by 2020. I would ask you to pay attention to the second reading... I ask the coalition to focus on this particular issue, because one child in the shelter and in the orphanage costs the country much more than if he was in a foster family. But what can be better for a child than a family environment? Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-20-PT13-526-U95	The name to Member Julia Stepanenko for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-20-PT13-526-U96	Dear colleagues, Today, we have heard a great deal of complaints about the fact that the previous government has left some bad things to the coalition budget. But I can tell you that you have the only and last chance to put the blame on your predecessors right now. Perhaps this is also your last opportunity to talk about the budget from the compilers. But when it comes to the fact that you are ashamed that science has no money, why do you tell us? Why have you not gone to the Cabinet and have not defended these positions there? Yes, we are ashamed that you are ashamed. Finally, the greatest shame is that the Cabinet of Ministers' attitude towards the viewing of this budget is simply devastating. Mr. Kariņš could at least come and sit in the form of a cardboard here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-20-PT13-526-U97	I closed the debate. Before the vote, is there a wish on behalf of the Commission to add something, to explain, to put forward a position?
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-20-PT13-526-U98	Perhaps just a few words not to be drawn long, because I know that many people are waiting for this budget. I must say to Minister Reiras the following thing: I did not hear from any ministry, minister, independent institution that they would tell me that they have too much money. What I have heard is that in 2020 they will all come and ask you. You will have a long row at the Ministry of Finance door. So that's it. Otherwise, my fellow Members, I call for support to the draft law on the state budget for 2019 at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-20-PT13-526-U99	We begin to examine draft laws successively as they are on the agenda, and then we will also get to the draft state budget for 2019.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-20-PT13-526-U100	So I ask my fellow Members to support the draft law on First Reading Amendments to the Law on Budgetary and Financial Management.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-20-PT13-526-U101	Please call me! We will vote in favour of the first reading of the draft law on budgetary and financial management! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The draft law at first reading has been supported. Please specify the deadline for the submission of proposals and the time for examination at the Saeima sitting.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-20-PT13-526-U102	The deadline for submitting proposals is 17.00 on 21 March this year.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-20-PT13-526-U103	Review of the Saeima sitting?
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-20-PT13-526-U104	Review - Extraordinary sitting of the Saeima on 3 April this year.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-20-PT13-526-U105	Thank you. Consequently, the deadline for submitting proposals - at 5 p.m. on 21 March this year - is 3 April this year for the extraordinary sitting of the Saeima.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-20-PT13-526-U106	Colleagues, I ask you to support the draft law on First Reading Amendments to the Law on Municipal Budgets.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-20-PT13-526-U107	Please call me! We will vote for the draft law “Amendments to the Law “On Municipal Budgets” at first reading! Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about - 83, it's against and refrains from - it's not. The draft law at first reading has been supported. Please specify the deadline for the submission of proposals and the time for examination at the Saeima sitting.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-20-PT13-526-U108	The deadline for submitting proposals is 17.00 on 21 March this year.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-20-PT13-526-U109	And the examination?
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-20-PT13-526-U110	Review - 3 April this year in the extraordinary session of the Saeima.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-20-PT13-526-U111	Thank you. Consequently, the deadline for submitting proposals - at 17.00 a.m. on 21 March this year - is 3 April at the extraordinary sitting of the Saeima.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-20-PT13-526-U112	I request support at first reading of the draft law on Amendments to the Law on Payment Services and Electronic Money.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-20-PT13-526-U113	Please call me! We will vote for the first reading of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Payment Services and Electronic Money”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! - 78, against - 5, refrains - not. Please specify the deadline for the submission of proposals and the time for examination at the Saeima sitting.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-20-PT13-526-U114	The deadline for submitting proposals is 17.00 on 21 March this year.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-20-PT13-526-U115	And consideration of the Saeima sitting?
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-20-PT13-526-U116	Review - 3 April this year in the extraordinary session of the Saeima.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-20-PT13-526-U117	Thank you. The deadline for submitting proposals - at 5 p.m. on 21 March this year - shall be 3 April this year at the extraordinary sitting of the Saeima.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-20-PT13-526-U118	I also ask colleagues at first reading to support the draft law on "Amendments to the Law on Electronic Communications".
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-20-PT13-526-U119	Please call me! We will vote for the first reading of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Electronic Communications”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about - 80, it's against - 5, it's not. The draft law at first reading has been supported. Please specify the deadline for the submission of proposals and the time for examination at the Saeima sitting.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-20-PT13-526-U120	The deadline for submitting proposals is 17.00 on 21 March this year. And consideration - 3 April Saeima in extraordinary session.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-20-PT13-526-U121	The deadline for submitting proposals - at 5 p.m. on 21 March this year - shall be 3 April this year at the extraordinary sitting of the Saeima.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-20-PT13-526-U122	Colleagues, please support the draft law “Amendments to the Latvian Administrative Violations Code” at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-20-PT13-526-U123	Please call me! We will vote for the first reading of the draft law “Amendments to the Latvian Code of Administrative Violations”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The draft law at first reading has been supported. Please specify the deadline for the submission of proposals and the time for examination at the Saeima sitting.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-20-PT13-526-U124	Colleagues, the deadline for submitting proposals shall be 5 p.m. on 21 March this year. And consideration - an extraordinary sitting of the Saeima on 3 April this year.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-20-PT13-526-U125	The deadline for submitting proposals - at 5 p.m. on 21 March this year - shall be 3 April this year at the extraordinary sitting of the Saeima.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-20-PT13-526-U126	Colleagues, please support, at first reading, the draft law on ‘Amendments to the Law on Gambling and Gaming’.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-20-PT13-526-U127	Please call me! We will vote in favour of the first reading of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Gambling and Lots”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The draft law at first reading has been supported. Please set a time limit for the submission of proposals and the time for consideration at the sitting of the Saeima.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-20-PT13-526-U128	The deadline for submitting proposals is 17.00 on 21 March this year. And consideration - an extraordinary sitting of the Saeima on 3 April this year.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-20-PT13-526-U129	The deadline for submitting proposals is 17.00 on 21 March this year. Review - 3 April this year in the extraordinary session of the Saeima.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-20-PT13-526-U130	Colleagues, please support the first reading draft law "Amendments to the Law on State Social Benefits".
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-20-PT13-526-U131	Please call me! We will vote for the draft law “Amendments to the Law on State Social Benefits” at first reading! Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about - 85, it's against and abstains. The draft law at first reading has been supported. Please set a time limit for the submission of proposals and the time for consideration at the sitting of the Saeima.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-20-PT13-526-U132	The deadline for submitting proposals is 17.00 on 21 March this year. And consideration - an extraordinary sitting of the Saeima on 3 April this year.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-20-PT13-526-U133	The deadline for submitting proposals is 17.00 on 21 March this year. Review - 3 April this year in the extraordinary session of the Saeima.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-20-PT13-526-U134	Colleagues, please support the first reading draft law on Amendments to the Law on the Maintenance Guarantee Fund.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-20-PT13-526-U135	Please call me! We will vote for the draft law “Amendments to the Law on the Maintenance Guarantee Fund” at first reading! Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about - 85, it's against and abstains. The draft law at first reading has been supported. Please set a time limit for the submission of proposals and the time for consideration at the sitting of the Saeima.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-20-PT13-526-U136	The deadline for submitting proposals is 17.00 on 21 March this year. And consideration - Saeima in extraordinary session on 3 April.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-20-PT13-526-U137	Thank you. The deadline for submitting proposals is 17.00 on 21 March this year. Review - Saeima in extraordinary session on 3 April this year.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-20-PT13-526-U138	Colleagues, please support the first reading draft law on Amendments to the Road tolls Act.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-20-PT13-526-U139	Please call me! We will vote for the first reading of the draft law “Amendments to the Road tolls Act”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 82, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The draft law at first reading has been supported. Please set a time limit for the submission of proposals and the time for consideration at the sitting of the Saeima.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-20-PT13-526-U140	The deadline for submitting proposals is 17.00 on 21 March this year. And second reading, 3 April this year, in the extraordinary sitting of the Saeima.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-20-PT13-526-U141	The deadline for submitting proposals is 17.00 on 21 March this year. Review - Saeima in extraordinary session on 3 April this year.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-20-PT13-526-U142	Colleagues, please support the first reading draft law "Amendments to the Law on State Social Insurance".
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-20-PT13-526-U143	Please call me! We will vote for the draft law “Amendments to the Law “On State Social Insurance” at first reading! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 81, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. The draft law at first reading has been supported. Please set a time limit for the submission of proposals and the time for consideration at the sitting of the Saeima.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-20-PT13-526-U144	The deadline for submitting proposals is 17.00 on 21 March this year. Review - Saeima extraordinary sitting on 3 April.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-20-PT13-526-U145	The deadline for submitting proposals is 17.00 on 21 March this year. Review - Saeima in extraordinary session on 3 April this year.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-20-PT13-526-U146	Colleagues, please support the first reading draft law "Amendments to the Natural Resources Tax Act".
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-20-PT13-526-U147	Please call me! We will vote for the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Natural Resources Tax” at first reading! Please vote mode! Please get the result! Not by - 82, not by - and refrains. The draft law at first reading has been supported. Please set a time limit for the submission of proposals and the time for consideration at the sitting of the Saeima.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-20-PT13-526-U148	The deadline for submitting proposals is 17.00 on 21 March this year. Review - Extraordinary sitting of the Saeima on 3 April this year.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-20-PT13-526-U149	The deadline for submitting proposals is 17.00 on 21 March this year. Review - Saeima in extraordinary session on 3 April this year.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-20-PT13-526-U150	Colleagues, please support the draft law “Amendments to the Latvian Environmental Protection Fund Law” at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-20-PT13-526-U151	Please call me! We will vote for the first reading of the draft law “Amendments to the Latvian Environmental Protection Fund Law”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! Not by - 82, not by - and refrains. The draft law at first reading has been supported. Please set a time limit for the submission of proposals and the time for consideration at the sitting of the Saeima.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-20-PT13-526-U152	The deadline for submitting proposals is 17.00 on 21 March this year. Review - Extraordinary sitting of the Saeima on 3 April this year.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-20-PT13-526-U153	The deadline for submitting proposals is 17.00 on 21 March this year. Review - Saeima in extraordinary session on 3 April this year.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-20-PT13-526-U154	Colleagues, request support for the first reading of the draft law "Amendments to the Law on Taxes and Fees".
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-20-PT13-526-U155	Please call me! We will vote for the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Taxes and Fees” at first reading! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The draft law at first reading has been supported. Please specify the deadline for the submission of proposals and the time for examination at the Saeima sitting.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-20-PT13-526-U156	The deadline for submitting proposals - at 17.00 a.m. on 21 March this year - at the extraordinary sitting of the Saeima on 3 April this year.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-20-PT13-526-U157	The deadline for submitting proposals - at 5 p.m. on 21 March this year - shall be 3 April this year at the extraordinary sitting of the Saeima.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-20-PT13-526-U158	Colleagues, first reading request to support also the draft law "Amendments to the Education Act".
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-20-PT13-526-U159	Please call me! We will vote in favour of the first reading of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Education”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 55, against - 28, refrains. The draft law at first reading has been supported. Please specify the deadline for the submission of proposals and the time for examination at the Saeima sitting.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-20-PT13-526-U160	The deadline for submitting proposals - at 17.00 a.m. on 21 March this year - is 3 April this year at the extraordinary sitting of the Saeima.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-20-PT13-526-U161	Thank you. The deadline for submitting proposals - at 5 p.m. on 21 March this year - shall be 3 April this year at the extraordinary sitting of the Saeima.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-20-PT13-526-U162	Finally, colleagues, request support for the first reading of the draft law on the state budget for 2019.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-20-PT13-526-U163	Please call me! We will vote for the first reading of the draft law “On the State Budget for 2019”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 58, no, 27, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The draft law at first reading has been supported. And for this draft law, I also ask you to fix the deadline for the submission of proposals and the time for the examination at the sitting of the Saeima.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-20-PT13-526-U164	The deadline for submitting proposals - at 5 p.m. on 21 March this year - is 3 April this year at the extraordinary sitting of the Saeima.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-20-PT13-526-U165	That was very clear. Thank you. The deadline for submitting proposals - at 5 p.m. on 21 March this year - shall be 3 April this year at the extraordinary sitting of the Saeima. ( Milestones.) And on the agenda we have come to the examination of the draft decision. Draft decision on the procedure (form) for the submission of proposals for the 2019 national budget package. Member of the Commission for Budget and Finance (Tax) Mārtiņš Bondars.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-20-PT13-526-U166	Like almost every year... Every time the draft law on the state budget is examined, the procedure for doing so is established, and it is determined by a special decision of the Saeima. The Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission has also prepared such a specific draft decision this year and is asking you to support it.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-20-PT13-526-U167	Please call me! We will vote on the draft decision on the procedure (form) for submitting proposals for the 2019 national budget package! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 58, for - 20, for - 4. The draft decision is therefore supported. The decision has been taken. Thank you. The agenda for the extraordinary sitting of the Saeima has therefore been examined. Please call me! Please register the Members! Time for notification. The name of Member Juta Stricky.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-20-PT13-526-U168	After three minutes, please meet the Members of the Legal Commission in the Red Chamber for an extraordinary sitting of the Legal Commission! Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-20-PT13-526-U169	Name to Marija Golubeva, member of the Saeima Secretary, for reading the results of the registration.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-20-PT13-526-U170	Not registered: Raimonds Bergmanis, Boriss Cilevičs, Vjačeslavs Dombrovskis, Inga Goldberga, Ieva Krapāne, Armands Krauze, Janīna Kursīte, Evija Papule, Daniels Pavluts... Daniel is? ( The box “Yes! ”) ) Dana Reizniece-Ozola, Ivans Ribakovs, Jānis Urbanovičs, Jānis Vucāns and Atis Zakaistovs.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-20-PT13-526-U171	Thank you. I closed the extraordinary sitting of the Saeima.
