ParlaMint-LV_2019-07-08-PT13-546-U1	Honourable Members! I invite you to take office in the Chamber so that we can begin the second extraordinary session of the Saeima on 8 July 2019. The first item is the agenda – “On Jānis Iesalnieks 13. Approval of the parliamentary mandate’. On behalf of the Commission for Mandates, Ethics and Applications - Member Janīna Kursīte-Pakule.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-07-08-PT13-546-U2	Dear colleagues, The Board of Mandates, Ethics and Applications of Saeima has received Daces Melbārde’s application for 13. the appointment of a Member of the Saeima following her election as a Member of the European Parliament. At its meeting on 31 January 2019, the Saeima approved the mandate of Jānis Iesalnieks’s Member for the period from the National Association “All for Latvia!” - Members elected to the list of candidates for “Fatherland and Freedom/LNNK” in the Riga Electoral Region shall perform their duties as ministers. In accordance with the order of the Saeima, Jānis Iesalnieks has been invited to join the Saeima on a permanent basis, and he has agreed to it. At the meeting of the Commission on 26 June this year, the Commission for Mandates, Ethics and Applications assessed all documents received and therefore declares that Jānis Iesalnieks is 13. The composition of the Saeima is not temporary, but permanent.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-07-08-PT13-546-U3	Thank you. We have heard the announcement. The question has been examined. On the agenda - Election, approval, appointment, dismissal or dismissal of officials, expression of trust or distrust. Draft decision on the expression of trust to the Minister of Culture Naurim Puntulis. Let us start a debate. Name to Prime Minister Arthur Krišjānis Kariņš.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-07-08-PT13-546-U4	Dear President of the Saeima. Dear Members, Honourable Members! Together we have launched a series of ambitious reforms. As a result, we will improve the well-being of the population and move faster towards what could be called wealth... which is already a target. Settlement of the financial sector. The government, together with the Saeima, has in fact adopted far-reaching reforms that will benefit us in the long term by strengthening the financial sector. Administrative territorial reform has been launched, and our minister is very active in the regions, listening to citizens and giving arguments. We do this work together. Reform of the education system is also not easy. This is about both the school network and the content reform, which is very important. We are going on strengthening the rule of law. Health reforms have also been launched. So we are doing a very ambitious job. We have been working together for five and a half months, and we must continue this work. The full composition of the Cabinet of Ministers is, of course, necessary for it to be successful. As we know, our Minister of Culture has been elected to the European Parliament and represents our country (already received a mandate), so I offer you today to support Nauri Puntuli as the new Minister of Culture. What will the Minister for Culture have to do? Of course, he's already started talking... and we have talked at the government coalition about the concert hall. This is mentioned in our Government's declaration, and we should come to a decision where, when and for what money we could carry out such a construction. But that's just one thing. It is very obvious, but it is very important to also focus on other things. I am thinking about what our new President of Latvia said this morning in his first speech about strengthening the media and information space and in general about strengthening the public media. It could be said that this is not so easy if it is simply a decision to build a single building. This is a process that is not simple at all. And I look at Mr. Puntull... These processes are also well known to him. Strengthening our information space is important for us to strengthen us as a democratic society. I call on you to support Mr Puntulis in the full composition of the Cabinet of Ministers. Of course, I wish Mr Puntulis every success in his new position. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-07-08-PT13-546-U5	Thank you to the Prime Minister. Development/About! on behalf of Member Vita Anda Steel.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-07-08-PT13-546-U6	Good morning, Madam President of the Saeima. Dear colleagues, I wanted to give a short trip to the new Minister for Culture today. Mr Puntulis has experienced a great deal of traditional culture, and I think that he is worthy of successor to the former Minister for Culture and will be able to represent and develop the elements of this sector, such as opera, theatre, music, libraries, cultural heritage. But the Ministry of Culture is also responsible for the cornerstones of our democratic culture. These are matters of our society that guarantee freedom of assembly and freedom of expression. The Minister of Culture shall be responsible for the cohesion of society. I hope that the next Minister for Culture will be able to find the most effective way of bringing all kinds of society together. Our non-governmental sector also provides freedom of assembly - a part of organised civil society, without which the individual has a voice of a lighthouse in democracy. The Ministry of Culture is also responsible for ensuring that this non-governmental sector operates in an enabling environment with adequate funding. Freedom of expression under the Ministry of Culture ensures responsibility for information space in Latvia. On how we are prepared for today's security challenges - hybrid war, information space manipulation. Strengthening media space is the direct responsibility of the Ministry of Culture. There is a particular responsibility here for the public media. We hope to see a great deal of activity from the Ministry of Culture in strengthening the public media, so that it is independent, adequately funded so that it is not the last place in Europe and that we approach an adequate level of funding, which in turn will provide us with the performance of the public media, an informational space that will help Latvia to maintain its security. I wish the new Minister of Culture every success in his work and look forward to the ability to defend the elements of democratic culture in Latvia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-07-08-PT13-546-U7	Name to Member Nikolai Cabanov.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-07-08-PT13-546-U8	Dear Chairman of the Saeima. Honourable Members! Mr. Puntull! In Latvia you are already known as a deserved artist, but only starts to get acquainted with you as a politician. And I'm sorry you've chosen the wrong way to communicate with the public so quickly. You have declared yourself a member of modern nationalism, and I have a bad news for you, Mr Puntulis. Latvia can be either modern or nationalistic. That is what the development of Europe over the last 30 years shows. Ethnic nationalism is an archaic, aggressive system of values and has manifested itself in military conflicts in the former Yugoslavia and in the former Soviet Union. Ukraine is the last example of this. In a free country everyone has the right to express their political views and criticise others, but now you are no longer a member of the Riga City Council opposition group. You will become the Minister of Culture of the whole country of Latvia. You need to think and act beyond the framework of your party's programme. Otherwise, you are not meant to be a minister for a long time. At least your recent statements would lead to any resignation of the Minister in a democratic country of the European Union. This is due to the fact that you are using an unorthodox and exclusional rhetoric with regard to the greatest ethnic minority in our country. In your statements, many people see open disrespect for Latvian citizens and citizens. You also distributed to the public... You have expressed your intention to set discriminatory tax rates for the press, printed abroad and also in Latvia in Russian. If such plans are implemented, they will result in a huge scandal, as an example of restricting the freedom of the press will appear. Unfortunately, the Ministry of Culture has been in charge of one particular political party for several years, positioning itself as a nationalist and at the same time being called upon to implement an integration policy, and this is a paradox that reminds us of the fairy tale of the fox that was sent to protect the hen house. But if you build a national concert hall, increase salaries for employees and digitalise libraries and archives, if you keep art and music schools, you will remain in the memory of the people as a good minister for culture. Just don't have to get involved in inter-ethnic relations, because that's not your profile at all! But today I am going to vote against your candidacy. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-07-08-PT13-546-U9	Name to Member Aldi Gobzem.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-07-08-PT13-546-U10	Hello, colleagues! Hello, Mr. Puntull! First of all, I wish Mr Puntulis every success in his new position. The other thing I want to say. With regard to the approval of the Minister, I think we should change the roll of order of the Saeima. It would only be in a normal democratic state that, before approval by the Minister, the candidate would have the opportunity to climb this platform and give his vision. It would be both to show respect for a particular person and to... In fact, it would enable the parliament, the representatives of the people, to get to know the candidate in a more objective manner. And the third thing is the wish of Mr. Puntulis from his famous song: “We eat from each other / And not from food items, // And light from your eyes / Next bigger than from candles.” I wish you to bring that light in culture more than from candles. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-07-08-PT13-546-U11	I closed the debate. Please call me! We will be voting on the draft decision "On Expression of Trust to Minister for Culture Naurim Puntulim"! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No. - 63, no. - 20, no. Decision adopted. Congratulations to Minister of Culture Nauri Puntuli! (Applause) On the agenda - reports from the Bureau on draft laws submitted. The Saeima Presidium proposes that the draft law presented by the Cabinet of Ministers “Amendments to the Criminal Procedure Law” be referred to the Legal Commission, stating that it is the committee responsible. Do Members object to a draft law being passed on to the Commission? There is no objection. Draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Saeima Bureau proposes to refer the draft law “Amendments to the Criminal Law” presented by the Cabinet of Ministers to the Legal Commission, stating that it is the committee responsible. Do Members object to a draft law being passed on to the Commission? There is no objection. Draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Saeima Presidium proposes that the draft law “Amendment to the Law on the Restriction of Pornography” presented by the Cabinet of Ministers be referred to the Commission for Human Rights and Public Affairs, stating that it is the committee responsible. Do Members object to a draft law being passed on to the Commission? There is no objection. Draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Saeima Presidium proposes that the draft law presented by the Cabinet of Ministers “Amendments to the Law on the Privatisation of Land in Rural Areas” be submitted to the Commission of Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy, stating that it is the committee responsible. Do Members object to a draft law being passed on to the Commission? There is no objection. Draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Saeima Presidium proposes that the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Mobilization” presented by the Cabinet of Ministers be referred to the Commission for Defence, Home Affairs and Prevention of Corruption, stating that it is the committee responsible. Do Members object to a draft law being passed on to the Commission? There is no objection. Draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Saeima Presidium proposes that the draft law “Amendments to the Law on State Information Systems” presented by the Cabinet of Ministers be referred to the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy, stating that it is the committee responsible. Do Members object to a draft law being passed on to the Commission? There is no objection. Draft law has been passed on to the Commission. On own-initiative proposals submitted. Members Inese Lībiņa-Egnere, Rihards Kols, Linda Ozola, Dana Reizniece-Ozola, Marija Golubeva, Ritvars Jansons, Artuss Kaimiņš, Uldis Budriķis, Dagmara Beitnere-Le Galla and Ilze Indicksone have submitted their own proposal – draft decision on Latvia's future action at the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe. Are Members opposed to examining this own-initiative proposal at today's sitting? There is no objection by Members. So let's start... So let us start by examining the own-initiative proposal that has been tabled. On behalf of the applicants - Member Inese Lībiņa-Egnere.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-07-08-PT13-546-U12	Dear colleagues, Dear colleagues, This is a one-off moment when the delegation of the Parliamentary Assembly, approved by the Saeima, comes and, on the one hand, reports on its work in the Parliamentary Assembly, on the other hand, also points out that we are discussing our future action here in the form of a parliamentary debate and, to say that, we are also receiving a new mandate for future decisions. You have in front of you a draft decision on Latvia's future action at the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe, which really is very necessary to remind not only here, but also throughout the Council of Europe that the Council of Europe... as a response to the experience of the Second World War, human rights nihilism has been built as an international organisation (which now unites 48 countries) and is based on three pillars: human rights, the rule of law and democracy. The Council of Europe, during the restoration of Latvia's independence, has made a huge contribution to restoring our democratic institutions to a strong, democratic state. The Council of Europe has also contributed to other countries at very important times in history - when countries have regained their independence. Today, however, it must be said that the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe, with its decision to restore the right to vote to the delegation of the Russian Federation - after the decision of January 2014 to suspend it! - have really done shame on all three pillars: both human rights, democracy and the rule of law. Dear colleagues, I will not read all this draft decision that we have drawn up, which contains a very detailed and detailed description of both the resolutions of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe, which have clearly pointed out the violations of Members of the Council of the Russian Federation by supporting the illegal annexation of Crimea, followed as a response by the suspension of the voting rights of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe, and a number of future resolutions of the Parliamentary Assembly that Russia has not implemented. And during this five-year period, we have seen no progress either in implementing the resolutions of the Parliamentary Assembly or in implementing the Minsk Agreement. It is unacceptable to see that, due to very strange interests, the voting rights of the Russian Federation delegation in the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe are being restored. Therefore, our delegation, the Latvian delegation, together with Estonia, Lithuania, Poland, Georgia and a member of the Slovak delegation, declared on 26 June that this action was unacceptable and left the Chamber. Linda Ozola, a member of our delegation, read a statement that we cannot look at such a devaluation of values and go to our parliaments, to our governments, to discuss the way forward. So this is the next step - we are going to you, my fellow Members, who have approved our delegation... give this opportunity to show the Council of Europe, together with representatives of values similar to us, that we must return to values; we must return to respect for human rights, the watch of democracy and the rule of law. The statement we have drawn up has also been signed by members from the United Kingdom and Sweden. This means that, when the parliamentarians see this decisive action from perhaps small Baltic countries, Georgia and other delegations, they also have the courage, if I may say so, to speak against this flow. This flow, which... On the one hand, as if the beautiful tongue were saying that everyone should be at one table and then we will make better progress: "You see, within five years, if we were not with the Russian delegation at one table, we did not make progress. Other options should now be explored." On the other hand, it is pointed out that the big bob in the Council of Europe's budget, which has been created because the Russian Federation does not contribute, does not strengthen the Council of Europe; that this money is needed to make the Council of Europe even stronger, so that, at one table with Russia, it can be strengthened again... Very beautiful words, but we don't want words, we want works... We have clearly listed in this resolution what remains to be significant in the Crimean Peninsula. In particular, both human rights violations against the Tatars of Crimea and the military presence in the resolution of the conflict. These are very serious violations that are contrary to the Statute of the Council of Europe on how a Member State should treat its membership of the Council of Europe. Dear colleagues, I really hope that we will have a debate and a debate today on this draft decision. This really is a very important format in which we can discuss our participation in the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe. As a rule, we are only doing so in the foreign policy debate. But today, it is time, and I also call on the members of our delegation to debate it and, if there are questions, to speak here in a parliamentary, parliamentary debate. At the end of the debate, colleagues, I call for support for the draft decision and for us, as a Latvian delegation, to adopt common principles together with our similar delegations. Perhaps we will receive support from others, and then let us also see how to continue our activities at the October part-session, which will be shortly after our autumn part-session.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-07-08-PT13-546-U13	On behalf of the new Conservative Group, Member Linda Ozola.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-07-08-PT13-546-U14	Good afternoon, dear colleagues! As my fellow Members have already pointed out, the draft decision that is now before us really relates to what happened in Strasbourg at the June part-session of the Council of Europe in Strasbourg a few weeks ago. It was a time when the Latvian delegation with a single voice within the delegation and together with the other Baltic States, Ukraine, Georgia, Poland and a large number of UK and Swedish Members did not support the approval of Russian MEPs in the Council of Europe for the reasons set out above. We said that we wanted to consult our parliaments and governments, and I think this is a very important gesture that we are showing our colleagues in Europe. It is really about defending democracy. It is also the basis on which our country's equipment has been built, that we really listen to our parliament, to the advice of the leaders of our people and ask for your advice and guidance to fully represent all our common positions in this situation. The Council of Europe is defending values in Europe, and the power of this institution lies with its authority. Then we all ask whether there will be such an unconditional commitment to one country, despite the fact that the same country violates the three fundamental values advocated by the Council of Europe: democracy, the rule of law and human rights. Perhaps we really need to help save the Council of Europe and also defend democracy. Many Member States stress the pragmatic aspects of the need to act pragmatically in all situations and perhaps it is now pragmatic to renew Russia's participation in the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe. But I think it is very important to bear in mind that this is neither a functional crisis nor a financial crisis, but a real crisis of values. We need to be careful that our pragmatic facilities do not collapse if we lose or triple European values. And here we need to understand the interest of Latvia's country in this situation. Just leave the Parliamentary Assembly right away or still try to help other countries to understand what has happened, which they, these delegates from other Member States, have voted in favour of the attitude they have taken from the Russian Federation towards their own citizens. Perhaps we still have to try to save what can be saved in this institution. If we fail at the end of this, then it will indeed also have to be decided that our participation in the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe is to be suspended or interrupted. The draft decision, which is before you today and on which we will vote, calls on our delegation to coordinate with the like-minded countries, which the former Prime Minister of Lithuania, Andrus Kubilius, has called a coalition of defenders of democracy. In my opinion, it is a very significant and excellent term for this community or company of countries, if you can say so. Consult and decide on the way forward. Young Conservatives will support decisive and courageous action, because we believe that action needs to be followed here. It is perfectly possible that the recommendation of Andrus Kubilius should also be considered. Our countries, which stood on the same front at the June part-session on the basis of Article 33 of the Convention for the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms, must appeal to the European Court of Human Rights in a cross-border case against the Russian Federation as a Member State that systematically violates human rights against its own citizens. This is one of the suggestions that have been made and, in my opinion, to be considered in the public space. Member States that did not support the adoption of Russian powers could come together and talk about it. For its part, the Latvian delegation has taken the initiative and is determined to continue this coordination action with a number of countries with which we share our views, and we are asking for your support as well. For decisive action! Thank you. (Applause)
ParlaMint-LV_2019-07-08-PT13-546-U15	The name to Member Boris Cilevič.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-07-08-PT13-546-U16	Dear colleagues, With all due respect for the Head of Delegation, I must admit that, however, Inese Lībiņa-Egnere's arguments did not convince me. Parliament is not a medium that should respond to every major event in Europe or in the world. The members of the delegation had every opportunity to express their views and have done so. I understand very well that some colleagues who are not in the delegation and who have so far paid very little attention to the work of the Council of Europe have a great wish to speak and, to say that, to be able to describe such a sensitive issue. But I do not see the added value of this decision. Nothing new is there. And I have particularly great claims against the very short, let us say, operative part. So we are offered to consult like - minded ones. But, colleagues, I would like to remind you that the decision has been made. This decision was also voted by our closest allies, NATO and the Member States of the European Union. Do we really understand why they did? Do we just want to condemn them and tell them: “You are fools, we are the only wise ones!” Is that the right way? I think that first of all, there is a need for consultation with those countries and with those parliamentarians who disagree with our views. So, I'm sorry, I'm going to say a bit, but that's right. I do not think that a non-destructive decision should only be taken to ensure publicity for some Members of our Saeima. The Group will vote against this draft decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-07-08-PT13-546-U17	Name of Member Maria Golubeva.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-07-08-PT13-546-U18	Dear President of the Saeima. Dear colleagues, I also voted against the voting rights of the Russian delegation in our delegation to the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe, of course, and I would like to add briefly to what my colleague, Inese Lībiņa-Egnere, said about why it is very important now to express our position on this issue. Because, by restoring the full rights of the delegation, the Assembly voted in principle that Russian representatives can in future, for example, direct committees, monitoring missions. In view of Russia's own repeated violations of human rights, as well as those concerning international law (such as the occupation of Crimea), it would be totally inappropriate if the Russian representative suddenly led the observation mission in one of the Council of Europe countries. That is why we have, of course, voted against this decision of the Parliamentary Assembly. But I also do not fully agree with my colleague, Boris Cilevič, that we should now refrain from declarations and speak with the representatives of the countries that have voted in favour. Of course, we must talk to the representatives of these countries, but when we decide today, we are also sending a signal that we take what has happened seriously; we regret that the Parliamentary Assembly has taken such a decision. We will, of course, continue to explain our position, but we must also coordinate with those colleagues who, like us, voted against the renewal of this right to the Russian delegation. It must be acknowledged that, just after our vote and after the declaration by our representative of the delegation, there were some cases where there was a very uncomfortable pressure on several Members, such as from the Russian delegation to our Lithuanian colleagues, including the only Slovak opposition liberal representative who joined our declaration. The representatives of the Slovak majority tried to take steps to exclude him from the delegation. Of course, this is not legitimate, and it is not possible, but there have been attempts like this. In other words, the pressure on the part of some of the colleagues who have supported the rights of the Russian delegation is rather ugly. And I think we need to express our position in this situation that we regret that the Assembly has voted and we will certainly coordinate with those colleagues who, like us, are concerned that the values and positions expressed in the Statute of the Council of Europe are de facto weakened by such a decision of the Parliamentary Assembly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-07-08-PT13-546-U19	Name of Member Dana Reizniece-Ozola.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-07-08-PT13-546-U20	President-in-Office of the Saeima. Colleagues! I, too, call for support to be given to this draft decision by the Saeima. In 2014, when the Russian Members were suspended from voting, this was done with a certain objective of improving the situation. But the situation has not improved. On the contrary, neither the Minsk agreements nor the violations of human rights, such as the Tatars in Crimea, nor the resolution of the Russian-Grusian hostilities, have been respected. And in this situation, voting rights are restored without any additional conditions! Mr Cilevičs asked whether we understood all the arguments why other Member States of the European Union - including NATO - also supported the renewal of this right to vote. It is possible that we do not fully understand, but it remains to be hoped that the main and only reason was not price formation for democracy and human rights violations, fearing that Russia could not continue its contributions to the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe. Colleagues! This draft decision is, of course, our signal, our message to the public and also our neighbour. In my opinion, our signal is very important, especially given that Russia also uses the renewal of its voting rights as a message. For example, Leonīds Sluckis, who is a Member of the Russian State Council and Head of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, has, shortly after the renewal of this country's voting rights in one of Russia's debates, proudly announced lively that this is a serious step - a serious step! - recognition of Crimea as an integral part of Russia by the countries which have supported the restoration of the right to vote. Colleagues! That's serious. Therefore, I believe that the Saeima of the Republic of Latvia should also give its assessment of the situation. Please support this draft decision. Thank you. (Applause)
ParlaMint-LV_2019-07-08-PT13-546-U21	Name to Member Rihard Cole.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-07-08-PT13-546-U22	Dear President of the Saeima. Dear Members, honourable Members, Firstly, I would like to thank our parliamentary delegation in the Parliamentary Assembly for showing firm posture and the spine in the crucial vote, thereby promoting that others also join, and also for this statement. Colleagues, we are quite often talking about principles and values, especially when international issues need to be considered... and it is really important to talk about principles, but it is even more important to put them into practice. That is why we are looking at the draft decision “On Latvia’s way forward at the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe”. Above all, of course, to take concrete steps in the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe. But also to make sure that we are willing not only to speak wisely but also to cut down the wood. And Russia continues to violate the fundamental principles of the Council of Europe set out in the Statute and preamble of the Council of Europe. Here, in the draft decision, we also clearly identified what resolutions are being violated. We have also heard from the troupe what Russia is doing after the renewal of this right to vote. There are phrases such as "this is the beginning of lifting sanctions", "this is the reason for legitimising the occupation of Crimea in Western countries". It comes from Russian politicians! And there's the question Mr. Cilevič asked. Look at how NATO member states, Western countries... But here you have to ask, really, where it's come from... And there is no longer a question about Ukraine or Russia. Here is the question of the Council of Europe, the values and principles that it has proclaimed, its statutes and how fully they are respected by its Member States. And the National Association... Yes, we are not represented in the Saeima delegation at the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe... Our view is much more strict, as Latvia should act. We believe that Latvia should suspend its participation in the Parliamentary Assembly. Here, please, do not mix: the Council of Europe is a much broader institution, which also includes the Committee of Ministers, is the European Court of Human Rights and other sub-institutions. Here we are talking specifically about the Parliamentary Assembly, about the shameful stain with which... On 26 June, it voted in favour of destroying everything that had been built in 70 years of existence - principles, values, the rule of law, the rule of law, democracy and human rights. Because what cynicism is also on the part of the Russian Federation that... On 26 June, yes, restores this right to vote, but two days later, Russia-supported anti-missile fighters in Eastern Ukraine... I'm sorry, anti-tank rockets attack a med car, where two Ukrainian soldiers die. It is probably a new cynicism in European values, in European democracy and in the principles that we preach. For we are in this name as well as 12. In the family... Yes, Latvia is one of the strongest donors of support to Ukraine. We have adopted a series of parliamentary declarations condemning Russia's aggression, condemning actions that have resulted in the arrest, imprisonment of Ukrainian citizens, and gross violations of human rights. In this parliamentary term, too, we adopted a declaration, a statement condemning Russia's aggression in the Azov Sea. And all these violations are brought to conflict with the Statute and principles of the Council of Europe. Now you ask that... said quite a lot of arguments why we have to continue... We will continue to disprove Russian lies. So that is the main essence of Latvia: to be in the Council of Europe so that we can only disprove Russian lies? It seems to me that this organisation has a completely different nature: to be above all human rights, rule of law and democracy. That's right. Yeah, I have to talk really openly here. It is a caviar policy with which Russia has overcome Western countries and has set up the right backbone of this organization, which has been standing for 70 years in the context of the maintenance of human rights and democracy... literally with one vote. Why the National Association... Yes, we support this draft decision, clearly giving our delegation a mandate to... I have a lot of trust... really do work by addressing other countries, Member States - not only those who voted against the restoration of the right to vote for Russia, but also those who supported it to really by 2019... Until the beginning of the 4th session of the EPPA... I understand, that's the technical... achieve a clear position, however, because the National Association... Yes, we have this draft decision. It's a lot tighter... This is about suspending participation in the Parliamentary Assembly on a specific condition. The condition is based on the decision of the Committee of Ministers of the Council of Europe of 17 May, as well as the resolution of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe of 25 June, where... to clearly define the rules and actions by which the Council of Europe may restrict the Member States, their rights, their functions to work in that organisation if they come to an end to the statutes, principles and fundamental values of that organisation. Now, you see, the problem is that it has not been agreed so far. In our view, the Council of Europe should first of all define action and introduce such conditions, and then we could - could! - to examine the renewal of Russian voting rights. And not from zero, but under conditions. But there's no condition... Come back to the old... will continue... I do not know how naive it is to be to think that Russia will, now that it restores its right to vote, comply with all seven resolutions adopted by the Council of Europe that they will pay the full amount of debt, which is about EUR 100 million, and everything will be fine. No, Russia's aggression in Ukraine continues, as I have already mentioned. Not only the military but also the civilian population are dying, and this story is not just about Ukraine. Here is a story about one of the oldest European institutions and its legitimacy in the 21st century. I call for support for this draft decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-07-08-PT13-546-U23	The name is Digit Schmidt.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-07-08-PT13-546-U24	Colleagues! Ladies and gentlemen! When we listen to the previous speakers, it is the feeling that for the first time we are faced with the concept of "real politics", that for the first time something has happened that behind beautiful words and decisions there are in fact other intentions. This, in my opinion, is far from the most important indicator. In my opinion, Nord Stream 2 is a much more accurate indicator of a completely different policy behind loud words, also very serious, affecting the same Ukraine. Also very serious economic, where... how to say... The European leader - Germany - is the one who closes these transactions. Of course, on the one hand, it can be said that the Council of Europe is, of course, such a chatter and it has always been... Nothing serious. On the other hand, it is a place where democratically elected European parliamentarians, in fact the expression of the highest will, meet. And there's one really very important question here, and I didn't know until I listened to today's speech because... at least from Dana Reizniece-Ozola, I realized that the members of the Latvian delegation still do not know the real decisions for such a vote. If someone really thinks it's so that someone gets at the table or someone pays a debt, okay, then our naivety is really high. I have a question here, namely what our foreign service is doing, because that is... The Foreign Service... That is exactly what this information should be supplied. The Foreign Affairs Service, first of all, had to know that there would be a vote and the result, the service had to have a clear causal link and, second, the members of our delegation had to be informed about it. Clearly, there's been a deal. Clearly, there's been a deal! And it looks like we don't just not participate in this transaction, we don't even know what it is about. But it's like... it is one of the primary functions of the foreign service. I am also surprised by this text of the declaration. I probably... I haven't yet decided how I will vote. I can support, there's no problem... That does not, of course, give anything, because what do we then put in the operative part? We can... We delegate our representatives to speak with other representatives. What are they doing there right now? In my opinion, they must speak with other representatives and coordinate their actions. The other thing. I think it is not worth spending time here to discuss Russia's activities in Ukraine. I think that all of us are clear. This vote was not in favour. It was not about Russia. It was a vote by which the Western countries... and their people's elected representatives showed that they are completely open to transactions... including about this... If we're insane about something, then it's... in this case, it has certainly been directed against those who... all known, there may be taken and taken a look at the voting lists. Now, I think there's less need to talk... After all, as strange as it may be, this formation of the Council of Europe... Our activities in the Council of Europe are part of our foreign policy. It's not something away. What we should now consult with each other - what we are doing next. And then let others know about their decisions. So I think this would be the real forum to talk about what we're doing... At first we should talk to the Foreign Affairs Commission and then - already in the Saeima... So... Well, yeah, I... I will probably abstain, because the worst thing is to make decisions that have no meaning, or decisions that... just like here if... we... The Council of Europe adopted a decision which... could not keep which one was sold. Likewise, as there is still a lot of silly decisions about international policy and Ukraine. If we look... That's what we've already forgotten... The European Union... And here's outside... The Council of Europe... the idea that they can put tango... Yanukovych once... the idea is that it is really naive that Yanukovych will, to a large extent, choose the European Union, not Russia, at the time when he will have to choose between the European Union and Russia. So, I think, if decisions are taken, then serious. This, in my opinion, is not a decision at all. I could discuss the decision of the National Alliance on whether we should participate in the Council of Europe. This is... Well, emptiness, forgiveness. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-07-08-PT13-546-U25	Name to Member Janis Dombrava.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-07-08-PT13-546-U26	Dear Saeima! From 2010 to 2014, I had the opportunity to represent Latvia at the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe. And it was already possible to see how far this institution is from its own words. Innumerable Western politicians began their speeches with words, how important it is to respect the rule of law, how important it is to take care of human rights and other high materials, but when the matter came to practice, those words disappear. Yes, of course, there were politicians who were prepared to discuss gender equality issues in North Africa for hours. On the other hand, when the Georgian delegation raised the question that a few years ago there are occupied areas that the Russian Federation is not giving up, they were all silenced and said: well, let's move on to the next agenda and talk about human trafficking somewhere in the Middle East, because it is more interesting! This institution is dominated by caviar diplomacy, and this must be said openly: Russia buys its influence, forming various beautiful acceptances. And many Western politicians are taking on them. We know that one country in Europe is not represented in the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe. It is Belarus. Despite their application for admission to this organization already in the early 1990s! The reason why they are not admitted is that they still have existing laws on the use of the death penalty. Every year Belarus applies the death penalty to the number of criminals on its fingers, leaving all the courts. At the same time, attention is drawn to the fact that Russia committed aggression in Chechnya in the 1990s killing thousands. It's close to Georgia... in relation to this aggression. And it's quite normal... as many Western politicians have now said in substance... that Russia is imposing the death penalty on thousands of Ukrainian citizens, that another state of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe is invading and occupying, because they are subject to some other - special - conditions. I would really like our foreign policy nobles to come, such as Mr Leienny, who is usually passionately defending politicians from France, Germany, Spain, Portugal and other countries, that they are, after all, doing the right and responsible thing about these issues, that they are countries on which... Latvia must build on its foreign policy. We are actually seeing now that the closest allies to Latvia, if we are talking about Europe, are Great Britain, Poland, Georgia, the other Baltic countries and certain Nordic countries. These are countries on which we will certainly be able to rely in a difficult situation. The behaviour of politicians from other countries depends on how profitable business deals are to shine on them. And it is sad that such - with values behind - are also speculated by really impressive European powers. I call for this declaration to be supported today. But even more, I call on all the embassies of countries that will then read the referendum in their embassies to go to their politicians and, however, call for this action to be reviewed in the coming year.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-07-08-PT13-546-U27	Name to Member Igor Pimenov.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-07-08-PT13-546-U28	President-in-Office. Members! Members! The Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe is an inter-parliamentary organisation, not a tool for national foreign policy. If it were about lifting bread to Foreign Minister Rinkēvičs, it would be a different story. But this is about a meeting of Members. Firstly, the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe is intended as a venue for meetings, exchange of views and discussion between national Parliaments. Any exclusion of national Members from consultation limits not only to those who are not allowed to express their views but also to those who remain because the remaining Members are deprived of the opportunity to communicate their views to their disfellowshipped. The exclusion of parliamentary delegations is therefore always two-way. Secondly, the accession of the members of the Latvian Parliament to such sanctions - which may so name this measure - risks keeping them in isolation at the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe, because, in saying ‘a’, it must also be said ‘b’. What will be the next step of the Latvian Saeima delegation in the Assembly, where the majority still supports the return of the Russian State Council delegation? Debate boycotting? The Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe is not the place where it is punished. It is a place where we discuss, criticise, also condemn but not punish. Otherwise, the Assembly loses its meaning. I do not support the draft decision. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-07-08-PT13-546-U29	The name to the Member Atm Lejny.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-07-08-PT13-546-U30	Dear Saeima! I do, however, call for this resolution to be supported and I would like to say what has not been said from this troupe, that is, what happened in 1938. The so-called... so-called... Munich, where Chamberlen and other Europeans defended Hitler's entry into Czechoslovakia by breaking Czechoslovakia... without protecting... And with regard to Sudan. As you know, Sudan was at that time a German-speaking province in Czechoslovakia. Well, we all know what happened afterwards. The Europeans hoped that they would stop the war in this way, but it gave Hitler an even greater appetite to go even further, and the next country that fell was Poland. I would also like to ask you to learn from the mistakes of history because it restores the right to vote after being deprived of the invasion of Ukraine and the annexation of Crimea... It is a decision of principle for us. It is really a principle. That also applies directly to us. That is why I am calling for real support... no matter what has been said here, that it is real politics or something like that... And remember also that... Well, we also have many allies... In Germany, as in England, as in Italy, where there are populists in power who will see whether we will have that backbone or whether we will really defend our values and our principles. Both, in time, they will join us, because those people, like us, are thinking about it and they are also debating and debating it there, in Germany and in England, and in France, or indeed it was the right decision to restore the right to vote to one aggressive state that conquers and annexs another European territory. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-07-08-PT13-546-U31	Name to Member Artus Neminis.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-07-08-PT13-546-U32	Hello, colleagues! I put points on ‘i’. I am a member of this delegation. It's about how much democracy pays. In this case, it has a price of EUR 92 million. 92 million euro or 15 per cent of the reduction in the Bureau staff of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe. There were only two types of... This “scissor” what to do... But the majority accepted EUR 92 million in the democratic process... In this case, we are here today... It is indeed good that this debate is here today. Our neighbours in Lithuania will still have such a discussion because they do not yet have a parliamentary sitting... We have the first after 26 June. The same is true in Estonia. In Estonia, too, this debate has not yet taken place, and they will also have this debate in Parliament. During the month there will be new elections in Ukraine. There'll be something completely different again. What we're trying to say here today... If we read... It states here: ‘... to instruct the Parliamentary Delegation to EPPA to enter into consultations with the national parliamentary delegations and their members who have voted against the renewal of the voting rights of the Russian Federation...’. All of us, representatives of delegations, from neighbouring countries, who voted against, would meet either at the end of August or at the beginning of September here in Riga... The official meeting would be here to really figure out what to do, because in this case, the decision... We have to count seven times before we cut off. Maybe you have to turn it off, but I think you have to do it together with the rest of the Baltic States, if we make such a decision. But this must be a discussion. In the delegation, however, we did not have any differences of opinion. Here we are talking about the fact that we decide to meet the parties of the delegations... with those who also voted against. Mr Cilevičs spoke about the need to talk to those who voted in favour. But this is the first step we decide here - from the beginning, in the first round of negotiations, to meet with those who voted against. And surely, Mr Cilevičs, we will then also meet those who voted in favour. That is why we simply need to take this decision today. This is what we show the political will. In fact, even if we don't accept... I think it won't be... it does not change anything, because, as one of the speakers said, these negotiations are going on this or that way. On the Foreign Minister. We, all of the representatives of the delegation, have this issue of 92 million or 15 percent reduction in the staff of officials in Strasbourg... Everyone knew it from the first meeting. It just came out now, so to say... This has always been a question, because this 92 million robe is up to date. Consequently, I really call for support for this draft decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-07-08-PT13-546-U33	Name to Member Aldi Gobzem.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-07-08-PT13-546-U34	Good afternoon! I would like to quote precisely the draft decision: "... to ask the parliamentary delegation of the EPPA to launch consultations with the national parliamentary delegations and their members who have voted against the renewal of the Russian Federation's voting rights in order to agree on a common position by the beginning of the fourth session of 2019 and to decide on the way forward for the EPPA." First. The question is this: from a foreign policy point of view, such an parliamentary decision does not matter at all. But it is the task of a country to consult parliaments of other countries on an ongoing basis... by itself. Secondly. Will such a decision of the Saeima have exactly the same consequences as the decision of the Saeima to repeal the OIC, in which the Saeima instructed the Cabinet to cancel the OIC by 31 March. From this point of view, it is also a completely pointless decision that does not change anything. Thirdly. Why speak only with those who voted 'no'? Perhaps we need first and foremost to know what the benefits have been to those who voted in favour, and why have we avoided the benefits? Because there is some reason for those who voted in favour. Fourth. Criticising this decision, we should probably then name those who have voted in favour. Why don't the coalition do that? But the most important thing, of course, is that the draft text has no consequences, either legal or legal. Basically, it only legalises, as you say, further political tourism between countries, which can also be implemented by our foreign restaurant without such a specific decision. If it had any legal effect and imposed any legal obligations, it would be a different case. From this point of view, with or without the adoption of the declaration in question, it seems to me that we are neither getting nor losing anything. I ask you to consider whether this decision will have exactly the same consequences as the decision of the Saeima on the abolition of the OIC. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-07-08-PT13-546-U35	I closed the debate. Is there anything to add on behalf of applicants? ( Internouncing call.)
ParlaMint-LV_2019-07-08-PT13-546-U36	Dear colleagues, I really call for support to be given to this parliamentary decision, which is a political decision, a political commitment. So far, our 13. The delegation of the parliamentary assembly of the Saeima to the Council of Europe has been united. We had no representation of opposition or coalition. We have all been able to agree together in this very small delegation (six representatives and only three with the right to vote). It is also about the fact that we are against the renewal of the right to vote for the parliamentarians of the Russian Federation. We have therefore continued this wise and thoughtful course of action, as has also been the case in previous parliamentary delegations, where we have been able to influence decisions with this small composition. Of course, it is very, very difficult with three votes. That's why it's important to put emotions aside and think several steps forward. This is the time when I have the opportunity to thank you for the great support we receive from our foreign service, from the Ambassador to the Council of Europe Ivara Pundura and his team all these days at intersessions, when we have full information on what is happening in Strasbourg. We also have very regular meetings with Foreign Minister Edgars Rinkēvičs, as well as tomorrow. ( I would remind you, members of the delegation, we have a regular meeting at 5 p.m.) 10.30 right here, Saeima.) That is why, with this mandate from you, my colleague, we will be able to continue our balanced action. The road will not be easy. There's a great battle lost, but as the next moment of contesting the mandate... The Russian Federation should reaffirm its mandate in January 2020... then there will be a great fight in front. Think about what to do. Thank you very much to Mr Kola because it must be admitted: it is atypical that we in the Saeima are seven political groups, but only six representatives in the delegation. We must therefore find a way of involving the National Union. Thank you to Mr. Kola for his cooperation. We will certainly work on such cooperation further. Colleagues! I call for this resolution to be supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-07-08-PT13-546-U37	Thank you. We have to vote. Please call me! We will vote on the draft decision on Latvia's future action at the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe! Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about - 65, it's 20, it's not. Decision adopted. On the granting of leave. From 18 June to 20 June this year, Mr Aleksandr Kirštein was granted unpaid leave. The Saeima Bureau has received an application from Mr Aleksandr Kirštein, a Member, asking him to grant unpaid leave from 18 June to 20 June this year. The Saeima Bureau has granted leave and shall inform the Saeima thereof. For unpaid leave granted to Member Eric Pucen on 8 July this year. The Saeima Bureau has received an application from Member Eriks Pucken requesting him to be granted unpaid leave on 8 July this year. The Saeima Bureau has granted leave and shall inform the Saeima thereof. Examination of draft laws. Draft Act “Amendments to the Law “On Excise Tax”, second reading. The draft law has been declared urgent. On behalf of the Commission for Budget and Finance (Tax) - Member Rihards Kozlovskis.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-07-08-PT13-546-U38	Dear Chairman of the Saeima. Dear colleagues, At its meeting on 27 June, the Budget and Finance (Tax) Commission examined the proposals submitted for second reading of the draft law. A total of 17 proposals were received. The Commission meeting was attended by representatives of the ministries, industry and a study of SKDS - a very detailed study! - about the habits of Estonian residents when visiting the Republic of Latvia. Overall, by drawing conclusions... If we assume that the results of the study are right, then actually... The residents of Estonia leave more than 270 million euros here during the year when visiting Latvia. And, of course, not much of it is only for alcohol, which is bought in Latvia... It's just like... on the part of the Commission, too... We were perhaps even surprised that more than half of Estonia's population went to Riga and not only stayed in frontier alcohol shops. It also spends quite a lot of money on excise duty, taking in the country... for fuel, for others... food, other services, accommodation, as well as other goods. As far as the proposals received are concerned, in fact, they intend to reduce excise duty on beer... as well as for deadlines... Let us say from the date of entry into force and until which possible reductions of excise duty are in operation. Therefore, speaking more specifically about the proposals... As I said, they actually intend to reduce excise duty on beer. 1. is the proposal of the Minister for Agriculture, Kaspars Gerhard, who is not supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-07-08-PT13-546-U39	Let us start a debate. The name to Member Karin Scratch. Are Members opposed to merging the two times of the debate? There is no objection.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-07-08-PT13-546-U40	Dear Chairman of the Saeima. Dear colleagues, Today, we see a balance of interests between the national fiscal space and the health of the people. If we are concerned about the health of our citizens, we must not support the reduction of excise duty on strong alcohol. Alcohol, ethyl alcohol, is one of the simplest and most destructive instruments to make the nation unthinking and addicted. It is soluble in water and reaches a maximum concentration in the organs and tissues that are most prone to bleeding in the body. The most important of these organs is the brain. Is it really a nation with physical and mental disorders? I'm not about extremes and dry law. I can give you an example of Scandinavia and the United States, where alcohol was banned. Sequence? According to history, the dry law strengthens the culture of the canoe’s use. At this moment, opposition Members must not only act as politicians, but also as fire-fighters - try to correct your destructive decisions and initiatives. If all of this had a little more excuse, for example, a pre-election promise. But no, at a sudden flash speed, you can change the law and, as a matter of urgency, even support it in trying to declare a war to Estonia. The war should start by raising an unlimited minimum or reducing the number of officials. Not only would I support, but I would work first in order to win such a war not only by the Saeima, but also by society as a whole. At the moment I feel only a disgusting smell of alcohol, and remembering Mr Bondara's situation when a man came to him after a thorough party in petroltank, another double of alcohol has been felt... And it sensualizes him, because he has seen analogys with the Saeima. Unfortunately, it has to be said that this plague is also in this room, and the big and heavy girdles will also be accepted today. We currently support alcohol culture, forgetting that there is an ancient beer culture and traditions in Latvia. As for tradition, the beginning of the “Cēsu alus” brewery dates back to 1590, so “Cēsu alus” can be considered the oldest brewery in Northern Europe. ‘ Piebalgas alus brewery can be proud of taking over the practice from Bavarian breweries by blowing beer only from barley malt, water, hops and yeast. I'm in favour. For balance in this sector, for equal treatment and against discrimination. We do not have a lobby law, and no one will take responsibility for these proposals. I see only brutal lobbying from alcohol producers and traders... And the coalition adopts the bill as a matter of urgency, because otherwise it is possible that we can support strong alcohol producers, but local beer and cider producers are neglected. In analogy, it will be the same as supporting birds but removing the chicken from the list of birds to be protected because people are anxiously eating eggs and chicken meat. Oh, yeah, right, the chicken doesn't fly. Well, what's that bird? Or do we not consider watermelon to be a fruit, for watermelon seeds were found in the tomb of Tutanhamon? Yes, all this is absurd. Just as the beer is separated from the spirit. Your argument is absurd. Of course, you can also climb the platform without emotions and say: “The budget must be supplemented! Wages doctors need to be raised, roads need to be repaired!” I agree. Then explain why the money that the beer sector brings into the budget (in 2018 it was 53.3 million) is less important than money from strong alcohol producers? Industry claims that there will be a 20 percent drop. Is that what some millions of beer producers bring in? If we do this logic, then maybe we will abolish taxes on small businesses? But they also trade small money in budgetary terms. This is a defence of narrow interests and is also referred to as discrimination against other sectors. Colleagues, please support not only the producers of alcohol, but also the producers of beer in this war! Without the support of this proposal, I cannot support the draft law on excise duty in general. I would also like to remind you that every draft law must be guided by the principle “One Law – One Justice for All”. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-07-08-PT13-546-U41	Name to Member Armand Kraus.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-07-08-PT13-546-U42	Dear Chairman of the Saeima. Colleagues! The amendment of excise duty on alcoholic beverages could have a number of objectives. Of course, one - what the legislative leaders currently want - is to increase or at least not to reduce the revenue from the state budget. But you can't just look at it. There are other objectives that can be achieved by changing this rate and law. One is indeed the health of our citizens, because we know that increasing a rate will reduce consumption, reducing a rate - increasing consumption. The other is the protection of local producers. Here I would like to say: if we look at alcohol, then these are mostly imported drinks. Of course, there are also producers of strong drinks in Latvia, but... You have analysed what alcohol is produced from these drinks, which are produced locally in Latvia? It is mainly imported alcohol. We have one alcohol wound, something it produces, but nothing. There are many beer producers in Latvia. That is why I am calling for... This proposal is a proposal from the Minister for Agriculture, but the next one is mine. And there is also a similar proposal from our colleagues. I call for these proposals to be supported, because it is support for our local producers. And it is proportionate, given that we want to support, with such amendments as are currently on the agenda, not local producers, but those who produce drinks, I do not know, Ireland, Great Britain, Scotland, any other country, but only Latvia. So think about Latvian producers! And remember: Latvians have drank beer and will drink it at least once a year - in Johns!
ParlaMint-LV_2019-07-08-PT13-546-U43	The name is Digit Schmidt.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-07-08-PT13-546-U44	Dear colleagues, There are several aspects here. First of all, tax policy or tax changes in general. The coalition has repeatedly reiterated that taxes will be changed once - in the 21st century. Why? That is perhaps a subject for discussion. You can shoot right away, in 2022, at least in the next Saeima there will be peace. The voter could decide. But, okay, let's assume once. And then... Proposals for an amendment are now underway. But what's interesting is that they all coincide in a sense of the concept of "drink" in a direct and transferable sense, because it is encouraged to change the tax on non-alcoholic alcohol... fui, non-alcoholic beverages and spirits. ( Internouncing call.) Alini is in the middle... And here's the question that... I think it's a sympathetic... If all of these three... either two - non-alcoholic and alcoholic - can be received together, then... Martin, I look not only at you as Head of the Budget and Finance (Tax) Commission, but also at Development/About! representative... You have a Minister for Health and you have the following proposals: let us make a more expensive lemonade and a cheaper snuff! How does it go with health policy? ( Internouncing call.) Is that something... that we're gonna make it without a drink now? (Laughter) Is that so? I'd just like to hear that idea... Why should a nigger become cheaper and a limonade more expensive? This is just an interesting question. And the last one is... in general, when we are talking about this reduction... Because, as I understand (if I understand correctly), at least the declared position is that it will allow us to continue to earn more from the Estonians... as it has been so far. We don't even have a ladder... And then it's quite like... Kurt Vonegut, I think there was a story where the main hero got into a situation and said that it was his feeling that the thoughts were in the knot and could linger. And I have a similar feeling about this. If you have listed all the statements made by the Prime Minister in this regard in the last two weeks since the last sitting of the Saeima. Let's start with the end. It would be good if excise duties were the same in all the Baltic States. That's great! No, the Estonians are trying to overtake us now... We say no, we're going to run. So how does it go with what you're presenting today? The other was... I don't know at all what the brewers have done to the Latvian Government... Why you just strong alcohol, well, promote... to make it cheaper... not beer? If we thought logically... If we can trust that the applicants have logical thinking in this regard, then the only logical explanation is that you are truly abducted by strong alcohol producers. The only logical explanation! But I'm afraid it's not. It's just some voluntarism. As I say, thoughts tie in the knot and maybe linger down. Finally. I understand that opposition proposals can not be based simply on the principle. The Minister has submitted - yours! The Minister has submitted... Do you not support the Minister, either? In other words, either we look like a beer... and we build this ladder, for which I am not quite sure either, but let it be... and do the same step with strong alcohol, or reject it at all. That will be my vote today. If we do not support beer, we do not support anything. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-07-08-PT13-546-U45	Mr. Gobzem, are you going to have three minutes? No, no. So we will continue the debate after the break. Please call me! Please register the Members! While the results of the registration are being prepared, time for some notifications. On 4 July the Member Mārtiņš Staķis celebrated a very round, beautiful anniversary, and on 7 July the Member Jānis Iesalnieks celebrated a beautiful anniversary! (Applause) Happy birthday for both of them, which has already been celebrated. Name to Marija Golubeva, member of the Saeima Secretary, for reading the results of the registration.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-07-08-PT13-546-U46	Not registered: Dagmara Beitnere Le-Galla... The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. Ms Beitnere Le-Galla: “Yes, I am!” ) is, Gundars Dauge, Sergey Dolgopolovs, Raivis Dzintars, Inga Goldbergs... The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. I. Goldberg: “Here!” ) is, Alexander Kirštein, Andrejs Clementyev, Roman Naudiņš, Evija Papule... There is, Eric Pucken, Arthur Rubik and Edmunds Teirumnieks.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-07-08-PT13-546-U47	Colleagues, please pay attention. Interruption 30 minutes - by 8 p.m. 13.30 p.m. ( Interruption)
ParlaMint-LV_2019-07-08-PT13-546-U48	Honourable Members! I invite you to take your seats in the Chamber. We're continuing the Saeima sitting after a break. On the agenda - draft law “Amendments to the Law “On Excise Tax””. We are continuing the debate on proposal 1. Name to Member Aldi Gobzem.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-07-08-PT13-546-U49	Dear New Unity! I really want to praise you. ( Milestones.) There is much to be learned from you. You're on the line, aren't you? You will reduce the price of alcohol, and your rating jumps to the sky. I would, of course, advise you to reduce their excise duty on beer as well, and then your rating would go even further. And I think other arguments to fight in some way... your policy simply ends at that moment. Cheaper alcohol - you have a better rating. It is nothing that the price of electricity in Estonia and Lithuania is much lower - tens of percent if I understand correctly, it is lower! - than in Latvia. It is no wonder that Lithuania is increasing the minimum wage and Estonia's unobstructed minimum is much higher than Latvia. It's okay that our Prime Minister lies publicly. He says that he has had an agreement between Latvia and Estonia on what alcohol prices will be like, but Estonian officials say publicly that there has never been such an agreement. You can truly learn from it. You can lie, don't reduce the price of electricity, don't reduce labour taxes, and you're rating up. I think that is also the key to your success. I think that with regard to the issue of excise beer, you should act as illogically, even though your sponsor, Mr Berg, always says every day, wherever possible: “Children, learn physics and mathematics!” But you probably don't need to listen to him because he obviously speaks foolishness. Because the Commission for Budget and Finance (tax) of Mathematics, where the issue of excise duty on beer was discussed... Your logic was that if the excise duty on beer is reduced, it will not have the same effect as that on the alcoholic beverages. Wait! So if the excise duties on spirit drinks are reduced, then, as you say, the revenue in the budget is increasing in theory. But if there is a reduction in excise duty on beer, there is no increase in budget revenue, despite the large volume of beer being bought, especially at the border. Another illogical thing that strangely points to your popularity is that to this day you have not provided any mathematical calculations, why exactly such a reduction in excise duty on spirits and, at the same time, an increase in excise duty on soft drinks... that it will bring economic benefits to Latvia. Moreover, in both cases, in the same Commission, in the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission, you are very precise... did not also take into account the objections of the local producers and the arguments of the local producers who simultaneously produce both beer and soft-sweetened drinks (e.g. kvasu), making the local producers less competitive. And there again is one absurd from a mathematical point of view. How can a country get more income and strengthen the competitiveness of its businesses if you do not support local producers? I therefore recommend that you correct these logic errors and support the reduction of excise duty on beer as well. In any case, the reduction in excise duty on alcohol will raise your rating, and in politics it is the most important thing. But if you're serious, then...
ParlaMint-LV_2019-07-08-PT13-546-U50	Mr Gobzem, your speech is over.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-07-08-PT13-546-U51	Merge.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-07-08-PT13-546-U52	Are Members opposed to merging the two times of the debate? None. Keep going!
ParlaMint-LV_2019-07-08-PT13-546-U53	But if seriously, I would like to emphasise the point. It's a pity that we're here today, the day we confirmed... and we listened to the inauguration speech of the President of Latvia Egils Levit... that this day, in fact, the most important issue we are looking at is the issue of alcoholic beverages. In my view, it is a certain disrespect for the process that took place in the morning. I admit that nothing would have changed if we convened such an Saeima meeting, not today, but even tomorrow. Today, Latvia should be a holiday, but we do it as a very ordinary day, where we are not trying to secure our economic recovery under more competitive conditions for local and foreign entrepreneurs in the basic positions that are needed, but we are engaging in discussions about alcohol. I would like to emphasise once again, because this is not emphasised - alcohol is causing serious damage to health. In any case, alcohol will not be the kind of Latvijas Nokia that will make our country rich in the long term. However, I will, of course, vote today in favour of reducing excise duty on beer, because that would only be fair if the excise duty is already being reduced. That's all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-07-08-PT13-546-U54	Name to Member Viktor Valain.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-07-08-PT13-546-U55	Highly honored Speaker of the Saeima! Colleagues! I think it is quite normal to have a reduction in excise duty on beer as well. And why? Why, then, has beer also been historically in such a privileged position? The answer is simple - because a large part of the beer producers are our own Latvian local companies. However, it does not produce alcohol in Latvia. There is only one company that does. This is rather negligible when compared to these volumes. In my opinion, this debate on the need to reduce excise duty on beer is a place. But for the excise duty itself. If excise duties, as the previous speakers have also mentioned, are determined by the idea of deterring the population from this harmful habit, then in this case we are acting quite the opposite - promoting alcohol consumption in Latvian society. At the same time, I must also quote the statement made by our Prime Minister Arturs Krišjānis Kariņš that there is a significant reduction in the number of hospitals in Latvia. What we are actually doing at the moment is increasing alcohol consumption, reducing the number of hospitals. What's going on in the name of all this? In my opinion, this is not really normal. Colleagues, I call on us to support local producers who are in the majority... to which would really help. Rather, on the contrary, strong alcohol could leave the rate as it is, and the beer could think about setting a more competitive rate. I call on you to support this or the next two proposals. They're all about the same thing. So, colleagues, I call for a rational approach to this issue. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-07-08-PT13-546-U56	The name of Member Julia Stepanenko.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-07-08-PT13-546-U57	Dear colleagues, There is no doubt that healthy competition is very important. Although this decision, this first decision from the Prime Minister - calling, well, to support his idea of competing with neighbouring countries - is a little bit like that... maybe not too beautiful. Yeah, we're going to talk about alcohol excises now. This is not about a minimum wage or, for example, a vehicle charge. That's... Well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, And we are ready to help the Prime Minister to stand up with neighbouring countries and engage in this competition fight. Of course, by taking the first step, we are also waiting for the next steps. We understand that the preparation of the budget is under way and there are very many issues that we would best look at in the light of this competition, such as real estate tax. There are many, many issues on which we can discuss in the light of this competition. Will you agree with me? That is why we really support this first step, but we support this step only on the condition that it is a logical step, not forgetting also the brewers. Because otherwise it happens that really... On the day of the inauguration of President Egils Levit, a speech was heard about the need to take a broom in his hands and waste everything on the old, the bad, you once again resort to the old virtues and, most likely, you will want to support the lobbying of some particular sponsor. I hope that this will not be the case. I hope that you will be consistent and really talk about the entire alcohol industry. Finally, I would also like to add that this decision to reduce excise duty, in the hope that prices for alcohol will also fall, is understandable. But it is not clear why, when the opposition encouraged a reduction in VAT on food products, we heard the counter argument that already traders will collect this difference for themselves and prices for meat and milk will not decrease. Well then you probably have to admit that you believe that these food traders are less honest than alcohol traders, because you really believe that the price of alcohol will fall. Isn't that weird? Therefore, honourable colleagues, I call on you to support this proposal, so that the beer sector too should definitely reduce its excise duties. Let us support local producers! I really call on you to act consistently. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-07-08-PT13-546-U58	The name of Member Linda Liepiņš.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-07-08-PT13-546-U59	Dear colleagues! There have already been many different arguments for and against. I'm very brief. About three years ago, I think this excise duty was changed in Estonia and quite high. I remember it well because I was working in Estonia at the time. Of course, these are very good intentions - from the series “Let’s Live Better”, “Let’s Drink Less”... and so on, and so on. The result was that in Estonia the small business in the Old Town of Tallinn suffered quite quickly, because it was the number of tourists, the number of tourists who traveled from Scandinavia. Reductions were made with all the consequences. The number of nights spent in Tallinn decreased. Of course, consumption also decreased not only for alcohol, but also for all other goods... and all related services. This is what the Estonians are doing at the moment: they are actually correcting the mistake they made three years ago. Because apparently they have done their homework and evaluated everyone for and against. What Mr Kariņš is doing at the moment, together with these initiators of excise duty reduction, is making a kind of war for Estonia... And there was unsubstantiated information about some mystical agreement. To me, a number of former colleagues in Estonia and acquaintances say that there has never been such an agreement. And now the officials also confirm that there has never been anything that we are talking about. At the moment, only strong alcohol is lobbying. We are going even further, leaving local beer producers under the blow. I simply want to justify my vote. Because I told you that I'd support any tax reductions, but this will be the rare time... If we do not support beer producers and do not reduce excise duty on beer, I will vote against the reduction in excise duty on strong alcohol. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-07-08-PT13-546-U60	I closed the debate. Is there anything to add on behalf of the Commission?
ParlaMint-LV_2019-07-08-PT13-546-U61	In the Commission, after the debate (and also after the sectoral debate in general), we decided not to support this proposal in the vote.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-07-08-PT13-546-U62	We have to vote. Please call me! We will vote in favour of 1. - the proposal submitted by the Minister for Agriculture, Gerhard! Please vote mode! Please get the result! On - 26, against - 47, refraining from - 4. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-07-08-PT13-546-U63	2. - the proposal made by the Member, Krauze, is in fact identical to the content. Neither was the Commission supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-07-08-PT13-546-U64	Members don't mind... wishes to vote. Please call me! We will vote in favour of 2. - Member Krauze's proposal! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 27, for - 49, for - 3. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-07-08-PT13-546-U65	3. - The proposal of Members Gobzem, Schmidt, Stepanenko, Liepaja and Slaughter. The Commission was also not supported by identical content.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-07-08-PT13-546-U66	Members shall not object. ( Milestones.) Members want to vote. Please call me! We will vote in favour of 3. - the proposal submitted by Members Gobzem, Schmidt, Stepanenko, Liepaja and Sprūde! Please vote mode! Please get the result! About - 28, against - 51, abstaining - 1. The proposal is not supported. ( Internouncing call.)
ParlaMint-LV_2019-07-08-PT13-546-U67	4. - Dombrava's proposal. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-07-08-PT13-546-U68	Let us start a debate. Name to Member Janis Dombrava.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-07-08-PT13-546-U69	Dear colleagues, I will talk about this and future proposals. Unfortunately, Latvia stands out with negative statistics. Latvia is among the countries with the highest consumption of alcoholic beverages, and its side-effects are the many victims who have suffered both in different domestic situations and on roads. Therefore, as a country, we should move towards increasing excise duty on alcohol and increasing controls on alcohol trafficking. At the same time, we get from the Ministry of Finance enough gloomy calculations that they have come from and that coalition partners have to believe that if this excise duty does not decrease, it can have very gloomy consequences for our public budget. Initially, the Ministry of Finance proposed to reduce excise duty by about EUR 300 less than in Estonia after the reduction. The rate would enter into force and cover both this year and all subsequent years. With my proposals, I urge that we are applying this reduced excise duty for about half a year and then not returning to the 2018 level, but following this previously foreseen increase, which was incorporated into the law, by increasing the excise duty from around EUR 1800 to around EUR 2000. I hope in these... During these weeks, in these months, the Ministry of Finance will work very closely with Estonian colleagues to agree on a coordinated action on the increase in excise duty from March of next year, and at the same time will monitor very closely the actual implementation or failure of budget revenue. Because at least after the first information received, currently, when Estonia has already introduced reduced excise duties on alcoholic beverages, prices in Estonian shops are still significant, significantly higher than in Latvian shops. And if a certain official or official has deceived the Saeima, the Members of the Saeima, and has forced them to take decisions that have actually been made because of the lobbying of the producers of spirit drinks (Dep. L. Liepiņa: “It’s obvious!” ), then I think there would be no room for such officials in the Ministry of Finance in the future. If, however, it is confirmed that in Estonia these prices will begin to fall significantly in the coming days, then, of course, the situation is different. I invite you to support the proposals in line with the Commission's view.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-07-08-PT13-546-U70	Name to Member Alexander Kirštein.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-07-08-PT13-546-U71	Dear President, Honourable Members! We were also somewhat misled in the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission because we were not charged with real prices and there was no real idea how much difference is at this price level. Each reduction or increase in excise duty has an objective whereby the State is precisely pursuing its policy. Today we heard the President of Latvia saying that Latvia wants to be a modern and sustainable country. Does the reduction in excise duty on spirit drinks make us a sustainable and modern country, or a commercial of cheap vodka and accomplices of our citizens? We have not received a true answer. The aim can, of course, also be to get rid of alcohol and to switch perhaps to some easier drinks, such as wine and beer, as has already been said here. But, I understand, the Ministry of Finance has not developed any policy in this area either. And unfortunately, when we study statistics, we see that there is a rather sad situation in Latvia. The population has decreased over the last three years, while consumer consumption of alcohol and consumption of alcohol have increased. The consumption of beer and wine has remained at the same level. It would therefore really be understandable that excise duties are being reduced for wine, which is relatively high for us, and for spirits. It is not clear why the Ministry of Finance is doing so. Do we want to increase the public budget? The excise duty should then be increased. Well, obviously this is not the target. But in what way were we deceived? We had to get to know the prices in Estonia. I'll show you some... Let's say, the favorite items that Finnishs and Estonians buy. Whiskey Tullamore Dew. Current price - 24,99 EUR per bottle before the excise tax drop in Estonia. The leaders of the two biggest chains - Maxima and Prisma - announced that alcoholic beverages are reduced by about one and a half euros in excise duty. In stores Maxima beer... 10 cents, in stores Prisma 14 cents. So, after lowering, this whiskey would have to pay EUR 23.5. In Latvia it pays now, at a fixed price, EUR 13.59. It's in Wolverine. The difference is exactly EUR 10. So tell me, how did the Ministry of Finance get 92 million losses in its calculations, if, as we heard, after the first week, the profits of the shops increased sharply when selling these goods? In addition, the record is that, for example, about five thousand... Who's buying here, Werk? Buys corporate companies, and buy, let's say, different... for a wedding, if. So, if about five thousand... If you buy 100 or 200 bottles and on each bottle you can save 10 euros... How did the officials of the Ministry of Finance come to mind that they would not want to buy for two thousand cheaper in Latvia, but they would buy for two thousand more expensive in Estonia? So the Ministry of Finance lied openly to us. I think after this, of course, the Minister for Finance... And I also told the Prime Minister today... Those officials who have been openly deceived must be released. I'd rather see some lobbying here for Shefler. (Applause) Obviously, competition for the production of the snout is large enough and some gift needs to be presented. That is why I also call for support for Mr Dombrava's proposal. Thank God, this will be a transitional period. But I would just like to say one thing: we will see that no income will fall for us now. Because the first week showed that they did not decrease but increased. Obviously, there must be some consequences for the Ministry of Finance to work more thoroughly, however. I call for support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-07-08-PT13-546-U72	The name is Digit Schmidt.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-07-08-PT13-546-U73	Only a rhetorical remark. What we are doing right now is we are voting for three plus two being five, and two plus three not five. Because the strong drinks will have an effect, the beer will not. Very much in agreement with what Mr Kirštein just said, such a remark came to my mind. For you, YOUNG Unity... Oh, and the other colleagues... This is what the proposal for a NEW Unity is currently making, and other colleagues behind us say: "Well, we are now counting on the New Unity to be able to count that two plus three is not the same as three plus two. But if it turns out you can't count, then we'll change something.” And that's what I wanted to turn to. You have one such long-term entrepreneur who supports you financially, donating, publicly known, - Normunds Bergs, and he has a saying that he says every time he says: “Children, learn physics and mathematics!” To physics far away, but mathematics should teach and listen to Normunds in Berg.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-07-08-PT13-546-U74	I closed the debate. Do colleagues... Are Members willing to vote on proposal 4? ( Intercretion: ‘ Vote! ’) ) Members wish to vote. Is something to be added before the vote on behalf of the committee?
ParlaMint-LV_2019-07-08-PT13-546-U75	I would just like to remind you that the Commission supported this proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-07-08-PT13-546-U76	Please call me! Let us vote in favour of 4. - Member Dombravas's proposal. Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The proposal is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-07-08-PT13-546-U77	5. - the proposal of the Minister for Agriculture, Gerhard. Not supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-07-08-PT13-546-U78	Members want to vote. Please call me! We will vote in favour of 5. - the proposal submitted by the Minister for Agriculture, Gerhard. Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 25, for - 50, for - 4. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-07-08-PT13-546-U79	6. - The proposal from the Member Krauze. There is no support in the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-07-08-PT13-546-U80	Identical to the fifth (Interior: Vote!) ) and cannot be put to the vote.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-07-08-PT13-546-U81	7. - The proposal of Members Gobzem, Schmidt, Stepanenko, Liepaja and Slaughter. Not supported. Identical to the previous proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-07-08-PT13-546-U82	Members agree. ( Interface: ‘ Vote! ’) ) Not put to the vote.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-07-08-PT13-546-U83	8 / 8 - the proposal of the Minister for Agriculture, Gerhard. Not supported by the Commission. ( Interface: ‘ Vote! ’) ) Council Regulation (EC) No 1257/96 of 20 June 1996 concerning humanitarian aid (OJ L 163, 2.7.1996, p. 1).
ParlaMint-LV_2019-07-08-PT13-546-U84	Transitional provisions appear to relate to unsupported proposals and not to be put to the vote. There is, of course, room for debate on this. The proposal 8 is the subject of a debate. The name of Member Linda Liepiņš.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-07-08-PT13-546-U85	Mr Kirštein, thank you for saying the word 'Shefler' so openly. But what's going on here, too? Like a suspicion of lobbying. That lobbying is obvious. And instead of stopping this here now, you're... in time, perhaps some officials will be discovered, someone will be punished if Members are misled, and so on. After all this, we are continuing to drive the bill forward as a matter of urgency, Mr Bondara. But maybe you could wait? Is it too good to lobby, isn't it? Now it's just absurd what we're dealing with right now! Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-07-08-PT13-546-U86	I closed the debate.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-07-08-PT13-546-U87	9. - The proposal from the Member Krauze. Not supported. Same for the previous one.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-07-08-PT13-546-U88	And neither can it be put to the vote.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-07-08-PT13-546-U89	10............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - The proposal of Members Gobzem, Schmidt, Stepanenko, Liepaja and Slaughter. Not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-07-08-PT13-546-U90	There is no vote, but the debate is possible. Name to Member Aldi Gobzem.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-07-08-PT13-546-U91	So the New Unity Government's calculation is that if the strong alcohol (but the beer) does not decrease the price, then Latvia will flourish. I think we need to go on with such a condition. There is another business that is much more profitable, which would also be popular, because there is no other region. We could be the first to start a war against neighbouring countries, as we say. I think that if we are already so brave and can reduce the price of strong alcohol, we need to legalize. — Impressively: Marijuana! ) marijuana. Legalisation of Marijuana. If we are talking about drugs, light drugs, legalisation, then I want to remind you of statistics. Statistics are unpunished. Most crimes... I told you in the previous sitting of the Saeima that most of the crimes... criminals begin with the words ‘after a common drink’ and not ‘after a common marijuana has been removed’. I call on the New Unity... Given that it is lobbying spirit drinks - apparently the users of spirit drinks are the basic label of the New Unity because ratings are rising for this reason - I call for it to also focus on the legalisation of drugs. Thank you. (Applause)
ParlaMint-LV_2019-07-08-PT13-546-U92	I closed the debate. So the debate on proposal 10 is closed.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-07-08-PT13-546-U93	11. - the proposal of the Minister for Agriculture, Gerhard. There is no support in the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-07-08-PT13-546-U94	And you can't vote.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-07-08-PT13-546-U95	12. - The proposal from the Member Krauze. There is no support in the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-07-08-PT13-546-U96	And so do... cannot be put to the vote.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-07-08-PT13-546-U97	And 13. - The proposal of Members Gobzem, Schmidt, Stepanenko, Liepaja and Slaughter. Not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-07-08-PT13-546-U98	And neither can it be put to the vote.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-07-08-PT13-546-U99	14............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - Dombrava's proposal. Supported by the Commission. ( Interface: ‘ Vote! ’) ) Council Regulation (EC) No 1257/96 of 20 June 1996 concerning humanitarian aid (OJ L 163, 2.7.1996, p. 1).
ParlaMint-LV_2019-07-08-PT13-546-U100	Members want to vote. Please call me! We will vote in favour of 14. - Member Dombravas's proposal! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The proposal is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-07-08-PT13-546-U101	15............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - a proposal from the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-07-08-PT13-546-U102	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-07-08-PT13-546-U103	16. - Dombrava's proposal. Partially supported, included 17. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-07-08-PT13-546-U104	Let us start a debate. Name to Member Vjačeslav Dombrovskis.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-07-08-PT13-546-U105	Dear colleagues, My question is, what is happening here?Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Just recently, some time ago, before John, you... Many of you, both within the Committee on Budgets and Finance (Tax) and here in the sitting of the Saeima, have talked about how brilliant it is to reduce the excise duty on alcohol, to answer Estonia, which has declared this alcohol war to Latvia; that it will remain competitive in border regions, will almost already save the Latvian economy, even increase the budget revenue... And all the opposition issues... all the proposals were rejected as if we did not understand anything. You've been talking about the calculations here, about those EUR 90 million in budget losses. Here, the rapporteur just said that Estonian tourists who allegedly enter Latvia because of alcohol alone spend some... more than 270 million euros. With reference to the SKDS study. This SKDS study was presented to the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission recently. It turned out that... Who ordered the SKDS study? Well, it's... an association for the protection of alcohol. And if we look deeper at that SKDS study, then it turns out that not all Estonians are travelling to Latvia just because of alcohol... that, by the way, those who mention that their main reason is to buy alcohol spend only EUR 63 million in Latvia during the year and not EUR 273 million. So there are questions about the calculations. And what happens now? Now, some kind of total chaos, I'm sorry! Mr Kirštein now says that the officials of the Ministry of Finance have deceived the whole coalition. The national association shall vote against the proposals of its minister. The entire coalition shall vote against the proposals of the Minister of Government. You are now offering to reduce the excise duty on alcohol for only nine months. And how, forgive me, with all your promises and slogans about the need for a stable, predictable tax system? Now you want to drop one tax down to nine months after... The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. M. Bondars: “On the seven!” ) Well, I then offer you - make a lottery. ( Internouncing call.) Make a lottery, Mr Bondara, so that every year or month I don't know you choose a tax that will either be reduced by nine months or raised by nine months. ( Internouncing call.) That's what it's... To be on seven... Because that's what it looks like now. Have you switched on the reverse? Is this not now the genius that will depreciate losses? I think no, colleagues. If you have already told the whole Latvian society about this great step to save the Latvian economy, then follow this course. Be consistent, colleagues! Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-07-08-PT13-546-U106	Mr Dombrovskis, do you want to vote in favour of this proposal? Yeah. I closed the debate. Is there anything to add on behalf of the Commission to the proposal that has been partly supported?
ParlaMint-LV_2019-07-08-PT13-546-U107	So, as I said, the Commission's proposal is included in the next proposal of the Commission17.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-07-08-PT13-546-U108	But since the vote is required...
ParlaMint-LV_2019-07-08-PT13-546-U109	Partly supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-07-08-PT13-546-U110	... We have to vote. Please call me! We will vote in favour of 16. - Member Dombravas's proposal! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - no, for - 70, for - 6. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-07-08-PT13-546-U111	17. - a proposal from the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-07-08-PT13-546-U112	Let us start a debate. Name to Member Aldi Gobzem.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-07-08-PT13-546-U113	This strong alcohol lobby leads us to think about corruption in this building. I therefore call on the most experienced fighter of corruption in this building - Juta Strike, who has promised a "uncompromising rule of law" - to find out whether (and if so, under what circumstances) there has been a case of corruption in this Parliament during this parliamentary term, where there is an open lobbying of the spread of the spirit drinks in the country and without any rational, mathematical or any other justification, which directly harms local producers, local beer producers. And that's mostly harmful to people here on the spot. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-07-08-PT13-546-U114	The name is Digit Schmidt.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-07-08-PT13-546-U115	One little rejoinder about the National Association. I understand that it is now actually clear that people cannot count in the Ministry of Finance, and the call is that some people will have to be released from office. But I would just like to remind you: if the officials are not able to count, then the officials are headed by a senior official - the Secretary of State - and the Minister of Finance takes political responsibility. Do I rightly understand the National Union that if this amendment, which is now adopted, does not produce the effect promised by the government, you will ask the Finance Minister for a resignation? That is a specific question. Answer now or later... another thing. But I understand that it is.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-07-08-PT13-546-U116	Name of Member Dana Reizniece-Ozola.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-07-08-PT13-546-U117	Colleagues! Everyone is speaking, except for the authors of this bill. YOUNG OBSERVATION, now explain what has happened to you? A few months ago, you debated in a hot debate that it is important to shift the tax burden from labour to consumption. Your Euro Commissioner, Vice-President of the European Commission, speaks in writing and in writing, both publicly, and in public, but also in public, and in an oral manner, about the subject. A few months have passed now and there is some misconception: you are offering the opposite: a reduction in excise duty on alcohol. It is wrong to change taxes in this direction and it is wrong to change taxes more frequently than socks. I call for no support for this proposal or for the draft law as a whole.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-07-08-PT13-546-U118	Name to Member Viktor Valain.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-07-08-PT13-546-U119	The draft law in its entirety. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. Bondar: “It can’t! For the proposal!’ ) I remember that when we voted in favour of this draft law at first reading, there was also such a hot debate, and Mr Leieniņa was on the table and said why this was the situation. That in Estonia, there is one party that has been dissatisfied with what is happening on the border between Latvia and Estonia, and that it will fight... will seek to combat this injustice. And at the same time... The Estonian Government did not change anything in the past when all of this economic activity, if it could name it, was haired and damaged at the border in Estonia. They did not change anything, because they probably remembered why, in general, excise duty is there and what it is meant for. And if one Estonian party is going to push down this excise rate right now, then the question is, why are we running with them? I call for this draft law not to be supported. I think that time will be very soon to show who was right on this matter. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. (M. Bondar’s intermediate call.) Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-07-08-PT13-546-U120	The name of Member Julia Stepanenko.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-07-08-PT13-546-U121	Dear colleagues from the National Union! Dear colleagues from Development/About! Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. With this draft law, you are, in principle, showing disrespect for your ministers: you are the Minister for Agriculture, and you are the Minister for Health. This means that it is absolutely not important for you to act as your colleagues in the government, it is important for you to vote in favour of the lobbying of some interests. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. L. Liepiņa’s intermediate call.) And in this case, probably the most interesting moment will be to observe the role of the newly elected President of Latvia in the further progress of this draft law. Thank you, colleagues. I call for no support.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-07-08-PT13-546-U122	I closed the debate. Is there anything to add on behalf of the Commission?
ParlaMint-LV_2019-07-08-PT13-546-U123	Colleagues, just a few words. In the Commission, we had a really very intense debate, both in the preparation of the draft law for first reading and also in the preparation of the proposals for second reading. There were, of course, those of the industry who defended their interests, those of the health sector who defended their vision. There was really a hot debate. Versions of incorrect calculations were also put forward. In general, however, the commission was based on the calculation of the Ministry of Finance, which was presented. And, as we remember, it was 92 million... Overall, this would be a decrease in the annual budget revenue. However, the Commission decided to support this draft law at second, final, reading. And on behalf of the Commission, please...
ParlaMint-LV_2019-07-08-PT13-546-U124	First of all, the proposal...
ParlaMint-LV_2019-07-08-PT13-546-U125	... support this draft law...
ParlaMint-LV_2019-07-08-PT13-546-U126	We will first vote on the 17th proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-07-08-PT13-546-U127	Yes, Proposal No 17... I can say that it is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-07-08-PT13-546-U128	Members wanted to vote. Please call me! We will vote in favour of 17. - The proposal submitted by the Budget and Finance (Tax) Commission! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The proposal is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-07-08-PT13-546-U129	Overall, all proposals are now under consideration. Colleagues, please support the draft law at second, final, reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-07-08-PT13-546-U130	Please call me! We will vote for the draft law “Amendments to the Law “On Excise Tax” in the second, final reading! Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about - 51, it's 31, it's not. The law is passed. On the agenda - re-reading of the law “Amendments to the Law on the Integration Fund”. On behalf of the Commission for Human Rights and Public Affairs, Member Artus Kaimiņš.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-07-08-PT13-546-U131	On 14 June 2019 the President of Latvia Raimonds Vējonis, exercising the rights conferred by Article 71 of the Satversme of the Republic of Latvia, requested to read the law “Amendments to the Law on the Integration Fund” adopted in the Saeima on 6 June 2019. When receiving the law, the Commission for Human Rights and Public Affairs set a deadline for the submission of proposals - five days. The law was examined by the Commission at its meeting on 2 July this year and was prepared for a review at the next extraordinary session of the Saeima. We are working on document No. 1116. From President Vejonis on 14 June we received three... mainly three objections to this law. The first is that Mr. Vejonis did not like... The improvement expected in the work of the Fund's Board by excluding representatives of planning regions from the Fund's Board and excluding any representatives of local authorities from the Fund's Board's work should be reassessed. In the new version, we have really excluded representatives of municipalities, but the municipalities will be represented in NGOs. Second. The President felt it was important to draw attention to the fact that, in accordance with Section 2(3) of the Law on the Society Integration Fund, ‘the Foundation is under the institutional control of the Prime Minister’ and ‘the Prime Minister supervises the legality of the Foundation’s activities’. The Prime Minister cannot, at the same time, administer the legality of the Foundation's activities and be part of the Board of the Foundation, as provided for in the first paragraph of Article 4 of the law, and that is indeed true. This version was taken into account by the Commission. The Council will now have a representative of the Prime Minister, not the Prime Minister himself. The third objection of Mr Vejonis was that ‘the Board of the Fund shall act by an absolute majority of the members present’. Ten... previously had 10 members. And there's a legal contradiction. ‘ ... by an absolute majority and if the decision has been taken by at least seven members of the Board of the Foundation.’ A majority of 10 votes in favour shall be six, but a decision may be taken only if seven votes are cast. Legal conflict. This version has also been corrected. We welcome our six proposals today! Proposal 1 is from Member Švekova. There is no support in the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-07-08-PT13-546-U132	Let's start a debate. The name to Member Boris Cilevič.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-07-08-PT13-546-U133	Dear colleagues, When the Society Integration Fund Act was adopted and the Fund was established, regional integration was seen as one of the main aspects of social integration. The Board of the Foundation was therefore also set up in this way. There were representatives from both the Cabinet of Ministers, municipalities, civil society and non-governmental organisations. This option, which was adopted at final reading on 6 June and sent back by the President, excludes the representative of the local government from the Council of the Society Integration Fund and significantly reduces the representation of non-governmental organisations. So the Cabinet of Ministers has a majority. What is the point of retaining the Society Integration Fund as an independent institution if it is still the ministers who make the final decision? Why then spend money on a separate bureaucratic structure? Then let these functions be performed in the future by the Cabinet of Ministers or the relevant government body in accordance with the procedure laid down by law! I call on you, however, to return to its original version, to ensure the participation of local authorities in the decision-making process, not to reduce the participation of civil society, and to support the proposal by my colleague Švekova. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-07-08-PT13-546-U134	Name to Member Viktor Valain.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-07-08-PT13-546-U135	I also call for support to be given to my colleague's proposal, because in this draft law, really representatives of planning regions, municipalities are excluded... Also re-reading... I was also at the committee meeting, but I did not really hear those arguments why planning regions or the Latvian Municipal Union are excluded. I think they have a place there, and that is what this proposal is about. Of course, right now... by current version... it is wrong to say that government ministers alone will be able to make a decision. Seven votes will be needed. So that one NGO representative to make a decision will in any case be... the government must get on its side. But who will represent this regional cut on the Fund's board - the answer to me is not quite clear either. I still believe that, with the composition of this board, the Foundation for the Integration of Society is, by its very nature, losing its substance. And these historical problems that have been associated with these quorum issues... It is difficult to reach consensus. In my opinion, this has in some ways been a value for the Fund, because if there is some agreement in a broad format involving both ministers, planning regions and various non-governmental organisations, then those decisions are in some way good and they are also controlled by someone. In this case, I suspect that there might be such power. And there's going to be the biggest... There will also appear its greed - to lobby some specific, certain projects in some way. And I think you are voting in favour of this draft law on these amendments to the law... in the format in which they are... Those who vote will also have to take responsibility for how this fund will continue to work. Although the former construction was complicated, it excluded, for example, the submission of bachelor’s works and the use of projects, which were remunerated by 100,000. Such “problems” would be caught outside. And there were several eyes that looked. Currently, the number of these eyes is reduced, the focus is on... all this power is concentrated among government representatives. And, as Mr. Kaimiņš said today, then the Latvian Municipal Union will be represented through NGOs, although this is not stated in the law. The Latvian Municipal Union is assimilated to a simple NGO, regardless of the fact that the Latvian Municipal Union still consists exclusively of elected officials. And this is a significant difference between a simple non-governmental organisation and the Latvian Municipal Union; it was not respected here. I call for support both for this proposal and for the future proposals of Mrs Švekova, but if these proposals are not supported, the whole of the draft law should be voted against. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-07-08-PT13-546-U136	Name to Member Ivars Zarins. ( Milestones.)
ParlaMint-LV_2019-07-08-PT13-546-U137	Hello, colleagues! As the rapporteur pointed out, one of the President of Latvia's reservations was that this fund came into... is under the supervision of the Prime Minister. And there's a need for amendments. We see that one of these amendments provides for the Fund Council to become... In principle, the Cabinet of Ministers, ministers, will be able to decide what they want about how to spend this fund's resources. As has rightly been pointed out, risks appear here. And, my fellow Members, I would like to point out to you what is happening at the moment. It is a very interesting thing that I found quite accidentally about how this fund is being used. Do you think that the OIC is linked to integration of society or not? ( Internouncing call.) It turns out the Prime Minister thinks he is. The fact that it is one of the means of integration of society is linked to integration of society. That is why the Society Integration Fund now finances articles about the OIC - about how the OIC Aperture has been implemented. As a person who has followed these questions, I was interested in reading these articles. And I have to say that there is a parallel reality. And this parallel reality is that you will not find Arthur Krišjāni Kariņš, who is the father of the OIC-aphes, who laid the foundations for this aphere. You won't find him there. And it is funded from this fund! Here's a story to you, fellow Members, about what is happening at the moment, why such amendments are being directed at. Because somebody's careful... We can see what's careful... has seen that this money could be used for its political purposes. Therefore, my fellow Members, I call for this proposal to be supported so that any balance can not be kept in such a way that the Prime Minister meets with his ministers and comes up with ways to use this fund for objectives that are not at all related to the integration of society. I also call on the law enforcement authorities to follow up on the objectives for which the fund is being used and what is being done specifically with these funds. Because it was difficult for me, as a person who professionally follows questions related to the components of compulsory procurement, to perceive these articles as competent and responsible. Therefore, my fellow Members, I call for this proposal to be supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-07-08-PT13-546-U138	Name to Member Ritvar Janson.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-07-08-PT13-546-U139	Dear colleagues, It was argued that the new changes to the Society Integration Fund law would not lead to sufficient representation of NGOs. At the last meeting of the Commission on Citizenship, Migration and Social Solidarity, where it was precisely the question of the functioning of NGOs, I asked this question: how NGOs evaluate the new draft law. And representatives of NGOs representing a large proportion of NGOs from all over Latvia replied that they supported. Therefore, it cannot be said that NGOs are not represented because they themselves believe that they will be sufficiently represented. It should be recalled that in the previous Council of the Foundation for the Integration of Society, as stated in Mrs Švekov's proposal, an organisation that was responsible for meeting its obligations in the area of asylum. It was the Red Cross of Latvia with Uldis Līkopas at the forefront (he also stood on the SASKA list for 13. The Saeima). That was the case. But last year, the Commission for Citizenship, Migration and Public Reunion devoted several hearings to ensuring the activities of these asylum seekers' mentors, as the Society Integration Fund broke the agreement with the society “Shelter “Safe House”. Yeah, he broke this contract. Of course, the Saeima Commission is not true. We could point out that these issues can only be resolved by the court. But there was no internal appeal mechanism for the Society Integration Fund. Neither Andris Rāviņš, who represented the municipality, nor the director of the secretariat Aija Bauere, could resolve this issue of appeal with the society “Shelter “Safe House”” inside SIF. And already at that time I thought that it was necessary to reorganize the SIF Board if it was not able to deal with its internal affairs and it was to deal with the Commission on Citizenship, Migration and Public Reassociation, which should not interfere with SIF's internal activities. It was great amazement after SIF held a new competition for the services of asylum seekers' mentors and won the same Uldis Līkops with the Latvian Red Cross. Is this not a clear conflict of interest? Therefore, there is a need to amend the SIF law and I would ask for this proposal to be rejected so that the SIF Council can work constructively.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-07-08-PT13-546-U140	Name to Member Aldi Gobzem.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-07-08-PT13-546-U141	In my opinion, the Foundation for the Integration of Society is, by nature, another medium that maintains a bureaucratic apparatus and distributes money to its own. And Mrs Svelova's proposal is, by its very nature and nature, in line with the word 'integration'. If we read the proposal... What are the representatives for this organisation? These are representatives of non-governmental organisations, including those non-governmental organisations engaged in charity and inclusive education, providing social assistance, dealing with integration issues, including the reintegration of Latvian residents and the fulfilment of the international obligations of Latvia's state in the field of asylum. What is integration? Integration is by nature... It will now be decided by the government's ministers, they can't do it either... so - to integrate into society... how to integrate, for example, Russians with Latvians. The current government has made it clear that they cannot integrate Russians with Latvians into a single society as well. Now they will do it through the Society Integration Fund, make their own decisions. It's a failure. The other thing. Multi-child families, a national association, integrated with gays and lesbians in a single society. It is absolutely clear that if the same government representatives do so through the Society Integration Fund, it is once again a failure. There's nothing going on again. Refugees. Refugees must be integrated into Latvian society. Again failure, because the government has been... So... Well, you're not over there in the coalition. There will now be another problem. Alcohol, spirits, will become cheaper, alcoholism - bigger. Alcoholists, as well as those convicted after those who have committed alcohol crimes, will have to be integrated into society as well. But what is the Society Integration Fund doing at present? With the sharing of money to their own. There's a bureaucratic institution! What you want to foresee is that government ministers will now decide who to share the money from the Society Integration Funds... under the word ‘integration’. For example, a re-migration plan. How to integrate back into Latvian society those who have left Latvia. Hundreds of thousands of people have left Latvia. You divided a million or two... How much - it doesn't matter... Some million of you are there to create new places for the civil service. Those people who have left ask, “Where is the money, where can we get it, so that we can come back?” - “No, it’s not for you, it’s for those officials.” So you integrate back the people of Latvia who leave! How do you integrate society? You distributed money for the magazine “Is” apparently for the... I understand that from Mr. Zarins... in order not to mention Arthur Krišjānis Kariņa in the OIC schemes. And it is perfectly logical to ask Mr. Zarins: what is the OIC's connection with integration? Do you want to integrate Latvian company into OIC schemes? You've already done this. You should be excluded from these OIC schemes. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. S. Riekstins: “Who is you?” ) And as a result... What you want to reject right now... What I say - Mrs Švekova's proposal is essentially in line with the word 'integration', because the substance of the proposal includes what organisations should be and should decide on in this fund. These are organisations that integrate society into different areas, both in the field of inclusive education, in the field of social assistance, in the area of re-migration and in the area of asylum. Integration also for municipalities. The proposal is therefore absolutely logical. Despite the fact that it comes from another political organisation, it is to be welcomed. What you offer... you do not offer to support the nature of the logical proposal, but you offer to continue the practice - we, our own, will share something with our own. This, in my opinion, is not right in a legal and democratic country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-07-08-PT13-546-U142	I closed the debate. Is there anything to add to proposal 1?
ParlaMint-LV_2019-07-08-PT13-546-U143	In principle, I am ready to take responsibility and say that the Saeima Human Rights and Public Affairs Commission is fully familiar with the SIF law... draft the law as such. We can make another one, because as much as we have talked about SIF... I don't even remember yet. But! I was very sorry not to see on this screen... Mrs. Svekov! Is it no longer? Are you? You did not come to the Commission, Mrs Papules defended your proposal. You can come and tell me. As chairman of the commission, I will tell Members why it was not supported. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. Mr Gobzems: "Mr Mūrniece, he is the rapporteur!" ) This was not supported because this definition of NGOs was too narrow. Too narrow! Then we meet at once for some specific NGOs... Then maybe we will immediately name these NGOs (Dep. L. Schvelova’s intermediate call.) That's what we call it, right now? Consequently, this proposal was not supported by the Commission and was not supported by the Commission. The proposal was rejected. It is not right to accept or accept the membership of political parties and their representatives' proposals. The other proposal by Mrs Švekova is supported, but on behalf of the Commission, I am not in favour of it.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-07-08-PT13-546-U144	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 1. - the proposal tabled by Member Svekova! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 30, for - 50, for - 1. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-07-08-PT13-546-U145	2. is a proposal from the Commission on Human Rights and Public Affairs, which deals specifically with the composition of the Foundation Board. A year ago, let's assume there were 19 people - 19 people! - that board. When we made this option, even before Mr. Vejonis returned the law to the rereading, it was 10. Yes, there was a problem with the fact that the Prime Minister cannot manage himself, so this proposal records the fact that the Board of the Foundation is composed of a representative of the Prime Minister. And talking about what I said in my introductory words about this law... all these decisions will be taken here with seven votes. Not with six from the ministries, let us accept ministers or representatives of ministers, but with six plus one. So one of the NGOs must support it, too. So it is not true that only the government will now make any decisions, because NGOs are not government. Therefore, here in proposal 2, the Fund Council has been specifically defined. So there are six representatives of the Cabinet of Ministers, including the Minister of Environmental Protection and Regional Development, and four representatives of non-governmental organisations. This proposal is supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-07-08-PT13-546-U146	Let us start a debate. Name of Member Dace Rukšāne-Ščipčinska.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-07-08-PT13-546-U147	Hello, colleagues! In line with the comment of the Presidential Chancellery, the Commission proposed to amend the composition of the SIF Council, i.e. to include a representative of the Prime Minister in place of the Prime Minister. Thank you to the President's Registry for your attention. As regards the wider changes in the composition of the Fund Board, colleagues, I would like to remind you once again that the amendments are necessary in order for the SIF to function more effectively. The number of members of the Board of the Foundation should therefore be reduced in order to ensure a quorum in the Board as a whole and to work normally. Last year, for example, there were problems with it, and the Fund Council met here only once if I am not mistaken. There have been many accusations about the lack of regional representation in the Fund Council. But I draw your attention to the fact that four seats are intended for NGO representatives, therefore, I believe that the Latvian Municipal Union, which is by nature an association, does not interfere with applying for one of these four places. We have been working on this law for a little more than half a year. There have been many meetings of the Commission on Human Rights and Public Affairs and informal meetings of the Group of Members, and we have prepared a good and balanced proposal for amendments to the law. I call on you all to support this and to vote in favour of this proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-07-08-PT13-546-U148	I closed the debate.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-07-08-PT13-546-U149	On behalf of the Commission, I ask you to support this proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-07-08-PT13-546-U150	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-07-08-PT13-546-U151	3. - the proposal from Member Svekov. The Commission is supported. ( Internouncing call.)
ParlaMint-LV_2019-07-08-PT13-546-U152	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-07-08-PT13-546-U153	4. - A proposal from the Saeima Commission on Human Rights and Public Affairs. Here's the distribution... on what these votes are... So to replace... with the words ‘at least seven members of the Board of the Foundation’, seven! This is what this legal wedding was about. The proposal was supported by the Commission. Please support me.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-07-08-PT13-546-U154	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-07-08-PT13-546-U155	5. - the proposal from Member Svekov. Not supported. ( Interface: ‘ Vote! ’) ) Council Regulation (EC) No 1257/96 of 20 June 1996 concerning humanitarian aid (OJ L 163, 2.7.1996, p. 1).
ParlaMint-LV_2019-07-08-PT13-546-U156	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 5. - the proposal tabled by Member Svekova! Please vote mode! Please get the result! - 29, 50, abstain - not. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-07-08-PT13-546-U157	Proposal No 6 shall in principle be put to the vote, as Mr Valainis... I would like to understand here: Mr. Valaiņš, you are talking about this SIF issue as a Member or as a representative of the Association of the Great Cities of Latvia? Because you sit on two chairs, and then you can't really understand. ( Internouncing call.) About...
ParlaMint-LV_2019-07-08-PT13-546-U158	Mr President, this proposal cannot be seen.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-07-08-PT13-546-U159	It is not voting, yes. So, Mr. President...
ParlaMint-LV_2019-07-08-PT13-546-U160	Not visible.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-07-08-PT13-546-U161	... Mr. President (Immediately) ... The Commission has not been examined because, according to the Saeima... Yes, on behalf of the commission! According to Article 115 of the parliamentary roll, this is not related to the opposition expressed by the President of Latvia. That's it. Consequently, I call on the Saeima to support the wording of the law after re-reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-07-08-PT13-546-U162	Please call me! We will vote for the adoption of the law “Amendments to the Law on the Integration Fund” after re-reading! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 53, against - 28, refrains. The law is passed.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-07-08-PT13-546-U163	Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-07-08-PT13-546-U164	Draft Law on the Implementation of the Multilateral Conventions for the Prevention of Tax Base Reduction and Profit Shifting Measures in respect of Tax Conventions, second reading. On behalf of the Commission on Foreign Affairs, Member Richard Coll.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-07-08-PT13-546-U165	Dear President of the Saeima. Dear Members, honourable Members, The Foreign Commission worked with the draft law “On the implementation of the Multilateral Convention for the Prevention of Tax Base Reduction and Profit Shifting Measures in respect of Tax Conventions” and prepared it for second reading. In total, 11 proposals have been received. They are all from Minister of Finance John Reira. Most of the amendments to the law concern legal technical issues, clarifying the provisions contained in the Convention, references to the preamble to the Convention. They are also presented in order to be more easily perceived as such by the Convention itself. 1. - the proposal by Minister of Finance John Reir. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-07-08-PT13-546-U166	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-07-08-PT13-546-U167	2. - the proposal by Minister of Finance John Reir. As I said, all of them are legally technical proposals that clarify the rules contained in the convention. So two. - the proposal by Minister of Finance Janis Reira - supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-07-08-PT13-546-U168	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-07-08-PT13-546-U169	3. - the proposal by Minister of Finance John Reir. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-07-08-PT13-546-U170	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-07-08-PT13-546-U171	4. - the proposal by Minister of Finance John Reir. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-07-08-PT13-546-U172	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-07-08-PT13-546-U173	5. - the proposal by Minister of Finance John Reir. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-07-08-PT13-546-U174	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-07-08-PT13-546-U175	6. - the proposal by Minister of Finance John Reir. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-07-08-PT13-546-U176	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-07-08-PT13-546-U177	7. - the proposal by Minister of Finance John Reir. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-07-08-PT13-546-U178	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-07-08-PT13-546-U179	8 / 8 - the proposal by Minister of Finance John Reir. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-07-08-PT13-546-U180	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-07-08-PT13-546-U181	9. - the proposal by Minister of Finance John Reir. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-07-08-PT13-546-U182	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-07-08-PT13-546-U183	10............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - the proposal by Minister of Finance John Reir. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-07-08-PT13-546-U184	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-07-08-PT13-546-U185	And 11. - the proposal by Minister of Finance John Reir. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-07-08-PT13-546-U186	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-07-08-PT13-546-U187	I therefore call on Members to support the draft law at second, final, reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-07-08-PT13-546-U188	Please call me! We will vote in favour of the draft law on the implementation of the multilateral convention on tax base reduction and profit shifting measures in relation to tax conventions at second, final reading! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 78, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The law is passed. Draft law on the processing of personal data intended for the protection of the judiciary, third reading. On behalf of the Legal Commission, Member Jūlija Stepanenko.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-07-08-PT13-546-U189	Dear colleagues, The Legal Commission prepared for third reading the draft law “Law on the processing of personal data intended for the protection of the judiciary”. 24 proposals were received to the third reading. The proposal, which comes from the Legal Office, aims to change the title of this draft law, clarifying it so that it is better and more understandable. Consequently, it will hereinafter be referred to as ‘the processing of personal data in criminal proceedings and administrative infringement proceedings’. Of course, the Commission supported this proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-07-08-PT13-546-U190	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-07-08-PT13-546-U191	2. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. This is also of a more precise nature. I've been supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-07-08-PT13-546-U192	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-07-08-PT13-546-U193	3. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. It is also supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-07-08-PT13-546-U194	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-07-08-PT13-546-U195	4. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. It is also a editorial proposal. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-07-08-PT13-546-U196	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-07-08-PT13-546-U197	5. - a proposal from the Minister of Justice, Mr. John Bordan. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-07-08-PT13-546-U198	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-07-08-PT13-546-U199	6. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-07-08-PT13-546-U200	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-07-08-PT13-546-U201	7. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-07-08-PT13-546-U202	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-07-08-PT13-546-U203	8 / 8 - a proposal from the Minister of Justice, Mr. John Bordan. It is supported by editorial clarification.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-07-08-PT13-546-U204	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-07-08-PT13-546-U205	9. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-07-08-PT13-546-U206	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-07-08-PT13-546-U207	10............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - a proposal from the Minister of Justice, Mr. John Bordan. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-07-08-PT13-546-U208	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-07-08-PT13-546-U209	11. - a proposal from the Minister of Justice, Mr. John Bordan. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-07-08-PT13-546-U210	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-07-08-PT13-546-U211	12. - a proposal from the Minister of Justice, Mr. John Bordan. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-07-08-PT13-546-U212	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-07-08-PT13-546-U213	13. - a proposal from the Minister of Justice, Mr. John Bordan. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-07-08-PT13-546-U214	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-07-08-PT13-546-U215	14............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - a proposal from the Minister of Justice, Mr. John Bordan. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-07-08-PT13-546-U216	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-07-08-PT13-546-U217	15............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - a proposal from the Minister of Justice, Mr. John Bordan. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-07-08-PT13-546-U218	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-07-08-PT13-546-U219	16. - a proposal from the Minister of Justice, Mr. John Bordan. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-07-08-PT13-546-U220	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-07-08-PT13-546-U221	17. - a proposal from the Minister of Justice, Mr. John Bordan. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-07-08-PT13-546-U222	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-07-08-PT13-546-U223	18. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-07-08-PT13-546-U224	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-07-08-PT13-546-U225	19. - a proposal from the Minister of Justice, Mr. John Bordan. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-07-08-PT13-546-U226	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-07-08-PT13-546-U227	20............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - a proposal from the Minister of Justice, Mr. John Bordan. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-07-08-PT13-546-U228	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-07-08-PT13-546-U229	21............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - a proposal of a editorial nature of the legal office. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-07-08-PT13-546-U230	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-07-08-PT13-546-U231	22. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-07-08-PT13-546-U232	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-07-08-PT13-546-U233	23............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-07-08-PT13-546-U234	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-07-08-PT13-546-U235	Finally, 24. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. It is also supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-07-08-PT13-546-U236	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-07-08-PT13-546-U237	On behalf of the Legal Commission, honourable colleagues, I call for support for the draft law at third, final, reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-07-08-PT13-546-U238	Please call me! We will vote in favour of the draft law on the processing of personal data intended for the protection of the judiciary in the third, final, reading! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 79, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The law is passed. Draft law “Amendments to the Criminal Procedure Law”, second reading. On behalf of the Legal Commission, Member Juta Strike.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-07-08-PT13-546-U239	Dear colleagues, The Legal Commission has prepared for consideration at second reading draft law “Amendments to Criminal Procedure Law” (No. 315/Lp13). Before the first reading of this draft law, I gave a broad overview of the substance of these amendments. The Commission received and assessed three proposals from the Legal Office, which are editorial clarifications to the draft law. 1. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. The Commission is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-07-08-PT13-546-U240	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-07-08-PT13-546-U241	2. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. The Commission is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-07-08-PT13-546-U242	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-07-08-PT13-546-U243	3. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. The Commission is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-07-08-PT13-546-U244	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-07-08-PT13-546-U245	Please support the draft law at second reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-07-08-PT13-546-U246	Please call me! We will vote for the draft law “Amendments to the Criminal Procedure Law” at second reading! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 79, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The draft law at second reading has been supported. Please set a time limit for the submission of proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-07-08-PT13-546-U247	The deadline for submitting proposals is 2 September this year.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-07-08-PT13-546-U248	Thank you. The deadline for submitting proposals is 2 September this year. Draft law “Amendments to the Law “On State Revenue Service”, second reading. Member of the Commission for Budget and Finance (Tax) Mārtiņš Steins.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-07-08-PT13-546-U249	Hello, honourable Speaker of the Saeima! Colleagues! In the budget and financial (tax) commission we have examined the draft law “Amendments to the Law “On State Revenue Service”” and we have prepared it for the second reading. Five proposals have been received. 1. is the proposal of the Legal Bureau, which clarifies and complements the SRS tasks in the field of public benefit organisations. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-07-08-PT13-546-U250	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-07-08-PT13-546-U251	2. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. It is a editorial proposal which provides for the exclusion of several words from the article. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-07-08-PT13-546-U252	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-07-08-PT13-546-U253	3. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. The article shall be supplemented by a reference to the right of a person to privacy. Customs officials must, when carrying out certain activities, respect the right of a person to privacy. This proposal is supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-07-08-PT13-546-U254	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-07-08-PT13-546-U255	4. - the proposal of the Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Finance, Zakaistov. Supported by the Commission. This proposal complements the rights of officials of the Internal Security Administration of the State Revenue Service and establishes a delegation to the Cabinet of Ministers to develop regulation. The Commission supports this proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-07-08-PT13-546-U256	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-07-08-PT13-546-U257	5. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Not supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-07-08-PT13-546-U258	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-07-08-PT13-546-U259	I call for the vote on this draft law at second reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-07-08-PT13-546-U260	Please call me! We will vote for the draft law “Amendments to the Law “On State Revenue Service” at second reading! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. The draft law at second reading has been supported. Please set a time limit for the submission of proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-07-08-PT13-546-U261	September 2, this year.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-07-08-PT13-546-U262	Thank you. The deadline for submitting proposals is 2 September this year. Draft Act “Amendments to the Law on the Electricity Market”, second reading. On behalf of the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy, Member Ivars Zarins.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-07-08-PT13-546-U263	Good afternoon, colleagues! I will address all those who are still listening and following the sitting. This is one of the draft laws we took over from the previous Saeima. The idea of this bill... The idea of the initiator of this draft law, that is, the Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy Commission, was very simple. First of all, at the level of the law, to ensure that this State aid system is properly monitored, that those who do not comply with the conditions of this aid system or that they do not receive aid, that they are deprived of this aid right and that the aid unlawfully granted is possible... not be possible, but... The Law provided for the recovery of unlawful aid and for aid to be proportionate and not excessive; it provided for such a case of principle that the formula for the elimination of overcompensation includes all the aid granted to the operator, all its revenues. We have received 60 proposals. In order for the Saeima to pass this draft law for the second reading today, the committee worked very intensively, meeting even after the session was closed, because we were only about halfway through and continued to see it. When examining all these proposals, unfortunately, it must be admitted that, because of these proposals, the draft law has lost it the clear, understandable framework that it had at its very beginning, which was promoted by the Commission on Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy. To a large extent, this is due to the proposals put forward by the Ministry of Economic Affairs (it has tabled the most such proposal) because, by its very nature, they often failed to comply with the law... the nature of the draft law or was even contrary to it. It was very difficult for the Commission on Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy to establish a mutually compatible framework with all these proposals in this draft law... within the entire framework. As far as it was possible, we tried, but this process was particularly complicated by the fact that, despite having examined half of the proposals and the commission had decided on them, the Ministry of Economics had again put forward its proposals to the next meeting of the panel, which sought to change the versions that we had already approved. In some cases, the Ministry of Economics had submitted proposals following a decision of the Commission, a request for versions on certain aspects, but had prepared versions not only on what it was asked for, but also on other aspects. And then, re-visiting at the second meeting of the Commission, many of these aspects were missed, and here, in these versions, they are already appearing not as the Commission had decided. Now that I go through this draft law, I will inform you about this: these places, which I myself have observed as rapporteur. What I want to say with this whole long introduction is that what the Commission decided... that for the third reading, however, we want or do not want to, there will be... No matter how we tried... there will be several conceptual debates to be carried out on this draft law, on the conceptual issues that, unfortunately, we will have to deal with in the third reading. Therefore, with regard to the third reading, a sufficiently long deadline will be set for these proposals to work on. Let's get started. Let's start in a row. Proposal No 1 - The proposal by the Minister for Economic Affairs of the Prime Minister, Arvil Asheraden, who intends to change the definition of the term'support period' by providing that the aid period is to be associated only with compulsory procurement. Initially, in the Commission on Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy, this proposal was rejected because it was contrary to its very nature, the legislative idea that all aid received should be included in the aid period. Then, for the next sitting, the Ministry of Economics had tabled its improved proposal, which was further improved by the Commission and on this basis developed its proposal - which should be included in this aid period. And this is one very principled thing. So what the Commission decided is that it is important that, during this period of support, all the aid received by the operator is inside: both what is intended for the production of electricity... both what has been received for electricity generation as a process and as an investment... Consequently, the Commission agreed that proposal 1 is partly supported and included 2. - on a proposal from the committee responsible.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-07-08-PT13-546-U264	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-07-08-PT13-546-U265	The proposal from the committee responsible, what I have just told you, provides that the aid period includes... that the aid period must cover all aid received by the operator in connection with the production of electricity. Both operating aid and investment aid. The proposal was supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-07-08-PT13-546-U266	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-07-08-PT13-546-U267	Go on. 3. - the proposal by Arvil Asheraden, the Minister for Economic Affairs of the Prime Minister, on the exchange of information. It's linked... in principle it is linked to the establishment of an information exchange system. It is already established and works, but here it is established at the level of the law. The Commission proposal was partly supported by the creation of 4. - the Commission's proposal. Partly supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-07-08-PT13-546-U268	The opinion of the Commission on proposal 3 is therefore shared by Members. 4. ... Is that so?
ParlaMint-LV_2019-07-08-PT13-546-U269	Supported. The Commission established its proposal on this basis, i.e. proposal 4. And the substance that we have added is that the exchange of data is not subject to user charges. Because our concerns as legislators were that the operators of these systems could not be used for selfish purposes to make an unjustified profit from it. This proposal is supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-07-08-PT13-546-U270	Members are in favour. Dear colleagues, Members Paviluts, Girgens, Strike, Dombrava and Adamovich ask for the Saeima to continue the sitting without interruption until all items on the agenda are examined. Do Members have objections? There is no objection. So we're going to go ahead with the bill.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-07-08-PT13-546-U271	5. - the proposal by Arvil Asheraden, the Minister for Economics of the Prime Minister, relating to the conduct of an isolated operation test. As you know, colleagues, our electricity system from the Soviet times has been integrated together with Belarus, with the other Baltic countries and part of Russia. A strategic decision has been made that we are away from this... from its eastern neighbours and to be integrated into European electricity systems. It is therefore necessary to carry out this test. This new Article sets out the responsibilities and rights of the transmission system operator to carry out this test, how the costs will be covered, how the responsibilities will be redistributed. There has been a rather long debate on this. This version, which is now in the Commission, is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-07-08-PT13-546-U272	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-07-08-PT13-546-U273	6. - the proposal of the Minister for Economic Affairs, Ralph Nemir. There is no support in the Commission. It's linked... Yes, colleagues, this is one of the conceptual debates that we will have to carry out within the Commission and that we have agreed on, namely how it would be right to regulate the introduction of new capacities in the future. The Ministry of Economy no longer wants to do so. Because it's the energy he's responsible for... The energy strategy, the implementation of energy policy, does not want it to harmonise the capacities that are introduced and connected to the distribution network. Reason: The Ministry of Economics wants to reduce the administrative burden on micro-generation. But in the current version, this draft law allows... Let's say this - without permission, without the knowledge of the Ministry of Economics, to install the capacities for all of them as well... For example, for all OIC stations, virtually any new capacity that is not connected to transmission... And it's just our biggest stations, which are Latvenergo... The remaining authorisations would no longer be necessary. The Commission was concerned about this concept, so we rejected this proposal and we agreed that we would hold a further conceptual debate on it. All the more because the “Salile network” pointed out that... They also believe that, however, the Ministry of Economics should decide on these... for larger capacities. And that threshold, as the “Distribute network” pointed out, could be 50 kilowatts; it really does correspond to this... At the level of micro-generation, it would also be logical. This will be the subject of further debate within the Commission. That is why this proposal has not been rejected in substance, but has been rejected because it still needs to be debated. This must be discussed and then a proper, balanced decision must be made.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-07-08-PT13-546-U274	Members share the Commission's view.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-07-08-PT13-546-U275	Go on. 7. - the proposal of the Minister for Economic Affairs, Ralfa Nemiro, which specifies the criteria for the assessment of cogeneration units, whether or not they qualify for State aid. In particular, one criterion is added... ‘and fuel raw materials’. As you know, there has been a lot of debate about the fact that stations are often used... are not used for the purposes for which they are intended... for that fuel... Let's say, agriculture... Supposedly, manure was to be used, but most of these stations were then using a completely different fuel, which was already specially imported or fermented and pressured somewhere, thus generating this necessary fuel from a completely different raw material. This is a fundamental correction that the Commission has supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-07-08-PT13-546-U276	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-07-08-PT13-546-U277	Here, I would like to point out one of the inaccuracy that exists in this wording and that, in my opinion, does not correspond to what the Commission has decided in its debate. In particular, this is about "the order in which it can be abolished and abandoned". We debated that "removal and surrender"... that it would be ‘rejected’; that it is not mandatory to have these two facts together. The wording ‘and’ remains unchanged. That is what I call on the Commission to pay attention to. And so at third reading, we need to clearly define what we have meant.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-07-08-PT13-546-U278	Members support proposal 7.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-07-08-PT13-546-U279	Go on. 8 / 8 - the proposal of the Minister for Economic Affairs, Ralph Nemir. That is what I think is an important proposal, which very many expect of us as legislator. It's about who will then pay OIC... Which electricity... Here it is planned that those producers who themselves produce electricity, these micro-producers that... So if you have bought solar panels for your own household, or in a particular case here you have installed some small generating power, which is... What could be... Well, any power... And if you produce more than you consume yourself, then you can transfer the remaining amount of energy in the “Distributive Network” and then get it back. And for this energy that you have produced and transferred to the grid, because you didn't need it, and which you later received back, you won't have to pay the OIC. This is, in my opinion, a logical solution, and the entire Commission also considered it a logical, reasonable solution that would provide an incentive to develop the use of renewable energy sources at household level as well. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-07-08-PT13-546-U280	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-07-08-PT13-546-U281	It is important to point out that this is about exempting from the OIC the entire amount of electricity consumed by the operator in question, but only the amount of electricity that he himself has generated and transferred to the system. It is a matter of principle that should be recorded. Proposal 9 is analogous to proposal 7. There we are talking about the additional criteria that are being put forward for stations to qualify for aid. And here again we are talking about fuel raw materials. This criterion is complemented. The proposal has been supported by the Commission. I would like to point out that here again there is this 'and' and 'or' question. This wording has remained "removal and surrender", although we have debated that it would be logical to say "remove or refuse" here.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-07-08-PT13-546-U282	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-07-08-PT13-546-U283	10............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - the proposal by Minister for Economic Affairs, Ralfa Nemiro, which provides for the way in which the... that the public trader accounts for the payments made separately for power stations with a capacity greater than or equal to 100 megawatts and less than 100 megawatts, as well as for energy types. The proposal was supported by the Commission. It should be noted that here we need another conceptual debate that the Commission has agreed on, which should be carried out at third reading: how would the OIC be paid at all, and how would this OIC payment be differentiated at all? In particular, the Commission has decided to debate the question of whether it makes sense to maintain this differentiation by capacity. Why? As you remember, for years OIC was paid only in proportion to the consumption of electricity. So, the more you used electricity, the more you paid OIC. A few years ago this differentiation model was changed and divided into two parts: part paid according to electricity consumption, part according to power connection. The debate will be on whether or not we should leave such a differentiation at all. Because such changes, as indicated at the commission meeting (as indicated by the invited parties), were adopted without proper debate. They were adopted very peculiarly - with the urgency of putting this issue into the budget package, although this was not at all a matter of the budget package. This ensures a change in differentiation, which means that a very large number of electricity consumers, especially small and medium-sized enterprises, are the losers of those who want to develop - they have to pay more. The Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy considered that the debate on this issue would still need to be continued, but for the time being proposal 10 has been supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-07-08-PT13-546-U284	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-07-08-PT13-546-U285	11. - the proposal of the Minister for Economic Affairs, Ralph Nemir. It is also about additional criteria, conditions for electricity generation... the type of fuel raw material introduced. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-07-08-PT13-546-U286	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-07-08-PT13-546-U287	12. - the proposal by the Minister for Finance, Dana Reizniece-Ozola, which relates to the fact that the proof of origin should indicate the amount of State aid and that it should in general... must identify under which State aid scheme it has been granted. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-07-08-PT13-546-U288	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-07-08-PT13-546-U289	13. - the proposal of the Minister for Economic Affairs, Ralfa Nemiro, for cases where the electricity producer does not meet the necessary requirements for issuing the proof of origin... and that attestation is not issued to him. This is also supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-07-08-PT13-546-U290	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-07-08-PT13-546-U291	14............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - A proposal by Arvil Asheraden, a member of the Prime Minister's Economic Minister. Also related to proof of origin. There is no support in the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-07-08-PT13-546-U292	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-07-08-PT13-546-U293	15............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - the proposal of the Minister for Economic Affairs, Ralph Nemir. This is also linked to what we were talking about - this net accounting system... that it will not be attributed these OIC costs for the part of electricity that would have been produced by that system participant, transferred to the network and then received back. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-07-08-PT13-546-U294	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-07-08-PT13-546-U295	16. - the proposal of the Minister for Economic Affairs, Ralph Nemir. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-07-08-PT13-546-U296	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-07-08-PT13-546-U297	The only thing I would like to point out here is that I think there is a editorial mistake here again. Maybe it's all because... was prepared in a rather large rush. Here is a reference to the fourth paragraph of Article 28, but in the draft law, the fourth paragraph of Article 28 does not exist at all, it has been removed from the field. The draft law contains the fourth paragraph of Article 28.1 which was also originally referred to in this draft law. That's not why it's gone here. I also draw attention to this.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-07-08-PT13-546-U298	The proposal is supported by Members.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-07-08-PT13-546-U299	Go on. 17. - the proposal of the Minister for Economic Affairs, Ralph Nemir, which in the Commission... The draft law table states that ‘partially supported’, but is not, in substance, supported as it is the fact that income generated by households producing and subsequently selling electricity is not subject to income tax. The Ministry of Finance opposed this in principle. He said that such an exception was not possible. Therefore, 18. - the proposal of the committee responsible, which states: "The procedure for applying the net settlement system shall be determined by the Cabinet of Ministers."
ParlaMint-LV_2019-07-08-PT13-546-U300	About 17. ... Members share the Commission's view.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-07-08-PT13-546-U301	Yeah.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-07-08-PT13-546-U302	18. - support.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-07-08-PT13-546-U303	19. - the proposal of the Minister for Economic Affairs, Ralph Nemir. Partially supported, included 20. - the Commission's proposal. This is because the aid period must be limited to 20 years. This proposal provides for such a period of support. The Commission proposal differs from the 19th proposal in that the Commission proposal does not provide for a three-year transitional period. As I said, the 19th proposal has been partly supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-07-08-PT13-546-U304	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-07-08-PT13-546-U305	And 20. - a proposal from the Commission, duly drawn up on the basis that the payment of the aid shall be suspended when the total period of support reaches 20 years. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-07-08-PT13-546-U306	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-07-08-PT13-546-U307	21............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - Ivars Zarins' proposal. And 22. - the proposal of the Minister for Economic Affairs, Ralph Nemir. Both are partly supported, included 23. - the Commission's proposal. Their nature is simple. Both are partially consistent. It is about the fact that independent and appropriately certified technical experts can be invited to monitor the activities of electricity producers. The difference is that Member Zarins' proposal deals with the fact that it is organised by the Ministry of Economics. The Ministry of Economics apparently does not want to do all of this, and therefore the Minister proposes that it will be done by a “competent authority designated by the Cabinet of Ministers”. Both of these proposals have been partly supported. So 21. - partially supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-07-08-PT13-546-U308	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-07-08-PT13-546-U309	And 22. - partially supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-07-08-PT13-546-U310	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-07-08-PT13-546-U311	And proposal 23 has been made - the wording of the committee responsible, which has, of course, been supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-07-08-PT13-546-U312	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-07-08-PT13-546-U313	Go on. 24. - the proposal of the Minister for Economic Affairs, Ralph Nemir. This is about how the checks will be carried out, which... specifically, not on how it will be implemented, but on what is the minimum set that is already stipulated in the law, what should be carried out in these inspections. This proposal has been partly supported and included in proposal 25. The 25th and 25th proposals are the proposal of Member Zarins. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-07-08-PT13-546-U314	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-07-08-PT13-546-U315	Go on. 26. - the proposal of the Minister for Economic Affairs, Ralph Nemir. There is no support in the Commission. This is once again one of the conceptually important issues on which we should debate. That is, it is about what constitutes a serious infringement; it is a set of offences which, according to the law... the law will provide for infringements by the economic operator to be deprived of the right to aid. This proposal is not supported because it is simply such a definition... was not supported in substance, but because we agreed that we would have a separate, principled debate on this, in which we would try to define for ourselves what is a set of infringements that should be regarded as serious infringements. This proposal is therefore not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-07-08-PT13-546-U316	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-07-08-PT13-546-U317	Go on. 27. - Ivars Zarins' proposal. Partly supported, included 28. - the Commission's proposal, which has been supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-07-08-PT13-546-U318	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-07-08-PT13-546-U319	So what is important in this proposal, which Members have supported? In particular, if it is noted that a trader does not comply with the conditions for support, then it is not for the state, and not for this controlling institution, to prove from when the trader began fraud, but for the trader to prove when he worked in good faith. So this is a very principled thing. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-07-08-PT13-546-U320	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-07-08-PT13-546-U321	Go on. 28. - a proposal from the committee responsible. In the Commission, this has been supported, as I said. Yes, this is its version... This is supported. What I'm talking about.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-07-08-PT13-546-U322	Let's start a debate. Name to Member Krišjānis Feldman.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-07-08-PT13-546-U323	Hello! I would simply like to have a moment to rest on Mr Zariņš, and I would also like to congratulate him on his qualitative reporting. I would also like to draw attention to the fact that, for example, 25. - Mr Zarina's proposal - supported by the Commission. This is a striking example of the opposition being able to make constructive proposals...
ParlaMint-LV_2019-07-08-PT13-546-U324	In general, there is now proposal 28 on the agenda.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-07-08-PT13-546-U325	Yeah. And 28 is a proposal that partly supports 27. - The Zary's proposal. It is also an example of constructive work. Thank you, Mr. Zarins. (Applause)
ParlaMint-LV_2019-07-08-PT13-546-U326	I hope that you will also support future proposals at third reading. Because much remains to be done. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. Feldman: “Only constructive!” ) 29. - Finance Minister Dana Reizniece...
ParlaMint-LV_2019-07-08-PT13-546-U327	Proposal No 28 is therefore supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-07-08-PT13-546-U328	Yeah. The Commission is supported. 29. - the proposal by the Minister for Finance, Dana Reizniece-Ozola. In the Commission... This is linked to the conditions for the repayment of State aid. Partly supported and included 31. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-07-08-PT13-546-U329	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-07-08-PT13-546-U330	The same is true of 30. - the proposal of the Minister for Economic Affairs, Ralfa Nemiro, which is also related to the way in which irregularities are recovered. is obliged to recover the aid. The proposal is partly supported because we were unable to support it.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-07-08-PT13-546-U331	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-07-08-PT13-546-U332	Because, as I said, there is a need for a conceptual debate here. Therefore, the proposal of the committee responsible - proposal 31 - is: "The conditions for the repayment of State aid for the production of electricity from renewable energy sources or cogeneration are laid down by the Cabinet of Ministers."
ParlaMint-LV_2019-07-08-PT13-546-U333	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-07-08-PT13-546-U334	Go on. 32. - the proposal of the Minister for Economic Affairs, Ralph Nemir. The Commission is not supported because the Minister for Economic Affairs has not proposed any changes to the definition of "use of heat energy produced by a cogeneration plant". This is a very important definition. It is very important that it is clear and that it is in line with European Union law, so that we can then precisely qualify which of the cogeneration plants that also produce heat... whether it is properly consumed, or it is effective... whether these stations are effective or not effective. This proposal was therefore not supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-07-08-PT13-546-U335	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-07-08-PT13-546-U336	33. - the proposal of the Minister for Economic Affairs, Ralph Nemir. Partially supported, included 34. - the Commission's proposal. It is also important to note here that this is the way in which the internal rate of return on total capital investment is calculated. There were two fundamental debates in the Commission... First of all, that we legally record that there are not nine percent, but that there should be no more than nine percent. This means that it is stated at the level of the law that this norm may also be lower. Unfortunately, the final text of the draft law does not clearly understand this, because... but that's why I'm in the protocol so that it can be clearly understood... So the commission wanted one of the principles that is fixed here to be that this rule can be up to nine percent, so lower. Secondly, we had a debate in the Commission on how this rule is calculated. And the Commission agreed that this norm is calculated using benchmarks. The proposal of the Ministry of Economics that the actual costs should also be incurred was rejected by the Commission, rightly pointing to the fact that, in this way, the economic operator can also bear all the costs that are not directly related to the station, because everything he needs - just to keep it correctly. That is, if you buy a luxury car or drive on a business trip at the expense of this company, then all this can be put into actual costs. The Commission therefore rejected this proposal from the Ministry of Economic Affairs and asked the Ministry of Economic Affairs to produce a version of nine percent... and that the nine percentage points take into account all the aid received by the operator for both electricity generation and investment. This version was prepared. We supported it in the Commission. However, what was not pointed out to the Members - we have come together, one can say, in such a summer mood - was that the Ministry of Economics had put back these real costs, although we had agreed that they would not be. Now, in this version, these actual costs have suddenly appeared again. I draw the Commission’s attention to this. And in order to continue to carry out my work qualitatively, I call for the third reading to return to the version that we have agreed - that the actual costs are not included here. ( Internouncing call.)
ParlaMint-LV_2019-07-08-PT13-546-U337	So, on behalf of the Commission, you're talking about 33?
ParlaMint-LV_2019-07-08-PT13-546-U338	Yeah. It's on behalf of the Commission. That's what I'm telling you.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-07-08-PT13-546-U339	About 33. Some support has been given.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-07-08-PT13-546-U340	Yeah.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-07-08-PT13-546-U341	Let's start a debate. The name is Digit Schmidt.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-07-08-PT13-546-U342	I support the 33rd proposal, but I appreciate Mr Zarins's professional report in keeping Mr Feldman. I have a request to Mr Feldman and other colleagues to speak in silence so that this quality report by Mr Zarins can be heard fully. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-07-08-PT13-546-U343	So Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-07-08-PT13-546-U344	It is therefore important to emphasise here, on behalf of the Commission, that, when setting these nine percentage points, it is meant to take account of all the aid granted to the operator: operating aid not only in the context of compulsory procurement, but also other operating aid that has existed so far, as well as all investment aid.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-07-08-PT13-546-U345	That is the 34th proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-07-08-PT13-546-U346	Yes, it is in proposal 34.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-07-08-PT13-546-U347	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-07-08-PT13-546-U348	Yeah. Go on. 35. - the proposal of the Minister for Economic Affairs, Ralph Nemir. Partially supported, included 36. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-07-08-PT13-546-U349	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-07-08-PT13-546-U350	And 36. - a proposal from the committee responsible. Yes, it is analogous, as we have already spoken, in the debate on the previous proposal. In particular, all electricity aid as well as investment aid is taken into account here. And unfortunately, this version appeared... Contrary to the fact that we had decided in the Commission that there would be no real costs, they have been included here. That is what I draw attention to as rapporteur, and I call for this wording to be clarified at third reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-07-08-PT13-546-U351	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-07-08-PT13-546-U352	27. - the Minister for Economic Affairs...
ParlaMint-LV_2019-07-08-PT13-546-U353	Proposal No 37
ParlaMint-LV_2019-07-08-PT13-546-U354	37. - the proposal of the Minister for Economic Affairs, Ralph Nemir. Supported by the Commission. It provides that ‘the maximum rate and benchmarks of the internal rate of return on the total capital injections shall be set at a level sufficient to guarantee the proportionality of the State aid’. The keyword here is “proportionality”. So that the aid is not excessive but proportionate.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-07-08-PT13-546-U355	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-07-08-PT13-546-U356	38. - the proposal of the Minister for Economic Affairs, Ralph Nemir. This is linked to the definition of "the principle of a single technological cycle of operation of a power plant". This is a very important principle, which must be in the draft law. This will help to prevent fraud that has now become known to everyone. In particular, operators are very often divided into several parts in order to qualify for the aid. And in essence, the part of the energy that they should use for their own consumption, they're keeping a record of... that they have used it as if it were another operator, but in fact this energy is necessary for this technological cycle to ensure the operation of the particular plant. And so that such fraud is not possible, the following definition has been introduced: This definition is supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-07-08-PT13-546-U357	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-07-08-PT13-546-U358	Definition as well as principle - what does it look like... The proposal has been supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-07-08-PT13-546-U359	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-07-08-PT13-546-U360	39. - the proposal of the Minister for Economic Affairs, Ralph Nemir. The Commission has partially supported 40. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-07-08-PT13-546-U361	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-07-08-PT13-546-U362	So what is this proposal about? The nature of the proposal is as follows: in order to ensure proper monitoring, regulation of the State aid system, economic operators are expected to pay a fee. We had quite a... This was one of the issues on which the Commission had a rather intensive debate. What, then, should look like this charging system? There is a version here for the second reading, and we have already agreed that it should be debated more seriously for the third reading, because it is somewhere... we acknowledge that it is illogical somewhere. In particular, it states here that this charge shall be paid for each megawatt installed, setting the rate per megawatt, i.e. EUR 800. Given that these costs... control costs will change, it is decided that... we will be debating... Perhaps this should be accompanied by some other factors, such as the average wage. We also need to discuss whether we really should keep this kind of degradation... an extension of EUR 800 per megawatt. Because in essence it happens that there is no difference, whether a particular station has one megawatt or three megawatt or five megawatts; the check will be about the same, the cost will be the same. It is not understandable why a trader should pay five times more in one case. Or, let's say, in the case of Latvenergo... Where the capacity of the station is perhaps a thousand times greater, they will then have to pay already millions for this test. There should, however, be some principle of proportionality. And that is the question on which the Commission has agreed to debate in preparation for the third reading of the draft law.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-07-08-PT13-546-U363	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-07-08-PT13-546-U364	41. - Economic Minister Ralfa Nemiro's proposal for a... it is related to the status of the protected user. How this system checks how it is verified and implemented. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-07-08-PT13-546-U365	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-07-08-PT13-546-U366	43. - the Minister for Economic Affairs...
ParlaMint-LV_2019-07-08-PT13-546-U367	42.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-07-08-PT13-546-U368	42. ... I'm sorry. 42. ... I'm bowed... Yeah. 42. - Economic Minister Ralfa Nemiro's proposal to exclude the existing version, because we now have regard to the provision of a trade service for the protected user... We have already confirmed that this will happen in a different way. The proposal is therefore supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-07-08-PT13-546-U369	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-07-08-PT13-546-U370	43. - the proposal of the Minister for Economic Affairs, Ralph Nemir. Supported by the Commission. This is: what the Cabinet of Ministers determines in relation to the provision of and conditions for this protected user's trade service.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-07-08-PT13-546-U371	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-07-08-PT13-546-U372	Yeah. And 44. - the proposal of the Minister for Economic Affairs, Ralfa Nemiro, whose essence is to exclude the current version. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-07-08-PT13-546-U373	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-07-08-PT13-546-U374	45. - a proposal from Members Julia Stepanenko and Alda Gobzem. There is no support in the Commission. I understand, Members will tell themselves the substance of the proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-07-08-PT13-546-U375	Let's start a debate. The name of Member Julia Stepanenko.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-07-08-PT13-546-U376	Dear colleagues, Firstly, a brief look at the meeting of the Committee on Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy. Mr. Riekstin, I hold my name. I will not really ask for a vote, and I hope that this draft law will become a draft law supporting the constructive proposals of the opposition. I would like to tell you, my fellow Members, about this proposal so that, to the third reading, in cooperation with the Legal Bureau, you will not find any accusations about the sudden origin of this idea from blue air. Secondly, I would like to add that, unfortunately, Members were not able to vote on the substance of the committee, not only because the constructive previous proposals prevented this draft law from being included... this proposal to be included in the draft law, but also because the Ministry of Finance has in principle not considered it necessary to issue an opinion on the draft law within a month since the present proposal was submitted, for incomprehensible reasons... on this proposal. Perhaps they were very busy with the excise war or something else, but it is unacceptable and cannot be repeated. This proposal is that the Cabinet of Ministers Regulations of 12 July 2016 No. 459 provide for support for protected users. And we know that there are a number of groups of protected users: there are low-income, there are large families of children, there are people raising children with disabilities, and persons with Group I disabilities. The amount of aid to the poor is 100 kilowatt-hours, the number of children's families is 300 kilowatt-hours, and, as the Commission explained, this amount... This largest volume was allocated on the basis of consumption. But it is clear that people with disabilities also consume electricity, not only because they are long-lasting... Maybe they're in four walls and they're using... also for communication, and also... Just light, but also... There are different devices, such as flotation beds, various ventilation units, ventilation units for the lungs and other devices that are really essential for people in this situation. It is therefore clear that unequal treatment is not acceptable compared to the same multi-child families - that people with disabilities receive only 100 kilowatt-hours of aid. As I understand it, the Commission also had some understanding on the part of Members, and I really hope that, for the third reading, we will also be able to make an improvement in this draft law. Because the regulations of the Cabinet of Ministers are created, of course, also according to what the legislator has indicated. We would therefore like to emphasise the fact that people with disabilities must receive at least equal support, such as that received by large families, not less. Information on the number of people concerned: the total number of such people today is around 12,000. I repeat: there are about 12 000 people in this group of protected users (family raising children with disabilities and people with group I). And, of course, according to our calculations, this support every year... This increase in aid will cost 1.7 million from the public budget each year. Provided that all these people use the maximum amount of aid - 300 kilowatt-hours, as we have calculated. That's why I... Once again, I will not ask for a vote, so that you do not have to vote against this proposal, but for the third reading, together with the Legal Bureau, we will prepare a proposal so that you can vote on it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-07-08-PT13-546-U377	Name to Member Aldi Gobzem.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-07-08-PT13-546-U378	Multi-child families, families with children with disabilities and persons with Group I disabilities! I ask you to pay attention to the fact that the Government of New Unity is against you! This government is against people who have not succeeded in life for various reasons or who have been such patriots of the state of Latvia that they have created more children. The nature of this proposal means 1.7 million... Here I want to call for one comparison. Our country is one of the most expensive electricity in Europe. For us electricity is much more expensive than in Lithuania and Estonia. And at the same time, we have a real monopoly company Latvenergo with huge profits. The newspapers even say that in some years this gain exceeds 300 million. From an economic logic, an actual monopoly company to create conditions for a profit of 300 million, there is no art. It is by nature an additional tax that is simply collected from the whole of society. It doesn't need much thought, it doesn't need ingenuity. Such a monopoly, such a monster with such a profit... In fact, it is not the success story of a particular company, but the prevailing lack of training to develop the possibility of collecting taxes... tax revenues in other ways. This amount of profits and the price of our electricity show clearly and clearly that we can help disadvantaged groups of our society, for whom life has not provided many gifts either. And here I want to remind you of what you, the dear coalition of New Unity, probably you didn't hear -- what you did this morning at nine o'clock... A little after 9:00 a.m., the new President of Latvia Egil Levit said from the same platform. He compared the Swiss constitution with our Constitution. And he said that the country is as strong as its weakest link. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A. Kaimiņš: “He didn’t say that!” ) People whose families have many children or children with disabilities and people with Group I disabilities are those against whom this particular coalition votes. And those people... Please... Those who are listening to me or watching me later on social networks, please take note of this vote and not a photo of estatutory advertising, where, for example, Kariņš stands, he photographed the umbrella for PR purposes! Consider how this coalition votes for your interests and cheaper electricity for you. Don't listen to words, but look, dear men, to the works of this coalition. It is about 1.7 million, but it is not about Latvia's state budget. This is the part of the profits of the monster company Latvenergo, which is not objectively necessary for such a company. Compared to the companies of the neighbouring countries, we have the biggest profits for an electricity company, but at the same time, the neighbouring countries have much more competitive conditions for entrepreneurs and more taxes are levied. For example, in Estonia - about a billion more, with lower taxes, fewer population and fewer employees of the State Revenue Service, also because electricity is cheaper there. Unlike Mrs Stepanenko, I am calling for a vote in favour of this proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-07-08-PT13-546-U379	The name to Member Julia Stepanenko for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-07-08-PT13-546-U380	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to add something to what I said earlier. I understand what it will be... I understand the opinion of the Ministry of Finance. I can foresee this, because we received a similar opinion on the same proposal as we made with this year's budget. So... But I have very much hope for the Ministry of Welfare because the opinion of the Ministry of Welfare was also decisive at the time when, in 2015, in the Committee on Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy, we looked at the issue of including these two groups as protected users. That is why I am also asking from the troupe for the opinion of the Ministry of Welfare for the third reading. This is very important. It is not only the Ministry of Finance involved in this case. Finally, I would also like to say that it is not just our intention that this support should be equal, but Members have also familiarized themselves with letters from Vineta Grigane-Dande, the Head of the Group on the Initiative of the Society for Paternity Care, and the Centre for the Protection of the Rights of Persons with Disabilities. It is clear that these NGOs once again stress the fact that the increase in aid is necessary not only because of fair and fair conditions, but also because it really is what people need... in practice they use their electricity. That's why... So... Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-07-08-PT13-546-U381	I closed the debate. ( Internouncing call.) So the proposal is not supported by the Commission? ( Internouncing call.)
ParlaMint-LV_2019-07-08-PT13-546-U382	Yeah. On behalf of the Commission, when we debated this issue, the reason why the proposal was not supported by the Commission is that the Ministry of Finance had not prepared its opinion on this proposal. And the opinion of the Commission was that, without the opinion of the Ministry of Finance, we cannot support it. But that does not mean that we have rejected this proposal conceptually. I also, as the committee's secretary, ask that we have all the opinions at our third reading so that we can debate and make a decision, a responsible decision. ( Intercretion: ‘ Vote! ’) ) Council Regulation (EC) No 1257/96 of 20 June 1996 concerning humanitarian aid (OJ L 163, 2.7.1996, p. 1).
ParlaMint-LV_2019-07-08-PT13-546-U383	Please call me! We'll vote for 45. - the motion put forward by Members Stepanenko and Gobzem! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 29, for - 47, for - 2. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-07-08-PT13-546-U384	Where are we? Where did we stay?
ParlaMint-LV_2019-07-08-PT13-546-U385	46.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-07-08-PT13-546-U386	46. ... Now. 46. - the proposal of the Minister for Economic Affairs, Ralfa Nemiro, which complements the responsibility of the distribution system operator. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-07-08-PT13-546-U387	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-07-08-PT13-546-U388	47. - the proposal of the Minister for Economic Affairs, Ralfa Nemiro, which relates to the applicable penalties for infringements. There is no support in the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-07-08-PT13-546-U389	Members...
ParlaMint-LV_2019-07-08-PT13-546-U390	It is not supported, not because we do not agree with it in principle, but because this is one of the issues on which there should be a broader conceptual debate - on which penalties would be imposed. Otherwise, after this editorial, it's very strange. When such serious violations... For example, when an operator does not even allow an inspection to be carried out in his station. You don't even have to guess why he doesn't let in. He's enough to pay a few thousand -- a penalty -- and then he's bought his fault. Although such an infringement may involve fraud, measured in hundreds of thousands. So it should be said here that... It seems, on the one hand, perhaps, that the Ministry of Economics comes with a proposal, in which way it will now be harsh about fraud, but just as well, on the other hand, it might be... coincides in what way to legalise, and moreover in the cheap, this fraud, which can be very important. That is why this proposal is not supported by the Commission, and we will have a conceptual debate on it... on what should look like this... This compliance system.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-07-08-PT13-546-U391	Members share the Commission's view.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-07-08-PT13-546-U392	Go on. 48. - the proposal of the Minister for Economic Affairs, Ralph Nemir. Nor has it been supported, as it relates to the same penalties.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-07-08-PT13-546-U393	Members share the Commission's view.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-07-08-PT13-546-U394	Go on. 49. - Ivars Zarins' proposal. He proposed that point 52 of the transitional provisions, which relates to certain economic operators being supported, be excluded. The proposal is not supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-07-08-PT13-546-U395	Let's start a debate. Name to Member Ivars Zarins.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-07-08-PT13-546-U396	I would like to clarify the substance of the proposal. Colleagues! As you all know very well, state aid must be coordinated with the European Commission. The Member State, as we have clarified and I think we all know, is not entitled to provide support that is not agreed with the European Commission. Colleagues! The aid entered in this point of the transitional provision is not compatible with the European Commission. The reason why this wording should be maintained... The Ministry of Economy said that they had the opinion of the Legal Bureau that this aid was not to be harmonised. Since this aid is not new aid, it is existing aid. In this regard, I pointed out in this debate that, in principle, the European Commission could also have a different view. Because, look, there is currently a trial with hess. It's a similar story. So this story is more about wind parks, which are now offered to defend this... their support, but a similar story is about hess. In particular, in this case, the Latvian court had turned to the European Commission, and the European Commission had said about such an analogous situation that it considered it to be a support that had to be agreed with it. And here's where we're going, I'd say, an amusing situation. On the one hand, we have some legal opinion saying that... they simply take a superficial look at something... and, on the basis of this opinion, we are trying to say that this support should not have been harmonised. On the other hand, the opinion of the European Commission, which it delivered to the Latvian court and which nevertheless follows... Otherwise, such aid should have been harmonised. I see, however, that this would be a valid question for the Commission to debate. And so that the Saeima does not have to take a decision today, which may then prove illegal and could cause serious damage, I will withdraw my proposal. And I call on the Commission not to hesitate until the third reading and ask the European Commission... by itself. If the Ministry of Economics was not able to ask a question all the time. They were able to ask all kinds of questions: "What will happen if we do not meet the objectives of the European Union now? What's going to happen? Will we be punished if we violate our commitments?’ They asked for such things. But there was no specific question about this. I therefore call on us, using the fact that we will have enough time to prepare for the third reading, to clarify this opinion of the European Commission if someone else has doubts about it. Ask yourself. Therefore, I have now withdrawn this proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-07-08-PT13-546-U397	The proposal has therefore been withdrawn.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-07-08-PT13-546-U398	50. - the proposal by Members Jūlia Stepanenko and Alda Gobzem, which relates to their previous debate. There is no support in the Commission. ( Interface: ‘ Vote! ’) ) It cannot be put to the vote.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-07-08-PT13-546-U399	No vote is taken, as it relates to proposal 45. The proposal is not put to the vote!
ParlaMint-LV_2019-07-08-PT13-546-U400	51. - the proposal of the Minister for Economic Affairs, Ralfa Nemiro, which relates to the periods during which the laws relating to this draft law should be adopted, that is to say, the regulations of the Cabinet of Ministers. Supported by the Commission. What do I want to point out? That here in the debate on these periods... to which the Legal Office indicated... that it is quite incomprehensible how these rules should enter into force, how much time it would actually take to develop them. The Ministry of Economics itself was not able to respond to this either, so I assume that for the third reading, however, we will have to align all these dates of entry into force with the laws and regulations that are subordinate, otherwise the law in many cases loses any meaning at all.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-07-08-PT13-546-U401	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-07-08-PT13-546-U402	So... Yeah. 52. - the proposal from Member Ivars Zarins, which I propose to shorten, given that this bill, colleagues, is almost a year in the Saeima. For the second reading, it has been being prepared for at least half a year. Given how long this bill is in the Saeima... if it really had been a desire to fight and sort out this system, then the Ministry of Economics has had enough time in principle to do all this. This would not require long time limits for the development of these downstream legislation. Therefore, shorter deadlines were proposed. This was not supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-07-08-PT13-546-U403	Members share the Commission's view.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-07-08-PT13-546-U404	Go on. 53. - a proposal from Member Ivars Zarins, where Member Ivars Zarins suggested that this overcompensation could be carried out within three months by the Ministry of Economics. The Ministry did not agree to this, demanded that they take at least six months. The Commission was therefore not in favour of this proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-07-08-PT13-546-U405	Members share the Commission's view.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-07-08-PT13-546-U406	54. - the proposal of the Minister for Economic Affairs, Ralph Nemir. Again, the time limit for the adoption of regulations of the Cabinet of Ministers has been set within 12 months. Partly supported and included 55. - on a proposal from the committee responsible.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-07-08-PT13-546-U407	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-07-08-PT13-546-U408	55. - a proposal from the committee responsible, supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-07-08-PT13-546-U409	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-07-08-PT13-546-U410	56. - the proposal by Arvil Asheraden, a Member of the Prime Minister's Minister for Economic Affairs, which is linked to the platform for data use, for how long it should start working. Partly supported, included 57. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-07-08-PT13-546-U411	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-07-08-PT13-546-U412	57. - a proposal from the committee responsible. It is envisaged that this platform should be operational within a maximum of 36 months. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-07-08-PT13-546-U413	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-07-08-PT13-546-U414	It is important to mention here that within 36 months of the entry into force of the Cabinet Regulations. 58. - Economic Minister Ralfa Nemiro's proposal that regulations of the Cabinet of Ministers should be drawn up regarding a very important principle - the conditions for monitoring the application of the single technological cycle principle of operation of power plants. The Ministry of Economics proposed that regulations of the Cabinet of Ministers will be developed only on 1 January 2021. The Commission rightly asked: "Why is such a long time needed?" The Ministry of Economy was not in a position to reply. It will be one of the issues on which we have agreed for the third reading that the commission will perhaps present itself a much shorter deadline, so that then the Ministry of Economics will tell them what is hindering them from these regulations of the Cabinet of Ministers, which is very important in order to prevent fraud in this sector, to develop in a much shorter time-frame... Like all others whose development requires six months from the Ministry of Economics. That's not why it's a year and a half. Partly supported, included 59. - on a proposal from the committee responsible.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-07-08-PT13-546-U415	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-07-08-PT13-546-U416	59. - a proposal from the committee responsible. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-07-08-PT13-546-U417	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-07-08-PT13-546-U418	And 60. - the proposal of the Minister for Economic Affairs, Ralph Nemir. More editorial nature proposal - includes a reference to European Union directives. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-07-08-PT13-546-U419	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-07-08-PT13-546-U420	Thank you, colleagues, for supporting the work of the Commission. (Applause) I call for support for the draft law at second reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-07-08-PT13-546-U421	Please call me! We will vote in favour of the second reading of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on the Electricity Market”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 78, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The draft law at second reading has been supported. Please set a time limit for the submission of proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-07-08-PT13-546-U422	August 30th of this year.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-07-08-PT13-546-U423	August 30, huh? The deadline for submitting proposals is August 30 this year. The agenda for the extraordinary session was examined. Please call me! Please register the Members! Name for Maria Golubeva, member of the Saeima Secretary, to report on the results of the registration.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-07-08-PT13-546-U424	Not registered: Gundars Dauge, Sergejs Dolgopolovs, Raivis Dzintars, Andrejs Klementjevs, Māris Kučinskis, Romanas Naudiņš, Ramona Petravičs, Eriks Pucens, Ivans Ribakovs, Arthur Rubiks, Edmunds Teirumnieks (Interface.) ... Ribakov and... and Evita Hall-Gross.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-07-08-PT13-546-U425	Thank you. I closed the session of the second extraordinary session. 10 minutes later, the third extraordinary session. So it's at 5 p.m. 4 p.m.
