ParlaMint-LV_2019-01-24-PT13-515-U1	Good morning, honourable Members! Colonel is 9 a.m. I invite you to take a seat in the Chamber so that we can start the sitting of the Saeima on 24 January 2019! Ladies and gentlemen, first of all, the amendments tabled to the Bureau's agenda. The Commission of the State Administration and Local Government asks for changes to the agenda of the sitting and to include in it the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Expropriation of Public Person’s Property”. Are Members opposed to this amendment of the agenda? There is no objection. The order of business has been amended. We are starting to look at the amended agenda. On the agenda - reports by the Prime Minister, ministers and other officials. ‘ Annual report by the Minister of Foreign Affairs on the work done and planned in the country’s foreign policy and the European Union’. Name to Foreign Minister Edgars Rinkēvičs.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-01-24-PT13-515-U2	Mr. President-in-Office of the Republic. President of the Saeima and the Bureau! Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council of Ministers. Dear Members and honourable Members, Colleagues Ministers! Excellency! 13. Two thirds of new Members have been elected to the Saeima - this is a rare event in the history of European parliamentaryism. Yesterday, the new Cabinet of Ministers led by Krišjānis Kariņš has been approved, which is determined to continue the State's ongoing Western geopolitical orientation course. That is why this debate is a very good opportunity, because it allows both the government's vision of foreign policy to be expressed and your views to be heard and taken into account accordingly. On the eve of the anniversary of the de iure international recognition of the Republic of Latvia, I would like to express the hope that cooperation in foreign policy and European affairs between the Latvian Foreign Service, the Saeima and the new Cabinet of Ministers will be successful, mutually supportive and united and will thus help to strengthen our country's foreign policy and national interests in the long term. I would also like to thank you 12. The Saeima and the former head of government, Maris Kučinskis, for their excellent cooperation and support in implementing our foreign policy course. Ladies and gentlemen! Today's world is not the world of fairy tales of our great writer, Karl Slane, where peace and happiness reign in the land of Peace and Loyalty, and every one of us has his spoon in heaven. Together with the rapid digital age and the openness and openness of the world, we are experiencing a great deal of uncertainty in everything that happens. There is also a lot of uncertainty in world politics. Even in countries with strong democracies, intolerance, aggression, and hatred are growing rapidly. A wave of populism has not stopped in the world, which seeks to distort reality and to provide the public with unwarranted illusions, half-truths and even open lies. Similarly, targeted and controlled disinformation campaigns by individual countries to influence political processes in other countries have not calmed down. This will also be a year of new challenges for the stability of the international system, as new power centres are emerging in the world. These conditions can change the balance of forces in several regions of the world. China's political, economic and military power is growing rapidly, leaving not only Asia and Oceania, but also elsewhere in the world. Many parts of Africa and the Middle East are destabilised by Islamic fundamentalism. The Middle East region will also remain one of the greatest security challenges in the near future, which can lead to new migratory flows and have a direct impact on Europe. At this point in time, the European Union has not found its role in the Middle East region - its role is only decreasing and increasingly reminds us of the outsider. Last year, in the Azov Sea, Russia demonstrated that it continued its aggression against Ukraine and did not respect international law. In turn, the political future of the European Union will be determined by the elections to the European Parliament this May and the subsequent approval of the European Commission. Even now, radical anti-European forces are openly asserting in the European Parliament elections to weaken the European Union from within in the event of victory. There may seem to be a certain period of silence and peace in the Baltic and Nordic regions, but it is very deceptive. This year, when deciding on internal and external policies, the word "security" will be very important. The concept of security is linked to the complex geopolitical situation right next to us, including in a number of Eastern Partnership countries. The still thick mist of London conceals the uncertain future solution after the United Kingdom's exit from the European Union. This will happen very soon, on 29 March this year. The new internal and external storms of the European Union caused by the internal political processes of several Member States, including the departure from the rule of law and essential democratic norms, as well as the negotiation process on the next period's multiannual budget of the European Union, migration risks do not increase the overall security situation in Europe today. That is why parliamentary diplomacy, along with other forms of diplomacy, is a very important instrument in defending Latvia's interests. Strengthening NATO presence, drawing up the European Union's multiannual budget, supporting Ukraine's territorial indivisibility, respect for human rights are among the issues where the role of parliamentarians is particularly necessary this year. Your meetings and discussions with colleagues from other countries, government representatives and leaders of international organisations are an important part of Latvia's common foreign policy interests. Ladies and gentlemen! Latvia's foreign policy is based on the Constitution of the Republic of Latvia, its values, which respect human dignity, respect human rights and the freedoms that characterise every modern, modern and democratic state. Latvia's foreign policy is a balanced foreign policy of interest. And it doesn't work after a moment's mood. These circumstances also determine Latvia's foreign policy priorities and foreign service tasks in 2019. At present, Latvia's foreign policy task has remained unchanged - to take care of the welfare and external security of Latvian citizens. This is the main priority of Latvia's foreign policy. Thus, first of all, Latvia will continue to strengthen its internal and external security by acceding to the maintenance and development of the current international system. Secondly, Latvia is actively in favour of a united and secure European Union even after the United Kingdom's departure. This will be done on the basis of the Baltic-Nordic cooperation format, which is a strategically important source of Latvia's economic prosperity and security. Thirdly, our country will continue to strengthen transatlantic relations based on relations between Latvia and the North Atlantic Alliance and close bilateral relations between Latvia and the United States and Canada. Fourthly, we will support Latvian companies to help with new export opportunities and markets and promote foreign investment. Finally, the Diaspora law will strengthen ties with people abroad, providing support to the Diaspora organisations. Dear Members, honourable Members, Since the restoration of Latvia's independence, the entire Latvian state administration and diplomatic service have ensured security and partnership in the international system. Unfortunately, the international system, in which the statehood of Latvia was born, is often challenged today. Over the last 30 years, the usual balance of power, based on an understanding of international security and society, about commitments and their indisputable nature, has become weaker. Latvia is a member of many international organisations, but it does not mean an immediate solution to all the problems we face right here at home. In today's world, Latvia must be ready to act quickly in response to changes in the situation and seek to support the maintenance of existing international systems and principles. The UN was the first international organisation to join Latvia when independence was regained. The UN and its institutions have been rightly criticised for the failures in ensuring peace and human rights. However, the UN is the most important guardian of international law in the world. Latvia has not yet been elected as a volatile member of the UN Security Council. The UN Security Council is the most influential format for global multilateral negotiations. And Latvia deserves global visibility and influence. That is why it is important for Latvia's national security, strengthening existing partnerships and strengthening diplomatic service that our country should take the place of a volatile member in the UN Security Council from 2026 to 2027, and this work should start now, because elections will not be an easy process. The country's membership of the UN Security Council has seen a number of benefits. Participation in the UN Security Council is the most visible demonstration of national sovereignty: only the members of the Council are involved in addressing the most important security issues in the world. Participation in the UN Security Council gives not only prestige, but also enhances the country's recognition, including in regions where the name of Latvia is foreign. For Latvian entrepreneurs this can become a practical benefit in finding contacts and promoting products and services. As I said, this is a task for which the Minister of Foreign Affairs and the Ministry Service have begun to prepare. Ladies and gentlemen! ‘ Most of the time is needed for the completion of work that has not yet begun." These words of the English writer John Tolkine are apt to describe all the events that have taken place so far in connection with the UK withdrawal process from the European Union, or Brexit. Brexit is in its own way a chair zone that is still dominated by ignorance. It should be noted with regret that there are no or no winners in the Brexit process. However, Brexit is not the end of history, nor is it the end of the European Union. In the United Kingdom, there are many Latvian citizens - these are thousands of ours. In turn, about a thousand British citizens live and work in Latvia, to which we will provide the most favourable conditions and support in all cases of Brexit. That is why the Saeima is making a declaration about the rights of UK citizens in Latvia after Britain leaves the European Union. At the same time, Latvia expects the United Kingdom to treat Latvian nationals equally favourably in the United Kingdom. Despite the disputes on the Brexit issue in the United Kingdom itself, it is important for Latvia to have a clear agreement between Great Britain and the European Union both on the withdrawal process and on future relations, because Britain is and will be an important cooperation partner for us. There are also deep and broad business links between our countries, as well as common security interests: we are united with the United Kingdom within NATO and regarding the prevention of threats posed by the Russian Federation in the world. Britain has deployed significant forces in the Baltic region. Latvia is interested in further strengthening bilateral links also after Brexit. Therefore, regardless of the outcome of this process, we are prepared to cooperate at all levels with our British partners. Ladies and gentlemen! It is no secret that the European Union has been in a crisis regime for several years. This was also confirmed last year by the consultation of citizens of the European Union on the future of the Union. The main demand of our people is a strong and united European Union, which we politicians must accept as a very strong and concrete task. Despite the shocks that the European Union is experiencing, I believe in its strong future! And that is also the future of Latvia! Why? There is a very practical reason for this: only a united European Union can compete and be an equivalent player in the world, especially in the global economy and world diplomacy. There is no other way for the European Union. A fragmented and fragmented Union can only waste its resources. The European Union must continue to be united in diversity based on the existence of strong and national states. However, in a context of globalisation, the European Union must not split into small and timid interest groups. We must build a strong European Union defence identity that complements and does not contradict NATO's capabilities. That is why we support strengthening European defence capabilities, but reject the idea of a European army that would duplicate NATO functions. We need a strong and united European foreign policy. We need a common European energy policy. And we need a lasting and strong relationship between the European Union and the US. It must be acknowledged that last year, the US's disagreement with the European Union and Europe as a whole reminded the family of disputes, but the United States and Europe have been partners on almost all major and major issues. Europe has received a great deal of support from the US, much more than from any other region of the world, just as we have provided support from the US. Moreover, Europe and the US are bound by close historical, cultural, political and security links. I am convinced that there is no better ally than Europe in the United States in the world, just as the United States is the biggest friend of Europe. Europe will remain committed to the ideals that have made both the US and European countries one of the most developed countries in the world. This year, the difficult negotiations on the European Union's multiannual budget for the next period, which will be directly affected by the UK's exit from the European Union, will continue. The Brexit agreement already has an impact on the planning of the future budget of the European Union. However, Brexit may not disproportionately reduce the amount of direct payments of cohesion and the common agricultural policy in the next multiannual budget of the Union. For Latvia, the proposal concerning the common agricultural and cohesion policy is simply unacceptable. In agriculture, this offer is in fact in breach of the commitment made in 2013 to equalise direct payments between all Member States. Both in cohesion policy and as a general principle, Latvia will strongly advocate convergence or equalization of living standards in order to reduce disparities between regions of the European Union. And it is and will remain a top priority in the debate on the next EU multiannual budget 2021 – 2027. The European Parliament, the Council, the Commission, the European Economic and Social Committee, the Committee of the Regions and the Committee of the Regions. The next multiannual budget must be able to implement the largest project in our region - Rail Baltica. The European Union's policies and funding will also play an essential role in strengthening energy security and independence, in scientific and research development. Excellency, ladies and gentlemen! This year, the strongest military alliance in the world - NATO - will celebrate its 70th anniversary. NATO was established when the Soviet troops stood by the banks of the river Elbe and Germany was divided. Today's world and the new threats are completely different, but NATO continues to exist after the Cold War. NATO remains the best defence against political and military blackmail, no matter where it comes from. And this is a particularly stabilising force on the European continent. Latvia has been a member of the Alliance for 15 years, which is actively and exemplaryly involved in strengthening collective security throughout Europe. The Baltic States are a successful example of how to simplify procedures so that allies can move within the Baltic States within days or even within hours. Our support as host country for allies from Albania, the Czech Republic, Italy, Canada, Montenegro, Poland, Slovakia, Slovenia and Spain, which ensure the expanded NATO presence in the Baltic States, is highly appreciated. Today, I would like to thank our allies once again for their invaluable contribution to strengthening both our common security and that of the Alliance. But now the Alliance has new security challenges: hybrid threats and cyber security risks have increased significantly, and instability needs to be addressed in both the eastern and the southern flanks. I am convinced that NATO and the United States continue to attach common political and security interests and that this is the most sustainable transatlantic link that unites both sides. Security has its own price. Therefore, Latvia supports the substantial strengthening of the US military presence in Poland. These steps must strengthen the security of both the region and the Alliance as a whole. Ladies and gentlemen! The European Union's Eastern Partnership policy is and remains Latvia's foreign policy priority. With regard to the countries of this policy, we have a clear view, like other European allies, that each of the Eastern partners is free to choose its own internal and foreign policy course. Never will Latvia agree to any areas of influence on the European continent, which have traditionally led to bloody conflicts. Ukraine is the largest Eastern Partnership country with which we have established an active political and economic dialogue since the early 1990s. Latvia supports Ukraine's desire to move closer to the European Union and NATO. Russia is unable to accept Ukraine's choice to build its own independent country, which is why this year is also promising to be difficult. We have provided all possible support to our Ukrainian colleagues both bilaterally and multilaterally. In this respect, I would like to appreciate the visit of the Speaker of the Saeima last summer, when Mrs Mūrniece became the first head of the European Union parliament to visit Donbass, as well as the participation of President Raimonds Vējonis in the celebration of the 85th anniversary of the Holodomor. Latvia will consistently support Ukraine's efforts to restore the territorial integrity of the country, will call on Russia to respect international law, as well as to release political prisoners and recently captured seafarers. We will continue to draw attention to the condition of Crimean Tatars in the occupied Crimean Peninsula. Of course, for this policy to be successful, there is a need for consistent action by all European allies and the US, so Ukraine will remain high on our government's agenda. I am delighted that Georgia is continuing its Euro-Atlantic integration decisively and is following Armenia rapidly after a genuine free and democratic election. Latvia will continue to provide Georgia and Armenia with all possible support for courage and commitment to reform. Latvia welcomes Azerbaijan's role in diversification of energy supplies for Europe. At the same time, we believe that it is important to continue seeking a solution to the Nagorno-Karabakh conflict. And our political dialogue with Belarus is very good, but the economic potential, especially in the transit sector, has still not been exploited. Latvia is also following closely the dynamics and rhetoric of relations between our neighbours - Belarus and Russia - which has recently changed significantly. The test of democracy and further development of the country in Moldova will largely be the planned parliamentary elections in February. In the area of conflict resolution, we hope that, with the support of the Organisation for Security and Cooperation in Europe and other international players, further progress will be made towards a settlement of the conflict, while respecting Moldova's territorial integrity. Ladies and gentlemen! Our relations with the Russian Federation are complex. And we must all be aware of that. We will never accept Russia's actions in violation of the principles of international law and in force towards its neighbours. We do not accept Russia's information war policy, which seeks to undermine the fundamental principles of democracy, human rights and the rule of law. I think everyone would be happy to find a country like Latvia, which respects freedom, human rights, strengthens democracy and thus ensures the development of the country. We are interested in working with Russia in areas where these values and interests match. A good neighbour is interested in the well-being of his neighbour, so we wish Russia to become a democratic and prosperous country that respects international law. Dear Members and honourable Members, This year, Latvia is holding the Presidency of the Baltic Assembly and the Baltic Council of Ministers. As a priority, we have raised security in the region, the development of regional connectivity and the defence of common interests in the European Union. Latvia will draw the attention of other countries to the pollution problem of the Baltic Sea basin, as in the last decade plastic waste has become one of the biggest threats to the ecosystem of the Baltic Sea basin. This requires an immediate solution to mitigate these consequences. Honourable Members! The long-standing unresolved situation related to limiting illegal financial flows in Latvia is a threat to the credibility and international reputation of the Latvian financial system. It is no coincidence that this year, in the annual foreign policy report, a separate chapter is devoted to the fight against money laundering. I would therefore particularly like to emphasise certain regularities and to draw attention to them. The fight against financial crime and respect for international sanctions is a common norm in the Western financial world. If a country does not respect this, market mechanisms or other countries shall be excluded. And market mechanisms are even more powerful in this respect than national action by separating them from legally toxic assets. Each public financial sector can take on the risks it is able to effectively control and manage. At the moment, Latvia must take urgent measures to reduce risks so that we remain part of the international financial system. But it would not be right to talk only about the responsibility of public or financial institutions, because every company should also contribute to economic cleanness: intolerance to the financing of terrorism and money laundering should be demonstrated. The fight against financial crime is important not only because it is required by the law, but first of all because it is right and it needs to be done in a true way, not just as a burden. The Latvian and international community expect effective cooperation between the non-financial and financial sectors, awareness raising about money laundering and related crimes, good corporate governance, real results in the area of criminal liability. It is therefore time for action. The key to the security of Latvia is a strong and competitive economy, as the food security of Latvia is also a safe Latvia. Despite the challenges in the Latvian financial sector, this is the time for Latvia to strengthen its economic potential. In the area of external economic relations, it is therefore necessary to assess how to support the information and digital technologies, food processing, pharmaceuticals and industry sectors, especially in the Far East, South America and North America, the Gulf countries and Africa. The Ministry of Foreign Affairs is already cooperating, will continue to cooperate and will provide all necessary support to our entrepreneurs. This year, a significant contribution to the economic growth of the European Union will be the new trade agreements of the European Union with Japan, Mexico, Singapore, which will open new markets and opportunities for Latvian entrepreneurs exporting goods and services, as well as recent agreements with Canada and South Korea. It is also essential to make progress in trade relations between the European Union and the US. And it is important to be aware that the economic cycle of the world is approaching its course after a long period of growth, so new challenges are expected in the coming years in terms of attracting exports and investments. We must therefore be able to use all the opportunities we have to strengthen existing markets and to identify and predict possible risks in good time. This will also allow our country to pass through the global economic cycle slopes and to expect the next rise. In the coming years, it is strategically important for the Latvian Government, together with its Estonian and Lithuanian colleagues, to provide all necessary support for the implementation of Rail Baltica project. This is undoubtedly the largest and most important project in our region. It is therefore more important than ever for all the Baltic States to work together and to work on a coordinated lobby in order to achieve the most favourable conditions for this project in the new financial perspective of the European Union. We will also continue our work on the creation of a regional natural gas market, ensuring the maximum liquidity of this market, strengthening also energy security and reducing energy dependence on a dominant supplier country. In order for the regional market to function successfully, it is necessary to implement the planned investments in strengthening and modernising the interconnections of the Baltic States. Ladies and gentlemen! This summer there will be a vote on XXV Winter Olympics, their venue. There is a real chance that the 2026 Winter Olympics will be held by the Kingdom of Sweden, but the Sigulda Bobslee and the Kamans track will become part of the hosts of these Olympics. It can become a great opportunity for the Latvian tourism industry and for the promotion of the international image of Latvia. Therefore, we are already providing and will continue to provide all the necessary support so that Latvia can accept the Olympic games here in our country, Sigulda. Ladies and gentlemen! It is important for Latvia to participate in development cooperation projects. There are very practical reasons for this. Within the framework of development cooperation, the country can effectively and purposefully achieve its foreign policy interests and increase its influence in a given region. With little public funding, Latvian entrepreneurs and representatives of non-governmental organisations have limited opportunities to participate in both EU and UN development cooperation programmes. This, in turn, limits the possibility of attracting financial resources from other countries for these projects. Over the last 10 years, our country's non-governmental organisations in the Eastern Partnership and Central Asia countries have provided an important contribution to human rights, better governance, media literacy and strategic communication issues. Thank them for their work so far. I therefore call for a strategic decision to be taken on adequate and lasting public funding for the future implementation of bilateral development cooperation policies. Honourable Members! The state of Latvia is interested in ensuring that many thousands of people living abroad not only lose their ties with Latvia, but also preserve our mother tongue for future generations. In the age of mobility, it is necessary to be able to ensure the sustainability of Latvia's state-diaspora relations, to strengthen ties with the Diaspora and to cooperate closely with its organisations. This can best be done by strengthening Latvian identity and belonging to Latvia, preserving Latvian language, carrying out cultural research and preservation. Diaspora should be closely involved in the development of the Latvian economy, public administration and science, especially by supporting its self-organisation efforts in the field of economics and innovation. It is in Latvia's interest to use the intelligence and experience of the Diaspora for the benefit of the state, involving them in economic and political activities and building common long-term goals for cooperation with the Diaspora. On 1 January this year, the Diaspora Law, which was established in true collaboration, came into force. Its development was a model for the ability to involve many organisations and institutions, to negotiate and agree. I hope that together we will also be able to ensure that the law is implemented in real terms. The Saeima will have an important role to play there, adopting necessary amendments to 12 sectoral laws and accordingly deciding on the allocation of funds to the state budget. Excellency, ladies and gentlemen! This year is important for Latvia's foreign service. On 29 July we will celebrate the centenary of our foreign service and commemorate those Latvian diplomats who have joined the country in the context of the occupation, exile or died in the Soviet and Nazi German penitentiary camps. On its behalf and on behalf of the Latvian Foreign Service, I would like to thank all the ministries of industry, state and local authorities, non-governmental organisations, social partners and in particular the Latvian Foreign Service, who last year helped to implement Latvia's foreign policy challenges. Thank you all for your work. Our generation has the opportunity to live in a free, democratic and parliamentary republic, to live and participate in the formation, strengthening and prosperity of their country. Therefore, I look forward to working together with the President of the Republic of Latvia, the Saeima, the Cabinet of Ministers and the public to achieve these tasks in the most effective way. Thank you for your attention. (Applause)
ParlaMint-LV_2019-01-24-PT13-515-U3	Thank you to the Minister for Foreign Affairs.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-01-24-PT13-515-U4	Let's start a debate. Name Saeima Presidium for President Ināra Mūrniece.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-01-24-PT13-515-U5	Dear colleagues, Are there objections if both speaking times are combined? ( Interface: “No! ”) ) Thank you. Mr. President, Prime Minister, Ministers, Members of the Saeima, Excellency! Everyone here! Thank you, Mr Rinkēvičs, for the report and for the progress made last year, as in the previous government. Dear colleagues, This is the first foreign policy debate in the new - 13. In the family. It is a special responsibility for us. And I have to say, this is the first foreign policy debate the day after we approved the government of Krišjānis Kariņš. It happened here in Parliament. I thank Mr Kariņš for his participation in today's Saeima sitting and foreign policy debates. Dear colleagues, Voters expect a high-quality political discussion from Members, the ability not only to listen to each other, but also the ability to agree on the way forward. In other words, the maturity of democracy that belongs to a country that looks back on its centenary. I am pleased to confirm that there is strong support in the new Parliament for a stable and firm Latvian Euro-Atlantic direction. However, the dynamics of events and the rapid changes in Europe and in the world do not allow us to rely solely on what we have achieved. The public in Latvia, as elsewhere in Europe, expects active and responsible parliamentary work on foreign policy and European Union issues. Our common goal is and remains ensuring the independence of Latvia. This means determined work on strengthening security of Latvia, a skilled representation of interests in the European Union and targeted development of external economic cooperation. Our first priority is security. Russia's armed forces, the deployment of Iscander missiles in Kaliningrad, the chemical attack in Solsbury, Great Britain and, finally, Russia's military activity in Ukraine, its aggressive behaviour in the Strait of Kerch and the Azov Sea - these are just a few examples of the growing security risks for Latvia and Europe as a whole. Our strength lies in NATO's unity. We highly appreciate Canada's decision to continue to lead the NATO Battle Group in Latvia until 2023. Like the Foreign Minister, I will name the nations that are taking part in this group. Thank you to the military personnel of Albania, the Czech Republic, Italy, Canada, Montenegro, Poland, Slovakia, Slovenia and Spain, who are present in Latvia. Thank you also to those countries that regularly perform military patrolling in the Baltic airspace. We are grateful to all all the allies who ensure NATO's expanded presence in the Baltic States and Poland by strengthening the NATO Eastern Flank. This shows true solidarity and gives us confidence that we will not be alone at a time of danger. I would like to thank the former Minister for Defence, Mr Bergmanis. Thank you, Mr. Raimond Bergmanis. During his work, NATO Battle Group in Latvia was established, the National Armed Forces were strengthened. I wish the new Minister of Defence, Mr Pābrika, to continue this purposefully, and I know that this will be the case. We are strong and feel secure with allies, but we are not only the beneficiaries of security. Latvian defence expenditure reaches two per cent of gross domestic product. We, like Lithuania and Estonia, must continue to invest increasingly in defence in order to gradually reach 2.5 percent. Latvia and its allies participate in international missions and operations outside Europe. We need close cooperation between NATO and the European Union in the development of military mobility so that the forces of allies can move within the Alliance without delay in the event of a threat. In addition to the fight against traditional security risks, hybrid threats must continue to be mitigated. In 2018, Latvia's responsible institutions worked successfully to prevent external interference in the electoral process of the Saeima. And it had a great deterrent effect. Our experience in strengthening election security and combating disinformation is useful not only in Latvia, but also in other European Union and NATO countries. Baltic security is guaranteed by a strong transatlantic link. We listen carefully to various, even controversial, signals from Washington. But practical work is important. Last year, the US-Baltic Summit reaffirmed our long-term cooperation with the US in the areas of security and defence. This week, with a strong vote, the US House of Representatives has shown strong support for NATO. The Saeima and the US Congress are united by a close and open dialogue. We will actively continue the trust-based parliamentary dialogue with the US Congress by strengthening our common understanding of security threats, the future of the transatlantic alliance and the need for US military presence in our region. Dear colleagues, Today, I would like to raise an issue that calls for the urgent and targeted work of the new government. Ordering the financial sector is a matter of national security of Latvia. 12. The Saeima adopted amendments to the Law on the Prevention of Money Laundering and Financing of Terrorism. They have managed to reduce the share of non-resident deposits in Latvian banks and to improve banking operations in Latvia. However, that is far too little. 13. The Saeima, working for a specific sub-committee, will exercise strong parliamentary oversight over financial sector alignment and the implementation of Moneyval recommendations. We see positive developments in the work of the Anti-Money Prevention Service, but we expect the financial sector's supervisory authorities to cooperate closely and coordinate their activities. We also expect the law enforcement authorities to work decisively to bring to the courtroom cases on money laundering in Latvia. Dear colleagues, The Saeima plays a crucial role and responsibility in defining Latvia's interests in the European Union. The consultation of European citizens on the future of Europe, which took place last year, has given a good boost to the European elections in May this year. In Latvia people have appreciated the benefits over 15 years since we are a member of the European Union. At the same time, open negotiations are dissatisfied with European bureaucracy. Concerns about terrorist threats, radicalisation, illegal migration, and increasing risks of climate change are at stake. This also creates the ground for populism and Euroscepticism. Dear colleagues, The European Union is not something external to which we are still asking for something. The European Union is also our own. Democratic values and the rule of law must be the basis on which we are based in defining our interests and positions. And Latvia's interests are best represented when Europe is united. In the European Union, Baltic cooperation is highlighted as a successful example of regional cooperation. This year Latvia is holding the Presidency of the Baltic Assembly and the Baltic Council of Ministers and we have more opportunities to work proactively on transport, energy and digital connectivity in the region. 13. The Saeima will closely follow the projects of the Baltic transport and energy infrastructure - Rail Baltica, synchronization of the electricity networks of the Baltic States with common European networks, creation of a regional natural gas market. It is our responsibility that every euro allocated to Baltic infrastructure projects be used fully and without delay by the taxpayers of Latvia and the European Union. This year, one of the most important challenges for the European Union is to agree on the next multiannual budget by 2027. Let us not live in illusions - these negotiations are and will be very difficult, especially given that Britain is leaving the European Union. I call on the Commission on European Affairs to continue to actively monitor so that the outcome of the negotiations allows us to attract European Union funding wisely. It is in our interest to reach an agreement on cohesion policy and direct payments according to Latvia's needs. It is also important that our researchers and businesses have as favourable as possible to participate in programmes at European level. The British withdrawal process from the European Union is followed by many families, both in Latvia and in Latvia... those who live in Great Britain. There is still uncertainty. Responsible work is waiting for the Saeima to adopt the necessary amendments to Latvian legislation by the time of the withdrawal of Great Britain. If withdrawal takes place in accordance with the agreement, Latvian citizens and entrepreneurs will have clear "game rules". However, we must also be prepared for the most critical scenario. I can confirm that we are closely monitoring the interests of Latvian citizens in the UK. On the other hand, based on the principle of reciprocity, we plan to maintain the current rights of those citizens of the United Kingdom who are legally residing and working in Latvia. Undoubtedly, the United Kingdom will continue to be a vital cooperation partner for us. Finally, I would like to highlight the close cooperation between the Baltic and Nordic countries. It is a great advantage that we belong to one of the most stable and, at the same time, the most dynamic regions in the world, characterised by growth, innovation and digitalisation. I am very happy to meet my Baltic and Nordic colleagues and represent our region's common understanding elsewhere in Europe and in the world. Our region is also characterised by a strong parliamentary role in society and a deep tradition of parliamentary diplomacy. Colleagues, we must keep this with the Baltic and Nordic parliamentarians! Ladies and gentlemen! 2018 was the year of the centenary of Latvia. Last year we were proud to see many Latvian choirs and dance groups from all over the world. Centenary of our country was celebrated in 37 countries around the world. In the community and diversity of the Latvian Diaspora, there is the greatest strength and guarantee for the existence of our people. Adoption of the Diaspora law and achievement of the previous Saeima. Now we all have to work together on its successful implementation. The first results are already available. The network of regional remigration coordinators set up last year by the Ministry of Environmental Protection and Regional Development is a real support for promoting re-migration. Within the framework of this project 132 families have returned to Latvia. More families in Latvia are planning to return to Latvia in the near future. This is an example of how to implement a good idea. We have the desire to see more and more compatriots come back - think about how to do this and get to work! Parliament provides the legal basis for implementation by the executive, but is aware of the need for continued work. Honourable Members! Our policy must become more mature. We need to understand better how to properly implement the wishes and ideals of society while standing close to the ground and bearing in mind Latvia and Latvia's interests. In his government declaration Zigfried Anna Meierovics wrote: “Let all of us be united and guided by one idea – “Latvia”! This call is also valid at a time when the new government is starting work. Foreign policy debates in Parliament, which are becoming increasingly qualitative every year, are the best way to expect the 98th anniversary of the Republic of Latvia's international recognition of de iure. Colleagues! Good job! Thank you. (Applause)
ParlaMint-LV_2019-01-24-PT13-515-U6	Name to Prime Minister Arthur Krišjānis Kariņš.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-01-24-PT13-515-U7	Mr. President-in-Office of the Republic. Dear President of the Saeima. Dear Members, Honourable Members! Ministers! Excellency! Ladies and gentlemen! This is a truly unusual and, at the same time, symbolic moment, because I have the opportunity to address you on foreign policy matters on my second day in office. I have a beautiful speech prepared, but I will not read it to you. I will say a few words above all, and that is: the main priorities of our Foreign Minister, Edgars Rinkēvičs, which were mentioned in his speech, are not just his; they are the main priorities of all our government. The entire government is behind it. This can be read in our government's declaration and can also be seen when we draft our action. What is the basis for what Mr. Rinkēvičs said if he takes the nature of that salt? Western course. Western orientation, Western geopolitical orientation. This is and will remain the irony course of our country's foreign policy. But this course is based on values. The values that we share with all our allies. It is based on three things: democracy, the rule of law and human rights. Value-based orientation. It's very durable. In our foreign policy, too, as the report has said, we have, as I can see, three such great challenges at the moment, such uncertainties. One is the report by the Committee of Experts of the Council of Europe on the prevention of money laundering and terrorist financing (Moneyval). A very long name. The second is Russia's foreign policy. And the third is the processes in the European Union, including Brexit. Moneyval report. We have to understand that the composition of the report... there is a real potential threat to our economy as a whole, to our society. We must not get to the so-called grey list. It is clear that the government is determined to take immediate action in this regard, but we also have to understand one thing - with open eyes - we do not have much time. But our government is determined to do everything possible to prevent this threat. We understand that these are threats, and we take them very, very seriously. On Russia's foreign policy. The Minister's report stated that it was aggressive and provocative. That's it. Maybe even put it mildly, but now he's a diplomat. That's right to say, yes. We take this very seriously, but in cooperation with our partners, especially in the NATO Alliance, that is how we will take action. We may not have a direct impact on what is happening outside our borders, but we can have an impact on what is happening in our country. And we will do our utmost to continue our good cooperation with NATO allies. We will do our utmost to have the permanent presence of NATO allies in Latvia and even increase as much as possible. As a country, we will continue to participate in the wider activities of the NATO Alliance also abroad, because only if you help your ally can you expect the ally to help you as well. We will continue this course. And about the European Union. Now the first one is Brexit. We all know very well that no one knows how this will end, what the result will be. Neither does the United Kingdom. There is also the threat of a “hard” Brexit, either, that there might be chaos beginning at national borders, in trade and so on. God gives that it is not. But it is in our country's interest to have two things: the first, in any case, to maintain the best possible relationship with the United Kingdom, whatever the way Britain decides. An important partner today, an important partner tomorrow. Whether they leave the European Union to the end or, surprisingly, this does not happen, but... It's up to them. And the second thing is the defence of our citizens who live in Great Britain. So good relations with the United Kingdom in any case and the protection and defence of our citizens. Colleagues, I mentioned yesterday that those external waters are not very calm. But we will do our utmost to keep our country's course stable, our foreign policy will remain unchanged, and we will work closely with European partners not only on the Brexit issue, but also on the multiannual budget. We do not believe that if Britain exits, we would have to achieve a disproportionately large reduction in cohesion policy. We will stand up for the fair use of these funds in our country as well. All this will remain the same, but we will keep the course, and with our combined efforts in Europe and in the world, those waters that are now slightly dragged will also calm down in the future. Thank you for your attention. (Applause)
ParlaMint-LV_2019-01-24-PT13-515-U8	Thank you to the Prime Minister. Name to Rihard Kola, Chairman of the Foreign Affairs Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-01-24-PT13-515-U9	I ask my colleagues to allow us to combine the two times of the debate.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-01-24-PT13-515-U10	Do Members have objections? There is no objection. Please bring together the two times of the debate.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-01-24-PT13-515-U11	Thank you. Mr. President-in-Office of the Republic. Dear President of the Saeima. Ministers! Mr. Foreign Minister! Dear Members, Excellency! Ladies and gentlemen! I thank the Foreign Minister for his foreign report. One thing that I want to say right away and which I really appreciate, which may not have been shown in the report itself, but which we heard from you here today, in the troupe, is the importance of parliamentary diplomacy, especially in shaping Latvia's foreign policy and in representing and defending national interests. We have already looked at the Foreign Affairs Commission and the European Affairs Commission, and I also hope that Members have been actively involved in supplementing and improving this report: the openness of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs to supplement the report by Parliament is a welcome initiative and practice also in this parliamentary term. Last year was the year of the centenary of Latvia, where wide discussions on the past and the next 100 years were organised thematically. It was a good time to evaluate the importance of the contribution of our citizens and national governments to Latvia's independence. For the most part of the 20th century, Latvia was not free, but our foreign policy was alive, ensuring that the occupation of Latvia was not recognised throughout the 50s, and in this time I am adding our diaspora to our diplomats. On behalf of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, the non-repeated report on foreign affairs, I allow Parliament to agree with most of its content. But rewording Churchis: politics is the ability to predict what will happen tomorrow and next year, and the ability to explain why it did not happen. Foreign debate is already a tradition, and in this context, it is also a tradition that one hundred percent of the satisfaction with the report is not ever. Those who say that, however, there is still a lack of specific objectives and a strategic vision of what we are aiming for in foreign policy. But coming back to the centenary. In the century, we have a new parliament to work until the first centenary of the Saeima, in 2022. As the foreign debate takes place in the Saeima, I think it is appropriate to launch a discussion on how we could further strengthen the role of Parliament in the formulation and implementation of Latvia's foreign policy in the foreign policy report. We have received confirmation from the Minister for Foreign Affairs that parliamentary diplomacy has and will play a role. The issue of the parliamentary involvement in foreign policy has been raised in this term of office, and there should not be a situation where Parliament is left behind from these matters, after all, we are a parliamentary republic. The world has become too global, too interconnected and too closely connected to leave diplomacy exclusively in the hands of the executive. Many decisions taken outside our borders have a significant impact on the common future of everyone and countries. These decisions are taken in both global organisations - as the United Nations or the World Trade Organisation - and regional - as the European Union, the Council of Europe and others, and inter-regional - as NATO and OSCE. In these institutions, decisions are made that can potentially affect Latvian legislation or its daily life or even directly prevail over our laws. With this kind of development of global governance, the role of democratic national parliaments should not be reduced only to the signatories and signatories of the treaties. Yes, of course, the European Courts Commission is involved in decision-making on European matters, but European Union issues are not all foreign policy of Latvia. Parliament should be involved in defining and implementing the objectives and tasks of Latvia's foreign policy, our common foreign policy. In many parts of the world, parliamentary diplomacy is developing and strengthening, and this also shows the development of representative democracy in the 21st century. Of course, the foreign restaurant has a great deal of functions - indeed, very many issues lie on their shoulders, but we should not forget that on many issues we are able to help very successfully at parliamentary level not as a competitive but complementary element in our foreign policy. As stated in the declaration of the new government, the Cabinet of Ministers holds a unified position on foreign affairs and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs defines the so-called lines of their path in the foreign sector. Given that our foreign policy concerns the competence of the legislator, why should the Saeima not involve in their formulation and addition? Members of the Saeima meet regularly with their foreign colleagues, go on missions abroad, and it would be important that our external communication is united and strong, thus forming one foreign policy in Latvia. In the name of national interests, there is a need for one foreign policy, not an executive power, the Saeima or, where more crazy, the foreign policy of individual municipalities or individuals. It is possible to find ways of involving Parliament in the formulation of foreign policy. One of the untapped opportunities is the Members' Cooperation Group. There have been stereotypes about this format in society as political groups of tourism, and indeed, serious work has only taken place in the rare. But an effective cooperation group created with ambitions and objectives will provide an opportunity to exchange best practices with politicians and decision-makers of other countries, to strengthen bilateral relations and to lobbying Latvia's national interests. I call on every Member who is prepared to work in such formats and who is already working to be active and collegial so that cooperation groups are not only formal but that they are alive, dynamic and with added value. The formats such as the OECD Parliamentary Network also allow to establish contacts, develop cooperation and, what is important, learn best practices to inspire from them and possibly take over here in Latvia. Parliamentary delegations are also present in other international organisations, such as the OSCE, the Council of Europe and NATO, and I call on the representatives of these delegations to be active and take advantage of the opportunities offered by these formats, thus adding a parliamentary dimension to the representation provided by our executive power and equally representing Latvia's national interests. I have addressed the World Bank and the International Monetary Fund, where there is also a parliamentary network, expressing interest in the Latvian Parliament to actively engage in this international form of parliamentary diplomacy cooperation. Regional cooperation is no less important. Baltic-Nordic cooperation or NB8 has historical roots - our common cultural and historical heritage, similar views of regional development and global processes. We can be pleased that the Baltic-Nordic partnership makes a unique contribution not only at regional, but at European level. Parliamentary cooperation between the Baltic and Nordic countries is also closer than ever. It is a contemporary response to today's political reality. At the same time, there is still a great potential for cooperation between parliamentarians, and we ourselves, Members, should contribute to this. As increasingly close partners, the Baltic States and the Nordic countries need to evaluate what is expected in Europe and the world. In matters where the position matches all eight countries, we can have a united force to promote interests, for example, in the area of climate change. It is also necessary to create and solve... strengthen new partnerships not only in the horizontal but also in the vertical - North-South - dimension. Here, of course, I am referring to the Three Seas initiative: the cooperation between the 12 countries of the European Union that are geographically located between the Adriatic, the Baltic and the Black Sea, which focuses on infrastructure, energy and digital connectivity. This format is not only for the Member States of the European Union, but it can also form a dialogue within the framework of the Eastern Partnership countries. Cooperation can never be too much, but it can be used more effectively. It is precisely projects that can be implemented in a practical and regional way that will add value to this format. All of the above forms of cooperation at parliamentary level need to be effectively synchronised with the executive to ensure that they interact as effectively as possible. I believe that, for this purpose, the possibility of setting up a sub-committee at the Saeima at the Foreign Affairs Commission, a sub-committee for international and regional cooperation, consisting primarily of Members who are representatives of the Saeima in international organisations, should be considered. The main tasks would be to assess, formulate and examine the national position, thus giving it additional weight and importance, as it has also been approved by Parliament. Colleagues, in the global context, the current foreign policy challenges - Iran's hegemony ambitions in the Middle East, the increase in Chinese positions, Russian aggression and nihilism, the fragmentation of the European Union and, in a way, the growing populism, the Syrian civil war and transnational terrorism and cyber threats - mark the most challenging time in today's foreign policy. Britain's withdrawal from the European Union is also currently worrying for many people in Latvia and Europe. As stressed by Foreign Minister, Speaker of the Saeima and Prime Minister, Latvia's priority is to preserve the scope of rights of our citizens after Brexit, also ensuring equal treatment of British citizens here in Latvia. And yesterday, the Foreign Affairs Commission already decided to push forward the draft decision of the Saeima, in which we would instruct the Cabinet of Ministers... would therefore be given a mandate to prepare appropriate amendments to the law in order to ensure such rights for British citizens after 29 March this year. We also expect an equal treatment from our British colleagues. The events of recent years have also forced us to reassess the role of the United Nations. Too often, we have seen how the UN Security Council is paralyzed and how international rule of law and human rights are being manipulated. Our task is to guide the reform of the UN Security Council on the international agenda, reviewing its working methods and principles, with particular attention to the openness, accountability and transparency of these processes. As with everything, the UN needs "renewals" in the 21st century. Given that the permanent members of the UN Security Council have a huge responsibility to ensure peace in the world, none of the permanent Member States should abuse their right to veto, thereby circumventing the principles of the United Nations Charter. Latvia should also use its representation in the UN as actively as possible, raising issues in the field of international law and human rights. Colleagues! The main goal of foreign policy is to ensure the sustainability of Latvia's independence in an ever-changing world and in the storms of foreign policy. Two elements were present and indispensable in the establishment of the State of Latvia as an independent state: the release of the territory and its international recognition. These two aspects remain fundamental to the security and success of our country. Therefore, the diplomatic corps should never be offended by the word "diploma army" - in a way, you are an army, our soldiers, who are fighting for Latvia, but with other weapons. And speaking of soldiers... here I am using the process taking place in the European Union with the United Kingdom... There is such an ancient Celtic saying that the Celtic soldiers were not afraid of anything in this world, except that the sky could fall into the head. We know that Celtic people are an ancient people who have lived in the British islands for centuries. And if we're talking in analogy here, so "heavens fall on the head", that's the only one they're afraid of. We know that the sky is blue during the day. Night in the sky is stars. And then we can ask: what is the flag of the European Union? Blue with yellow stars. And this moment, I guess, is when the British skies fall. And when representing Latvia, I think that our call to everyone is: do not be afraid of anything! And let's all put our hands on that sky never blows up on us. Let us have a lively, up-to-date and valuable debate! Thank you. (Applause)
ParlaMint-LV_2019-01-24-PT13-515-U12	Thank you. Name Chair of the Committee on European Affairs Vita Anda Steel.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-01-24-PT13-515-U13	Mr. President, Madam President of the Saeima, Mr. Prime Minister, Ministers, colleagues, Excellency, friends! A united and strong Europe: it is our foreign policy priority; it is also our security, our prosperity and our common space. Europe is not just an economic space or a monetary union; it is not just an additional budgetary opportunity or a wider living space for our students and for our society. Europe is also a space of values. And I want to talk about Europe as a value area today. Each Member State of the European Union, when acceding to the European Union, has demonstrated its membership of the common values. These are democratic standards, human rights, civil liberties. This is the rule of law and the independence of the judiciary. But this area of democratic values now also faces threats, both internal and external. External - hybrid forms of war with influence of information space, propaganda, manipulation of social networks. These are manipulations whose influence is already documented in Europe and elsewhere in the world; they are manipulations that allow external forces to potentially intervene in democratic systems, possibly weakening our united and strong Europe. Internally, these manipulations are the actions of individual Member States which reflect deviations from those values which seemed to be common to all: independence of the judiciary, freedom of the press, unbridled functioning of civil society. I call for a strong integration of democratic values in our foreign policy. The Member States of the European Union will be looking for answers to the questions this year. One of these questions: what is possible action by the European Union to protect its information space and its electoral process from hybrid war manipulations? The Latvian vote must follow this debate so that the European Union's response to these challenges is strong and effective, so that our experience informs and strengthens the European Union's action. There is a European Union action plan on disinformation. It aims to improve the capacity of the European Union institutions to recognise, analyse and uncover disinformation, strengthen responses, mobilise the private sector to combat disinformation and improve the public's ability to resist the effects of disinformation. This applies in particular to the European Parliament elections in 2019. The private sector working in the Internet and social media is invited to voluntarily agree on actions to ensure transparency in the placement and payment of political advertising, actions to close down false profiles and accounts, to expose false news and to catch so-called bots or trolls. The 2019 elections will show how effective this voluntary commitment by the private sector can be in reducing the impact of disinformation and ensuring fair elections. We must be prepared to make a critical assessment of success and failure; we must be open to further regulation if such voluntary commitment proves to be unable to effectively protect the European Information Area. In the European Union this year, we will also find an answer to another question: what if there are deviations from the common democratic values within the European Union - in the Member States -? We must have the opportunity to influence Member States if they depart from common values, but at the moment these influence possibilities are really limited: we can take away the right to vote. This is the case for guillotine in situations where a more nuanced approach may be more effective, allowing the first way to negotiate, then gradually acting in defence of common values. Let guillotine only fall at the very end of the process. In the European Union, there is an opportunity to link respect for European values with the availability of EU budget resources. Such a policy would extend the range of action that we, as a Member State of the European Union, could use if we were to deviate from these common values in our own ranks. The European Union's multiannual budget will also be discussed intensively next year. It's gonna be easy to get in the technical details, the calculation formulas and the cuff-up on the back of the money-delict. But the European Union's multiannual budget is also about values. And here, Latvia has to watch over reducing inequalities in the European Union. Cohesion policy in the European Union is the one that makes it possible to level the level of prosperity in Europe. That is solidarity between the Member States. And this solidarity is essential to maintain a united and strong Europe. There will be a fight in the budget debate between those who want budgetary resources to be more intensive in addressing the new challenges and those who believe that the objectives of cohesion policy have not yet been achieved. I wish the foreign service, we ourselves in Parliament, the executive power for the budget debate, the ability to maintain the cohesion policy that Latvia so needs, while allowing the European Union to address the challenges of the future. The Ministry of Foreign Affairs has successfully helped to adopt the Diaspora law last year. Parliament has approved this law and the foreign service now has a coordinating role to play in its implementation. There is a lot in our world - more than 10 percent of our citizens and citizens live outside Latvia. Many of these people live in Great Britain, so the protection of their rights is particularly important in the Brexit situation. The Minister mentioned the chair zone in which we have relations with Brexit. And indeed, we are still in a situation of uncertainty, of uncertainty. This situation is making great demands on all of us. We in the Saeima must also be prepared to react quickly if solutions to the situation require action by the legislator. Last year's achievement - the new Diaspora law - marks Latvia's readiness to take on permanent responsibilities against this part of our people: to help maintain the Latvian language, identity, ensure opportunities for participation and facilitate the way home. Let us expect active coordination from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs in order to bring about the implementation of the Diaspora law. We look forward to a number of changes to the law resulting from the Diaspora Law. We also hope to see adequate funding for implementation of the programmes included in this law in the state budget for 2019. Latvians are global. And belonging to Latvia must be strengthened wherever we are in the world. Challenges for Latvia in Europe, challenges for Latvia in foreign policy this year are very great. I call on all of us to take on this work and do not forget to place the prism of democratic values on every activity that is ahead of us. Thank you. (Applause)
ParlaMint-LV_2019-01-24-PT13-515-U14	Thank you to the Chair of the Committee on European Affairs. Mr Schnores, would it be enough for you to have a debate with seven minutes? On behalf of the Group of the National Alliance, Member Edwin Schnore.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-01-24-PT13-515-U15	Dear Chairman of the Saeima, honourable colleagues, President, Minister of Foreign Affairs, Prime Minister! According to Eurobarometer data, the main problem that concerns Europeans today is migration. This issue is also very important for the people of Latvia. Since 2015, there has been a debate in the Saeima about the position that Latvia and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs should take on the issue of migration. When the re-allocation proposed by the European Commission was decided in 2015, the National Alliance voted 'no' because it was clear from the first day that this re-allocation would not solve the migration problem. Economic migrants will simply not be willing to live in Eastern Europe, where they will be brought by power or forgery. The Foreign Minister said at the time that, however pointless, the European Commission's plan should be supported, because otherwise NATO partners may refuse to protect our country. As a result, 374 migrants were brought to Latvia, who, after registration in the Office of Citizenship and Migration Affairs, seem to have gone back to Western Europe in almost full composition. On the one hand, we could be pleased that economic migrants did not linger here, but on the other hand, this whole farce demonstrated how short-sighted and dilethal the solutions proposed by the European Commission to the migration crisis are. The Foreign Affairs Report says that Latvia wants to be at the heart of Europe, that is, it wants to decide and be responsible not only for its own destiny, but also for the fate of Europe as a whole. Four years ago, Latvia did not take this opportunity and found the courage to say that Brussels was wrong. With our voice in the Justice and Home Affairs Council, we then helped to force migrants to those countries of the European Union that opposed it. Most of these countries are now opposed to the United Nations migration compact. The Latvian Saeima also adopted a resolution calling on the Ministry of Foreign Affairs not to join this document. Unfortunately, Latvia's representative in the UN voted not to vote against, but abstained. The National Association believes that by doing so, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs has not adequately reflected the will of the Latvian Parliament and the people on the issue of migration. The Foreign Affairs Report states that it is important to listen to people and to do so more often than has been done so far. The Foreign Minister points out that Latvia has a civil dialogue on current European issues, whose conclusions have been sent by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs to Brussels in order to know what Latvian people think about there. The 17-page long report mentions migration only twice, and one of them says that Latvian citizens have called for "promoting the reception of migrants". And it is a situation where, according to surveys, 80 percent of Latvia's population immigration from third countries causes negative emotions. Even according to Eurobarometer data, Latvians are among the most sceptical in this area across the European Union. Instead of reflecting this popular opinion in the foreign policy of the country, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs is trying to distance itself from it and hide it from the international arena. The National Association considers this to be wrong, because it is about the will of the people, about the opinion of the majority. No matter how dark and silly it may seem to someone. If the people so believe, then the Saeima, the Government and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs must do so, rather than look for different fraudulent ways to avoid it. Yes, Latvians are very sceptical about migration, but this sketch is not born in an empty place. This is a certain historical context. And we all know very well what it is. Many in this Chamber will remember that the first major demonstration of the third awakening in 1988 was a demonstration against migration. The people who took part in it, including me, did not protest against the metro as a vehicle, but against the introduction of migrants as a potential metro, which the construction of the metro would carry with them. The suspension of migration was also one of the central themes in the 1988 Creative Unions Plenary. And not for nothing, because the state of the foundation was really dramatic at that time - 52 percent in your country. Now it's 62 percent, and it's better, but anyway it's far from what it was before the occupation. This means that the effects of colonisation and occupation have not been resolved. Every day you still have to fight for the Latvian language, its status and its use in Latvia. The Ministry of Foreign Affairs should explain all of this openly and loudly abroad, explain Latvia's specific situation in the area of migration, and do not hesitate to explain the historical context of the occupation of the USSR. The Ministry of Foreign Affairs must express and defend the opinion of the majority of Latvian society abroad, even if this does not coincide with the personal opinion of the Minister of Foreign Affairs. On migration, the Foreign Affairs Report says that solidarity with those Member States of the European Union that are facing the greatest migratory pressures is important. We see that it is not only faced by Greece and Malta, but also by a whole series of rich Western countries whose short-sighted policy leads migrants to Europe. These are countries in which the opponents of migration are demonised and in which political correctness has weakened common sense. Such countries should not create illusions that others will solve their problems. Solidarity can only be with those who do their utmost to prevent and not promote illegal migration. In the introduction to the report, it is stressed that the main task of foreign policy is to promote the well-being and external security of Latvian citizens. The fight against Russian disinformation and propaganda has a key role to play in the security context. It depends to a large extent on the effectiveness of this fight in the European and global context, because no one else in the European Union knows Russia better than Latvians, Lithuanians and Estonians. When Estonia expelled Russian journalists in 2017, we know that there was a good reason for this. For example, the OSCE High Representative for Media Freedom condemned Estonia at the time, as did the Head of the European Journalists Association. It can be assumed that these gentlemen do not understand Russian, do not watch Russian television and do not know the journalists who work there (in their footsteps). The task of Latvian diplomats is to educate Western colleagues so that our partners can respond adequately to Russian hybrid threats, and so that the well-designed intentions of Western allies do not sometimes have the opposite effect. Let me just give you one example. The Nordic Council of Ministers has already been granting money to Latvian journalists' projects for two years... ( INTERPRETATION FROM THE GROUP: “Stop! ” ) literally two minutes... One minute. ( Intercretion: “He said that it would be enough for seven minutes! ” )... Everyone can apply, but the law says that priority is given to materials in Russian. As a result, the Nordic taxpayers' money in Latvia is strengthened by its already strong...
ParlaMint-LV_2019-01-24-PT13-515-U16	Mr Schnores, I am very sorry, you promised that you would enter the time until the break. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. I. Zarins: “The promises must be fulfilled!” Thank you very much. You can apply for a debate once again, it is possible. How's the other time... I have to ask the Members whether there are objections if Mr Schnores could finish in one minute? ( Internouncing call.) There is no objection. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-01-24-PT13-515-U17	... So materials in Russian are given priority in the competition held by the Nordic Council of Ministers. As a result, the already strong position of Russian in Latvia on Nordic taxpayers' money coincides surprisingly with what is written in Russian foreign policy doctrine: “Strengthening Russian and Russian-speaking media positions abroad.” And it's logical that after the occupation of Crimea, the Kremlin's doctrine includes such a concept, because where there is strong Russian language, education and media, there's a Russian world that Russia can come to defend one day. The task of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of Latvia is to explain these simple truths to our partners in the Nordic countries and elsewhere in the world. Thank you. (Applause)
ParlaMint-LV_2019-01-24-PT13-515-U18	Thank you. We will continue the debate after the break. Please call me! Please register the Members! Time for notifications. Name of Member Janina Kursīte-Pakulė. So Mrs Kursīte-Pakules has withdrawn her statement. Name Marija Golubeva, member of the Saeima Secretary, to read the results of the registration as soon as they have been prepared.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-01-24-PT13-515-U19	Not registered: Ilze Indricsone , Ieva Krapāne, Jānis Reirs, Juta Strīķe... And, Atty Zakaistov.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-01-24-PT13-515-U20	Thank you. Interruption until 11 a.m. ( Interruption)
ParlaMint-LV_2019-01-24-PT13-515-U21	Dear colleagues, I invite you to take your seats in the Chamber so that we can continue the Saeima sitting after the break. The agenda is the annual report by the Minister of Foreign Affairs on the work done and planned in the country's foreign policy and the European Union. We are continuing the debate. I will also ask for silence in the guest sector so that Members can start working. On behalf of the formation of the New Unity - Member Ainars Latkovskis.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-01-24-PT13-515-U22	Colleagues, those who have found the opportunity to return to the Saeima sitting after a brief break! Before the break, our Foreign Minister set out five priorities for his work. I would like to remind you of these: the link with the Diaspora, the protection of economic interests, a strong European Union, the preservation of the international system and, in my opinion, the strengthening of Latvia's security. I will not be wrong if I say that significant geopolitical changes are taking place in the world. In such a situation, it is precisely the strengthening, development and guarantee of the international security of our country in the long term that is very important for Latvia's diplomacy. In my speech, I would like to pay particular attention to this particular issue. The relationship between Latvia and Russia is an essential reason for this direction. Although there is no direct military threat to our country from the eastern neighbour at present, it cannot be denied that, with Moscow increasingly and more often ignoring international order and legislation, relations between Russia and the West continue to deteriorate. That is why it is not possible to guarantee that there is an early or late desire in the Kremlin to regain control of the territories occupied by the USSR by military forces. If such developments now seem incredible, impossible for many, then I will just remind you that, five years ago, the annexation of Crimea, which belonged to Ukraine, seemed just as incredible, without taking into account international law. Our country's main guarantee of security - the North Atlantic Alliance - is aware that such developments are theoretically possible. The decisions taken at the summits in Wales, Warsaw and Brussels are a response to the new geopolitical reality, the security environment and challenges. I would remind you that they foresee strengthening collective defence capabilities, especially in our region, including the Baltic States, in order to deter Russia from possible aggression towards Europe. Colleagues! NATO membership provides an unprecedented sense of security in the history of our country, even despite new challenges, as well as significantly increases Latvia's capabilities and influence on the international arena. However, it also obliges us to do so. We must assume our share of commitments and responsibilities, both politically and financially, as well as militaryly. As regards funding, we have been one of the few NATO Member States since last year, spending two per cent of gross domestic product on defence. Thanks to our political decisions and our armed forces, we are contributing to strengthening international security, while also ensuring our security, and our diplomats have a key role to play in this. A great success in the diplomatic field and the benefit of the military security of the country is the decision to extend the presence of our allies in Latvia on the basis of rotation and the decision taken at the Brussels Summit last year to establish the NATO North Division Headquarters in our country, which will be implemented in life during this year. Due to these decisions, Latvia not only has extensive military training, but also has increased integration of our country into the common system of collective security. However, from a future perspective, the main question is: is the current integration and the current, approved, future plans sufficient to guarantee security in the long term, or do we still need even closer international integration, especially the permanent presence of allies in Latvia? Although it is now safe, we do not know how the situation will evolve in the longer term, especially in view of the geopolitical challenges already mentioned. For this reason, I believe that the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of Latvia should step up its diplomatic efforts in order to deepen Latvia's integration into the North Atlantic Alliance and achieve a permanent contingent of allies in Latvia. That is why I am calling for particular attention from this troupe today to be paid to achieving these objectives. I would also like to thank former Minister of Defence Raimonds Bergmans for his contribution to strengthening the security of our country. Thank you, colleagues, for your attention. (Applause)
ParlaMint-LV_2019-01-24-PT13-515-U23	Thank you. On behalf of the new Conservative Group, Member Linda Ozola.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-01-24-PT13-515-U24	Dear President of the Saeima. Mr. Foreign Minister! Colleagues! Excellency, ladies and gentlemen! For many years, the debaters have usually started their speeches here with words about a constant change in foreign policy. At the very least, there is a great deal of consensus on this issue. And our task is to carry the name of Latvia in this changing world of life and to do it with pride, because we are a country with self-esteem. Unfortunately, I have to apologise, Minister for Foreign Affairs, for I did not hear your initial speech, because at that time there was also a meeting of the Committee on Mandates, Ethics and Application, in which we dealt with a very serious issue, which will in fact be a litmus paper for the three very important values mentioned by the Prime Minister: democracy, the rule of law and human rights. Lakmus paper, both in the Saeima and in society. Thank you to the Foreign Minister for the really determined report that we received, which we met. It reflects a range of various commitments, tasks, as well as opportunities for Latvia. And we sincerely wish to use them actively, defending the interests of our country in international organisations, increasingly strengthening Latvia's bilateral relations with our partner countries and highlighting the importance of the values on which Latvia and the whole of Europe have been built. Every year, the debate takes place in a special year, and this is no exception - 15 years since Latvia is a member of NATO and the EU. And these two pillars - security and Europe - are those that, in different contexts, the people of Latvia also highlight as the most important elements of our foreign policy. I'll try not to repeat. A lot has already been said. But when you talk about one of these pillars, about Europe... In fact, we fully agree with what the report says about a politically cohesive and economically competitive European Union, which is an absolute priority for Latvia, at the same time as the task, because we are a Member State in this union, we are also building this organisation and we are co-responsible for the result. It is precisely strengthening cohesion, perhaps even restoring, that will also be a challenge this year, when one of the major Member States of the Union will probably leave this platform. And it is certainly the time to remind ourselves again and to update the values that have formed Europe, to return to its roots, so to say... values that have defined the European Union and also us ourselves: respect for people, freedom that goes hand in hand with responsibility and is indistinguishable, democracy, equality and the rule of law and human rights that has already been mentioned. “ I don’t think so! Doesn’t look!” ) Here we have an important role to play in the national Parliament, but it will, of course, also be the new term of the European Parliament and those Latvian Members who will be elected there. I already wish each of them to work towards a European unification. ( The head of the sitting was knocked down with a hammer.) But at the same time, in order to unify rather than divide, we must also do our homework by addressing both the challenges of social inequality at national level and by reducing socio-economic disparities in the whole European context. Because it is precisely inequality and injustice that are often at the heart of a divided and radical society, which is a good soil for populism. The neglect of national social situations can also be a threat to international order and security - and this is one of the great, horizontal challenges of the new government. In the report, I very much liked the section entitled "Dialogue with the public and discussion about the future of Europe", which also listened to the citizens of Latvia, the fact that they appreciate the opportunities provided by Europe, but want to have a deeper link with the citizens of the Member States of the European Union. And here, perhaps, we need to think about what our media content is, what we can do for the sake of the matter, so that we in Latvia too can see more TV channels in the Member States of the European Union. People in Latvia also stressed a socially fairer Europe. And in this respect, emphasis could be placed on the European Union's multiannual budget, where this aspect should be taken into account. People have extremely important security guarantees and a sense of security. Are we able to respond to the global challenges, is Europe really safe against military and terrorist threats, against hybrid threats? People in Latvia are also worried... there is a fear of losing national identity, linguistic diversity and the right to self-determination. And I sincerely call for attention to be paid to these three points: a more socially equitable Europe, a feeling of security and fear or insecurity about maintaining their national identity, because it is, in my view, such a healthy conservativeism, but ignoring these points can lead to a further division of society at national level and among the member states of the union, to the remoteness of people from Europe. That is what we will talk about very much in this spring's cause on the road to the European Parliament elections, namely how to bring Europe closer to the citizens of the Member States. And, I have to say, we have already all agreed that our great task of truth is a more cohesive and united Europe. An outstanding example of this is the recent debate by the Saeima on the UN Declaration on Migration, an issue where we consider it crucial to listen to citizens and to represent their interests. Illustrating the importance of this point, it should be noted that 2019 will be marked by another figure, 30 years since the Berlin Wall was dismantled. Moreover, at the time the Berlin walls were dismantled, there were about 15 different border walls in the world, whereas now there are 77. And it is a response to unheard of public concerns, because globalisation makes it necessary to protect our identity. This forces us to return to the roots and values that are at the heart of our country and society, as well as of Europe. We are Europeans, we belong to the culture of Christendom and, what matters, we are Latvians. Let us protect our core, and it will make us a self-confident and strong nation. Also valuable to me was the offer of Latvian citizens to increase investment in education, science and innovation in order to adapt to global change, ensure a level of standard of living in Europe and gain a sense of security. I am very pleased that this is also a priority in the government declaration just adopted. Security is the second pillar that citizens stress and highlight. That is really very important. NATO remains the foundation of our collective defence. I won't talk much about it anymore. This year again is a significant year in the field of security, because there will be a centenary of the Latvian army, which we will support. Here, I would just like to place a special emphasis on the cybersecurity aspect. It is a very topical priority, and it is important to ensure the resilience of our state and local government institutions in the face of cyber threats, putting national security interests at the top of this situation. It is also a task for the new government. In the context of security, I would like to highlight the issue of human resources, because it is crucial that all our safety authorities are equipped with human resources, so that we have people who are prepared to protect our country's interests and society. This is also the task of the new government. On security issues, I would like to emphasise the importance of the rule of law. The rule of law is a priority for this government. The report also contains a completely new chapter on limiting illegal financial flows. We have heard a lot and talked about the Moneyval report that is not glamorous to us, on the contrary: it is very harsh. Money laundering has a direct impact on security, on the business environment, on the possibilities of Latvia and its entrepreneurs to attract investments, on the reputation of our country. It is really a matter of national security. We understand that this is an inheritance from the previous government, which the new government will have to focus and organise quickly. And we can confirm that we are also ready to work on this in the Saeima, as the sub-committee set up specifically for this purpose will be actively involved in its resolution. And in conclusion, a few words about how maybe...
ParlaMint-LV_2019-01-24-PT13-515-U25	I'm sorry. The debate is over.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-01-24-PT13-515-U26	Can I ask you to unite?
ParlaMint-LV_2019-01-24-PT13-515-U27	Are there any objections if both times of debate are combined? ( Interface: “No! ”) ) There are no objections. Keep going.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-01-24-PT13-515-U28	Thank you. Then a few words about how this report does not contain, namely, about the image of Latvia. I am pleased to read the point in the government declaration that we will improve the purpose of Latvian state institutions in ensuring positive international recognition of the state, using the possibilities and resources of all state institutions, including diplomatic and consular services, to achieve this goal. In the Foreign Affairs Commission we have had discussions about the importance of cooperation between Latvian institutes and the Investment and Development Agency of Latvia and that this issue should be analysed further. And that's what we're going to do. We are a new parliament, a new term. It comes with change. We will try to be an inspiring parliament. In the area of foreign policy, the task is to ensure the sovereignty, security and well-being of the country for its citizens. And in carrying out this task, Minister, I wish you, your colleagues at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and representatives of all other state institutions, to bring the name of Latvia to the world with an inspirer. Thank you. (Applause)
ParlaMint-LV_2019-01-24-PT13-515-U29	Thank you. Name on behalf of the Group. - Member Vjačeslav Dombrovskis.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-01-24-PT13-515-U30	Highly honored President of the Saeima, honourable colleagues, honourable colleagues, Excellency! Mr. Rinkēvičs, it is difficult for me, like many hundreds of thousands of people in Latvia, to believe the truth of your words today. In fact, your domestic and foreign policy guidelines could translate it: anger, hatred and fear. Your greatest foreign policy success last year was the sending of Solvita Āboltiņa to Italy in exile. That must have been your real contribution to the celebration of our national centenary. You have talked a lot about strategic partnership with the US and NATO. One observation: Latvia-US strategic partnership in your kind is that the U.S. administration, without informing you... Well, well, maybe 45 minutes before you say... Publicly announced at the New York major financial conference that there is a huge problem in the Latvian financial sector related to the US Patriot Act. As a result, 1000 people in Latvia lose their jobs, billions of euros flow to other jurisdictions, possibly US strategic partners, and the Latvian financial services export centre sector has been practically destroyed. NATO's partnership in your kind obviously means buying our armed forces twice as expensive military equipment from a non-NATO country. Obviously, a strategic partnership with the US in your kind must avoid regular contacts at the level of our President and Prime Minister. Obviously, this strategic partnership in your kind means that the Trampa administration is wrong in Iran, Jerusalem, international trade, climate control and other matters, not only in relation to Latvia's internal affairs. You say that the main problem and priority of this government is the Moneyval report, which can plunge our country into an economic abyss and bring our country into line with North Korea and Iran in terms of sanctions. If this is the case, why is the middle-level official responsible for this issue? What have you done and will you do personally, Prime Minister, President of the Saeima? Just take a report from Mrs. Znotiņa, as usual? What can you tell us about the state of health of NATO Article 5, following a popular comment by Fox New Journalists that it is pointless for America to defend Latvia? What is the reaction of you and the Latvian Government to it? That's fear, Mr. Rinkēvičs. You are afraid of Washington that it could not support your candidacy in an international position when everything in Latvia is tired and lost. You have been in office since 2011. All this time, you talk a lot about defending Latvia's interests in the European Union. But the reality is that direct payments to Latvian farmers were both among the lowest in Europe, it remains on that level. The European Commission's proposal for the next budget period, on the other hand, provides for a significant reduction in the cohesion envelope for Latvia. Mr. Rinkēvičs, you are obviously also afraid to fight for Latvia's interests in Europe. How more to explain that Latvia was one of only four Member States of the European Union that did not apply for a competition for a new place of residence for the European Medicines Agency and the European Banking Authority after Brexit. Even Bulgaria took part in the fight. But you must have been afraid once again. But you have the greatest fear, Mr Rinkēvičs, of course from Russia, as we know, especially from Russian singers. It's fear. You were also afraid during the election campaign about your personal future. Only in this way can you explain your slogan, “In spite of the Kremlin!” . Such a slogan would be worthy of the opposition groups of the Pskov City Council and not of the independent power of the European Union and NATO Member States, of which the Vice-President of the European Commission is a member. Fear of losing power and privileges forces you to drag the red line inside the country against thousands of Latvian citizens. Fear, anger and hatred make you fuel the Cold War and Armaments, not help to promote dialogue between the West and Russia. You know: to your numerous calls for new sanctions against Russia Latvian entrepreneurs respond with an unprecedented increase in trade with the eastern neighbour. Look at the statistics! Mr Rinkēvičs, there is a total confusion behind your rhetoric about Russia, a paralysis of diplomacy and even a lack of any policy in relation to Moscow. Your foreign policy is lost between Trump's twilights and the revelations of the Nastja Rbq's instagram about Russia and life. Here I would like to express my condolences to our diplomats and wish them endurance. Mr. Rinkēvičs, you have privatised our people's relations with the outside world. Obviously you believe that you have some exclusive rights to them. We all have relations with the Americans, the Russians, the Germans, the English, and this really is the power, influence and “integrating” of our people. Mr. Rinkēvičs, do not raise the Trampa fence inside Latvia and the Berlin Wall as well. Thank you for your attention. (Applause)
ParlaMint-LV_2019-01-24-PT13-515-U31	Member of the Group of the Greens/Farmers' Union, Maris Kučinskis.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-01-24-PT13-515-U32	Dear President of the Saeima. Excellency! Members! Ladies and gentlemen! First of all, I would like to thank the Foreign Minister and the Foreign Service for their professional work. In my opinion, what the Minister said reflects what has been done and the challenges that are facing us this year. I will admit that, as Prime Minister, almost three years ago, I do not fully appreciate the importance of foreign policy. This changed almost a week after I attended the European Union summit in Brussels, where we were working together to find solutions that would allow the British people to vote for stay in the European Union. We all know what happened in the British referendum. I understood that internal policy is not separable from foreign policy. Foreign policy debates in the Saeima take place once a year, but our daily actions in any area create resonance outside Latvia, and vice versa - global processes affect Latvia's internal policies. The last year in foreign and European policy was difficult. Self-isolation trends, the desire to demonstrate "a strong spine", and the importance of multilateral cooperation are increasingly being called into question. Such trends have also been seen with us. The European elections in May will have to agree on the future of the European Union. Latvia should also think about its place: do we want to go ahead with an open heart and self-esteem or build homesteads? Do you know that we're stronger together? There are challenges and threats that we cannot cope with. It is similar with other countries. We hope that others will also help to solve our problems. Others expect us to understand and support them. In my opinion, this is a choice between responsibility and fear. Again and again, I hear the concern that we are a small country that is unable to influence international processes. We have to stop disdaining ourselves. A small country means that we can quickly mobilise, if necessary, by concentrating internal resources, into innovative solutions that serve as a model for other countries. Let me give you a few examples: financial sector alignment and information spaces and electoral security. Managing the financial sector was one of the main priorities of my government. If in the future we want to be part of a family of developed and upstream economies, then the work should be continued with renewable energy and a clear vision of a well-ordered, reliable and stable Latvian financial sector – a part of the international financial sector. With the adoption of the fiery law on limitation of shell companies, support for institutional capacity building and the establishment of a cooperation platform between the financial sector, and, most importantly, with the approval of the ambitious Moneyval recommendations, we have shown that we are able to focus. All institutions involved must take full responsibility for carrying out their tasks. At the same time, we must help with our experience - the mistakes made and lessons learnt - to find solutions to these problems at European level. Technological innovation must serve to implement solutions to prevent money laundering and terrorist financing. The European Union must find the necessary means to develop and implement such innovations. There are different research programmes in the European Union, but at present none of them is aimed at developing technologies for identifying and preventing risks and crimes in the financial sector. In my opinion, the creation of such technologies would be in the interests of the whole of the European Union and, in order to launch such an initiative, it should not be expected that the financial sector's problems will rise to a critical level. For a long time we have been one of those countries that have encouraged their partners and allies to think about the security of the information space and the risks arising from the increasingly rapid and unregulated development of the information technology, social media and internet giants market. Here, too, we have shown that we are wise enough to weigh and analyse possible risks and create cooperation mechanisms to protect our citizens from abuse of external influence. The fact that our partners are currently actively interested in taking over our experience in ensuring the security of the elections serves as proof of this. We have the experience and knowledge to share with other European countries. We must take a proactive look at the need for adequate responsibility from social media and internet platforms at European level, guaranteeing not only free but also safe and abusive exchange of views and information. The main task of foreign policy is to improve the well-being of Latvian citizens. However, the efforts of the government and the foreign service to promote exports and attract investments will not be responsible for success unless we increase the competitiveness of the Latvian economy and transform the Latvian economy. Latvia has all the preconditions for becoming a “magnet” for economic activities in Northern Europe, a place to develop products that are demanded on the world market. In order to use it, Latvia must be open and able to absorb the challenges posed by digitalisation; it must also be able to create globally-demanded, exportable products using its own scientific potential and business capacities. It must be admitted that the situation in Latvia, compared to the rest of the Baltic States, is still not shiny – too little part of the investment goes to equipment and intellectual property products. Research expenditure is among the lowest in the European Union. That is why specialisation is important: the directions in which we have both market understanding and the ability to sell our products and scientific expertise to develop new products. Government... My government had defined areas through which we can achieve long-term competitiveness of the Latvian economy. These include the bioeconomy, biomedicine, smart materials, smart energy and ICT. The task of public administration is to create solutions that will encourage entrepreneurs to shift to more knowledge-intensive products, to change the structure of investments. I can give you a few examples. These are export support measures for integration into global product value chains, opening up public data, and various "sands" solutions for the incubation of technologically-intensive products based on public services in sectors such as transport, energy, health. Work in this direction has started and the next government must continue to do so. We will follow this closely. There is a saying: “Show who are your friends, and I will tell you who you are.” The involvement of competent and strong partners is crucial. A new world order is under way where, through the prism of bilateral relations, both between countries and between countries and multinational corporations, "winners" and "lossers" in terms of trade and innovation. It is therefore necessary to strengthen the capacity of Latvian entrepreneurs to integrate into global value chains. Since 2016, the government has pro-actively addressed local and foreign corporations to create mutually beneficial cooperation that would allow to integrate Latvian companies and scientific institutions into the global knowledge and product chains of this corporation. Let me just give you a few examples. The Microsoft Innovation Centre was established in Riga, which is the only innovation centre of this corporation in the Nordic region. ‘ Latvijas Pasts has established cooperation with Alibaba (China), established a gene sequestration laboratory in cooperation with the Beijing Genom Institute in Riga, and develops the concept of the Science and Technology Park. These examples illustrate what is meant by the transformation of the economy. ( For another half a minute.)
ParlaMint-LV_2019-01-24-PT13-515-U33	Do Members have objections? There is no objection.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-01-24-PT13-515-U34	Another direction in which the government has worked intensively and which I very much wish to continue is the active involvement of state-owned companies in the development of new exportable products. It is these companies that have both the intellectual and financial potential to be a leader in the creation of innovative products of the future. International partners and organisations play an important role in the transformation of our economy. We have a valuable OECD expertise, we need to be able to use it only in the Latvian reform process. We are currently in dialogue with the OECD's Going digital about Latvia. And it can help the future government with good expertise on how to implement the digital transformation of Latvia. I invite all those present, as well as representatives of foreign embassies, to active activities, from which both sides will benefit not only in the short term, but also in the long term. Thank you. (Applause)
ParlaMint-LV_2019-01-24-PT13-515-U35	Thank you. Development/About! on behalf of Member Maria Golubeva.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-01-24-PT13-515-U36	Dear President, ladies and gentlemen, The Foreign Minister's report well describes Latvia's pragmatic interests and foreign policy priorities – cooperation with allies, more security and more investment in Latvia from the largest European budget. Latvia also has fixed values - democracy, the rule of law, freedom. These values also need to be maintained constantly in foreign policy, as they are not only threatened by dictators in our neighbourhood, but also by populists and autocrats among our allies. Fortunately, we have countries in our neighbourhood in Northern Europe that hold a very high level of democracy and human rights, so Latvia, together with the Nordic countries and European democratic leaders, must protect and enforce Europe of value. This European election year will exacerbate the competition between the two visions of Europe's future. One is an open and in-depth integrated Europe of values that protects and develops a global order based on multilateral agreements. We have enjoyed these fruits of European values - support for growth and solidarity - for several years now. And it helped us develop and feel safer. The second is a closed, narrow understanding, a nationalist, Eurosceptic Europe of interest, which participates in the bilateral transactions offered by the world's powers. Instead of security, there is fear of change and of an open world in this Europe. We must listen to the concerns of many people in Europe about social inequalities, precarious jobs and an uncertain future, but we must not be held back by these concerns. Even less should we become hostages to European politicians who are manipulating these concerns. We believe that a democratic and open value Europe is beneficial for Latvia and meets Latvia's real interests. The security and well-being of small countries can only be achieved in a world based on clear rules and not in a world based on major bilateral transactions and interests. Latvia should not belong to the axis of European populists and autocrats, proud of Viktors Orbans and Mateo Salvins, but to the alliance of legally democratic Europe, whose symbolic centre is in Aachen. We support the objective of Latvia being at the core of the European Union as contained in the Minister's report. We are already at this core, marked by our membership of the euro area and Schengen. And this core will also develop in closer security and defence cooperation. In particular, the European Union's defence role is growing at a time when the support of the White House to the North Atlantic Alliance is sometimes volatile. The presence of NATO and US forces in the Baltic region is the highest practical guarantee of Latvia's security, but also within the European Union a strong defence union should be established as a European pillar of NATO. Finally, we must continue to monitor closely that the agreements we have signed as a European Member State are respected. We need to ensure that all Member States respect the values and rights stated in the Charter of Fundamental Rights, that the independence of the judiciary and the media is respected, and that we do not remain silent if violations of these principles are allowed. For example, in those Member States where there are serious threats or violations of the rule of law, investments from the European budget must be stopped. We hope and believe that the new government will continue the way towards a Europe of value, and we will continue to return to the European agenda of values in the Saeima by speaking about citizens' rights, including freedom from violence, solidarity and closer cooperation, provided by Latvia's place in the heart of Europe. Thank you. (Applause)
ParlaMint-LV_2019-01-24-PT13-515-U37	Thank you. The name of Member Julia Stepanenko.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-01-24-PT13-515-U38	Excellency! Sir, Dear colleagues, Thank you, Minister, for your comprehensive report. However, I have some comments on the objectivity of this report. A week ago, a convincing, truly convincing majority of the Saeima firmly rejected the request made by the Saeima Members for a Minister's action in relation to the UN Pact on Migration and the UN Pact on Refugees. Applicants wanted to ask the Minister in the Parliamentary Dialogue about the motives of his actions in an imprecisely executing the Saeima's decision and concealing the planned actions in UN bodies, representing the Republic of Latvia. However, some of the applicants and most Members of the Saeima also decided not to follow up on this request and not to continue asking the Minister. They didn't want it, and that's it. That was the decision of the Saeima. They're objective. But if I wanted to reflect this information in a useful light, because I was also one of the applicants and very much defender of this request, I would certainly find just one positive argument. I would say that Members wanted to protect the future government minister from being ashamed of questioning the Saeima during the debate. But it will not be objective. Likewise, in my view, the annual report on the activities of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs objectively reflects work for the benefit of citizens. You cannot say that the Diaspora is your priority, Minister, because without proper funding any idea is just a slogan for election. Why did you objectively not indicate that during the pre-election year you so actively informed the Diaspora about the benefits of the Diaspora law that you forgot to seek the means to implement this law? Are you ready to tell us how many aid measures will not be available from 1 January of this year due to the lack of funding? What about Latvian language training? Nothing! Perhaps because you started thinking about aligning the budget to support this law only after the Saeima started to be interested in it? And 10 days before Christmas, you sent a letter to the Saeima listing all the spheres that will remain without money in 2019. Looks like you just used this law to pre-elect negotiations. Why did you not foresee the outcome of different options in the case of Brexit? Only yesterday have you presented to the European Affairs Commission the draft decision of the Saeima - a declaration on the commitment to equal rights for British citizens. Any Saeima declaration and unilateral document. Where, then, did you want to stand up for your own country if, for example, Poland and the Czech Republic have already reached a detailed agreement on the support of their citizens and a specific emergency law? There is already a competition between European countries on which to provide better conditions for British citizens who live with them - so that their citizens can be best protected in Great Britain after Brexit. But you are only now beginning to talk about some activities. It follows that the Ministry has laid down operational work to protect the interests of citizens, without providing for possible variants. Why did you not indicate that you no longer participate in the protection of the rights of Latvian children abroad? In 2018, the children of 60 citizens reached the sight of social services, 39 of them in the United Kingdom. And contrary to my request, you have not pointed out any case where the Ministry of Foreign Affairs has engaged in the protection of the children of Latvian citizens. It seems that you are not involved at all in any child file to provide child-friendly support. Why do you not respect your coalition colleagues and avoid explaining migration policy? Latvia still has no position in relation to the UN Pact on Migration. But you were asked to formulate it. And why have you not pointed out just one case when we stood up for Latvia's interests in international trade? It seems that the protection of Latvian interests and the interests of Latvian citizens are still not your priority. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-01-24-PT13-515-U39	Name to the Minister of Defence, Mr Pabrik.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-01-24-PT13-515-U40	Ladies and gentlemen! Madam President of the Saeima. Minister! Similar to those who think differently in this debate! I would like to speak on the subject of foreign policy today, a little while looking through the Latvian security prism. Every day in the Ministry of Defence, we are forced to deal with a number of foreign policy issues. That is why, of course, I must also devote some time at the beginning of my speech to those colleagues who may think differently and who otherwise look at our relations with Russia, with our largest neighbour, which we have. I would like to make clear and clear both to all those present and to those from the diplomatic corps who are still in the Saeima room: Latvia is one of the Member States of the European Union that cares most about having good relations with all of our neighbours, including good relations with Russia, because if we have good relations with Russia, then, of course, we, as a border country, can get a lot. We can trade, we can cooperate in the field of culture. Cross-border cooperation is something that Latvia has not dared to say, because both countries always acquire borders on both sides. But when I say that, however, I would like to defend our Minister for Foreign Affairs, because he is not the one who is against this good relationship with Russia. ( Internouncing call.) It is not Latvia that is against good relations with Russia. I could understand if Mr. Rinkēvičs might be a little afraid to go to the so-called dialogue because he wouldn't know if he had a bang or polonium at his place of tea sugar. This is the situation we face in real life in such negotiations. And I think it's in vain to insult him that he doesn't let anyone, let's say, a Russian occupation singer on the territory of Latvia. Let me give you a few examples of why our relationship with Russia is difficult, not because of the faults of Latvia, the European Union, NATO or America. First. Who organised mass ruins and cyber attacks in Estonia more than 10 years ago? Go on. Who in Montenegro tried to fail in 2016 to organise a coup d'état? Go on. Who stands behind frozen conflicts and maintaining de facto occupation in Abkhazia, South Ossetia, Donbas, Crimea, Transnistria? Who's arming Donbass puppets? Who stands behind the militarisation of social networks and media in their military... In military documents and what has led to the death of 298 civilians in Malaysia being shot with a Russian missile and a Russian launcher? Go on. Who violates the medium-range missile contract? Go on. Who is engaged in cyber attacks against the chemical weapons control service in the Netherlands? Who, until recently, grabbed Ukrainian warships and detained Ukrainian seafarers? Who ultimately used chemical weapons against the civilian population in NATO and a Member State of the European Union? I think we all know: there is enough evidence to say that, unfortunately, there are different services and political circles in our neighbourhood behind this. It is very difficult to say that we can build a dialogue without fear of raising a glass of tea or cocktail in this dialogue. What is more, I would like to say that dialogue is not in itself a policy. I understand that there will always be entrepreneurs who will say, "Yes, money doesn't die, we have to work together." We are ready to cooperate, but we are not ready to cooperate at any price, and we are not ready to cooperate by putting Latvia's national interests on the cards. We are unfortunately a bordering country and, unlike a number of other countries, we cannot afford to live in illusions about our security in the region. Those countries that are further away may afford it, but we cannot. We are the call that has always been made in the European Union and NATO very, let us say, clear the situation that we are facing in the region. What are the answers? Of course, we must always be open to good negotiations with Russia. And we are ready to give our hand, unless this neighbor really has an open heart and an open mind. We are ready to sit at the table and improve relations, normalize these relations. But as long as we cannot stop Russia's geopolitical ambitions, unfortunately, we must be prepared, both psychologically, militaryly and in any other practical way, to say that we will not allow our country, our people, to behave with us all in the way that happened in 1939 and 1940. It may be that someone will say: ‘ Well, what do you remember what happened almost a hundred years ago! It has passed, now the world is different.” More or less, however, I have to remind you that the human mind and political principles do not change so quickly. And we see that there are too many new generations in the European Union and on the European continent who have forgotten what it means to live in insecurity. I would like to say that two types of political processes are currently taking place in the European Union at the same time. On the one hand, it is about some degree of greater cooperation, greater integration, and I fully support the guidelines of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs that we should be present, because a small country must participate in all the formats in which it is possible to participate, because it gives us the opportunity to defend our national interests. At the same time, we see that, as the wave of populism grows, as radicalism grows in different countries, let us also say that, with disrespect and neglect as regards the value of the democratic system, the European Union also shows itself to be a central force. We saw the “yellow vests” in France, we saw that some people in Latvia were encouraged to wear a yellow vest a few days ago, to ask for a change in government and to dismiss Parliament. Yes, populism as a plague has also entered Latvian society. Who is responsible for this? The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. I. Zarins: “Those who were in power! ” ) Of course, to some extent all those politicians who have been in power so far are also responsible for this. Yes, we may not always be able to appreciate the dangers around us. Yes, we may not always be able to see situations as clearly as we should see, but it is not just what does not. And it would be very silly to just give up on all the good things that have been done and fall into these populism traps. When it comes to security, I think there are two directions in which we should continue to work. The first is, of course, domestic. Internally, we have to stop being little-histhesis. Yes, self-criticism must be respected. It is necessary to show ourselves, our new generation and those who value us from the outside that we are ready to protect, defend Latvia's state that Latvian armed forces are never going to allow Latvia to cross the border as it happened in 1940 or, I would say, already in 1930. Any Latvian enemy, any opponent, must know that we will be ready to shoot through anyone who will break our national boundaries. Do not doubt it! We are grateful that there are our allies here - NATO forces, a large contingent of some 1700 people. We will work to ensure that these forces are here on a permanent basis. And this is the second dimension - without our own preparation, psychological preparation, in a country - we should be involved as actively as possible in international developments, both with the United States and with partners in the Far East, because we see that the situation on the Pacific coast around China, around Taiwan, around Korea, around Japan is no longer as safe as it was 10 years ago. We're following it. We also see cooperation partners for ourselves in this region, in Japan, in Singapore and in South Korea. We are as big as our will is. And the fact that we are a small country does not mean that we see challenges only in our own region. I believe that Latvia's external service, Latvia's foreign policy is in good hands, goes in the right direction, that in any case, our task is to strengthen our country by all means and methods. I wish our diplomatic service endurance and good cooperation with our Ministry of Defence and Parliament. Thank you. (Applause)
ParlaMint-LV_2019-01-24-PT13-515-U41	Thank you to the Minister for Defence. Name of Member Inese Lībiņš-Egner.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-01-24-PT13-515-U42	Dear President of the Saeima, Minister of Foreign Affairs, Ministers, colleagues, Excellency, ladies and gentlemen! As the foreign policy researchers have already mentioned, this report in the Saeima is indeed the best available public report on Latvia's current foreign policy. And it is such a well-established tradition, which we have the opportunity in the debate to make even more visible. I would also like to express my thanks and welcome to the Foreign Ministry's diplomats with the coming de iure, or diplomats' day, which has been adjusted to the time of our foreign policy debate. Looking back last year, we can all conclude that it has been very dynamic and at the same time very interesting, and its trends will only remain. We are just leaving it all to be accepted as a fact, so that the cooperation that many colleagues have talked about here, parliamentary cooperation with diplomats, parliamentary diplomacy will be our opportunity and duty in this context of growing cyber threats and false news. The first subject I would like to talk about is perhaps a little representative of what has been said here, but our foreign service with very little resources... often we know that one embassy consists of just two diplomats and a little helper... has been able to demonstrate very high performance of public diplomacy in this centenary. There have been many public diplomacy events - organization of Latvian days abroad, international cultural programmes - up to the Orse Museum - and numerous exhibitions about our history, values and identity, support for participation of Latvian experts in international fora, thematic conferences. It is really important that more and more people have a Latvian name that is not foreign. And when we're looking for these allies, so they know who we are... and being truly aware of the additional resources required to implement each such action in the already intensely problematic daily representation, I wish diplomats to continue to implement this set of public diplomacy measures as successfully as possible. But above all, I would like to talk about the very important foreign policy for all of us in the context of national security, namely the security of our information space. Until recently - in 2015 - it was difficult to convince our allies that Russian disinformation is a threat not only to us, but also to all Western democrats and institutions. At present, as many here have already mentioned, this is no longer called into question as a fact. And work with allies is already under way to respond together to this challenge. To a large extent, this ice has moved thanks to Latvia's foreign policy action, persistently travelling alarms, addressing our partners in bilateral and multilateral formats, proposing concrete, practical steps both within the European Union and within NATO as well as in other formats. Thanks to the efforts of Latvia and like-minded people, since 2015 the East StratCom Task Force has been operating here in Latvia as part of the European External Action Service. And we can be proud of the fact that it is operated by a national expert from Latvia. With the support of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, the Baltic Media Centre of Excellence is established in the neighbouring regions of the European Union, promoting independent pluralist media and independent journalism in the region. A great deal has been done to ensure the security of the information space in Latvia and to strengthen our society's resilience to disinformation. All ministers have done this as a team. I would like to thank the Minister for Culture, particularly Mr Kučinska, as Prime Minister, for the creation of an election security working group within the State Chancellery, which successfully coordinated the actions of the state institutions during the parliamentary elections and worked actively with civil society and the media to prevent external interference in our democratic process. The next great task is to carry out appropriate coordination work even before the European Parliament elections, because we all know that they could also be affected. But this is just the beginning of the road. As a country, we have to build a permanent capacity to identify, analyse and prevent attacks on the Latvian information space both on social networks and elsewhere. Cooperation with civil society should be strengthened and strong and independent media should be ensured in Latvia. Recently we all saw that thanks to such coordinated work, several hundred Sputnik controlled Facebook profiles, which spread deliberate misinformation about the Baltic States, have been identified and closed. We can only imagine how thousands of other possible profiles, troll farms and conscious misinformation about Latvia's country, about other countries and how it could be identified. While all this is happening under the cover of the right to freedom of expression and, yes, here I always defend the right to freedom of expression. These are among the oldest and most important human rights. But hate speech, deliberate deception of people, and influence of state security under the cover of freedom of expression cannot be allowed. And we in this Parliament, colleagues, will also have to find a legislative framework to strengthen it both in national legislation and in international legislation. I would also like to say that the foreign service, as well as all of us, will have to continue to explain, update and regularly draw our allies and partners' attention to the work to be done in the face of the challenge of disinformation and to ensure that sufficient resources and attention are devoted to this problem. Also in Brussels and the European Union as a whole. The rules of the game for technology companies and social platforms should be promoted to guarantee a free, secure and transparent environment for a genuine public debate and to strike a balance between the interests of public security and citizens' right to freedom of expression. Dear colleagues, The winter session of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe is taking place this week in Strasbourg. And none of the representatives of our parliamentary delegation took part in this session, because yesterday there was a vote on the new Cabinet. But there is also one good plus. Almost all members of the delegation have come to the debate today. I can stress the importance of the role of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe and the work of our small - numerically small - delegation there. The work of the Parliamentary Assembly is also a huge challenge for every Member at the same time. And I would like to say that such a tension of clashes in the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe is formed not only between the individual Member States of the Council of Europe, but also involving regions of whole countries - the so-called Europe of old values, to which we want to add, which... perhaps not only the Council of Europe created, but really based on these values. These new values and the new countries that have constantly challenged it, too. It is regrettable to note that it is at the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe that the formations of the caviar, such as the so-called caviar diplomacy, have been crystallised. The diplomatic places of inter-parliamentary assemblies become the most expensive form of political tourism. This is a difficult but, in my opinion, a good test for every national Member State, including a Member of the Saeima, who is taking on responsibilities in addition to those already existing at national level, so to speak, do not fall into this trap. On 18 January this year, the Russian State Council decided not to send its delegation to the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe and also not to pay membership fees in this organization. It has to be said that this membership fee has not been paid for several years in a row. Human rights defenders have also responded to this step... I ask you to combine the two times if there is no objection from colleagues.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-01-24-PT13-515-U43	Are there any objections to merging the two times of the debate? There is no objection.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-01-24-PT13-515-U44	Thank you. And human rights defenders have expressed their concern that Russia could completely abandon the Council of Europe and, consequently, the European Court of Human Rights, that European citizens would lose the protection of this important European Court of Human Rights. And it really is a very difficult situation. Latvia has regularly insisted on the need for dialogue, but Russia must respect the international commitments it has made in the Council of Europe, including the obligation to make mandatory contributions and to comply with the judgments of the European Court of Human Rights. We cannot imagine that the contributions to the budget are the only responsibility that the state is assuming. In fact, the actual military relations between the two members of the Council of Europe - Ukraine and Russia - cannot be removed to the extent that it is only important that the Council of Europe's budget is fulfilled, that the organisation is richer and that it is able to fulfil all its obligations. Latvia, of course, has no objection to dialogue and cooperation with Russia, but as colleagues have already mentioned, this dialogue must be meaningful and also lead to a result. I would remind you that in 2014, when the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe suspended the right to vote for Russia, the Assembly stated in its report that it strongly condemned Russia's military aggression and annexation of Crimea, which is a clear violation of international law, including the Charter of the United Nations, the Helsinki Act and the Council of Europe's basic norms. And in all of these now, for almost five years now, we have not promised to come closer to a solution, even though dialogue has indeed been maintained. Now... When the new Secretary-General of the Council of Europe is to be elected, the Council of Europe will also have a very difficult decision on how our common international organisation, the three pillars of which are democracy, the rule of law and human rights, will in future be able to stand up for these values, including by providing these values to citizens of Member States whose countries do not protect them themselves. Dear colleagues, We each heard in this foreign policy report today something that is closer to our professional activities; we also heard something that we may be less familiar with. However, I think that this kind of dialogue, respectful of both the members of the position and those of the opposition, and not ad hominem, is encouraging us to respect our foreign policy here in Parliament. And we can wait for 2021, when there will be a true centenary for the security and prosperity of Latvia... we all understand the importance of each of our roles, including foreign policy. Every Member of the Saeima is a business card for his country in every step of our work. I think that, first of all, let us think about ourselves and then our joint work will be the crown of success. Thank you. (Applause)
ParlaMint-LV_2019-01-24-PT13-515-U45	Name to Member Oyars Eriks Kalniņš.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-01-24-PT13-515-U46	Dear Chairman of the Saeima. Minister! Colleagues! By restoring Latvia's independence 28 years ago, we had two important national objectives. The first was to ensure that independence was irreversible and the second was to promote the democratic renewal, development and growth of the country. Our membership of NATO and the European Union is Latvia's two largest foreign policy achievements over the last 28 years, as both of these organisations are best placed to ensure these goals and the interests of our citizens. With regard to NATO and the European Union, we have gone three stages. As candidates for these organisations, we had to meet the criteria and earn membership. As new players, we had to prove that we are fully-fledged, capable and constructive partners. Now Latvia's main foreign policy objectives are to do everything to strengthen the two necessary organisations for Latvia, because the successful functioning of NATO and the European Union results in almost the entire interest of Latvia's national security and development. NATO makes everything clear. Russia's aggressive behaviour in Ukraine and Georgia reaffirms the importance of Latvia's being with 27 other countries in order to implement collective protection. NATO multinational battle group in Latvia is not only a guarantee of security, it is a proof that Article 5 is valid and that our allies are ready to donate their people to defend Latvia. Of course, we must do our utmost to defend ourselves and we must therefore continue to increase our defence budget. We have reached two percent of gross domestic product, but that will not be enough. We must not depart from this objective. The European Union is just as important. It is a unique transnational platform for the sustainability and implementation of our security and economic interests. It is absolutely clear that Latvia must be at the heart of the European Union's integration. By strengthening the internal security of the European Union, as well as energy, economic and cohesion policies, we pursue the interests of Latvian citizens at the same time. As full members of the European Union, we must work to make the European Union stronger, fairer and more united. I am very pleased that very many previous speakers have already emphasised this today. By supporting the unity of the European Union, we must not be disappointed by the concern that a single European Union is accusing Latvia's sovereignty. As the German Foreign Minister, Heiko Maess, said: “We Europeans have never, through close cooperation in the name of common development and growth, meant a fall in sovereignty or a loss of sovereignty. On the contrary, this cooperation allows us to regain the impact we have lost as a coming country." The German Foreign Minister says: yes, we Europeans... If we Europeans were not able to speak in a common, unified language, this voice would be heard. But he stressed that this vote should reflect the diversity of all the Member States of the European Union - small and large. I think we can all agree. The more we participate in the decision-making and building-up of the European Union... decision-making and decision-making processes, the faster we will achieve our national targets. The two biggest challenges for the European Union in the future are the multi-annual budget and the Brexit, but let us remember that the fight for Latvia's interests regarding the budget and other issues is not just the work of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. As Prime Minister Kariņš said very well this morning: the entire government, the entire Cabinet of Ministers is responsible. This year, the Prime Minister of Latvia will play a particularly important role in the decisions of the European Union. Each Latvian minister will also have to be ready to travel to Brussels, engage in negotiations and defend Latvia's interests. And the Members of the Saeima, as we have heard from a number of today, will also have an important role to play in European Union policy, because we have direct links with the parliamentarians of other Member States of the European Union. The government and parliament must jointly defend Latvia's interests not only in Brussels, but also in each capital of the Member States, in every Ministry of Foreign Affairs and in every parliament. Consequently, a common, coherent and coordinated foreign policy is necessary. 13. The Saeima has many issues to deal with, but in foreign policy everything is clear. In order to put internal policies right, we need to maintain the existing course as a European transatlantic-thinking country. We have a special role to play in Northern Europe and the Baltic Sea region, where there are opportunities to use both bilateral cooperation opportunities and regional structures, such as the Baltic Council of Ministers, NB8 format and the Baltic Sea Council. Our strategic position in Northern Europe must continue to strengthen the European Union's neighbourhood policy, especially within the multilateral framework of the Eastern Partnership. We could combine time.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-01-24-PT13-515-U47	Are there any objections to merging the two times of the debate? There is no objection.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-01-24-PT13-515-U48	Our current activity in Central Asia has been justified, as these important countries become more stable, safer and willing to cooperate. The European Union is now building a new strategy for Central Asia and Latvia has special opportunities to influence it by defending its interests through bilateral relations and European Union formats. This foreign policy course, which we launched during the 2015 Presidency of the European Union, must be continued. The security of Latvia is related to European security. And Europe's security is not possible without good transatlantic relations. Unfortunately, these links have suffered in the last year. It is not about NATO, because despite a few statements from the US President, NATO is stable. Let us not forget that Canada also plays a particularly important role in Latvia's transatlantic relations. Targeted action by the US in Europe and NATO has increased. And US support for the Baltic countries has remained constant. The biggest challenge is relations between the US and the European Union. Europe needs to defend its interests more actively and creatively in Washington. Even if the current US administration continues to support NATO, a weaker relationship between America and Europe could have an impact on NATO's cooperation possibilities with the European Union. But US policy is based on three powers, and we, as Members of the Saeima, have a particular role to play in ensuring that the new US Congress listens and understands us. In 2019 we need to become more active in contact with American legislators. We can do this bilaterally here in Riga or in Washington, but it is even more advantageous to work with our Estonian and Lithuanian colleagues. The NB8 format also expands our ability to be heard in Washington. We must encourage such joint meetings between the Baltic and Nordic delegations and our US colleagues. We must not be shy, we must get in touch. Every opportunity to address American diplomats, legislators, experts and media must be used. And here we still have a huge role to play. You can once again thank the American Latvian Association and the Joint Baltic Committee in Washington, D.C., which complements our political defence in America. If we want to maintain the relations between the United States and Latvia, we must strengthen relations between the European Union and the United States at the same time. Our internal security and prosperity is based on the ability to work with allies. We need to play an active role in the decisions of NATO and the European Union and work constructively, collegially and far-sightedly. The report of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs shows the right way. Thank you to our ministers and all Latvian diplomats for their huge and qualitative contribution to the security and development of Latvia. I've only been in the Saeima for nine years, but I've been working with all governments for the last 28 years. Everyone has had their strengths and weaknesses, but everyone has secured the existence of our country. This year more than ever, further development will depend on how we represent our interests outside Latvia. With Prime Minister Krišjānis Kariņš and Foreign Minister Edgars Rinkēvičs, we have two of the strongest, most influential voices to address Brussels, Washington, London, Paris and Berlin. Our foreign policy serves our citizens. Our duty as Members of the Saeima is to do everything to improve, strengthen and implement Latvia's foreign policy priorities, because only in this way we will be able to defend our national interests and citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-01-24-PT13-515-U49	Thank you. It's six minutes to break. Mr. Rinkēvičs, do you want to speak now? Name to Foreign Minister Edgars Rinkēvičs, for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-01-24-PT13-515-U50	Dear colleagues, As usual in the parliamentary debate, we need to come to the table every minute and try to answer certain questions or statements. I would like to focus on two things. The first thing is what several Members have mentioned - migration, the UN Pact on Migration and, let us say, Latvia's policy on these issues. What I said in 2015, when we had a very difficult discussion 12. In the Saeima, there is something I can repeat now, namely a discussion about how both the European Union and NATO Member States understand cooperation and solidarity. This discussion may have been in the media, but NATO and the European Union are continuing. And if we had not decided on a voluntary basis, I would stress - a voluntary decision not to accept economic migrants, but those who qualify according to international and Latvian law as refugees, then, who knows, maybe in 2016 at the Warsaw Summit and in 2018 at the Brussels Summit, we would not have been so successful in promoting our own security. And there would be no Italian soldiers here. Perhaps there would also be a different discussion. And likes us or not, but these questions, as they may seem illogical, are interrelated. On the UN Pact on Migration. I would like to say that we have discussed this in the Committee on Foreign Affairs, and we have discussed it here in the Saeima, on 6 December, too, in the Committee on Petitions. Three things I want to stress. First thing. You don't have to lie. The Pact on Migration is not legally binding with or without a vote. That is clearly stated. The second thing. Latvia and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and our respective representatives fully implemented the decision of the Saeima. The representative of Latvia was not present at the Marrakech conference where this pact was approved. The representative of Latvia abstained - just as a whole line of countries, which are also mentioned in the decision of the Saeima - explaining and telling that the Latvian Saeima has decided not to join the Pact. I understand that I want to have my fear of justifying and promoting my political capital in some way, but that is not good. Once it will succeed, the second time you will succeed, for the third time you, fellow Members, will find yourself in a situation in which you will no longer believe even when you may indeed be right. Mrs Stepanenko, when I learned the results of the elections, I had some concerns that Mrs Silver, who usually entertained us with absurd claims, was gone and that her seat would remain empty. Your three statements are really so absurd that I am happy to conclude: you have taken this place in good faith. First. You have probably not noticed that the Latvian Saeima has not yet adopted this year's budget. That is why nothing can yet be planned in this year's budget, because you have not discussed and voted on this. But for your note: if we look at the trend of the last two years, we see that in 2017, there was already EUR 1.1 million for the Diaspora, and last year - 1.7 and this year's budget demand, consolidated across all ministries - Foreign Affairs, Culture, Education - including the Society Integration Fund - is 3.4 million. I just want to hope that, at the moment when it is being discussed here, there will also be support from the parliamentarians, especially from those who are now so much in favour of a Diaspora. On children's rights, too... Well, the statistics were sent to you after the meetings of the Committee on European Affairs and the Committee on Foreign Affairs. We have developed very good cooperation with the Ministry of Justice since 2017. And in all courts, either through videoconferencing, or through the coordination and through the presence of the embassy, representatives of the orphan courts take part. They shall participate in accordance with international standards. The Embassy provides assistance to families even before courts. And it's done a lot, much more, and things can't be heard about them. There's no big stuff. It cannot be used in any way for political reasons. And that's why you have to start to feel sorry here. About Brexit. You are also on the European Affairs Commission, where we have discussed all the plans. We have been talking here, for two consecutive years, about Brexit, about all the scenarios in the foreign policy report. I have informed you, almost every second meeting of the Commission I am taking part, of all the issues of Brexit, including our preparations and our various plans. And at the moment we have reached almost one agreement with the same Britain as many other countries. Therefore, to blame such things can, of course, if you want to stand out, put your speech on Facebook and hope that people will not critically value it, but it is not good. I will not even begin to discuss all the statements that have been made, which are repeated years from year to year. The only thing I could wish Mr Dombrovskis was: to end suffering in Latvia, to go to Brussels, to become a member of the Europarlament and to preach the truth there. Thank you. (Applause)
ParlaMint-LV_2019-01-24-PT13-515-U51	Thank you. Colleagues, time to break. Please call me! Please register the Members! Please get the result! Name for reading results to Maria Golubeva, member of the Saeima Secretary.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-01-24-PT13-515-U52	Not registered: Jānis Dūklavs, Ilmārs Dūritis, Raivis Dzintars, Andrejs Judins, Artuss Neimins (Interface: “Ir!” ), Ieva Krapāne, Armands Krauze ) Regina Ločmele-Lunova, Artis Pabriks, Jānis Reirs, Andris Skride, Inese Voika... Yes.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-01-24-PT13-515-U53	Thank you. Interruption until 13.30. ( Interruption)
ParlaMint-LV_2019-01-24-PT13-515-U54	Honourable Members! I invite you to take your seats in the Chamber so that we can continue the Saeima sitting after the break. On the agenda: "Annual report by the Minister of Foreign Affairs on the work done and planned in the country's foreign policy and the European Union". We are continuing the debate. Name to Member Janis Dombrava.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-01-24-PT13-515-U55	People may have different plans, work to do, but at a time when a child or a close family member becomes ill, all these things to do, plans are pushed aside, and a person or a parent donates his time, energy, and sleep to help his loved one. Similarly, I want to say that with a very large number of European countries... that very many European countries have suffered from the disease. There is a huge social gap: on the one hand, the standard of living is improving and, on the other, millions of Europeans are forced to live their entire lives in rented housing or to become slaves to debt for the rest of their lives. However, a much more important problem is that Europe is the only region in the world where the population is declining due to the low birth rate, the only region in the world that is essentially dying. And despite these circumstances, when alarm calls should be made at the highest level, the European institutions and national governments are not the time to help countries, nations to recover, but are dealing with different pseudo-problems. This in turn leads to political crises in many European countries, because the elite has been too disfellowshipped from the people. I think this is one of the essential aspects. Many Europeans also see that the solution to these serious problems cannot be to replace the peoples of Europe with immigrants from Africa, Asia or the Middle East, that the solution needs to be sought elsewhere. A kind of referendum will take place already this spring on Europe's future: whether the current liberal socialist policy will continue and if Europe is becoming increasingly fragmented, trying to punish, disvoting voting rights to democratically elected countries, or any change in the course of listening to society will take place. Will the forces that represent conservative views and who will definitely want to lead Europe towards the preservation of nations, cultures, languages? This will be a crucial solution. And I hope that these issues will come on the agenda of the next European institutions, which will ensure that the peoples of Europe are reinstated, because without them Europe will simply cease to be Europe at some point. A good time ago, I was much younger than I am now. (Laughter) At the time of the first foreign policy debate in the Saeima, I expressed the view that Russia poses a real threat to Latvia, not only by using soft power instruments, but its aggressive expansion can also lead to the occupation of neighbouring countries by military forces. At that time, many laughed at the new Member. He said: “Well, we need to build a good relationship. Money, business, that's the main thing. What is he talking about?” And so it remained for several years until the Russian troops occupied Ukrainian territories in 2014. Then many people changed their mind. Even those who were previously big supporters of their cooperation with Russia stopped to be, as they saw the reality. At the moment, I am convinced that Russia's soft power continues to spread in Europe and various efforts are being made to influence elections in one country or another. And I am absolutely sure that Russia also influenced the elections in Latvia in 2018. Its objective has not been achieved. There is no pro-cremlic government at the moment, but the road was clearly in its direction. With regard to Russia, it would also be worth mentioning the decision taken last year to include a number of Members of the Saeima in the Russian blacklist, including myself. I do not know what Russian motivation was. Did it really hope that these Members of the Saeima would actively travel to Russia or perhaps change their view. On behalf of my own and my colleagues, I would like to say that Russia can put us on the blacklist even 10 times, but we will not change our position that Russia has illegally occupied regions of Georgia and Ukraine. Although ten times to put us on the black list, we will not change our position. As for the previous foreign policy debate, I can say: the national association has been in a position that we have called from the side to change one, the other, the third position, because foreign policy was largely monopolised by the Unity, which had a Prime Minister, who had a foreign minister, who had heads of foreign commissions, but the situation has changed. The National Association has become a party that makes Latvia's foreign policy. And so I can say that this foreign policy will definitely be much more active, realistic, based on the interests of Latvian citizens. Thank you. (Applause)
ParlaMint-LV_2019-01-24-PT13-515-U56	The name is Mr. Janis Wuzan.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-01-24-PT13-515-U57	I would like to ask for a combination of both times.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-01-24-PT13-515-U58	Are there any objections to merging the two times of the debate? There is no objection.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-01-24-PT13-515-U59	Highly respected President of the Saeima, colleagues, Minister of Foreign Affairs! In the report of the Foreign Minister and also in the declaration of the government approved yesterday, several paragraphs concern cooperation in so-called B3 and NB8 formats, which both Mrs Mūrniece and Mr Kalniņa have already spoken about today. Since 2019 is the year of the Latvian Presidency of the Baltic Assembly and, at the same time, the Baltic Council of Ministers, but also in the first half of the year in the Baltic Sea Council, I will try to highlight the most important of the work done and planned works and ways of cooperation in the format of the Baltic Assembly as an interparliamentary cooperation organisation. I will therefore speak as the Head of the Latvian delegation at the Baltic Assembly and also as the current President of the Baltic Assembly. First of all, a little basic information for the new Members of the Saeima, who may not have been fully informed about what the Baltic Assembly is then. The Baltic Assembly is an interparliamentary cooperation organisation between the three Baltic States, which was officially established on 8 November 1991, based on the experience of cooperation between the national awakening movements of our Baltic States accumulated in the process of regaining independence. In its activities, the Baltic Assembly has learned a lot from the Nordic Council with which it concluded a cooperation agreement in 1992 to strengthen cooperation between all Baltic and Nordic parliaments in nature protection, security policy, education and culture, application of market economy principles, agriculture, energy and development of public infrastructure. The researchers of political history have already appreciated the importance of this agreement between the Baltic Assembly and the Nordic Council of Europe, stressing that it has contributed to the full return of the Baltic States to the Nordic family. The second agreement concluded in 1994 links the Baltic Assembly with the Benelux Parliament, which, again in the view of political scientists, has contributed to the return of the Baltic States to the European political arena, ensuring a deeper understanding of European cross-border cooperation, cooperation on foreign affairs, legislative harmonisation and other issues with the Baltic politicians. From my seven years of experience working at the Baltic Assembly, including leading the Latvian delegation at the Baltic Assembly since the beginning of 2014, I can unequivocally agree with such a political assessment. It should be noted that the Baltic Assembly has also been a member of the Baltic Sea Parliamentary Conference since its establishment in 1991. The Baltic Assembly has a cooperation agreement with the Parliamentary Assembly of the GUAM (namely Georgia, Ukraine, Azerbaijan and Moldova). The Baltic Assembly has real cooperation with the national parliamentarians of the Visegrad Group, the Parliamentary Assembly of the Black Sea Economic Cooperation Organisation, the Parliamentary Assembly of the Mediterranean Union and other organisations. That's what we do. As I have already mentioned, the Latvian Saeima and Latvian delegation to the Baltic Assembly in 2019 has taken over the Presidency's rotating office from the Presidency of the Lithuanian Baltic Assembly in accordance with the principle of the Baltic Assembly's statutes. Already in early spring 2018, the Latvian delegation started targeted work on the Presidency programme and work plan. The members of the Latvian delegation met with the Latvian Prime Minister, Maris Kučinski, ministers, and industry associations to clearly identify the areas in which we - the Baltics - should pool our forces and resources to face the current challenges and opportunities of the internal and external environment. At the same time in 2019 Latvia has become the Presidency of the Baltic Council of Ministers, continuing to carry out the Presidency of the Council of the Baltic Sea States until the middle of this year. Latvia has taken over these three simultaneous presidencies at a time when solidarity, consensus and partnership of the Baltic States are of strategic importance. The motto of the Latvian Presidency of the Baltic Assembly is: “More to be achieved by common forces.” This motto demonstrates the region's commitment to cooperation and agreement. Within the framework of the Latvian Presidency, it is planned to continue to strengthen dialogue, mutual trust and trust among the Baltic parliamentarians, focusing on the following priorities for parliamentary cooperation: 1. A comprehensive concept of safety and protection. 2. Strengthening Baltic and European interconnections in the field of energy, transport and infrastructure. 3. Developing growth and competitiveness in the Baltic region. These areas of cooperation have been synchronised with the Baltic-Nordic cooperation directions, which last end of the year, during both the Nordic Council session in Oslo and the Presidium of the Baltic Assembly and the Nordic Council meeting in Espoo (Finland), I was entrusted with coordinating with the delegations of the two other Baltic States in the Baltic Assembly and also with the Nordic Council. This year's cooperation between the Baltic Assembly and the Nordic Council will be concentrated in the following directions: strengthening cooperation between the Baltic States and the Nordic countries in the areas of security, foreign affairs and defence; developing interconnections between the Baltic States and the Nordic countries in the areas of energy, transport and infrastructure; developing and strengthening a more intensive partnership in research and innovation. The Baltic States share common interests and values, and they are working together to ensure the stability and prosperity of the region. The Baltic States are determined to continue regional cooperation within the framework of the Baltic Assembly and the Baltic Council of Ministers. And it should be noted that this cooperation has so far been very successful. Our countries and the Baltic co-operation institutions have a shared responsibility and shared responsibility to make decisions in the interests of citizens that improve their daily lives and promote growth and well-being. Last 2018... The Baltic Assembly can give an overview of the fact that in 2018, two important intergovernmental agreements were concluded with the Baltic Assembly: firstly, the Ministry of Education and Science agreement with the ministries of education and science of the two other Baltic States on qualifications related to higher education, automatic academic recognition among our countries; secondly, the Ministry of Culture agreement with the ministries of culture of the two other Baltic States on the establishment of the Baltic Culture Fund in order to promote the implementation of the three countries' joint cultural activities. The experience of the Benelux Parliament and the Nordic Council, including the acquisition of experts from the Nordic Culture Fund and the Nordic Culture Point, was used to prepare these agreements. It should also be noted that the Nordic Council of Ministers has contributed EUR 100 000 to the promotion of cultural cooperation between the Baltic States and the Nordic countries, as well as that the agreement concluded by the Ministry of Culture provides that each Baltic State should invest EUR 100 000 each year in this newly created fund. The third major achievement of the Baltic Assembly last year is the agreement concluded in October between Latvia and Lithuania on the cross-border provision of emergency medical assistance in the border regions of both countries. Similar agreements between Latvia and Estonia have been working well since 2010 and have helped save a significant number of people on both sides of the border. Unfortunately, however, the message received yesterday in connection with this agreement does not please me because it seems that the so-called official football has begun again between the institutions responsible for the execution of this agreement. This means that the Baltic Assembly and its Bureau will again be forced to engage with the political means of influence and education available to them. And we have already prepared explanatory letters to the Latvian and Lithuanian health ministers. Although it has to be said that the healthcare sector is the one in which the Baltic Assembly can be proud of what has been achieved in cooperation. In this regard, it should be recalled that two joint procurements of the Baltic States for supplies of medicines in 2018 were successfully completed in 2017, with the encouragement of the Baltic Assembly: Latvia and Estonia jointly purchased a vaccine against rotavirus, and Latvia with Lithuania - pneumococcal vaccine for children under the age of two. Savings can be estimated at several hundred thousand euros per country. In the case of pneumococcal vaccine, Latvia has saved around EUR 575 000 (on the basis that the purchase price was 19,6 percentage points lower than when Latvia bought separately). Lithuania saved an even higher amount of EUR 825 000, resulting in a 15 percent lower purchase price. In these purchases, in the case of rotavirus vaccine, Latvia purchased 61,000 vaccines for both countries, including approximately 36,000 vaccines for Latvia, about 25 thousand vaccines for Estonia, obtained 11 percent lower purchase price for Latvia and 25 percent lower purchase price for Estonia, thus demonstrating that the so-called economies are working in this case. As we decided last night at the sub-committee meeting of the Baltic Assembly, the next joint procurement could be encouraged with regard to anti-cancer medicines. Even with regard to the health sector, in my view, it is certainly negative from the point of view of Latvia that last year, the Tartu University Hospital, or the Tartu clinic unilaterally, without informing the rest of the Baltic States in good time, joined the Scandia Transplant Organ Transplant Network, thus denying patients from Latvia access to liver transplantation operations, which until then were used by citizens of our country in the Tartu clinic. And this is an issue that the Baltic Assembly will obviously have to work on this year as well. During the Presidency of the Baltic Assembly, in close coordination with the activities of the Baltic Council of Ministers, we will strive to achieve practical, forward-looking and visible results for the citizens of the Baltic region. Already at the moment we can say that during the Latvian Presidency of the Baltic Assembly, the agenda to be implemented within the framework of the Baltic cooperation will depend more than previously on the withdrawal of the United Kingdom from the European Union and further discussions on the future of the European Union, on the multiannual financial framework of the European Union for 2021-2027; on the negotiations within the European Union on the common agricultural policy, on cohesion policy; on the pace of development of regional transport, infrastructure and energy projects, as well as on internal and external security threats. In addition to technological and demographic changes, the society and economy of the Baltic States are changing. Because of the new security threats and geopolitical instability, we need a comprehensive concept of protection. The growth and prosperity of the region depends on decisions we take in various areas of cooperation. Strengthening cooperation in sectors such as education and research, transport and infrastructure, energy, the circular economy, the fight against tax fraud, labour market and social protection will be crucial to meeting the challenges and ensuring the development of the Baltic region. At the end of my speech, I would like to raise the issue of the role of the Baltic Assembly in the Eastern Partnership. As every year, this year, in May of this year, a conference on Eastern Partnership issues will be organised jointly by the Baltic Assembly and the three foreign ministries of the Baltic States. Its aim, of course, as before, is to support Georgia, Ukraine, Moldova on their way to accession to the European Union. The Eastern Partnership is also very important for Latvia, because Belarus is a direct neighbour of Latvia. As regards the Latvian Presidency of the Baltic Assembly, I would like to stress that the main emphasis on the issues on the agenda of the Presidency of the Baltic Assembly will be on cooperation in security and defence policy, coordination and capacity-building aspects and issues concerning support from the Eastern Partnership countries mentioned earlier, as well as strengthening regional networks. The priorities of our activities have also been set by each Committee of the Baltic Assembly, and it is very important here that our delegated representatives in the Baltic Assembly maintain very close contacts with those members of the national parliament working in appropriate profile committees, because only if there is close cooperation between the Committee of the Baltic Assembly and the relevant Committee of the national parliament can good results be achieved. In conclusion, I would like to express my gratitude for the support that the Baltic Assembly has received from the Saeima Bureau and especially from the Speaker of the Saeima, Mrs Murniece, on behalf of the Latvian delegation of the Baltic Assembly, both now and in the previous parliamentary term. I would like to thank the Foreign Minister for the productive cooperation that we have had, and I would particularly like to thank the Prime Minister, the former Prime Minister, Mr Kučinskis for the very active and applied cooperation that we had. And I very much hope that, in the future, cooperation with both the Saeima and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs as well as with the government as a whole will continue to be equally productive and targeted. Thank you. (Applause)
ParlaMint-LV_2019-01-24-PT13-515-U60	The name of Member Inese Voika.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-01-24-PT13-515-U61	Dear President of the Saeima. Mr. Foreign Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Colleagues! At the end of last year one touching event related to the centenary of Latvia took place. On 19 December in Stockholm, the Swedish Parliament met a special session dedicated to the Baltic centenary. In the presence of Riksdaga Spicker and many members of Parliament, historian Dick Harrison looked not only at the last hundred but healthy thousand years in which our peoples have interacted. He said: “If a hypothetical foreigner had come from another planet to anticipate the future of the peoples of Europe, he would unbelievably shake his head by analysing the future of Estonia, Latvia and Lithuania. Whether his view was in 1200, 1600, or 1939, his prospects would have been gloomy. People were too small, neighbours were too strong, hostilities were too destructive. And yet, there they are. The independence gained in 1918 proved to be lasting. The Soviet occupation appeared in brackets - unfortunately bloody brackets, but... in short-term brackets, which is now the past. Estonia, Latvia and Lithuania are still here - three important, prosperous and proud countries whose existence is proof that the future is not expected to depend on anonymous historical forces, but on actions, individuals and groups who believe in themselves. Thus, the history of Estonia, Latvia and Lithuania is not just a story about survival in the face of hopeless historical prospects. It is also one of the main examples in the history of world power about the ability to change time." Thank you to the Swedish Parliament for honouring the Baltic States. Now for today. Latvia, when entering the second century, is one of the most globalised countries in the world. As counted by the Latvian Institute for Foreign Policy, there are only 12 countries in the world that are members of both the European Union and NATO, as well as OECD and other organisations. We have a wide field of work and a wide range of responsibilities. I would like to see Latvia as a strong player in these institutions. Latvia, which participates with its own expertise and best experts. We are discussing the annual report of the Minister of Foreign Affairs today and we have just begun work ourselves 13. In the Saeima, but we must be aware that the decisions we make will affect Latvia for many years to come. In 2026, Latvia wants to become a member of the UN Security Council, and I would like to support our diplomats so that they can take steps towards this goal safely, without fearing that Latvia's internal political support could diminish. Latvia expressed its readiness to submit Latvia's candidacy for UN Security Council elections already eight years ago - in 2011, 10. During the Saeima - and I am very happy to see that we have been able to hold our foreign policy course to strengthen security, regardless of what has happened internally in Latvia during this time. We all understand that good foreign policy starts right here at home. And it brings fruit in different directions. The reforms carried out by Latvia, including the unsuccessful episodes, are an important source of inspiration and good practice for the European Union's partnership countries - Ukraine, Moldova, Georgia, Armenia, Azerbaijan, Belarus and other countries. Often our colleagues learn about areas and reforms, which in Latvia we ourselves strongly criticise, for example, our judicial power. Currently, Latvia has several successful cooperation projects in court working practice, education and administration. We must strengthen Latvia's ability to identify and pass on its reform experience. In this way, foreign policy can return to internal politics and home, because when we talk about our experience, we learn ourselves. I would support the creation of a development institute and a fund to build up our reform experience and to pass on already with added value. In the context of Ukraine in particular, I would like to remind you that we will be in principle partners in defending the territorial integrity of countries, working in international organisations and defending what is happening in our neighbours. Good foreign policy starts at home. And the Latvian economy will grow with strong companies that will strengthen existing and conquer new export markets. In this area, we must remember that we cannot afford different standards for business in the European Union and elsewhere in the world. Latvia has never been such a large exporting country as to be included in a study on bribe pays countries, in which exporters from different countries are ranked according to how honestly they behave in export markets. There are no data on Latvian exporters, but over the years, when listening to Latvian businessmen and sometimes, unfortunately, representatives of the state think about how one or other country can succeed in business, I ask the question: Does the state of Latvia do enough to support its businessmen and raise awareness of fair business foundations? This year, Latvia will celebrate five years of accession to the OECD Convention on the Prevention of bribery of Foreign Officials in International Business Transactions, and there has been no case where a Latvian firm would have been convicted. However, we should not wait for responsible business to take action only after a loud scandal. Let us strengthen the mechanisms of good faith, as the OECD has stated to us in its recommendations. The same is expected from NATO countries, which are increasingly interested in Latvian companies in the defence industry. Foreign policy begins at home and continues in the neighbourhood. This year Latvia will be the Presidency of the Baltic Assembly, and members of the Committee on Security and Defence from Lithuania and Estonia will come to Riga already tonight. Soon, there will be a discussion about energy and then about culture. These practical solutions between the Baltic States strengthen our cooperation and mutual trust, which in turn allows us to be part of Nordic cooperation and, further, also within the European Union and other international institutions. And finally. Foreign policy begins at home, right here in the Saeima, where yesterday we approved the government of Arturs Krišjānis Kariņš, which has expressed its support for a democratic and honest state that is responsive to its citizens, supports the non-governmental sector and strengthens the media. Therefore, we will work to achieve the goals set by the government for a modern and fair Latvia, both internally and externally. Thank you. (Applause)
ParlaMint-LV_2019-01-24-PT13-515-U62	Name of Member Dace Rukšāne-Šchipčinska.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-01-24-PT13-515-U63	Hello, colleagues! Thank you to the Minister for Foreign Affairs for a meaningful presentation of the work that has been done and planned in the country's foreign policy and the European Union in 2018. In my opinion, it is very important that foreign policy priorities remain unchanged 13. In the family. I agree with the report that the main priorities of our country are external security and active work in the European Union, as well as the recognition that Latvia's foreign policy should be flexible and capable of rapid action. The annual report describes in detail several guidelines, positions and interests of Latvia's foreign policy: closer integration of the European Union, deepening of defence cooperation, strengthening of Latvia's economic competitiveness. I fully agree that the security of Latvia is firmly rooted in close Euro-Atlantic cooperation between Europe, the US and Canada. I also welcome the commitment of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs to express and defend Latvia's position on the Nord Stream 2 gas pipeline. However, I would like to point out, in my opinion, a very important lack of this report - the absence of climate change-related issues between Latvia's priorities. At the beginning of the report it is found that "climate change causes significant changes in the Baltic Sea region", but neither the Baltic Council of Ministers nor the Baltic Sea Council priorities reflect this challenge. Undoubtedly, the Baltic security, the development of regional connectivity and the protection of common interests within the European Union are important tasks, however, I would invite the Ministry of Foreign Affairs to include environmental and climate policy issues in Latvia's foreign policy priorities, especially in the context of the Baltic Sea cooperation. It is too easy to identify problems, it is time to create solutions! Thank you. (Applause)
ParlaMint-LV_2019-01-24-PT13-515-U64	Name to Member Ivars Zarins.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-01-24-PT13-515-U65	Hello, colleagues! I am listening to this debate, and anecdote comes to my mind. ( The Hall is full of ovations and plaques.) A man with his friends with a beer glass. He says: “We have all our responsibilities shared in the family! The wife is responsible for keeping the house in order to have what to eat, so that the children are fed, dressed, taken to school, brought back.” These demand: “And what do you answer?” “ Well, Brexit is my responsibility, Syria is my responsibility (Laughter) , war in Syria. I am responsible for the China-American trade war.” This is about our foreign policy debate at the moment. No one listens to them neither here, in the hall, nor there, in the audience. It must have been the case that there are only foreign workers who are obliged simply to sit all this time. ( Internouncing call.) For in fact everyone understands that no matter what will be debated here, there will be any change on these issues. And we will do what we need to do: we are in the European Union, we are a credible NATO partner in the NATO Alliance, and we will do what our partners will tell us. This is all our foreign policy - comprehensively, briefly and fairly. And I think, as a real politician, when it comes to all this, it's rational here and... a rational basis for all of this why we should do so. There are, however, a number of questions that the partners will not address to us. And I would have very much liked us to be talking about precisely these issues here in the foreign policy debate. Like... and I've been doing this in all this foreign policy debate for quite some years, but unfortunately it has not gone to the foreign reserve... I will therefore ask the question again: what are the rails of the Angel? What's our position? How do we solve this? This issue moved not because of Latvia's activities, but because it was a company of quite another country that turned to the Court of Justice of the European Union and started to judge about it. And what did the Lithuanians do? Elegants... They said: “Yes, yes, yes, everything will be! It's gonna be all right! We will do everything!” What is being done? What has Latvia done on its own to drive it forward? What concrete steps have we taken? That's what I wanted to hear here. These specific things that no one will do for us. I would also like to hear what the Ministry of Foreign Affairs has done. We're spending millions of entos. What are they doing? What are the plans? How do we work? What's wrong? What further support do we need on our part? Like all of this... will make synergies much stronger? Let's say, I know one particular case that was about... we talked about one such area that is important to us, such as the export of higher education. It is a high value-added sector. ( Internouncing call.) And so that foreign students can get here, they need to get a visa in Latvia. Well, and it turned out that at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs at the time of admission to universities and when it should be ensured that these students can apply for and receive visas at the Embassy, simply says: “We don’t work. Just... will not be all for you.” What can I say here to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs? They really responded quickly when I approached them, really quickly began to address this issue. I simply say this as an example that, in principle, these are the real, practical things that we could discuss here and think about how we can contribute - that this debate should have some real contribution, some point at all. That is what I would ask you to talk about here. Otherwise, we feel that we do not believe in ourselves that we have no brain, no spine, no determination to start. That is why I would like to conclude my speech with a quote from Vinnie Pooke. (Applause) Yeah. He said: “Solve your word... “ And that’s what I devote to the Foreign Minister: “Sorry that you will always remember that you are bolder than you pretend to be, that you are stronger than you think and that you are smarter than you think.” We have this ability to take care of ourselves. And I call for this to be done - concrete, real things that depend on us. Feed, take us to school, teach us, do what we can. Thank you. (Applause)
ParlaMint-LV_2019-01-24-PT13-515-U66	Name to Member Nikolai Cabanov.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-01-24-PT13-515-U67	Dear President of the Saeima. Sir, Colleagues! We all, of course, love the word geopolitika very much. Unfortunately, it has not always been used in understandable terms in recent years. For example, I do not really know what it means by "geopolitical change". In Latvia, this phrase explains, for example, the termination of education in Russian or attempts to close Russian television channels. But has our country moved to the Atlantic or closer to Australia? No, no. Latvia's geopolitical policy is the same as it has been for the last 27 years. Our country borders with Belarus, Estonia, Russia and Lithuania. Latvia is a small country, but is able to play a role in solving regional problems. Our diplomats need to explore neighbouring countries and find as many points of contact as possible with their interests. At the same time, Latvia must be able to neutralize the negative actions of individual countries and their legal entities against themselves. Allow me to give a brief overview of my relations with the four neighbouring countries within the framework of the Rules of Procedure. It is a pity that almost nothing in the Minister's report has been written about Belarus, because a sovereign neighbouring country is the best guarantee for the diversification of our transit. As the Ambassador of Belarus to Latvia, Mr Markovič, said in the Saeima two days ago, there are practically no problems in our relations. The main neighbouring diplomat informed the parliamentary cooperation group how he worked on preparing the visit of the President of Belarus to Latvia. I am convinced that Mr Lukashenko's visit will be an important event even at European level. Latvia needs to develop its position on the Belarus nuclear power plant. Its operation will start in the near future. The energy of the Belarusian nuclear power plant has great potential for changing the electricity market in the region and reducing prices for consumers in our Republic. Latvia must also find its place in the largest Chinese project on European territory - free economic zone “Lielais šaltinis” near Minsk. Our ports - Riga, Liepaja, Ventspils - can become Belarusian and Chinese project partners, as well as send products to Western Europe. Last April 3, the British TV channel Sky News described the events in Ukraine as a civil war. I will use this term, this concept. During the hot phase of Ukrainian civil war, in which also Russian volunteers and military equipment took part, Belarus became a guarantee of stability. Imagine what would happen if the border between Belarus and Ukraine had tension for a thousand kilometres? However, the Slavic brotherhood prevailed, and Minsk became the point of negotiations between Mr Poroshenko and Mr Putin. Belarusians are a security donor in our region and it is in Latvia's interest. As regards Estonia. With this country, Latvia has the warmest relationship, of course, in view of Estonia's particularly close brotherhood with Finland and the fact that Estonia regards itself as a Nordic country rather than a Baltic country. Last year Latvia and Estonia even held a joint government sitting in the Palace of Light. But Estonia and Latvia have recently been united by two socio-economic phenomena: mass “spirit tourism” to Vidzeme, as well as fleeing from Valka to a neighbouring country by better quality social services. Today we have heard an interesting statement about different forms of cooperation in the Baltic States, but I will talk about a little more specific topics here. In Estonia, too, there is a large Russian-speaking community and not always a smooth relationship with the government. However, the representatives of Estonian Slavs are in the Cabinet of Ministers and Estonia has not left the EU and NATO. Perhaps there should be an exchange of experience with Estonia on ethnic integration? I love Lithuania very much. There people get the so-called zero version of citizenship, no matter where they are born in the USSR republic. Currently Lithuanians win the competition for Ukrainian labour force. In Vilnius, there are even yellow -ish posters with Russian inscriptions that people need. The Ukrainian train, going to Riga, comes to us almost empty because most passengers remain in Lithuania. Lithuania still lives in dreams of a giant, Lithuanians tell about their horses entering the Black Sea. Lithuania is characterised by a rather active and sometimes aggressive approach to business - whether it is trade or transit. I do not know an example that a Latvian shop in the center of Vilnius would extort a local company, but that is what happens in the capital of Latvia. The biggest hypermarkets and skyscrapers belong to Lithuanians. It is not bad, it is not good, but it is necessary to understand and consider what Latvia can benefit from such an asymmetric relationship. The President of Lithuania could not attend the celebration of the Latvian anniversary because of the damage to the plane. Yes, we are living in an age of geopolitical change, and Lithuania has an island in the Arctic Ocean, from which to fly to Riga for two hours! If serious, then behind Mrs. Grybauskaite's refusal to visit Latvia, there is something that the Ministry of Foreign Affairs is silent about. Shouldn't Members know the truth about the real relationship with our neighbour Lithuania? What is our Embassy in Lithuania doing? When talking about Latvia's relations with Lithuania and Estonia, I can say that Rail Baltica's project is moving very slowly and controversially. In any case, its implementation in our circumstances will mean that thousands and thousands of foreign workers will arrive in Latvia. The politicians of the new generation probably do not remember that the Memorial in Latvia began with the slogan “Merro - no!” . Underground transport in Riga had to be built by Belarusians 30 years ago, and Vērmane was intended for a station called “Freight”. We now have another, larger-scale "friendship". But who's going to build this railway? In what language, so to speak, will this building be carried out? How will this contribute to demographics in Latvia? Questions, questions. In fact, our diplomatic resources are very weak even in the biggest Western countries. For example, in France, Latvia maintains only an ambassador and his deputy, although in Paris... Europe's largest country is with nuclear weapons in the capital. At the same time, Latvia has separate representations in the UN, New York, Geneva and Vienna - fragmented resources. From the regular report of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, it was clear to me, as always, that Russia is carrying out aggressive policies. Oh, of course! But I want to hear concrete examples of how this is felt in relation to Latvia. But yet... We all know that there are small things on the bilateral Latvian-Russian agenda... Cooperation between our national institutions and local authorities shows that transnational relations can be frozen, but activity continues at a lower level. I have no illusions that Latvia-Russia relations can warm up in the near future, but we have to stop at this fall to begin to rise slowly afterwards. I can say to all the Members who have spoken against Russia today: you are poorly informed. Latvia is not part of the first... Global player priorities. Russia is more researching Latin American countries than Latvia. Our diplomacy sometimes tries to raise Latvia's importance towards Russia, calling for serious diplomatic events in Riga for those who call themselves opposition. It's not the opposition, it's the political punduri. They lose their constituents ’ eyes, and they are like branches that envelop stink stinking bone. In this case, the small predators multiply from the smell of russophobia. ‘ Russophobia" - it is a widely used word, but not too correctly used. Any phobia has great meaning, because phobia means fear. There is no need to fear, and then Latvia will succeed and be successful in its foreign affairs and economic development. Thank you. (Applause)
ParlaMint-LV_2019-01-24-PT13-515-U68	Name to Member Alexander Kirštein.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-01-24-PT13-515-U69	Dear President, Honourable Members! Mr. Foreign Minister! I listen, listen, listen, listen to the speeches of the position, and such a heresy thought came to my mind: do you say smooth and correct speeches without saying anything new in nature, and to say gratitude and compliments is a national quality of the Latvian people? That is why I will ask only three questions. First. When will Latvia recognize Venezuelan President Huan Guado, who is currently a Speaker of Parliament and who has been recognised as President by our NATO partners (such as the United States, Canada), Latin America's largest countries (Argentina, Brazil) and the rest (Chile, Panama) as well as a whole number of countries? I won't list everyone. It is interesting that even Georgia and Kosovo. Interesting, what is Latvia waiting for in this case? So Chaves, who has completely destroyed the economy, counterfeited the elections, actually ruined the country, caused a civil war, is acceptable to the left of the European Union as a whole. Latvia is, of course, looking forward to what Brussels will say in this case. Mr. Rinkēvičs, when will Latvia recognize? I hope you come here and tell me. ( Internouncing call.) Next. For Belarus. The northern dimension is a partnership for transport and logistics. And Belarus acts as an observer. And then there are some questions. Why has President Lukashenko now started speaking Belarusian for the first time in 25 years? Why does he end every speech with the words that the army and the people will defend the independence of Belarus? Why does he end every speech with the words that Belarus is a proud country, that it will not allow itself to violate its sovereignty, that no one will tell it what to do? And so on. What is threatening this? Is NATO going to invade Belarus? No, no! I could ask you another question: as President Putin... Well, the Russian spy will, of course, not talk about it here, so I have to ask this question. Why the President... Is that so? In what way can Putin be elected as President for the third time in 2024 without infringing the Russian constitution? Obviously, he can only be elected if he is elected President of a new country. Who can be this country, and what are the various analyses showing? It can be a united Russian-Belarusian state. So he would be re-elected for two terms and the constitution would not be violated. What will President Lukashenko and the so-called Belarusian elite do in this case? Or will the President of Belarus be satisfied if he is given the role of Governor of the Western Province of Russia or the new country? What will the Belarusian armed forces do? What will the safety authorities do? What will the Belarusian opposition, whose representatives claim armed fighting, do, will start a civil war? What will happen to Latvian citizens? I await a response from the Foreign Minister. I didn't hear it. I think that Latvian citizens in Belarus are more at risk than the welfare countries in the European Union, for which we are taking care of here. Will President Putin, if he is President of a new country, send cargoes to the ports of the Baltic States? We often say that rail electrification needs to be assessed. Is it worth investing in it if we do not know what will happen? Obviously, we need some analysis from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. Perhaps there is no capacity, but do we not need to learn from the British, whose intelligence service is subject to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, which is also preparing reports on economic issues? I didn't hear anything like that. I hope that in the final word, the Minister will tell you what is expected. Now the Moneyval Report of August 2018. An appropriate sub-committee has been set up within the family. Many express themselves, but have not come to know the nature of the matter. Assessment of the Latvian financial system... in a number of areas, correctly mentioned by the Minister, efficiency has been assessed as medium to low. Does this report reflect reality, or is it more representative of the work of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and the Ministry of Finance? Latvia has reduced non-resident deposits by about 10 billion. In the banks, we currently have only three billion euros of non-resident money, and half of these depositors are citizens of the European Union. The annual turnover in Latvian banks has fallen from 150 billion to four billion. Latvia has set the absolute world record - it has reduced the turnover of money... the turnover of dollars... whether the euro, but less the euro... 37.5 times! No other country in the world has done so. Nobody! It has not even been reduced four times. Is this somehow reflected in the Moneyval report? Not reflected. What, then, should we learn from this? How? Have you entered the Moneyval website and read it? I went, printed, Minister! It turns out that our example is Ukraine, and our example is Belarus. What do we read here? In Ukraine, fantastic progress has been made in legislation and in the practical implementation of legislation. The National Anti-Corruption Office of Ukraine, the National Anti-Corruption Agency of Ukraine has been established. Ukrainian financial analysis reflects a precise description of the situation, gives an analysis. And so on, and so on. Finally, in 2019 Ukraine will report on the full implementation of all recommendations, that is, recommendations. Look at Azerbaijan. Moneyval confirms Azerbaijan's progress in the fight against money laundering. Azerbaijan has completed all 40 plus nine recommendations, FATF recommendations including... and including the recommendations of Moneyval. Only Latvia hasn't done anything, it turns out if? We've changed the law, we've... We also have an organisation dealing with money laundering, money laundering and everything else. It doesn't appear anywhere! So, actually, it's not Ukraine... I have participated in a number of UNIC meetings, that is, the NATO-Ukraine Interparliamentary Council, and each meeting talks that Ukraine is a fictitious business country, Ukraine is a classic tax fraud-free country, Ukraine is a classic fraud-free country. But the Moneyval report - fantastic success not for Latvia, but for Ukraine! What about Latvia? ( The Room Noise) In the threat of Latvia's entry... On the Internet, look at Moneyval's website - there are red marked countries of horror, among which Latvia will immediately arrive... red color... off Ethiopia, Syria, Serbia, Ghana, Yemen... So, to be honest, these reports do not reflect the achievements of both Ukraine and Azerbaijan; they reflect the achievements of the foreign ministries of Ukraine and Azerbaijan. I have not heard anything - do we participate in delegations, participate in working group meetings? Who has taken part in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs? On the other hand, our finance minister even said that we would immediately be reducing ratings by rating agencies, because we were just doing it as if we were washing money. The rating agencies were then forced to withdraw... declare that there is nothing like this, that it is an absolute stupidity. Well, that's how we keep... So there's a question... Mr Rinkēvičs, I hope you will tell me whether there is a plan - in the context of Moneyval - for international cooperation and clarification of the situation. Will the government have such a plan? Will our ministers only retranslate American threat letters and speak as panic builders, but will they do nothing and explain what has been done so far? So I recommend you go to Ukraine or Azerbaijan and learn how foreign ministers work there. I hope that the new report, this year, will really reflect what Latvia has done. Indeed, Latvia has done far more than I said, because there is no country in the world that has reduced its turnover in banks almost 40 times. I still look forward to your work, Minister. Thank you for your attention. (Applause)
ParlaMint-LV_2019-01-24-PT13-515-U70	Name to Member Viktor Valain.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-01-24-PT13-515-U71	Hello, Speaker of the Saeima! Mr. Foreign Minister! Ministers! Listening to the Foreign Minister's speech, I recorded a few things. A single European Union can compete, while a fragmented Union can waste its resources. I would like to add my fullest voice to these words of the Foreign Minister. And, in my opinion, it is precisely in this respect that careful consideration should be given to Latvia's position with regard to Brexit. In my opinion, the only reason for this would be... meaning to prolong... Postponing Brexit would only be if we had full confidence that Britain would remain in the European Union. If that's not the case, then... I do not think that postponing this issue could bring any improvements - any - to this agreement. At least I do not think that it is ready for the European Union and Britain. If I'm wrong, then... Perhaps the Minister could comment, but I believe that postponing the matter will do nothing, but, on the contrary, wastes the European Union's resources. It is not a secret: the Brexit issue is an important issue, but it prevents the European Union... The European Commission is working on other issues of the same importance, such as cohesion policy, agricultural policy. Let us be realistic: in terms of its structure, however, the European Union is such a democratic and rather complex structure, which is really difficult to make such decisions. And with more than one question, I think that the European Union is not really capable of doing so. In my opinion, there are many other, more important, issues which must come to the top of the priorities and which should be dealt with at this point. That would be one subject. The second subject I want to talk about is our diplomatic corps. I think that is very good, and it really can only be praised for how it has changed. There are many new faces, and these people could do a lot for Latvia. But I think your speech too... that you mentioned - security first in our foreign policy, the economy fourth. In my opinion, the economic chapter should be placed first together with security, because also economic development, raising the standard of living, in a way, is a matter of security. It is the economic chapter that should be strengthened in our foreign policy, in the work of the embassies, so that the embassies can make their assessment... to be an essential part, for example, of how our entrepreneurs have increased their export capacity to the country where the embassy is located. This should be one of the dominant factors in assessing the work of our embassies. If we look... I myself had talks with foreign investors in Latvia. How do they view their companies? They demand quarterly figures on how market share has increased, how and what returns are being invested. We also need to ask our embassies how export indicators have increased so that products produced in Latvia can be exported as much as possible to external markets. And this applies to all embassies. So I really wish the Foreign Minister to think more about these issues. Another subject - the third one - is perhaps not so much about the foreign debate. When it comes to the uncompromising rule of law, Latvia must set an example for the rest of the world. There is a certain thing to know about in the Parliament of the culinary talks: it is an integral part of the parliamentary work. We can see today that all day round, culinary negotiations are taking place on all sides. But the culinary negotiations cannot go beyond the decisions of the Members. I am therefore very disappointed that today, the amendments to the Education Act decided by Members on by the relevant committee have not been included on the agenda of the Saeima sitting. For reasons not known to me, this issue is not on the agenda of today's sitting. However, the legal nature of this should be assessed. (Applause)
ParlaMint-LV_2019-01-24-PT13-515-U72	Name of Member Dana Reizniece-Ozola.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-01-24-PT13-515-U73	Hello, Madam President of the Saeima. Members! Ministers! First of all, thank the Minister for Foreign Affairs for his report. I would like to express my opinion in such a slightly narrower - financial - aspect. Some ideas from my side. The European Union is now in a position to choose - either we choose a course to strengthen it, making it a strong, perhaps the strongest player in the world, or it weakens, internal contradictions and differences of opinion, which we are already seeing in many countries. It should not be specifically emphasised once again that Latvia has a strong European Union. This is not only a matter of our economic policy, but also of geopolitical policy. I say this because everyone - including smaller ones - has an important position and can influence processes in one direction or another. That is why Latvia also needs a clear vision of how the European Union should be developed; therefore, a clear vision of how the European Economic and Monetary Union should be developed. The Member States of this Union - I think we understand this - will be those who will set the European Union's development agenda for economic policy after the British leave the European Union. The euro is now not only a means of payment, but also an essential symbol of the unity of the European Union, an essential instrument for cross-border trade. The euro is now the second largest reserve currency in the world, and indeed it has the opportunity to strengthen its position in the world even further, thus increasing the international importance of the European Union. However, for 20 years now, the existence of the euro has also been pointing to shortcomings in economic and monetary union. Where is the problem? Countries in the euro area have extremely different levels of productivity. What can we do in such a situation? If it were their national currency, it could be devalued, thus restoring cost competitiveness. If devaluation is not possible, an internal devaluation can be performed, as happened in Latvia during the crisis. Finally, of course, there is the solution that countries can be called upon to carry out structural reforms more quickly. And usually it is also done by central bank governors so that productivity follows the rise in wages and costs. However, as we understand, this is not the case in politics. It can be read in theory books... economic books. Street dissatisfaction is growing faster than productivity. And that's what we see in the yellow wedding movement in France... and now - in a small format - in Latvia. We need to improve Economic and Monetary Union so that the restrictions on monetary union - and they are! - compensated by other instruments. And there is not much opportunity at this time - if we openly acknowledge that the lesson for the South is to put in place the arrangements it is in Germany and, moreover, to do so right away - and now - by reducing expenditure and implementing structural reforms - politically intolerant (and this is what we have done!) , then there is a need for a fiscal union based on two cornerstones: much greater centralisation of fiscal and economic policies and a common euro area budget. Once again, more centralisation and more solidarity. If we do not, the alternative is the weakening of the European Union's construction due to public displeasure and Euroscepticism, and at a time of future crisis we will see that construction can simply not withstand - Britain can also be followed by other countries. We therefore need a distinction and a clear position on how to remedy the shortcomings in the construction of the Economic and Monetary Union. At present, these are issues that are at the heart of the attention of the Member States, especially the focus of the finance ministers. I call on the Saeima and the future government to continue with this important work. The work on the Banking Union, the Capital Markets Union must be completed and the work on a European... The euro area budget - one that would not only be used to reduce the differences between convergence and living levels, but also... would also have a stability function. This will be one of the biggest discussions. What is important is that the euro area budget should not be at the expense of cohesion policy. It must not become another instrument to re-allocate funding from the North to the South, from the small, new Member States to the old, large, more experienced Member States, as we often see in cohesion policy. What we also need to understand is that cohesion policy and agricultural aid in countries like Latvia are not just a fight for money. Colleagues, if we are serious at European level about the introduction of a single policy within the European Union (for example, on social support, on the single unemployment schemes), then clearly this is impossible if there is a large difference in living standards between the Member States of the European Union. And cohesion policy is one that can make it possible to reduce the gap in living standards. And therefore, when we look at new priorities (and these are really priorities of migration, security, creativity, a number of things that the European Union should support more and more wisely), this must not be done at the expense of cohesion policy. Cohesion policy cannot become like a dairy cow in favour of other - new - policies, no matter how tempting they may be. There is a saying: when looking for new friends, you should not forget the old ones who have helped you at a difficult time and have shown you that we are good. The financial sector in Latvia. The financial sector has indeed gained great international visibility last year by expressing the name of Latvia widely beyond our borders. Latvia has been mentioned in all titles in the largest business and political newspapers, unfortunately - in relation to critically sad... sad content and very uncomplicated terms towards our country. This has been caused both by the measures taken by the US Treasury to protect its financial system against possible money laundering and terrorist financing, and by the assessment by Moneyval of the 5th round of the ability of our country to fight or, in this case, by the failure to fight against money laundering, terrorist financing and the investigation of economic and financial crimes. It is, of course, to be welcomed that the issue of preventing money laundering and the regularisation of our financial system has been included in the report and has been given attention. At the same time, it would be wrong to assume that Moneyval's report, with its described shortcomings in the functioning of Latvian institutions, is considered to be the main motivation and reason for the necessary changes. That would be a slippery path. We have just almost stood on that when we wanted to join the OECD - we were in such a euphoria of the financial paradise that we did not notice that when we released the baskets of control, they and its paradise could at some point become nine circles of hell. We need to realise that the stability and security of the financial sector is not just a matter of international reputation and economic development. It is also a matter of national security. What's the matter of investing two percent, 2.5... It is an auction to strengthen our physical protection, to increase our skills in an information war, while we open the door with the other hand and let us go through our financial system to black money, which we do not know about, where it comes from, where it goes and what is being used for. Thus we give strength to those players who want to influence the public and political processes in Latvia, and not only in Latvia, but also in Europe and the world as a whole. We want convenient financial services, smooth access to domestic and international payments, using both traditional banking services and new technologies. However, the smooth operation of payment systems is possible in view of the close integration of the international financial and payment system, which is based on internationally recognised transparency standards on the origin of the funds and the true beneficiaries. Amenities, colleagues, come together with high demands, which we are scrupulously assessed at both national and individual level. In the international financial system, it would be naive to want to settle in dollars or any other currency and at the same time to maintain business models and internal control systems of financial service providers that are unable to identify high-risk customers with branched ownership entities, unclear true-risk beneficiaries and transactions with super-risk third countries. In international relations, the financial sector has a key role to play... I ask you to allow me to use another second time as well.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-01-24-PT13-515-U74	Are Members opposed to merging the time of the debate? There is no objection.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-01-24-PT13-515-U75	Thank you. In international relations, the financial sector plays a key role in introducing sanctions from international organisations, institutions and individual countries. Sanctions, we also know, are an effective instrument against aggressive regimes, terrorism and the financing of weapons of mass destruction. Circumvention should be treated with particular seriousness, identifying also cases where sanctions are circumvented. We, fellow Members, are the country borrowing to finance its deficit in international financial markets. This process is not just about issuing securities, expecting demand and fixing prices. It's work with investors. Yes, also with rating agencies that have to explain how our financial system... not just the financial system as a whole, the budget... the political system... is it in order, what reforms are expected... and show them that the promises made are also being fulfilled. This must be done with complete openness on the basis of mutual trust. The partnership in international cooperation requires high standards of transparency. We can, of course, ask questions, try to pretend we do not understand what our strategic partners are, what forms of cooperation or communication with them are. But in good partnership, colleagues, such issues are usually unnecessary. All of this is clear. Finally, about the recommendations of Moneyval once again. If we do not understand their meaning, then the implementation of the recommendations is, in fact, irrelevant. Indeed, representatives of Latvian institutions must be able to demonstrate a common position on the issues that are most important for the international reputation of our country. We must be able to show that we are able to see a financial crime, investigate it and also finally lead to a conviction. One such important issue is the self-liquidation process of ABLV Bank. And as an example, the development of a methodology for the liquidation of the bank. A methodology which the international financial community will either believe or not believe. If we do not hear and do not want to hear what our partners have been saying to us for several months, then I think we should not be surprised at the result that we can achieve in this way. The fact that we put our hands in front of our eyes does not mean that we are hidden. The fact that we put our little head on the ground does not mean that the body is not left outside. I think that is what we all have to take into account. And, for my part, too, I call on the Foreign Minister to provide as soon as possible, in the near future, an insight... give the ministers of the new government, including the Prime Minister, the Members of the Saeima, for whom this is not yet clear, their views on this matter from the foreign policy point of view and its importance. To work together for Latvia on the international stage can also achieve goals that others still think about! Thank you. (Applause)
ParlaMint-LV_2019-01-24-PT13-515-U76	Name to Member Aldi Gobzem.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-01-24-PT13-515-U77	Excellency! Parliament! The Foreign Minister's report is a formal report, one by one and not by nature. I think the Foreign Minister has one problem. And the problem is very practical. I will explain why the report is formal - clear after, not practical. The Foreign Minister has never actually been in contact with the private sector, has never been in the private sector, the whole of his conscious life has only been in public administration. And so the problem is that this report... if we read it from the beginning to the end, then we see that there is essentially no economic section. One of the most important tasks of foreign policy is to help the Latvian economy. And so, of course, the question arises: how has our foreign reserve helped the Latvian economy? Examples include: The investments made by foreign investors in the share capital of companies registered in Latvia for the third year in a row have decreased: in 2018 - by 152 million euros, and in three years - by 409 million euros. Within three years, half a billion euro investment from Latvia has vanished. ( And attracting investors is a direct task and responsibility of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs!) The study of Lursoft, according to the Register of Enterprises, shows this – these are official data. Result: On 1 January 2019, the accumulated foreign direct investment in the share capital of Latvian companies amounts to EUR 7.09 billion, which is the same as it was five years ago in 2013. No development! Last year the number of Latvian registered companies with foreign capital decreased by 9.1 percent or by 2571 companies. Both the drop in the share capital of foreign investors and the decrease in the number of such companies raise questions about what is really happening with investments in Latvia. At the same time, there was no official level of concern about foreign investment leakage. The Ministry of Foreign Affairs does not have to deal only with "saial lions" trip to Fiji for EUR 82 000 of taxpayers' money, but rather make basic matters. For example, the Latvian Investment and Development Agency had to move under the supervision of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs for a long time, because the Ministry of Foreign Affairs has to be able to sell investment projects. It does so in Scandinavian countries. There is another problem in the Foreign Affairs Report. This problem is that, after joining the European Union and NATO, we do not know at all in our country what our foreign policy is. What do we want to achieve in foreign affairs at all? We're talking about Brexit here. When we read the report, we find that there is no proposal that we will then do in relation to Brexit, although these proposals not only had to be inventive for a long time, but also adopted, because it directly affects the interests of our compatriots in a very large part of our country abroad. What is the Foreign Minister doing at this time? During this time, the Foreign Minister travels with his opera guide to Singapore to visit the opera. Yes, the Minister is perhaps knowledgeable but effective under the aegis of just a much stronger foreign policy expert. And that's what I mean, for example, Mr. Vaira Vīķi- Freiberg. For basically we do not have foreign policy at the moment, we have a simulation of foreign policy, a simulation of a report that does not reflect one of the main foreign policy sectors - economic development here on the ground. If we are talking about foreign policy, then, for example, Asia's direction is actually counterproductive. What have we achieved in this direction? Are you on exotic journeys? Have we made investments? And if they come in, who proves this? Our foreign policy lags behind even Estonia and Lithuania's foreign policy, which is much more attractive, interesting, investment more attractive. That is why what I am calling on the Ministry of Foreign Affairs to finally focus on the protection of our national interests abroad and not just on enjoying the status in the cabins. The Ministry of Foreign Affairs must be more active in defending our national interests. And if we are talking about the Moneyval report, which, as such an unexpected event, has fallen on all the shoulders, I have to ask: after what years, Mr Rinkēvičs, you are a Minister for Foreign Affairs? If I don't, eight. Why should the Moneyval report point to a problem from the outside, why have you not seen it before, and why have you not solved it before? Why should you act only at the moment when someone bowing down before you is shaking your finger? Is foreign policy right in a situation where we send a message to the outside, not to trust our financial sector, so that in Latvia only credit institutions that are lobbying from other countries... not our national credit institutions? Does such a message help to develop in Latvia? I fully agree that crimes must be discovered, but that does not mean that national interests must not be defended. And there are a lot of these examples. As another we can mention even the same unfortunate tracks from Lithuania to Latvia. Mr Rinkēvičs, 10 years, even more, have passed, but to resolve such an elementary issue as to defend our country's interests right next to us, we cannot, because we have to go to the salons for taxpayers' money. I think that is the report, and I think that is the attitude of this position towards the fall in investment in Latvia and the protection of national capital. I think this is the moment to understand... In order for the Foreign Minister to visit and practice our country's companies at least twice a week instead of Fiji, to understand how to help our country's companies to better export and better present our country's production abroad! Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-01-24-PT13-515-U78	It's six minutes to break. Mr. Znotiņš, would you have a six-minute debate? ( The box “No! ”) ) No? Either you have enough debates for six minutes and you are now starting a debate or we are continuing the debate after a break. ( INTERPRETATIONS FROM THE GROUP: “Help man decide. ” ) Would it be enough for you to have six minutes? It's not serious. Okay. So... One moment! ( The box “Help him! ”) ) For a moment! I mean, I mean, I mean, I mean, I mean, I (Laughter) Colleagues, be patient! Thirty seconds... ( Intercretion: “Let man think! ”) ; “30 seconds will think!” ; “Don’t bother thinking!” ) Thank you. Colleagues! Members Adamovičs, Pūce, Augulis, Strīķe and Latkovskis are asking to continue the Saeima sitting without interruption until the examination of the annual report by the Minister of Foreign Affairs and to hold a 15-minute break thereafter. ( The box “Yes! ”) ) Do Members have objections? There is no objection. So we are continuing the debate without interruption. The name of Member Rainis Znotiņš.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-01-24-PT13-515-U79	Yes, now that the session is over, let us return to our foreign policy. Dear Chairman of the Saeima. Dear colleagues, I thank the Minister for Foreign Affairs for his foreign policy report. I welcome the strengthening of energy policy mentioned in the report, but I would remind you: let us remember that in 2014, when the conflict between Ukraine and Russia began, Ukraine realised that one of its biggest weaknesses, to say the same, is its energy dependence on Russia. In the run-up to the search for alternatives, Ukraine concluded an agreement with Slovakia on the supply of three billion cubic metres of natural gas and on the development of gas transmission. In response, Gazprom raised gas prices for Ukraine, stressing that the country has incurred a huge debt. This diplomatic tension has turned into a crisis when the supply of natural gas to Ukraine was switched off for several weeks. Since we live in an age where war is taking on new forms, the question arises: is Latvia ready for such a scenario? Are we prepared for a situation in which, for example, by increasing the presence of NATO forces in Latvia, we would face a drop in natural gas supplies or an increase in prices from Russia? Would Article 5 of the NATO Agreement work in this case? Also, the statements made by Donald Trump about the ability of European countries to pay for their protection do not go unnoticed in the media space. Latvia responded with an increase in defence spending of two per cent of GDP. But is that enough? Latvia, unlike Lithuania, does not sufficiently assess the extent to which this is a threat to our country. This is reflected in the fact that the Foreign Minister's report does not refer to energy dependence on Russia as a hybrid challenge or hybrid threat. Similarly, significant improvements in the situation in Latvia in this area have practically not occurred in the last 20 years. The liberalisation of the Latvian gas market that took place in 2017 has also taken place only on paper. While Lithuania and Estonia continue to reduce their gas purchases, Latvia buys more Russian gas. More than 90 percent of gas is still purchased from Russia. We keep sitting on the Russian gas needle. Are we doing enough to get rid of this addiction? Are we really prepared to see this undervalued addiction begin to cause serious problems? As early as 2014, the European Union adopted an energy security strategy which required its countries to diversify their energy sources. Last year Lithuanian Parliaments adopted the National Energy Independence Strategy, which is based on the use of various new and innovative technologies to obtain energy. In order to reduce dependence on Russia, it seeks to integrate energy systems and markets into the European Union. Mr Rinkēvičs also mentioned today the need for a common European Union energy policy. In order to achieve a solution, there is in fact a lack of unity in the core of the European Union: Germany is looking at the European Union's energy issues in a different way. An example of this is Nord Stream 2. Bypassing Eastern Europe, this implies the construction of a Russian gas pipeline to Germany. It should be noted that this connection will not only provide Germany with gas supply, but Nord Stream 2 will also increase dependence on one supplier. This was one of the main reasons why Members of the European Parliament expressed their opposition to the construction of the gas pipeline and in April 2018, the European Commission refused to support Nord Stream 2. It is important to remember that Gazprom is not simply a company, given its close connection with the Putin regime. Energy plays an important role not only in Russia's economic development plan, but also serves as a foreign policy weapon in its strategic activities in the coming years. At a time when it is in Russia's interest to divide the Member States of the European Union and develop relations with individual Member States, such a project gives rise to even more serious considerations. Nord Stream 2's negative role for the Baltic states Lithuanian President Part Grybauskaite stressed to the German Chancellor Angela Merkel during the meeting in September in Vilnius. The previous Prime Minister, Maris Kučinskis, also took part in the meeting, but rhetoric from Latvia was much quieter. Latvia's public position was much, much quieter. In the interests of our country, should the new government not be more active against the Nord Stream 2 project? Poland is also an excellent example of strengthening energy independence. Poland has been able to achieve greater energy independence through the LNG terminal. As a result, Poland will no longer actually buy Russian gas from 2022. Poland is actively working to strengthen energy cooperation with the US, Qatar, Norway and other countries, so that the agreement with Gazprom should not be extended in 2022. I would also like to mention some things that could be referred to as the unvalued potential and opportunities of Latvia. Firstly, it is the available funding to promote the European Union's energy independence. The press release released by the European Commission today shows that Europe has decided to provide an additional €800 million for the development of energy infrastructure. Secondly, the priority included in the report is to complete the modernisation of Incukalns. Incukalns storage needs to be further developed by introducing new technologies for more efficient energy storage. As we know, the natural advantages of Inčukalns are not fully exploited at the moment. Latvian gas and electricity volumes alone do not provide sufficient capacity to ensure the best tariffs and prices for the local market. We have unique energy storage advantages in order to supply neighbouring countries and to store their energy resources. Using new technologies, the Inčukalns storage site could also be used for electricity storage. Such technologies are already being used successfully in Canada and other countries. Thirdly, Latvia needs to assess energy independence more broadly than in the context of the Baltic region - let us say how closer cooperation in the field of energy with Scandinavian countries is to be done by creating new connections or liquefied gas terminals in Latvia, as Poland has done. This would also enable Latvia to supply gas to Estonia and Finland. These are just a few examples that need to be further promoted in forms of transnational cooperation such as the Baltic Sea Council or NB8, and this cooperation should become a central component of our country's regional foreign policy. Other solutions outside the European Union may also need to be sought. Here it is essential to look at the possibilities for cooperation with the United States of America... So the liquid gas terminal... or with the Gulf countries directly in the field of energy. Potential cooperation opportunities should be sought there - ways of connecting our gas pipelines with existing gas pipelines from the Middle East to Europe. Like a small Nordic country, our economy and security situation, as well as various seemingly everyday processes, are directly dependent on various events outside Latvia. Our foreign policy has historically been based on the development of smart partnerships. Latvia's membership of the European Union and its desire to be at the core of these countries, as the report says, are essential for influencing external processes that directly affect our daily lives. Although presence in the core of Europe requires irreversible compromises, we must not forget that our interests and priorities are still defined by us. By updating this issue and diversifying energy supply partners, we can reduce Russia's risks in time and be sure that Latvia's latest winter nights will always be warm. Thank you. (Applause)
ParlaMint-LV_2019-01-24-PT13-515-U80	The name of the Member, Andrejs Judin.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-01-24-PT13-515-U81	Dear colleagues, First of all, I thank the Minister for his report. I realized that today everyone is talking about their own pain - for the other they may be more practical, for the other they may be more general. But the issue I want to talk about is perhaps more conceptual. When I see the latest processes in our Saeima in relation to a migration compact and in relation to some other things, I understand that such conceptual things also need to be discussed. It is no secret - we all understand that Latvia is a small country on a global scale. That is the fact that if we look at both the territory of our country and the population. But this does not in itself mean that Latvia must be passive, that Latvia must be a country that only monitors international processes. We have every opportunity to be active, to act actively and to participate in international processes - to play a serious role in international processes in principle. Rather than being self - isolated, we can participate. We have every opportunity to participate actively and to participate. The question is: what should be the foreign policy of a small country? There is no lack of studies analysing the relevant policy boundaries. Of course, these studies must be read to understand... It must be understood that Latvia is not a unique country in this respect. There are several other small countries that play a very important role in international processes. And in principle it depends on us what role Latvia will play. Will we sit down and ignore international processes, challenges or be active players? We see that Europe's small countries have realised, on the basis of their historical experience, that cooperation is the main driver of success. ( Internouncing call.) Cooperation between countries has laid the foundations for the establishment of the European Union, the establishment of the NATO block and many other cooperation platforms, to which Latvia has always set its foreign policy objective. Until the last moment I believed that it goes without saying that Latvia's policy should be wise, that we should understand who we are and act accordingly. But I remember discussing the Istanbul Convention at the Saeima. I remember the recent discussions on the compact nature of migration, I remember how we have recently discussed how to define a properly - and, in my view, this means that our opinions are unfortunately very different. Our perception of how to develop Latvia's foreign policy varies greatly. It is normal, it is absolutely acceptable that people may have different, different opinions. The same is not bad in itself, but here we are working on policy making. This is our responsibility, and if there are international processes in the world, if countries unite to solve a problem, self-insulation is not the solution. Unfortunately, I did not have the opportunity to take part in a debate on a compact migration, but... What am I sure of? Frankly, I was surprised when my colleagues told me how terrible it is, how wrong it is... that you can't take part in the processes... But the question was about a document that is not binding on Latvia. And if Latvia, instead of being with other countries to work and seek solutions, chooses a different path, namely that we don't have to do anything and it's not our business, and that migration is evil at all, and so we can sit down and keep quiet, it's wrong! It's risky! We have every opportunity, working actively with colleagues from other countries, to influence processes, to look for solutions, and in the end we will be heard. And then our problems... we will be able to present the problems that are important to us. But if we say that migration is evil, so let us not talk about it at the Saeima of the Republic of Latvia, the problem will not be solved, the problem will exist, only we will be not those who work and work together to develop solutions, but the observers who will have to accept those solutions that will be developed by other countries. That is risky, it is wrong, and it must not be tolerated! Looking at Latvia's history, it can be seen that there have been separate attempts of self-insulation in Latvia's foreign policy. The most known of these is the declaration of absolute neutrality and the abandonment of participation in the Treaty on the People's Union in 1938. Article 16 of that agreement provided for the use of collective economic and military sanctions against the aggressor; it was the only collective protection mechanism at that time. A year later, the war started, and when Latvia's independence was faced with real aggression from the USSR, Latvia had no other ally to ask for help. At the moment, it is important to realise that one of Latvia's main foreign policy objectives should be strengthening cooperation with other countries and international organisations. This cooperation has so far been more than a success. Latvia's involvement in the peacekeeping missions led by NATO, UN, OECD and broad international coalitions paved the way for Latvia's accession to these organisations, which has now become the cornerstone of Latvia's growth in security and prosperity. The task of Latvian foreign policy makers is to defend Latvia's interests, but it is not possible to do this by putting the head in the sand as a chandelier and pretending that these issues do not affect us. This can only be done by engaging with global developments and challenges. We have resolved one question on migration compact, but there will be other issues, there will be other challenges, and I would very much hope that we will be able to think more about it - not just that we will soon have elections and look beautiful. I would like us to think about Latvia's future, our responsibility and our decisions to be balanced. Thank you. (Applause)
ParlaMint-LV_2019-01-24-PT13-515-U82	Name of Member Dagmara Beitner-Le Galla.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-01-24-PT13-515-U83	Dear Chairman of the Saeima. Sir, And you too, the team of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs! I understand that you feel like David in the lion’s pit right now. The Foreign Minister must be the only minister who allows himself to be broken in Parliament once a year. My message will be very brief, because I have no feelings of insult to your report... about what I didn't read there. I really have a very great respect, and I want to thank your team for this comprehensive report because I have no experience. I am taking part for the first time in such a debate. I just want to express my wish. What was my personal contact with foreign diplomats? And what would I wish? It is very pleasant to hear that we have an excellent Foreign Minister, who enjoys the authority of Europe... to say so, in a broader context. Thank you also for your sow in the United Nations. I would like to say that the study... Is your report also like a study? Because you definitely report that sector... on what you see and see, and here there is more emphasis on political aspects than so much on economics or finance. I'd like to... another time, maybe it is possible as a small supplement, which perhaps would also open up to us in the report... Are there any protest notes received? Have we submitted any statement of opposition? In other words, how is communication going? Because as a citizen of Latvia and former members of Jurmala City Council... I was very upset by the participation of SASKANI Member Elizabeth Krivcova in the documentary film - together with anti-fascist Coren - that Latvia is afraid of minorities. And in fact, it was unpleasant that this documentary was shown on the European Culture Channel ARTE. And there was some reaction. How have our foreign services responded, say, in France, Germany? Have there been any refutations, explanations? And in fact, this issue also concerns another aspect that I want to talk about. Because in talks with representatives of the foreign service here in Latvia, I hear about such a moment that... but it's more dedicated to our media, they're gone... If we re-publish some news... For example, if the Italian President arrives in one of the countries... Let us say, in one of the former Soviet countries, that means that there is an immediate view of a particular country - that there is some kind of anti-European block or something like that. And then this message, for example, is amended from the common news service immediately and creates an opinion here in Latvia. It would be very nice if our media called to Hungarian colleagues and did not create a demonic image from Orban. And it would be very pleasant to say that the Polish news service would call our colleagues to Riga and ask for more precise information and clarification, which we have on 16 March. I think that, at least on 16 March, our March id events... that the Ministry of Foreign Affairs monitors and monitors it. Thank you again for what you are doing. I have complete trust and confidence in your political instinct. Thank you. (Applause)
ParlaMint-LV_2019-01-24-PT13-515-U84	Name to Member Igor Pimenov.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-01-24-PT13-515-U85	President-in-Office. Honourable Members! Your Honorary Minister for Foreign Affairs! I wanted to talk about the Russian world, which was mentioned right here at the beginning of your speech, but after my speech was honoured by former Minister Dana Reizniece-Ozola, speaking about fiscal policy, about financial discipline in the European Union and also in Latvia, I would nevertheless like to highlight this particular subject. You see, yesterday I have already addressed you, my fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen, about the context in which the approval of the government is taking place in the Republic of Latvia. In particular, there is a serious debate within the European Union on the inclusion of the Treaty on Stability, Coordination and Governance in European law in the Economic and Monetary Union, as provided for in Article 16 of that Treaty. Sometimes this contract is called fiscal compact. In my view (and this is not only my opinion, which is also spoken of by economists and politicians in the leading institutions of the European Union), fiscal compacts can also be harmful and even damaging for countries that are not developed, because they are not seen as such, but are developing countries that are closer to the average levels of the European Union in all areas. The fact is that fiscal compact reduces the scope for active fiscal policies. I understand very well that it is difficult to achieve the abolition of this pact - as we well know, politics is a possible art. But what can we do? And I would like to draw attention, Minister, to this particular turn of negotiations. First. It is imperative that Member States' deficits be controlled in the context of the flexibility mechanism that is already contained in the current Stability and Growth Pact. This would be a serious opportunity for the leaders of the Member States to act more freely, but even if this is not the case, serious amendments are needed precisely to a fiscal compact text. The calculation of the potential growth of Member States and the calculation of their structural deficit should be based on a period of more than two years (as it is now), i.e. at least three years and, better still, five years. Otherwise, it may turn out that in 5-10 years' time, we will learn that the requirements for calculating the deficit have actually been wrong 10 years ago. In fact, we have deliberately withdrawn money from development as a result of misapplication of methodology. Secondly. The size of expenditure should be used instead of the structural deficit. The structural deficit is an academic parameter used only recently in academic research, but in 2013 it became a specific policy requirement binding on Member States. Meanwhile, the amount of expenditure is easier to calculate, but it does do the same... addresses the same challenge as the current structural deficit. And thirdly. The Stability and Growth Pact should extend its flexibility until the co-financing of the European Union's fund programmes is removed from the calculation of the Member States' deficit. This would make budgetary planning considerably easier for the Member States and would allow more money to be invested without infringing European Union legislation. This has long been talked about by economists, socialists and democrats in the Group of the European Parliament, by Parliament, and I think that, as a result of their influence, the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs of the European Parliament did not support the European Commission's motive, which is to say, an initiative on a compact fiscal inclusion in legislation. I think that this is a serious signal for our politicians, and I would also like to draw the attention of the Foreign Minister to this. This issue is already on the agenda, but perhaps it will continue to be discussed more and more loudly, more often and more consistently. And about the Russian world that's already... on which I mentioned, but it is not an accident, because in my address this was mentioned by both the Foreign Minister and Member Schnore. The Russian world, gentlemen, is not the Russian world. I would like to draw attention to this. Yes, there are politicians in Russia who would like the Russian world to become the Russian world. In France, too, after World War II, there were politicians who interpreted the French world, or francophony, as the French world. However, this politically damaging intention did not turn out to be viable, the francophony became a world-wide movement, a lifestyle, even a fashion. It's like it can happen... and I would also like the Russian language not to be perceived as a threat, but rather as a means of communicating with all people who can speak Russian. After the collapse of the Soviet Union, independent states have been formed in place of all 15 former Soviet republics, where people who speak Russian - more or less - live. All countries of the European Union are home to people who still use Russian. A few years ago, I had the opportunity to attend a conference in Montreal organised by the Organisation for Security and Cooperation in Europe (OSCE), where I was suddenly addressed by a Algerian man who noticed my name, and he began to speak Russian. In fact, we understood each other better than English or French. That is just one example. I think that Russian, if the country (I am talking about the state of Latvia) is smart enough to see the Russian language resource, a reserve for its development rather than a threat, will really become a powerful tool for strengthening society, strengthening state security, and consolidating society. Not a threat to the future unity of the company... Much depends on public policy, because in reality, at home level people of different ethnic origins in Latvia communicate very easily, easily and without prejudice. I think that Latvia's state policy must be such as to strengthen this relationship, not to get worse. After all, we have one frame - one country, one territory, one society and one future. The extent to which this future will be happy depends on Latvia's policy, so much depends on how much the Foreign Ministry will deal with this serious problem, which I tried to talk about here, from the tribunal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-01-24-PT13-515-U86	The name is Digit Schmidt.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-01-24-PT13-515-U87	Colleagues! Ladies and gentlemen! When I read the report of the Minister of Foreign Affairs several times, I could not understand what it was very, very reminding me of - something from the past. And I understood in today's debate what it reminds me. It led me back to my study years (1993-1998), when I studied political science and international relations at the Faculty of History and Philosophy of the University of Latvia. By the way, I think the minister was studying right around the same time. And there was such an annual exercise - course work. And this report quite accurately corresponds to such a classic course work - the introduction, the conclusion... Even the number of pages - 25 (usually the volume that had to be fulfilled). The only thing that may have embarrassed me was that there are no references. No references! It was a compulsory exercise at that time. I'd say this could be the second course... Well, maybe the third... If a student took such a job to Professor Poč at the time, his chances would be on a seven - mark the 10 ball scale. But if you had to bring it to Professor Michael Ashman or don't give it to God! - Lydia Malahovsk, that's what the student would be through! There is a need to redesign and listen to something else about self - rearing. And I will explain why, in my opinion, Michael Ashmanis would not have counted and would have processed it and why Mr. Poč would have set up a "7". Because opinions are different. Of course, there are also fair differences of opinion on this report. Why isn't Michael Ashman and Lydia Malahovsky counted? There would be several things - both shape, style and content. As for the form, they would say: “A huge hypocrite or water, in such popular language speaking, in sections on the United Nations, on... “ But I didn’t say that anymore. However, returning to the fact that it is a foreign policy report... Because it's clear that each department of the ministry has tried to record something in its own section, because how... if they're not there, they haven't worked. Also about excessive emotionality in the report... I would like to give just one example: the problems of demographics are important to us, especially when Latvia enters the centenary. Well about that, if we didn't enter this year's centenary, then we would have a different demographic problem. But also on listing priorities... and again one example of the second priority. The second priority for us is active work in the European Union. Active work is not a priority, it is a way to work actively, but priority is something that I think you want to achieve. And then, let's say, a contentive problem. There's one very clear sentence in the introduction, which I think everyone in the hall... Either, not everyone, but the majority will agree, namely that we strongly stand up for a European Union of national states. But below is deeper integration... Nucles... and many things that, in my opinion, go against the European Union of national states. If we are going to become more integrated, it means increasingly abandoning the national state for the benefit of something on the Federal side. But I'll go back to this shit later, and now I have to tell you what Mr. Poč would put on 7 why he would count. That is to say, one thing that is definitely good and right is that section that concerns security, there is no one else - not just what we have written, but also what we have done in terms of security in recent years. Perhaps it is sad that we started to do this when the evaluated Donald Tramps gave us a lock, two percent of GDP for protection is just because of the fear that we will get again, now we're going to the second ditch, now we start to put another half a percentage. It's before we get through the tail. Overall, both the protection section is good not only on paper, but also in performance, really huge progress, and it is very important for the security and future of Latvia. Another thing I would point out to put a stick to the report is that we notice that the Arctic is melting ice. We see this, and that, by the way, is without any irony, because really changes future events. Both military competitions in this area and economic opportunities, including Latvia, which is noted in the report. Oh, by the way, he was running for it! Because we have the interests we fight for. But now I get out of the report, coming back to something that I think does not match. The European Union of its national states with deeper integration... I think that would be something that we should talk about here and perhaps in a separate debate, because the future of the European Union... Our place in it is a crucial issue in the coming years, namely to debate whether we really are in favour of increasing the role of a national state or moving towards a federal state. There is no clear answer to both cases, because if the direction of a federal state meant a single budget for the European Union, that is, if our pensioners had a perspective of receiving a pension from the Pensioner of Düsseldorf, then I think the question in a referendum would be very serious - what we would then choose. Go on. What else did the report say, and what is really topical today? I mean, Brexit. How are we looking at Brexit? We are talking about it as a mistake, a British dull act that they will now pay, and we often laugh and say: “Let the British go! Let them go! We, the rest, will go further into the beautiful future!” This is a very short-sighted view of what is happening in the European Union. If we do not overcome this short-sightedness, the British will not be the first and the last, the British will only be the first. And this short-sighted... we already see its consequences. Despite... In the absence of a causal link, the public first responds to national parliamentary elections. We see what is happening in Europe - anti-European forces are increasingly gaining leadership in their parliaments. And we will see all this in May as well - we will soon see what kind of composition of the European Parliament will be elected. And then it may be too late at one point. If we don't go back there -- to the beginning -- to understand... Why is this public resistance to what Europe looks like today? This is largely due to the fact that the political elites (I am not saying in Latvia, but in Europe) decided not to count on society. What is the Treaty of Lisbon in force today? What is its original name? It was a European constitution that was rejected in referendums in France and the Netherlands. The process was then suspended. And instead of trying to understand why society wants to be like this or different, it decided to call it a treaty and push it through the parliaments. There was no real debate in our Parliament about this. For us, the only debate... The only serious debate about Europe has been when we joined the European Union. And, thank God, they ended up as they ended, we stood up. I think... My view is that if we want to save the European Union (this, in my opinion, is crucial, especially in view of what is happening throughout the rest of the world!) , we must be able to recognise errors and also define a position here in our Parliament. Perhaps a step backwards to the Treaty of Amsterdam or Nice. In the way we stood... In any case, such a debate must be carried out. I think it is time to start a debate about the fact that Europe needs a new treaty - a treaty that really respects national states and their societies. Such a deal that in perspective... In the future, the British would be able to join again, because I do not see a Europe without Britain in terms of security. What I would like to conclude with. I don't know, I don't remember who encouraged the debate... the fact that such a debate is in Parliament. If it was the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and the Minister, then - off the hat! In my opinion, we could also have the same debate in all other sectors. But one debate on foreign affairs would really be necessary... In my opinion, there is a need for a separate debate of this kind, precisely about the future of the European Union, as we see it. For where we want to be. Because there will be no such debate anywhere in Europe. We must shape our position and defend its suffering. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-01-24-PT13-515-U88	The name of the Member, Martin Bondar.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-01-24-PT13-515-U89	Madam President, Dear colleagues, honourable colleagues! I know what you're thinking. ( Independence: ‘ Again! ’) Noise in the hall.) “ When will these things come to an end?Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, “ Nothing new, isn’t it? Just as yesterday, from the tribunal here, it was said that nothing new - nothing new to that government, nor new to it in the declaration. And some, moreover, stood here in the tribunal and said, “Think 26, no, 38 times, the word “Continue” appears!” You know, foreign policy is the field where most everything continues: direction the same, vector the same, course the same. Because there is evolution in foreign policy, there is no revolution. Only the accents change there. And if you can, I will now talk about these changed accents. First of all, I would like to congratulate the Foreign Minister. I would like to congratulate the Foreign Minister on the fact that one accent has changed significantly: today, it is the first time that the Prime Minister of the Republic of Latvia is taking part in a foreign policy debate in the Saeima. I congratulate you on this! This means that there are other opportunities for your work, there are opportunities to make it more qualitative, because you are supported by the Head of Government. That's great! Symbolic act. That's great! However, what I would like to talk about and which was perhaps not covered by this tribunal today is the issue of investment. You spoke, Minister, about public investment and important... probably the most important project for Latvia in the next 10 years - Rail Baltica. And that's great, it's cool. You have also spoken about cohesion money. I would, however, like you to talk a little bit more nuanced about this, because cohesion funds, funds from the European Union's Cohesion Fund, have a very different impact on different regions of Latvia. Riga probably does not need them, but the border of Latvia, Latgale, needs them very much. Indeed, we need to strengthen the external borders of the European Union, not only the border, but also the region and people living there. It's very important. I also call on you to be an alarm. (Laughter) I have seen your speech last year and you have not mentioned the financial sector as a good colleague. You knew, but you didn't mention, because other members of the government were a good colleague. In January - not a word, in February - madness! This year - very serious, strong and correct words. Do not apply colleagues on issues where Latvia burns, and the financial sector is now one of them. There is an urgent need for alarm on such issues. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. J. Strike’s intermediate call.) And finally. I am really glad that you mentioned the further challenges facing the UN Security Council in 2026, as well as Latvia's possible participation in the Stockholm Olympic Games. What I would like to call on you in the future is more big goals that cannot be achieved in the same year, where there is no need to extinguish fires, but where Latvia can position itself on the map of the future of the world. I congratulate you on your post! I congratulate you on your excellent achievements and the fact that there is a Prime Minister here and wish you all the best when working for Latvia! Thank you, Minister.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-01-24-PT13-515-U90	Name to Member Uldis Augums.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-01-24-PT13-515-U91	Highly honored Chairman of the Saeima. Ladies and gentlemen, Ladies and gentlemen, Latvian foreign policy must be based on national interests and serve to increase the security and well-being of the people of Latvia. International and transnational relations should be developed as a continuation of national interests and their defence in the world. One of the most important sectors of the Latvian economy is traditionally transport and transit. Its development is largely influenced by decisions making foreign policy. 2018 has been a successful year for the transport sector, and statistics show that cargo turnover has increased both by rail and in all ports of Latvia. The aviation industry – both Riga International Airport and the national airline airBaltic – also reached new records. Of course, given the role of Latvia as a transit country, this success would not be possible without continuous work with existing and potential foreign cooperation partners. We worked actively to maintain and strengthen our relations with the existing priority cooperation countries China, Kazakhstan, Uzbekistan, Belarus and Russia, as well as continued to engage in new relations and acquisition of target markets with India, Japan and Iran. In order to achieve practical results, continuous dialogue with partner countries should be maintained in different formats. As I was told in Duisport, the world’s largest inland port or land cargo port, Erich Starke, said that if you don’t remind you of yourself, you will soon be forgotten. And so at the Ministry level last year we visited Belarus, China, India, Kazakhstan, Uzbekistan, Turkmenistan, Germany, Vietnam, Thailand and other countries to remind of the opportunities offered by Latvia and discuss existing and potential cooperation models with high-level officials and leading entrepreneurs. We also discussed the issues of industry in Intergovernmental Commissions meetings with Kazakhstan and Belarus, as well as intergovernmental Commissions for Transport Working Groups. In addition, multilateral formats such as 16+1, ASEM, International Transport Forum (ITF) are used to maintain active dialogue. Last year, Latvia held the Presidency of the International Transport Forum (ITF). Last year, the conference “Global Transport Security and Security for the Centenary” organised in Riga, with participants from 59 countries, received a wide international resonance. And we continued our discussions in Riga at the ITF Summit in Leipzig. Of course, success can only be achieved if there is good cooperation between the ministry and industry entrepreneurs. I am glad that we have a common understanding of the objectives to be achieved. In 2018, together with businessmen, the Ministry of Transport represented industry interests at 12 international exhibitions. We have created a single brand “VIA Latvia” for participation in the fair, symbolizing the merger of all players in the industry for a common purpose – to ensure the most efficient supply chains, to travel our prestigious partners in the eyes of our partners as reliable and stable partners. In terms of more tangible results, it should be said that in practice the joint project with the Belarusian railway has already proven its effectiveness and in 2018 the express train Riga-Minsk, which has its own stable cargo base, has started to run on a regular basis, and several hundred compositions have already made this route. The goal is to provide cargoes in the future from the growing China-Belarus industrial park “The Great Stone”. At the same time, while developing integrations in cooperation with India, the first results of attracting new partners in the South Asian region have already been observed, because the containers included in the freight expressive train Riga-Minsk are also transported from India (in cooperation with German and Belarusian partners). We also continue to develop our cooperation with China. Last November, the first container train of the Chinese city of Xiana arrived in Riga. Then the containers continued along the sea to the German and Finnish ports. An agreement has also been reached with Lithuanian and Estonian partners on the development of a new product. In particular, the Intermodal Freight Train Amber Train would connect the three Baltic States and create new business opportunities for freight carriers. About the aviation sector. Riga International Airport in 2018 has reached a new record in terms of handled passengers – it has handled seven million passengers, it is 16 percent more than in 2017. In 2018, Riga Airport ranked TOP 5 (in a group of airports with a number of passengers from 5 to 10 million passengers). In implementing successful cooperation with foreign partners - air carriers, tour operators - the network of routes is expanding, strengthening the status of Riga as the most important air traffic centre in the Baltic. In 2018, Riga Airport offered its passengers the widest network of destinations in the company’s history – 100 destinations in Europe, Scandinavia and Asia. Including 16 new destinations were opened in 2018. As a result of targeted international cooperation, cargo transport at Riga Airport also increased. A significant increase in cargo transport was provided by the cooperation project with Latvijas Pasts, because last year the volume of e-commerce cargoes from China (in cooperation with the Chinese company Alibaba, mentioned by the Prime Minister and evaluated “Latvijas Pasts” as one of its most stable partners) has increased by 80 percent compared to 2017. As can be seen, the transport sector has put a solid foundation for further growth over the last few years. I wish the new government to continue its efforts to promote not only the development of the sector, but also the development of the Latvian economy in general. Finally, I would like to thank the foreign minister, the Minister and, in particular, the ambassadors with whom we had to work or had the opportunity to work, for their support, for their support for the development of the transport sector. Thank you. (Applause)
ParlaMint-LV_2019-01-24-PT13-515-U92	The name to Member Julia Stepanenko, for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-01-24-PT13-515-U93	Dear colleagues, Minister! This is a foreign debate in which the Minister comes to account for what he has done. And all Members have the right to express their criticism and praise. But what do we see? Collaborative reports in response to the ministerial report are adopted with a smile and pleasure, but when the opposition Member comes and makes some remarks, you say... You remember the elections, you talk about Facebook, but you do not say anything concrete in response to my questions. Then, Minister, I would like to say: I have been elected, I have also been elected, and there I have talked to my constituents very often, I have answered their questions. This cannot be said about you, because you probably always separate your views from the media wall by publishing them in the magazine “Is” or in the newspaper “Daily” or elsewhere. I understand that these opinions are certainly already prepared with the help of PR specialists, for which you still do not want to disclose to journalists or the Saeima. However, there is a certain difference between us, Minister, and I am very pleased that there is such a difference. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-01-24-PT13-515-U94	The name of Member Inese Voika, for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-01-24-PT13-515-U95	At the end of the debate, it seems that I would like to practice the genre of a rehearsal for a Member, because no one is listening much anymore, but is watching us and listening live. Member Zarin, you made accusations to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs about the failure to provide information. I assume that during your term of office you have noticed in the Saeima that the work of the Saeima takes place mainly in commissions, but perhaps you have not noticed that there is such a Foreign Commission. In it we are looking at both the Ministry of Foreign Affairs budget and we are talking about opening new embassies and old repairs; we have the opportunity to meet with ambassadors and understand what they are doing and to influence future work. I therefore hope that both the Commission on Foreign Affairs and the Commission on European Affairs will continue 13. The good cooperation launched at the Saeima with the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and we will be able to address together the issues that we have addressed today in this discussion of the report. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-01-24-PT13-515-U96	Name to Member Ivars Zarins, for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-01-24-PT13-515-U97	When I listened to this debate, I came to my mind with a proposal. Colleagues, we found out here... that we know who has hit the Malaysian aircraft that has poisoned with a polonia that is guilty of mass poison in Syria. But who is responsible for the OIC field - we do not know that. (Laughter) For me, the proposal would be that... We're very comfortable... We like to talk about things very conveniently... It's like getting on the highway that someone else has built for us, and then we're talking about how we drive there, what we do there. On the other hand, we don't want to talk about the path that leads from the threshold of our house to that road. Maybe it's because it's the twigs and those raccoons that nobody else is tearing out in our place, and if we start talking about it, then we'll have to start thinking about what to do about it. Therefore, colleagues, I have a proposal in future to make this debate perhaps on issues that really really depend on us, where we can put our shoulders on, let us say, an energy strategy that we still do not have. There is therefore already a possibility for OICa, and that is why there will be a possibility for OICa no. 2, which is already being made, because we don't have our strategic goals. Let us perhaps talk about how we can make our economy really more productive, what are the measures needed, where we can put our shoulders together and do it. I think it would make much more sense. As regards this foreign policy debate... Mrs Voika, I am sorry, this is a foreign policy debate. I am sorry, I am not a member of your commission, I am simply talking about the subject. And if you know how many tracks you have put on from Lithuania to Latvia, come and tell me what you have achieved there, what you have done, because it is a real pain for our country. All the more so because Belarus has said that it wants to bring its oil products from the Baltic ports rather than through Russia. If we do not have this rail, then it will be our ports that will not receive these cargoes, so I raise this issue. In my opinion, this is an important issue for Latvia, because it is about the very high budget revenue that our teachers, our medicine, could have. Just because we're waking around here, it doesn't happen. I call on you to talk about specific things, to do something for the country, not just to stand and dress up with things that nobody here, as you see, is essentially not interested in. Thank you. (Applause)
ParlaMint-LV_2019-01-24-PT13-515-U98	I closed the debate. Name to Foreign Minister Edgars Rinkēvičs.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-01-24-PT13-515-U99	Very honourable Speaker of the Saeima! I will take the opportunity to both answer certain questions and remarks and, of course, to say a few sentences at the end. Dear colleagues, This is what Mr. Zarins was saying - I must say - for the second time... Even a year ago, I heard something similar about the track Mažeiki-Regel. Mr. Zarins, three things have been written in the press for some time. ... not a decision of the Court of Justice of the European Union, but a decision of the European Commission, which provides that a “Lithuanian railway” is to be punished... The Lithuanian Government has started the renewal of the track, and “Latvian Railways” has submitted a claim for recovery of losses. And if you think that you didn't work very actively here, and very much was done by colleagues from the Ministry of Transport and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, and that it is enough that - roughly as your style means - once talk in one debate, and everything happens, the whole world is falling right down the ground, then... It's not! Yes, first of all, it is very, very complex, sometimes very resource-intensive and time-consuming work - bilaterally and diplomatically. Secondly, when we see that it is not working, we, together with colleagues from other ministries, with our diplomats, lawyers, colleagues of the “Latvian Railway” to achieve the result... Unfortunately, it is often easier to break down, but it is much more difficult to build. And this applies not only, let us say, to the tracks here, but also to a whole line of local government here in the country of Latvia. About visas for university studies. I have to say, this will be the rare time that I will say a great deal of thanks to Mr Zarins for a really very fast news. Yes, we also noticed this error and corrected it. And I would like to say that this is indeed one good example of cooperation. That's not all... not everything is, say, sometimes correct and smooth in our system, especially in view of the fact that we are constantly... and here I can only say thank you to the Prime Minister - the former Prime Minister - Kučinskis and the Ministry of Finance, who quickly increased the resources for the number of consular staff in the relevant embassies, because, I must say, here we really have something to be proud of and education has become a good export product for Latvia. Mrs Ruksan-Schipčinskas, thank you for mentioning Nord Stream 2, that we are also talking about climate change. However, I would like to say that climate change issues were addressed in the report. We have highlighted in particular one problem that we see and that is particularly complex, let us say, in the Baltic Sea basin at the moment: it is plastic waste. I have already spoken about this here today. And I would also like to say that, within the framework of the Baltic Sea Council, in which we are currently holding the Presidency, we are launching this issue and we are calling on the Baltic Sea Basin States, all Member States, to take action to mitigate this type of problem. However, I agree that, let us also say, in such conceptual documents, we need to pay more attention to these issues. For cooperation with Belarus. Mr Kabanov, we have spoken a great deal about this both in the Foreign Affairs Commission and in this report, and I am talking here today morning about the fact that we are really seeing Belarus as a good cooperation partner. There has been a lot of investment, both our Prime Minister's visits, response visits as well as the level of protection have been good exchange of visits and the establishment of cooperation. Yes, we are working to see the President of Belarus visit Latvia this year. This, however, depends on a number of aspects and also content. And I have to say maybe... I would like to say that, on this issue, diplomacy has done more than perhaps one another, say, an economic player. Because, unfortunately, we saw well how difficult the situation is, for example, with investment climate and investment attraction at the Freeport of Riga. And there's more to do. About Moneyval. Here a number of Members have spoken about this process. You know, according to the Articles of Association, Latvia is represented in the Moneyval process by the FCMC, the Ministry of Justice and the Control Service. The delegation is also managed by the Control Service. Some time ago, the Control Service was in charge of the Prosecutor General's Office and has now been reorganization. I am not going to open up here a discussion about what I often hear - that we have a room in total mess, wallpapers of this kind, the colour of the floor is broken, and someone has imagined that we can simply say by inviting people to visit: "Don't notice it! Here is the parquet, here is the marble, and here everything is very beautiful.” You cannot sell things and make them look better than they are. Maybe it's twice, sometimes it's not. That is why we are talking. Yes, Mr Bondara, you are absolutely right, the foreign service has warned us of the problems in good time, from 2015 onwards. But it is also a matter of warning colleagues through information that we cannot pass directly and immediately on to the public. It's not true for those who say that the foreign service knew something for 40 minutes... All the responsible authorities knew everything in good time. And now, when these responsible institutions hold PR campaigns every moment, they say that everything is very good for us, but someone hasn't done something... Well, then I would say that it is, in fact, an attempt to avoid doing and justifying our work, and in this respect we will have something to do. I think the responsible colleagues who have just worked in the government know this very well. And you don't have to guess right now that Moneyval... that there are some countries that seem to us to be weaker or perhaps less developed than we do. This is a process to which we voluntarily joined. And not at the time when I was Minister for Foreign Affairs, and not at the time when we started these problems. Because, like us or not, this process guarantees the work of the Member States - and it is more than just the Member States of the Council of Europe - in the financial sector, which meets certain criteria and generates confidence. If you lose that confidence, then it hits the country's economy as well. So if someone thinks we can get out of Moneyval... of course, you can make this decision by voting and watching what will happen. But then the debate will again be about that level - who was then doing something like that? Mr Kirstein asked about our attitude towards Venezuela. I can say that we fully recognise the legitimate nature of the National Assembly and its President. We believe that the Maduro regime is in a situation in which his legitimacy is absolutely questionable, and we also believe that the only way out of the crisis is to organise democratic elections in that country. This is the way we can, let us say, debate at European Union level, because in this respect, as in many other matters, it is important to mobilise a common European Union position, because citizens of many Member States of the European Union live in Venezuela. And then our voices will be much, much clearer. This process, this coordination between the US, the European Union, the Latin American countries... Our position is that Europe must be heard, active and join those countries that call for the process of democratic change in Venezuela. I would also like to say that here, as in every debate in each Saeima, there are extremely interesting developments and there are also interesting statements. That is why I listened with great interest and joy to the story that the Ministry of Foreign Affairs is guilty of falling investment. It has been played by a Member who has been excluded from the Bar Association, who, let us say so, is deeply dubious. And I would like to answer: Mr Gobzem, you know that investments are not coming here and are fleeing, not because the Ministry of Foreign Affairs has not done anything, but because insolvency administrators like you and the whole system have created climate... that the previous government and its Minister for Justice... Both this government and the Minister of Justice will have to work hard to deal with these metastasis, let us say. (Applause) The same applies to the range of issues affecting the export capacity. We have opened embassies in several countries - in the United Arab Emirates and in South Korea - and we see that trade has increased: in the United Arab Emirates - 36 per cent, in South Korea - 26 per cent. So these works are going on and the embassies are really working. Thank you very much to Mr Augulis for his cooperation, both at the point of the Minister for Transport and for the work he has carried out together in connection with the 16+1 transit logistics channels. I think, of course, we... We can see that, working together, the restaurants can do quite a lot. Mrs Beitnere-Le Galla and to a large extent Mrs Ozola also mentioned the external image of Latvia, the ability to respond to various types of relatively negative information about Latvia. In this regard, I would like to say two things. First thing. Ambassadors of Latvia... Whether France or Germany or any other country, Latvian ambassadors actually not only provide interviews, but also respond to articles. For example, last year, ARTE was a film of extremely dubious quality, and the Ambassador of Latvia to Germany responded to it without delay. Our Ambassador to Canada explains each year in the press and also public on 16 March. But this is not a campaign-like job. It's never going to be better or it's not going to be more. The second thing. I think that this year will also be a year in which I would be happy to discuss both with the Saeima Foreign Affairs Commission and with the government how to give impetus to the Latvian Institute. Unfortunately, the Latvian Institute serves from project to project. And I also have the idea that the Latvian Institute should perhaps turn from the state agency into a kind of foundation that can also work more actively not only on the state, but also on attracting other finances and becoming a much more active institution. And I finally turn to you, Mr. Schmidt. I must say that I listened to you and returned to you when I was young. Only I have to say that both Professor Ashmanis and Professor Poč put me “excellent”. Now I do not know how to respond to all of your, let us say, assessment of the report. However, if we speak seriously, I fully agree that we need perhaps a broader, larger debate on the future of the European Union. This debate was initiated by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. That, I must say, happened, if I am not mistaken, in 2010. These are in total nine, the next year will be ten. But, you see, the discussion of the report is going on, mostly so - everything. And it's also legitimate, because the range of questions is very different. And, of course, it is worth talking about the future of the European Union; it is also worth talking about serious changes. We can also discuss opening up the Treaty, but, as someone in the European Union once said... One such great politician: "With the opening of the Treaty in the European Union, it's like with the beginning of the war, you always know how you start it, but you never know what you're going to finish it." So I think there's ideas, there's thoughts. And that's why I would also be very happy to hear from the Members of the Saeima, so let's say, a lot... perhaps also such ideas - what we would like to push into the debate on the future of Europe, so that it really is a process of interaction. I think we have worked well today and for quite a long time. I would like to thank both critics and those who came with good words and ideas. In my opinion, this Parliament, just like the previous parliaments and the commissions with which I had to work, demonstrates that there is an interest in our country's security and external policies. Sometimes, though, we understand very many and different things in foreign policy, which, in my view, are quite not foreign policy. But that may be the point of this debate: to understand what the mood is for the elected Members of the Saeima... as the Ministry of Foreign Affairs sees. You know, always when you want to criticise, everyone says, “National interests are not being sufficiently defended, and more needs to be done.” What I would like to say is we do not have a first stage. We often have to agree together what our national interests are in order to better defend them. And I often hear very different approaches in this room, too. That is why such debates, negotiations within the Foreign Affairs Commission and the European Affairs Commission have value. Thank you. I wish everyone a successful, productive year of this work! And I look forward to the next year! (Applause)
ParlaMint-LV_2019-01-24-PT13-515-U100	Thank you to the Minister for Foreign Affairs. Thank you, colleagues, for the substantive debate. Consequently, the Foreign Minister's annual report has been examined. Please call me! Please check-in mode for Members! Name of the member of the Saeima Secretary, Maria Golubeva, for reading the results of the registration.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-01-24-PT13-515-U101	Not registered: Jānis Bordāns, Raivis Dzintars, Artuss Kaimiņš, Ieva Krapāne, Dace Melbārde, Ralfs Nemiro, Artis Pabriks, Ramona Petraviča, Jānis Reirs, Jānis Urbanovičs and Viktors Valainis.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-01-24-PT13-515-U102	Thank you. Interruption until 16:25 a.m. ( Interruption)
ParlaMint-LV_2019-01-24-PT13-515-U103	Honourable Members! I invite you to take your seats in the Chamber so that we can continue the Saeima sitting after the break. On the agenda - reports from the Saeima Bureau on draft laws submitted. The Saeima Presidium proposes that the draft law “Amendments to the Construction Law” presented by the Cabinet of Ministers be referred to the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy, stating that it is the committee responsible. Do Members object to the draft law... Is that so? ( Milestones.) Members have reservations. Dear colleagues, I call again for seats to be held in the Chamber. We will be voting in favour of passing the draft law on to the committee, making it a commission responsible. Please call me! We will vote in favour of handing over the draft law “Amendments to the Construction Law” to the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy, stating that it is the committee responsible! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Saeima Presidium proposes that the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Public Welfare Organisations” presented by the Cabinet of Ministers be referred to the Commission of the State Administration and Local Government, stating that it is the committee responsible. Do Members object to a draft law being passed on to the Commission? There is no objection. Draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Saeima Presidium proposes that the draft law presented by the Cabinet of Ministers “Amendments to the Law on the Protection of Cultural Monuments” be submitted to the Education, Culture and Science Commission, stating that it is the committee responsible. Do Members object to a draft law being passed on to the Commission? There is no objection. Draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Saeima Presidium proposes that the draft law presented by the Cabinet of Ministers “Amendment to the Law “On Procedure of Entry into Force and Application of Part of the Civil Law of the Republic of Latvia, the Law of the Renewed of the Republic of Latvia, the Rights of Heritage and the Rights of Cases” be submitted to the Legal Commission, stating that it is the committee responsible. Do Members object to a draft law being passed on to the Commission? There is no objection. The draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Saeima Presidium proposes that the draft law presented by the Cabinet of Ministers “Amendments to the Law “On International Treaties of the Republic of Latvia” be referred to the Foreign Affairs Commission, stating that it is the committee responsible. Do Members object to a draft law being passed on to the Commission? There is no objection. The draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Saeima Presidium proposes that the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Designs” presented by the Cabinet of Ministers be submitted to the Education, Culture and Science Commission, stating that it is the committee responsible. Are Members opposed to the transmission of the draft law? ( Interface: ‘ Yes! ’ ) Please call us! We will vote in favour of handing over the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Designs” to the Education, Culture and Science Commission, which states that it is the committee responsible! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Parliamentary Bureau proposes that the Member Gobzem, Srūde, Benhen-Beeken, Wittenberg, Schmitt, Pucens and other draft laws tabled be referred to the Legal Commission, stating that it is the Commission responsible for the law on National Referendums, Legislative Proposals and the European Citizens' Initiative. ‘ Karina Sprūde, Member, has applied to speak about”
ParlaMint-LV_2019-01-24-PT13-515-U104	Hello, dear colleagues! I will try to tell you quickly about the amendments to this law. At present, the law on popular voting, legislative proposals and the European Citizens' Initiative sets a disproportionate threshold to be achieved to propose popular voting. The last electoral activity of the Saeima and local governments, as well as the data available on the initiative platform ManaBalss.lv, show that currently the participation of society in political processes is timid and activity is negligible. Analyzing ManaBalss.lv data, it can be concluded that on average about 10-15 thousand people are politically active in Latvia. Latvian voters have always been active participants in political processes. This is confirmed by the fact that since the restoration of independence, the voting of the nation in Latvia has been initiated eight times. Since 2012, when the law on popular voting, law proposals and the European Citizens' Initiative was amended, which significantly increased the necessary number of voter signatures on popular voting and law proposals, no national vote has taken place in Latvia. Proof that the threshold is disproportionate results from the laws and regulations of other European countries. There are more than 30 million voters in Poland, but only 500 thousand signatures have to be collected for popular voting. There are more than 50 million voters in Italy, but in this country too, popular voting can be initiated by collecting only 500 thousand signatures. In both countries various initiatives can be proposed by one-hundredth of voters, which is 10 times less than in Latvia. A threshold should be set for proposing a people's vote that is appropriate to the actual number of people who are socially active, while at the same time determining the amount that would prevent them from proposing a people's vote so easily that it would entail considerable costs for the state. If in a country of 1.95 million people can only be called social assets 15 thousand, then a reasonable threshold should be set at a maximum of three times as high to initiate a popular vote. Dear colleagues, Let us provide an opportunity for the Latvian people to express their will. Please support the amendments to the law on popular voting, legislative proposals and the European Citizens' Initiative.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-01-24-PT13-515-U105	Thank you. ‘ Against” Ms Juta Strīķe, Member, has applied to speak.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-01-24-PT13-515-U106	In order to ensure the possibility to see these amendments to the law, it is also necessary to ensure amendments to the Constitution of the Republic of Latvia which have not been submitted. We cannot see a draft law that is contrary to the Constitution until amendments to the Constitution of the Republic of Latvia are proposed. I therefore call for the 'no' vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-01-24-PT13-515-U107	Thank you. One Member has spoken for, one against. No debate is possible on this matter. Please call me! We will vote in favour of handing over to the Legal Commission of the draft law “Amendments to the law “On National Referendum, Legislative Proposal and the European Citizens’ Initiative”, which states that it is the committee responsible! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 32, for - 36, for - 16. The draft law has not been passed on to the commission. The Saeima's Bureau proposes that the Member Gobzem, Dūklav, Krauze, Stepanenko and Sprūde's draft law on amendments to the Law on Value Added Tax be referred to the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission, stating that it is the committee responsible. ‘ Karina Sprūde, Member, has applied to speak about”
ParlaMint-LV_2019-01-24-PT13-515-U108	Dear colleagues, The time has come to continue applying the reduced VAT rate to foodstuffs. A year ago, a pilot project on a reduced VAT rate for vegetables and fruit has proven to be a success. The data show that the reduction in the rate has had a positive impact on the agricultural sector and on the reduction of the shadow economy. The number of VAT payers registered in the sector has increased by four per cent, with the number of salaries employed in the sector by 8.9 per cent. The value of transactions carried out in the total sector has increased by 13.5 per cent, and ultimately the VAT revenue itself has also increased by five per cent. This confirms that there are grounds for lowering the VAT rate for other foods. It is not about everyone, but about those whose production would contribute to the competitiveness of local, Latvian, farmers. The draft law provides for a reduced rate to be applied to the following product groups: drinking milk without additives, including sugar-free and other sweeteners, with a shelf-life of up to 10 days, dairy products without additives (acid cream, sweet cream, kefir, butter, curd, yogurt and other products), bread without additives, fresh or chilled meat, chicken and quail eggs in shell. A reduction in the VAT rate will prevent price increases. Note that inflation is not on-the-spot and many products are increasing production or other types of costs until they reach the store. Data from the Central Statistical Administration show that consumer product prices increased by 0.75 percent in 2017, and by 0.15 percent in 2018. In the long term, consumers and the country as a whole are ultimately the beneficiaries. A smaller shadow economy means more money for the country as well as for consumers. Officially paid wages are social guarantees. In several countries of the European Union, these product groups have even zero interest tax, let alone reduced. In Europe, it is very widespread, and low and zero interest rates are spread across markets of different sizes. It is important that the positive effect of the reduced VAT rate is recognised not only by the specialists of the sector and farmers themselves, but also by the Ministry of Agriculture. In my opinion, the desire to pay taxes fairly, thus contributing to the economy, is also influenced by the psychological attitude of the individual towards the proportionality of the tax rate. Data show that the number of VAT payers has increased since the VAT rate was reduced for vegetables and fruit. But they are not new registered entities, they are already working entities. This shows a change in the human attitude towards the tax obligation. This is probably due to the fact that parties simply consider such a rate to be reasonable. This may be due to the fact that working in the grey zone is no longer beneficial, as there is a risk of penalties and tax surcharges. Dear colleagues, let us vote in favour and support economic growth! Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-01-24-PT13-515-U109	“Pret” has applied to speak to Member Gatis Eglitis.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-01-24-PT13-515-U110	Dear colleagues, Yes, these measures are perhaps good and valuable. But let us wait for the budgetary process for 2019, which will start immediately. And then it will be possible to assess what needs to be done from next year or at a different time. Because at the moment, the total cost of all these measures is about EUR 52 million - it is a huge sum - taking into account, of course, other needs that we have - minimum pensions, health and so on. ( Internouncing call.) Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-01-24-PT13-515-U111	Please call me! We will vote in favour of transferring the draft law on "Amendments to the Law on Value Added Tax" to the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission, according to which it is the committee responsible! Please vote mode! Please get the result! ( Internouncing call.) For - 35, for - 42, for - 7. The draft law has not been passed on to the commission. The Parliamentary Bureau proposes that the draft law “Amendments to the Law on State Pensions” presented by Member Krauzes, Augulis, Čakša, Vacāns and Bergmanis be referred to the Commission for Social and Labour Affairs, stating that it is the committee responsible. ‘ For” applied to speak Member Uldis Augulis.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-01-24-PT13-515-U112	Dear colleagues, I call for a decision to be taken on the referral to the Commission for Social and Labour Affairs of the draft law "Amendments to the Law on State Pensions". The aim of our proposal is to ensure that the minimum pension is increased, which would significantly improve the material conditions for more than 54 000 seniors. Currently, the law and regulations of the Cabinet of Ministers provide that the amount of the minimum old-age pension may not be less than the state social security benefit, i.e., 64,03 euros per month. The Union of Greens/ Farmers proposes that the amount of the minimum old-age pension be linked to the national minimum wage, i.e. that the minimum old-age pension may not be less than half of the minimum wage. I would remind you that this year it is EUR 430 per month. Such arrangements, at the discretion of the Union of Greens/Farmers, will ensure that the amount of the old-age pension will continue to increase in proportion to the development of the country's economy in the future. You can't deny that 12. During the parliamentary term, we have worked hard to improve the material security of our seniors - pensions granted during the economic crisis, increased pensions premiums, and indexation of pensions have been reviewed. Since last year, the non-taxable minimum pensions have been gradually increased. The figures also show positive trends: since 2016, the average age pension has increased by 13 percent. At the same time, it cannot be ignored that many seniors' pensions are low. International organisations - both the European Commission and the Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development - also pointed out this fact last year, concluding that the proportion of seniors at risk of poverty in Latvia is high - on average 43.1 percent - and it is increasing. We therefore need to look for new solutions. I invite you to support the referral of the amendment to the parliamentary committee responsible for State Pensions. I remind you that 13 years ago. In the parliamentary elections, all political parties promised various, including concrete, support measures to improve the material security of seniors. Unfortunately, it must be concluded that this commitment is no longer found in the declaration of the new government, unlike the pre-election programmes. ( The box “Melo! ”) ) Colleagues, let us be responsible and honour the promise given to seniors that the minimum pension should be increased to a reasonable level, despite the financial discipline agreements signed during the budget process! If the figures are variable and the budget is burdensome, then of course, this budget cost item can be corrected by the Saeima, but I call on you not to hesitate and hand over to the commissions, not to let your constituents down, as the Neighbours, who is not in the Chamber, did yesterday. So that I call for support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-01-24-PT13-515-U113	“Pret” has applied to speak to Mārtiņš Bondars.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-01-24-PT13-515-U114	For years, Mr. Plantis, you led the government - not you, but your party. And then it didn't happen, so no proposals of this kind could be put on the agenda. And now, 24 hours after the government's approval... Bingo! Bingo - and! ( Internouncing call.) Yeah. Colleagues! Let us say: The new government has just begun to work. — Insight. , will act on the new budget immediately, will submit it to Parliament, we will do our utmost to have a better life for our seniors! And not only for seniors, but for people in Latvia to have a better life and more income. I understand that our colleagues in the opposition are shouting behind very sensitive topics, realising that if they were in government, they would not. I call on you not to give up at this point on the actions of honourable colleagues, because it is time for everything. Thank you. ( Internouncing call.)
ParlaMint-LV_2019-01-24-PT13-515-U115	Please call me! We will vote in favour of handing over the draft law “Amendments to the Law “On State Pensions” to the Commission of Social and Labour Affairs, which states that it is the committee responsible! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 35, for - 44, for - 8. The draft law has not been passed on to the commission. Report by the Bureau on the own-initiative proposal submitted The commission of mandates, ethics and applications has submitted the draft decision “On 10 628 collective application of Latvian citizens “Public audit for the Saeima’s budget!” the way forward.’ Do Members object to the inclusion of this own-initiative proposal on the agenda of today's sitting? Are there any objections? There is no objection. The draft decision is therefore on the agenda. There is no room for debate on this either. On the granting of leave. On 15 and 16 January this year, Mr Aldis Gobzems was granted unpaid leave. The Saeima Bureau has received an application from Member Alda Gobzems requesting unpaid leave on 15 and 16 January this year. The Bureau has granted leave and shall inform the Saeima thereof. For the granting of unpaid leave to a Member, Maria Golubeva, on 31 January this year. Colleagues! We must vote on this. Please call me! We will be voting for the granting of unpaid leave to Member Maria Golube or on 31 January this year! Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about - 83, it's against and refrains from - it's not. Decision adopted. On the agenda - examination of draft laws. Draft Act “Amendments to the Road Traffic Law”, first reading. On behalf of the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy – Member Jānis Vitenbergs.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-01-24-PT13-515-U116	Hello, surviving colleagues! On January 15, the Parliamentary Committee for National, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy supported amendments to the Road Traffic Law, which provides for the right of border guards to deploy technical means or, in other words, road signs throughout the territory of Latvia. Until now, such activities had to be coordinated with the State Joint Stock Company “State Roads of Latvia”. This usually took more than five working days and thus affected the ability of the border guards to react quickly and act. I call for support to be given to the draft law at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-01-24-PT13-515-U117	Please call me! We will vote in favour of the first reading of the draft law "Amendments to the Road Traffic Law". Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about - 83, it's against and refrains from - it's not. Draft legislation supported at first reading. Please set a time limit for the submission of proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-01-24-PT13-515-U118	The deadline is 7 February.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-01-24-PT13-515-U119	Thank you. The deadline for submitting proposals is 7 February this year. On the agenda - draft law “Amendment to the Law on Election of the President”, first reading. On behalf of the Legal Commission - Member Inese Lībiņa-Egnere.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-01-24-PT13-515-U120	Dear colleagues, The Legal Commission of the Saeima has examined the draft law “Amendment to the Law on Election of the President of the Republic” and decided to support it and direct it for consideration at the first reading of the Saeima. The purpose of this draft law is to extend the period between the nomination of candidates for the post of President and the vote at the Saeima sitting on these candidates. Currently, Article 4 of the Law on the Election of the President provides that candidates for the post of President of the State must be submitted to the Saeima Bureau in writing not earlier than 50 days and not later than 45 days before the end of the term of office of the current President of the Republic. Article 6 provides that the Saeima Presidium shall convene the Saeima sitting not earlier than 40 days and not later than 30 days before the end of the term of office of the current President. Thus, the Law on Election of the President of Latvia in its current version provides that the minimum period of time between nomination of candidates and voting in the Saeima sitting is only five days. Thus, it is not possible for the public and the Members to qualitatively assess candidates for the post of President of the State within a reasonable time. The proposed amendment of the law provides for this period to be extended by providing that candidates for the post of President of the State must be submitted in writing to the Saeima Bureau not earlier than 60 days and not later than 55 days before the expiry of the term of office of the current President of the Republic. As a result, the minimum time limit would be 15 days. A longer period between nomination of candidates and the vote of the Saeima would provide an opportunity to hold more open discussions, to debate and to involve the public and to promote transparency and openness of the election process of the President of Latvia. In the Legal Commission, the need for a draft law was also based on the practice of election of the previous Presidents (we looked at exactly the calendar as it has been addressed). On behalf of the Commission, I call for support for the draft law at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-01-24-PT13-515-U121	Please call me! We will vote in favour of the first reading of the draft law on the amendment to the Law on the Election of the President! Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about - 85, it's against and abstains. The draft law at first reading has been supported. Please set a deadline for the submission of proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-01-24-PT13-515-U122	The legal commission shall request the determination of 29 January 2019.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-01-24-PT13-515-U123	Thank you. Consequently, the deadline for the submission of proposals is 29 January this year. On the agenda - draft law “Amendments to the Law on Maritime Administration and Maritime Safety”, second reading. On behalf of the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy, Member Jānis Dombrava.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-01-24-PT13-515-U124	Dear Members of the Saeima! In the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy, when examining draft law “Amendments to the Law on Maritime Administration and Safety”, no proposal has been received for the second reading, and the Commission has supported the second reading of draft laws.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-01-24-PT13-515-U125	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote in favour of the second reading of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Maritime Administration and Maritime Safety”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! Not by - 82, not by - and refrains. The draft law was approved at second reading. Please set a time limit for the submission of proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-01-24-PT13-515-U126	Deadline for the submission of proposals for third reading: 31 January.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-01-24-PT13-515-U127	Thank you. The deadline for submitting proposals is 31 January this year. On the agenda - draft law “Amendments to the Law on Declaration of Residence”, first reading. On behalf of the National Administration and Municipal Commission - Member Eriks Pucens.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-01-24-PT13-515-U128	The National Administration and Municipal Commission has examined the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Declaration of Residence”. At present, it is impossible for long-term residents to reach their declared place of residence in prisons and hospitals. The amendments will help to resolve this problem identified by the Ombudsman. The Commission unanimously supported the further examination of this draft law, and therefore, on behalf of the Commission, calls for support to be given to the draft law at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-01-24-PT13-515-U129	Please call me! We will vote in favour of the first reading of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Declaration of Residence”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 84, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Draft legislation supported at first reading. Please set a deadline for the submission of proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-01-24-PT13-515-U130	February 7.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-01-24-PT13-515-U131	Thank you. The deadline for submitting proposals is 7 February this year. On the agenda - draft law “Amendments to the Law “On Privatisation of State and Local Government Housing Houses”, first reading. On behalf of the National Administration and Municipal Commission - Member Eriks Pucens.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-01-24-PT13-515-U132	Amendments to the law are necessary due to a possible change of the name of the Privatisation Agency to one that would correspond to the work profile of the Privatisation Agency and reflect all its activities. In order to avoid regulatoryism, the law should include a general reference to the institution of privatisation of state residential houses, without defining a specific institution, as well as provide that the tasks of the institution of privatisation of state residential houses are to be carried out by the Privatisation Agency until the moment when the Cabinet of Ministers takes a decision on the institution of privatisation of state residential houses.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-01-24-PT13-515-U133	The Commission calls for support at first reading?
ParlaMint-LV_2019-01-24-PT13-515-U134	Yeah. The Commission calls for support at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-01-24-PT13-515-U135	Thank you for calling. Please call me! We will vote for support for the first reading of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Privatisation of State and Local Government Housing Houses”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about - 83, it's against and refrains from - it's not. The draft law at first reading has therefore been approved. Please set a deadline for the submission of proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-01-24-PT13-515-U136	This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following
ParlaMint-LV_2019-01-24-PT13-515-U137	Thank you. The deadline for submitting proposals is 14 February this year. On the agenda - draft law “Amendments to the law on the privatisation of land in rural areas”, first reading. On behalf of the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy, Member Ivars Zarins.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-01-24-PT13-515-U138	Colleagues! We work with a number of draft laws. As I understand it, during my absence, the commission worked hard. This is just one of the draft laws approved by the Commission and, without my knowledge, entrusted with reporting on it. Since I have not been to the discussion of this draft law myself, but I would very much like to justify the trust of my colleagues, I will try to tell you very carefully what this draft law is about. The draft law “Amendments to the law on the privatisation of land in rural areas” is prepared in accordance with the task given by the Cabinet of Ministers at its meeting on 6 June 2017. During the meeting of the Cabinet of Ministers on 6 June 2017, the information report “On State Participation in the State Joint Stock Company “Privacy Agency” (Intersor statement) prepared by the Ministry of Economics was received. and its overall strategic objective’, which was decided on the basis of Section 88(1) of the Law on State Administration, to maintain the State’s participation in the State Joint Stock Company ‘Privatisation Agency’ (Interdependence.) , determined on the basis of Articles 4 and 7 of the Public Person’s Shares and Corporate Governance Act (Laughter) , the overall strategic objective of the Privatisation Agency ( Laughter. Thank you very much. - to provide a professional share of the state's capital and a problematic one. - asset management, as well as assets held by the Privatisation Agency (Interview point.) not necessary for the exercise of public functions, disposal and privatisation. In turn, subsection 4.5 of the Information Report proposes to change the name of the Privatisation Agency to one that would correspond to the activity profile of the Privatisation Agency and reflect all its activities. According to the law on the privatisation of land in rural areas specified in subsection 5.2 of the Information Report, amendments are necessary only in relation to the name or firm of the Privatisation Agency. Consequently, these amendments concern in principle only the name. ( Interface: How many pages are there?) ) It should be noted that in the future there may be situations where similar amendments to the law on the privatisation of land in rural areas may be necessary, e.g. the task of the privatisation agency’s firm or public administration may be delegated to another institution. To avoid regulatoryism - members to avoid regulatoryism! - the law “On the privatisation of land in rural areas” should include a general reference to the institution of privatisation of state assets, without defining a specific institution, as it is governed by the laws governing privatisation of state assets. Part I of the Law on the Privatisation of State-owned and Municipal Objects provides that the institution carrying out the privatisation is the Privatisation Agency or the relevant municipality, which carries out the privatisation of state-owned or municipal property or land parcels in accordance with this Law, as well as the Ministry of Agriculture, which carries out the privatisation of agriservis companies in accordance with the Law on the Privatisation of Agriservis companies. Accordingly, the institution carrying out the privatisation of the state-owned property is the Privatisation Agency. Against this background, the draft law is intended to replace... ( Internouncing call.) The rapporteur can report an hour! The draft law provides for the replacement of the words ‘State public limited liability company ‘Privacy Agency’ in paragraph 6 of paragraph 1 of Article 19 of the Law on the Privatisation of Land in Rural Areas’ with the words ‘Privacy Agency’ and the words ‘Privacy Agency’ in Article 30. According to the Cabinet Regulation of 3 February 2009 No. 108 “Regulations for the Preparation of Draft Regulations” paragraph 3.1 at the same time as the amendments to the regulatory act in essence prepare editorial clarifications in the relevant regulatory act; therefore, an amendment is made to the second paragraph of Section 19 of the Law “On the Privatisation of Land in Rural Areas”, replacing the previously used title of the law “Law on the Expropriation of State and Local Government Property” with the new title – “Law on the Expropriation of Public Person’s Property”. I hope that I am quite thorough... ( Internouncing call.) ... I have managed to tell you what colleagues have decided before I was present. (Applause) I call for this draft law to be approved at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-01-24-PT13-515-U139	Please call me! We will vote for the draft law “Amendments to the law on the privatisation of land in rural areas” (Interface.) First-reading support! Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about - 86, it's against and refrains from - it's not. The draft law at first reading has been supported. Please set a deadline for the submission of proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-01-24-PT13-515-U140	If I have not been misled, the deadline for submitting proposals for this bill is 14 February.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-01-24-PT13-515-U141	Thank you. The deadline for submitting proposals is 14 February this year. Dear colleagues, Members Krauze, Kols, Dombrovskis, Latkovsky and others propose to announce a break by 9 a.m. on 31 January 2019. Do Members have objections? ( Internouncing call.) There is no objection by Members. Dear colleagues, With regard to the question and answer session scheduled for today at 17.00, I have to inform you of the urgent question to the Minister for Economic Affairs, Arvil Asheraden, of the development of legislation for the abolition of the mandatory procurement component, Member of the Committee of the Regions, Mr Rubika, Mr Adamson, Mr Ločmel - Luņova, Mr Niconova and Mr Krishan. The written responses received are satisfied, so the replies to the Members' questions at 17.00 today do not take place. Members Zarins, Krišāns, Agešins, Tutins and Orlovs have submitted the question “On the progress of the development of the National Energy and Climate Plan and its relevance to the public interests of Latvia”, which we are presenting to the Minister of Economics Ralf Nemiro. Did Mr. Zarins have applied for the motivation? I didn't get to look at it again. The name of the question to the Member Ivars Zarins.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-01-24-PT13-515-U142	Colleagues! That is what we talked about yesterday in the discussions on government approval. Top OIK-2 and this measure will be used to implement it. The Brazilians are told that the OIC will no longer exist, but a new cover is being prepared, for indeed the old one will no longer be needed. It is very important that the Minister for Economics draws attention to this, because the scheme is similar to that established by the then Minister for Economics, Arturs Krišjānis Kariņš, when the existing scheme of the OIC was prepared. In particular, the necessary framework is being created, the necessary requirement for European commitments to be fulfilled, the objectives, and then: "We are not to blame! Well, Europe is asking us for this!” This is what is happening at the moment with the National Energy and Climate Plan. The problem is that we still do not have an energy strategy and you do not have your strategic objectives. We can calmly say that we have some other strategic goals that need to be met by Europe... Not even putting on, simply showing the guidelines, and we desire to take them, we make them so that they can achieve objectives that are not in the interests of society or the economy.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-01-24-PT13-515-U143	Thank you. Members Zarins, Dombrovskis, Agešins, Tutins and Ribakovs have submitted the question “On the planned changes in the field of energy supply and its impact on the distribution tariff for natural gas to Latvian consumers”. Name for motivation to Member Ivars Zarins.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-01-24-PT13-515-U144	In fact, it is also related to the OIC Aperture. Colleagues! As you remember, TEC-2... we discussed the illegal nature of the aid. As you know, we paid around €100 million TEC on a regular basis through the OIC. What happened next? ‘ Latvenergo’s money was removed to give it to the olicists and feed them. Now that the afer is likely to end, a new solution is being developed to make thermal power stations, or TEC, more efficient. In particular, it is intended to create a different connection scheme, which would enable TEC to earn more, while all the costs so far borne by TEC would be shifted to the other shoulders of the economy. And we have the question: is it really the position of the Ministry of Economics, how to make our economy more competitive - with more costs for the rest of the economy? And, by the way, also households. We want to know whether this is really the position of the Ministry of Economic Affairs and whether it is in the course of what it is doing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-01-24-PT13-515-U145	The question is referred to the Minister for Economic Affairs. Please call me! Please register the Members! Name of notice to Member Ojārs Eriks Kalniņš.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-01-24-PT13-515-U146	I call on colleagues to come to a nearby room to set up a cooperation group with the Czech Republic. It will happen right here next to the hall in a few minutes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-01-24-PT13-515-U147	Thank you. Name of the Saeima Secretary Andrejs Klementyev. The results of the registration.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-01-24-PT13-515-U148	Good evening, honourable Members! Not registered: Jānis Bordāns... No, Vyacheslav Dombrovskis... I can't see, Raivis Dzintars... No, Mary Golubeva... No, Artus Neighbours... No, Ieva Krapāne... I don't see, Regina Lochmele-Lunova... No, Dace Melbārde... I can't see, Ralph Nemir... No, Artis Pabriks... No, Ramona Petraviča... No, Juris Puce... No, John Reirs... No, John Urbanovich... Not applicable. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-01-24-PT13-515-U149	Interruption until 9 a.m. on 31 January 2019. ( Interruption)
