ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-17-PT13-2013-U1	Good morning, honourable Members! I invite you to take your seats in the Chamber! Let us begin the sitting of the Saeima on 17 October 2019. First of all, the amendments tabled to the agenda of the sitting approved by the Saeima Bureau. The Legal Commission is asking to include in the agenda of the sitting the draft decision “On the dismissal of Anda Vītola, a judge of the Supreme Court from the office of a judge”. Are Members opposed to this amendment of the agenda? There is no objection. The order of business has been amended. The Education, Culture and Science Commission is asking to include in the agenda the draft decision “On the extension of the deadline for the submission of proposals for the second reading of the draft law “On the transfer of real estate to the Riga Rihards Wagners Association of Real Estate on 4 Rihards Vagners Street, Riga” until 4 November 2019. Are Members opposed to this amendment of the agenda? There is no objection. The order of business has been amended. The Education, Culture and Science Commission is asking for the draft law “Amendment to the Law on Scientific Activities” to be included on the agenda of the sitting. Are Members opposed to this amendment of the agenda? There is no objection. The order of business has been amended. The Legal Commission is asking to include in the agenda of the sitting the draft decision “On the dismissal of Inese Biteniece from the position of judge of Riga district court”. Are Members opposed to this amendment of the agenda? There is no objection. The order of business has been amended. Members Ikstena, Pavļuts, Šteins, Staķis, Steel, Rukšāne-Ščipčinska and others are asking to include in the agenda the draft decision “On the withdrawal of the Member Ikstena from the National Administration and the Municipal Commission”. Are Members opposed to this amendment of the agenda? There is no objection. The order of business has been amended. Members Ples, Pavļuts, Šeins, Staķis, Steel, Rukšāne-Ščipčinskas and others are asking to include on the agenda the draft decision “On the withdrawal of Member Arthur Thomas Ples from the Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy Commission”. Are Members opposed to this amendment of the agenda? There is no objection. The order of business has been amended. Members Ikstena, Pavļuts, Šteins, Staķis, Steel, Rukšāne-Ščipčinskas and others are asking to include on the agenda the draft decision on the election of Member Inese Ikstena at the National, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy Commission. Are Members opposed to this amendment of the agenda? There is no objection. The order of business has been amended. Members Ples, Pavļuts, Šteins, Staķis, Steel, Rukšāne-Ščipčinska and others are asking to include on the agenda the draft decision “On the election of Member Arthur Tomas Pleskas to the Commission of Public Administration and Local Government”. Are Members opposed to this amendment of the agenda? There is no objection. The order of business has been amended. The Commission on Defence, Home Affairs and the Prevention of Corruption is asking to exclude from the agenda of the sitting 46th paragraph of the draft law “Amendments to the Law of the Land Guard of the Republic of Latvia”. Are Members opposed to this amendment of the agenda? There is no objection. Draft legislation is excluded from the agenda of the sitting. Budget and financial... Members Sprūde, Gobzems, Stepanenko, Liepaja and Smits are asking to include in the agenda the draft law “Amendments to the Law “On Real Estate Tax””. Are Members opposed to this amendment of the agenda? ( Interface: “Yes, yes! ” ) Members have reservations. ‘ Karina Sprūde, Member, has applied to speak about”
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-17-PT13-2013-U2	Dear colleagues, As you all know, for some time there has been discussion in the country about the abolition of real estate tax on sole housing or the reasonable calculation of the payment of real estate tax on the sole housing of the population. As it is now clear that we will not achieve the practice of our neighbouring countries regarding the application of real estate tax in the near future, we did not spend time, and this year on 30 September the think tanks, non-governmental sector and field experts jointly held the "Right to an inviolable home for all Latvian citizens", which sought solutions to real estate tax problems today and now, without waiting for the results of the revision of the cadastral values of the Ministry of Justice. People are directly affected and concerned about real estate tax related issues, as evidenced by the collective initiative “On the abolition of real estate tax on the sole property”, compiled by the ManaBalss.lv portal, which has already been signed by more than 52 thousand Latvian citizens. Similarly, the need for such a think tank is being called upon by the government - without result this draft law has been taken up. Our proposal is not to change the calculation of real estate tax or to grant real estate tax to debtors. Our proposal is without prejudice to future changes to the cadastral value system. And our draft law initiative is not based on emotions. We simply do not want to lose time and the faith of our constituents, especially at a time when there seems to be great inequality and economic fragmentation in society. Our goal is to think that the residents of Latvia are not set aside from the only residence on the street because of the tax on immovable property that has not been paid. In parallel to discussions and possibilities to abolish real estate tax on the sole housing of Latvian residents or to apply a reasonable non-deemed minimum for payment of real estate tax, in order to facilitate in some way the lives of Latvian residents living from wages to wages, we have developed amendments to the law, which provides that we do not turn the recovery of real estate tax on the sole housing of natural persons into the auctions organised by Latvian bailiffs, thus placing our residents on the street from their only housing. The draft law provides for further calculation of real estate tax in the current amount, however, in cases where a person's property is the only dwelling and has suffered difficulties with payment of the real estate tax, in a non-controversial manner, do not apply the recovery of the tax debt to the sole dwelling of the person when selling it in an auction, as currently provided for by existing legislation. Our draft law does not rule out the possibility of continuing the recovery of real estate tax debt on the income or other property of the persons concerned, but provides for the suspension of... to put an end to the unfair treatment of our people - putting citizens out of their only homes due to a unpaid property tax. I do not need to remind you that Article 96 of the Satversme of the Republic of Latvia strengthens the right to inviolability of housing, but real estate tax, which has a confiscative nature in recent years, is actually beginning to undermine the right of citizens of our country to property and housing guaranteed by the Constitution. We also think that everyone sitting in this hall has heard cases where, due to a small real estate tax debt, which often does not exceed the threshold of up to 50 euros, the municipal's uncontested execution equipment comes into the hands of the jury bailiffs. And then the bailiff could have a more delicious moss - as a completely legal auction - to quickly sell a man's only dwelling, the value of which is thousands of times higher than the amount of real estate debt, thus obtaining a fair percentage of the auction proceeds. There are few such cases, and such situations that a person has not been able to pay property tax in due time may arise for anyone. Whether as a result of long-term illness or as a result of incapacity for work, or as a result of long-term disability or long-term job search, including the consequences of long-term and even short-term deprivation of liberty entering prison. Or a long and even short-term location outside the Latvian border... without tracking or forgetting about the payment of real estate tax. It could also be nurses or educators... and the other from the salary...
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-17-PT13-2013-U3	Thank you, Mrs. Sprude. The speaking time is not extended here.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-17-PT13-2013-U4	I call on my colleagues to vote in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-17-PT13-2013-U5	“Pret” has applied to speak to Krišjānis Feldmans. ( Internouncing call.)
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-17-PT13-2013-U6	Hello! Good morning! The first speeches, and I have to go down there to talk about a obviously absurd bill, and I will tell you why. When we talk about what society understands about real estate tax's potential to free up housing, we need to talk about primary housing, not the only one. The only housing was introduced by anti-national forces to discriminate against people living... have moved to Riga, for example from rural areas, and have inherited homes in rural areas. The only apartment helps Karginas. , helps all villas and all the other thick ones to whom it will be the only dwelling, worth 50 million, and now will not be able to recover property tax, because, externally, it is their only dwelling! Stop thinking of your thick friends once populistly. — Dep. L. Schvecova: “3 × 500!” ), let us vote against. But I'll say one more thing. You're... There, the annotation states how bad everything is in the city of Liepaja. I couldn't fail to notice that there was a lot of real estate tax debtors going on there. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. Mr Stepanenko's intermediate call.) But you ask, Julija Stepanenko, his husband at the Riga City Council, who in 2015 raised the land tax for Rigaers by 50 percent... By the way, there are many, I think thousands, these recovery cases, which must be returned to sworn bailiffs directly in the city of Riga. Show how you care about Riga residents in the city of Riga, about indigenous people living in historical heritage properties, don't put them out of the old buildings in the centre of Riga, where people have inherited apartments from the century... The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. Mr Stepanenko: “That’s the law! The law determines this!’ ) maybe even the past and the past! Also from Mežaparks, where families have lived for 100 years! Why do you want to put them down? In order to be able to buy “Latvijas Gāze” eyebrows, where does Ušakova live? Why are you defending them? Why are you talking about the only housing in Silver rhetoric? Use proper terms, do not help your cargins there! Thank you. We vote against this stupidity! (Applause)
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-17-PT13-2013-U7	Colleagues! We have to vote. Please call me! We will vote for inclusion of the draft law “Amendments to the law “On Real Estate Tax”” in the agenda of the Saeima sitting! Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about - 32, it's against - 51, it's not. Draft legislation is not on the agenda of the sitting. The agenda for the sitting will start to be examined. Draft annual national budgets submitted or amendments thereto and related draft laws. The Saeima Presidium proposes that the draft law presented by the Cabinet of Ministers “Amendments to the Law on Taxes and Fees” be submitted to the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission, stating that it is the committee responsible. Do Members object to a draft law being passed on to the Commission? ( The box “Yes! ”) ) So Commissioner Stepanenko has reservations. Please call me! We will vote in favour of handing over the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Taxes and Fees” to the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission, according to which it is the committee responsible! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Saeima Presidium proposes that the draft law presented by the Cabinet of Ministers “Amendment to the Law of the Barn Courts” be referred to the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission, stating that it is the commission responsible as well as the Legal Commission. Do Members object to the referral of the draft law to the commissions? There is no objection. Draft law passed on to commissions. The Saeima Presidium proposes that the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Land Management” presented by the Cabinet of Ministers be submitted to the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission, stating that it is the committee responsible, as well as to the Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy Commission. Do Members object to the referral of the draft law to the commissions? There is no objection. Draft law passed on to commissions. The Saeima Presidium proposes that the draft law presented by the Cabinet of Ministers “Amendments to the Law on Lot and Gaming Tax and Tax” be submitted to the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission, stating that it is the committee responsible. ‘ Against” applied to speak Member Viktors Valainis.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-17-PT13-2013-U8	Good morning, honourable Speaker of the Saeima! Colleagues! Of course, that basic idea is clearly positive: to increase the tax on gambling machines. This problem affects many people who are at different levels of dependence: 80,000 people depend on gambling in Latvia. If you look further, who is fighting these people and who is maintaining order in places where there are gaming machines and these gambling halls? These are, of course, municipalities. What seems totally wrong to me is that the municipalities are reducing this amount of money by five... more than five million. The question is, what do we want to achieve? Just collect more? It can be positive, but... At the moment we take away this funding... This law should come with another law that would also allow municipalities... Well, I think municipalities wouldn't need that money if they didn't have these gambling drugs in their territories. Quite simply, there should be an additional law which would also give municipalities the right to ban gambling halls in their territories and give them full freedom. Because at the moment, if the municipality makes a political decision, then someone who appeals comes up immediately. And their appeals often... see what they end with. Just the court forces this hall to open, and then this balance between the interests of the people... The draft law, on the contrary, increases... This is aimed at making this gambling medicine more effective, as municipalities are being reduced in terms of both maintaining order and fighting those social customers who are in any dependence. I call for this draft law not to be supported. If this is supported, however, I call for the provision to be supplemented in the coming years to give local authorities more free opportunities to take advantage of these branches of gambling. Because in the sense of what it is now... It cannot be supported. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-17-PT13-2013-U9	Member Krišjānis Feldmans has applied for a speech about it.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-17-PT13-2013-U10	Yeah... Well, there is no wonder that the ZZS comes to talk and defend gambling. Municipalities must fully demotize the location of gambling halls in their territory. The fact that a municipality has the idea of earning it at the expense of the destruction of other people, families... Many gambling makes suicide or forced (Dep. U. Plant: “Did you understand what he was talking about?” )... to get to the yoke of debt and leave Latvia at all. ( Internouncing call.) Of course, this is a typical ZZS approach to the case. It's still... Can't ever... you could not deny that Vērzemnieks, who is an association of gambling... The head of the Latvian Gaming Business Association seems to have been also a candidate for Membership in this parliamentary election. Isn't that right? It's no wonder you're... The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. U. Plant and V. Valaiņa intermediates.) you play with the gambling industry and lobby it. And probably... I don't know how it's... why is the sum exactly for one gambling machine - 5172... I looked at - the bill will have to make proposals to make there six thousand, seven thousand euros to put wages also for medical staff, who will then have to save those who are there... has done bad things for yourself to escape from life... This destruction caused by gambling. It is therefore necessary to vote in favour and to make proposals. And the objective why a gambling tax should be raised on, for example, slot machines is to reduce the number of slot machines (Dep. V. Valainis: “No one will reduce!” ), because nothing like this goes through the pockets of the entrepreneur as a fall in profitability. The fall in profitability can lead, especially in regions and less populated areas where there is a more depressed mood, to the closure of these gambling medicines. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. D. Reizniece-Ozola: “What is the profitability?” ) The budget and financial (tax) commission has been stuck by a bill on the closure of gambling drugs... Unfortunately. Therefore, we have nothing else left behind to charge a tax on gambling machines. This must be further raised, so we must vote in favour! (Applause)
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-17-PT13-2013-U11	Let's vote. Please call me! We will vote in favour of handing over to the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Turnover and Gaming Duties and Taxes”, which states that it is the committee responsible. Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 71, for - 3, for - 6. Draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Saeima Presidium proposes that the draft law presented by the Cabinet of Ministers “Amendment to the Law “On Compulsory Social Insurance against Accidents at Work and Occupational Diseases” be referred to the Committee on Budget and Financial (Tax) establishing that it is the committee responsible as well as the Commission on Social and Labour Affairs. Do Members object to the referral of the draft law to the commissions? There is no objection. Draft law passed on to commissions. The Saeima Presidium proposes that the draft law presented by the Cabinet of Ministers “Amendment to the Law “On State Pensions” be submitted to the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission, stating that it is the commission responsible, as well as the Commission on Social and Labour Affairs. Do Members object to the referral of the draft law to the commissions? There is no objection. Draft law passed on to commissions. The Saeima Presidium proposes that the draft law “Amendments to the Law on the Protection of the Rights of the Child” presented by the Cabinet of Ministers be submitted to the Committee on Budget and Financial Affairs (taxes), stating that it is the commission responsible, as well as to the Commission on Human Rights and Public Affairs. ‘ Against” Ms Dana Reizniece–Ozola, Member, has applied to speak.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-17-PT13-2013-U12	Good morning, Madam President-in-Office of the Saeima. Colleagues! The Karina government consists of five coalition parties. And I have to agree: it is not easy to lead governments, because there are five parties that have a lot of promises, which have a lot of will, and, in the end, it turns out that the delicacy of the money earned by the state is being ripped on all sides, it is not enough. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. S. Riekstins: “We Know!” ) Money needs to be searched for. What to do? Karina's government chooses not to fight the shadow economy (although Mr. Girgen says loudly that we will fight the shadow economy, in next year's budget only EUR five million - EUR five million! - are intended to combat the shadow economy), not to review expenditure, but trying to do so, trying to sell that it has been done. But in fact it consists of the division of dividends of “Latvian State Forests” and the saving of debt service. In substance, expenditure is not subject to revision. Karin's government takes the money away from local governments, Karin's government makes taxes... slot and gambling tax may also be okay, but, for example, a tax on natural resources. Has anyone asked how the imposition of the tax, for example, will affect companies such as CEMEX and others? The government of Kariņš also appears to receive funds at the expense of baby food and maintenance. This bill, colleagues, is about it. What is this bill about? Two parts. The first part aims to halve public funding for school meals from grades 1 to 4. The other thing is that the funds paid to foster families are no longer linked to the minimum wage... which has always been so. There is a rise in the minimum wage - children also receive higher support from a foster family. At present, the medium-term budget is intended to increase the minimum wage, but families raising children will not increase their income. And it's nothing that the authors of the bill themselves predict... that at the moment, the law lays down... that ‘the minimum amount of maintenance which the child is obliged to provide is determined by the Cabinet of Ministers on the basis of the national minimum monthly salary and the age of the child’. This is currently being amended. And that's okay, that's... The authors of the draft law themselves state that “on-day learners are a way to support families with children who study the primary education programme at an educational establishment, without providing money directly, but directing it to children’s needs, thus contributing to the improvement of children’s health, children’s healthy eating habits, as well as promoting equal opportunities for children to develop, regardless of their parents’ financial status and gender”. In the government of Karini, the cult produces uneating things and does not partake of them. I call for this draft law not to be supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-17-PT13-2013-U13	Mr Aldis Gobzems has applied for a speech.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-17-PT13-2013-U14	Good morning, colleagues! I call on the ruling coalition to vote in favour of the abolition of children's weekends and in favour of the freezing of benefits for foster families. Why do I call on the coalition to vote in favour? The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. U. Budriķis’s intermediate call.) Because this will show you cynicism against society, because soon you will vote in favour of increasing funding for yourself. I call on the coalition to vote in favour for the reason that this vote will be about the cynicism that you treat Latvian society. Education and children are not a matter for municipalities. Education and children are a national issue and a state responsibility. Education and children are the area where we have problems in the country, not in party financing! Our parties must not increase funding, but... We must put an end to these parties, which are in power. ( Internouncing call.) And then our children will have more money. Then there will be no cynicians like Feldman who will tell you one and press the button right away to vote on something completely different. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. Feldman: “No, it’s not!” ) I call on the coalition... And in fact, there is no need for opposition in this House, because the coalition will do everything for its degradation. ( Internouncing call.) I call on the coalition to vote in favour (Dep. U. Budriķis: “How about those gifts?” ) to reduce support for children who are less and less born to us - with fewer children each year! I would like to remind you that, this week, at the Subcommittee on Public Health of the Commission on Social and Labour Affairs, where we talked about the birth rate in Latvia, only one Member came from the coalition. One! Only one person was interested in it! Even our demographic specialist, Debtor, was not there. It is therefore understandable why the coalition wants to reduce support for children and foster families with whom this issue is not agreed. Keep going! Why do you want to increase your own funding by 700 percent? Make an increase of five thousand! So, what are you doing now? Reduce the number of others! Now, for the teachers... you have not already been there, you have not been medically executed, you will now be cut off for your children (Interior call). ... Reduce another group of society so that you can raise the funding of their parties not by 700 percent, but by 1500 percent! Let's go, dear coalition! This is exactly what we all expect from you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-17-PT13-2013-U15	Please call me! We will vote in favour of handing over the draft law “Amendments to the Law on the Protection of the Rights of the Child” to the Committee on Budget and Finance (tax) by stating that it is the commission responsible, as well as the Commission on Human Rights and Public Affairs! Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about - 52, it's against - 32, it's not. Draft law passed on to commissions. The Saeima Presidium proposes that the draft law “Amendment to the Law “On State Social Insurance” presented by the Cabinet of Ministers be submitted to the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission, stating that it is the commission responsible, as well as the Commission on Social and Labour Affairs. ‘ Ljubova Švecova, a Member, has applied to speak against’.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-17-PT13-2013-U16	The stability of a country is based on the existence of an unwritten socio-economic contract. This contract shall be concluded by the public in compliance with the laws and regulations proposed by the politicians, but the government, through the Cabinet of Ministers and the bodies of officials subordinate thereto, shall be put into practice. The budget package is an essential part of this unwritten socio-economic contract, because it shows what political priorities are, how professional and qualitative the government is carrying out the tasks delegated to it, and how effectively the civil service works in implementing the laws adopted, or offers new initiatives to improve the development and well-being of society. Draft law “Amendment to the Law “On State Social Insurance” as if affects only 43 people - professional athletes working in the Ministry of the Interior. But what does this draft law foresee? This means freezing the amount of the social contribution and not attracting it to raise the minimum wage, and in the future these 43 people are likely to receive a much lower pension than if the contributions were not linked to the new initiatives proposed by the New Conservative Party. Yes, the government and politicians decided that social guarantees and the possible future for these athletes would not be a priority. But at the same time they decided to increase funding for themselves, for Members, for political parties, for the high civil service. I have a question: do you, as Members, deserve their supplements and increases in pay? I personally believe not, because Latvia's GDP per capita is still the lowest... one of the lowest places in the European Union. Latvia is the third of the bottom in the field of purchasing power parity. It's a shame. This annex, on which you will now vote and support, is a shameful thing because it has not been earned. You eat a shameful bread. You know that close to six million of the profits of the State Real Estate Agency are spent on purchasing new buildings and repairing the Cabinet building? You know that you are still working on the UKP to eliminate the promised Privatisation Agency with six departments, six chapters and 68 officials? Oh, sorry, it is now called “Public Asset Manager Possessor”! You have accepted the change of name in order to continue to maintain these parasites, adding to them funding for three years one million LVL 200 thousand... EUR. ( Internouncing call.) You know, colleagues, it is not possible to repair the existing roof or, more rightly, it is not possible to repair it by five million, nor by 10 million, which will be granted... funding for political forces, because neither high-class PR specialists, nor commissioned research nor portraits of leaders will succeed... the 43 people who will receive a lower pension in the future, these 11 thousand teachers at pre-school institutions that you are humiliating with your demagogy and rhetoric, and those doctors and teachers who will not receive the statutory increase in remuneration. Thank you. (Applause)
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-17-PT13-2013-U17	Colleagues! Let's vote. Please call me! We will vote for the transfer of the draft law “Amendment to the Law “On State Social Insurance” to the Committee on Budget and Finance (Tax) establishing that it is the commission responsible, as well as the Commission on Social and Labour Affairs! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 54, for - 2 and for - 25. Draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Saeima Presidium proposes that the draft law “Amendments to the Invalidity Law” presented by the Cabinet of Ministers be submitted to the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission, stating that it is the commission responsible, as well as the Commission on Social and Labour Affairs. Mrs Stepanenko, will you speak against? ‘ Jūlija Stepanenko, Member, has applied to speak against”
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-17-PT13-2013-U18	Dear colleagues, This budget, which you, honourable coalition colleagues, are offering us, is a budget for the robbery of municipalities and the freezing of benefits. Whatever you try to record in the arguments that these benefits are fixed at some level or specified, it is clear that all the benefits that we are going to talk about today, with the exception of perhaps some - the raising of a minimum pension - are, in fact, a freezing of benefits. And in this case too, that is the case. This is about the Invalidity Act and disabled assistants. It was very cynical... to see that it is said in the annotation that, in order not to grow an assistant's salary along with a minimum salary, because it will be linked to a minimum wage... and you want to achieve it “3 × 500” sometime... But you have forgotten that, of course, all the other things that are attached to it will come along with the minimum wage. You want to simply falsely increase the minimum wage by separating from all those socially sensitive things that have always followed the minimum wage. It's a very big cynicism! So, dear colleagues, these “3 × 500”... It will really be a false message. Finally, more cynical... This statement states that too many of their assistants are disabled. Too much! That's why they just have to reduce their pay. Where else are you, colleagues? Not only children, but also disabled people are now your sponsors. You take away your children, you take away the disabled, and you put on yourself. Good job! I call for the 'no' vote.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-17-PT13-2013-U19	Please call me! We will vote in favour of handing over the draft law “Amendments to the Invalidity Law” to the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission, stating that it is the commission responsible, as well as the Commission on Social and Labour Affairs! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 53, for - 4, for - 23. Draft law passed on to commissions. The Saeima Presidium proposes that the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Unemployment Insurance” presented by the Cabinet of Ministers be submitted to the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission, stating that it is the commission responsible and the Commission on Social and Labour Affairs. ‘ Against” applied to speak Member Jānis Krišāns.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-17-PT13-2013-U20	Good afternoon, Madam President of the Saeima. Honourable Members! Yes, I would also like to speak on behalf of myself and on behalf of my constituents, the people of Latgale who have elected me as a Member. Because people call and express their concerns about the pending amendments to the Act on Unemployment Insurance, which are worsening the already severe situation of the unemployed, reducing the time for receiving the benefit and the amount of the benefit. I would like to remind you that the people of Latvia are paying taxes not only to ensure a decent old age for themselves, but also to ensure that if the disability results in a person being unemployed, he has some guarantees. Every taxpayer wants to expect a decent benefit from the country until he can get into the labour market again. This is one month... Nine to eight... The amount of the allowance is extremely important for each of our citizens, for every unemployed person, because these people today are served with a few Sundays a day. People have become more and more aware of the importance of entering into an employment contract and the importance of paying taxes. That is what we are reading in the press. Now something in society has changed to the right. But, you know, with these amendments to the law, we'll pull a fat line for this purpose. There are many companies in Latgale, especially in rural areas, where people work part-time, receive very low wages, but practically everyone has already started paying taxes. By leaving without a job, people will have to choose – to leave the countryside and go for work in cities or to go abroad. It is not possible to go to work every day in major populated centers, because public transport is only twice a week, and you know that. Opportunities to find vacancies are, of course, economically active centres. But then you have to choose to live closer to work... and then loses the family, loses the fields and farms that have been processed for their own use. Families will also be lost. Children will lose their father or mother, and they will see them less and less. If we go to school today and ask children where their parents are, we see a terrible picture, because most families have long been separated, because one parent works either in Riga... Unfortunately, or in the worst case abroad. How many families are now divided precisely because of the unthinkable social policy of our country and moved to other countries? The country will continue to deteriorate its demographic situation and the working population will be further reduced. Trust me! Have we looked at the real causes of the fall in unemployment? If you say today that unemployment is also falling in Latgale, then it is only at the expense of people who have left and not at the cost of creating new jobs... Unfortunately. Finally. We are talking a lot about the principle of legitimate expectations, but these amendments to the law will also violate that principle. Can a person rely on his own country in the event of unemployment, especially those of pre-retirement age? After such amendments, it looks like not. The other thing I don't understand. In a state of law that positions itself... and the parties and the government... Before making amendments, the social partners are usually consulted. This time, I have not heard that this kind of trade union consultation would have taken place. Are these amendments discussed with trade unions? I'm also asked by the people who call. If not, it is a clear disrespect for the social partners representing the interests of workers. However, I call today to vote against and perhaps think and for longer...
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-17-PT13-2013-U21	Thank you, Mr. Krishan, we're here... The speaking time shall not be extended for or against. Please call me! We will vote in favour of handing over the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission to the draft law “Amendments to the Law “On Unemployment Insurance”” establishing that it is the commission responsible, as well as the Commission on Social and Labour Affairs! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 52, for - 29, for - 1. Draft law passed on to commissions. The Saeima Presidium proposes that the draft law presented by the Cabinet of Ministers “Amendment to the Notary Law” be submitted to the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission, stating that it is the committee responsible, as well as to the Legal Commission. Are Members opposed to the draft law (Interface: Vote!) )... Members want to vote. Please call me! We will vote in favour of handing over the draft law “Amendment to the Notary Law” to the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission, stating that it is the commission responsible, as well as to the Legal Commission. Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 54, for - no, for - 26. Draft law passed on to commissions. The Saeima Presidium proposes that the draft law presented by the Cabinet of Ministers “Amendments to the Law on the Maintenance Guarantee Fund” be submitted to the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission, stating that it is the committee responsible, as well as to the Commission on Human Rights and Public Affairs. Do Members object to the referral of the draft law to the commissions? ( The box “Yes! ”) ; “Votesim!” ) Please call us! We will vote in favour of handing over the Budget and Finance (tax) Commission to the draft law “Amendments to the Law on the Maintenance Guarantee Fund”, establishing that it is the commission responsible, as well as the Commission on Human Rights and Public Affairs! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 52, for - 10, for - 20. Draft law passed on to commissions. The Saeima Presidium proposes that the draft law presented by the Cabinet of Ministers “Amendments to the Law “On Land Commissions” be submitted to the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission, stating that it is the committee responsible, as well as to the Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy Commission. Do Members object to the referral of the draft law to the commissions? There is no objection. Draft law passed on to commissions. The Saeima Presidium proposes that the draft law presented by the Cabinet of Ministers “Amendment to the Law on the Finalisation of Land Reform in Rural Areas” be submitted to the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission, stating that it is the committee responsible, as well as to the Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy Commission. Do Members object to the referral of the draft law to the commissions? There is no objection. Draft law passed on to commissions. The Saeima Presidium proposes that the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Remuneration of Officials and Employees of State and Municipal Institutions” presented by the Cabinet of Ministers be submitted to the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission, stating that it is the committee responsible, as well as to the Commission of State Administration and Local Government. Do Members object to the referral of the draft law to the commissions? There is no objection. Draft law passed on to commissions. The Saeima Presidium proposes that the draft law presented by the Cabinet of Ministers “Amendment to the Mediation Law” be submitted to the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission, stating that it is the committee responsible, as well as to the Legal Commission. Do Members object to the referral of the draft law to the commissions? There is no objection. Draft law passed on to commissions. The Saeima Presidium proposes that the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Natural Resources Tax” presented by the Cabinet of Ministers be referred to the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission, stating that it is the committee responsible. ‘ Against’ Ms Janina Jalinska, Member, has applied to speak.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-17-PT13-2013-U22	Good afternoon, honourable and honorable colleagues! Today I will talk about amendments to the Natural Resources Tax Act. The purpose of the Natural Resources Tax is to promote the economically efficient use of natural resources, to limit environmental pollution, to reduce the production and marketing of polluting products - and so on, and so on. This is a goal, but this goal is achieved by both state and local government. Some rates of taxation - for the extraction of natural resources and for air pollution - are also being raised, even though there was a promise that taxes would not increase. Currently, the law provides for the distribution of tax payments on the extraction or use of natural resources or pollution of the environment as follows: 40 per cent - in the state budget, 60 per cent - in the special budget for environmental protection of the local government in the territory of which the relevant activity is carried out. However, amendments to the Law on Natural Resources Tax provide for significant changes in the transfer of tax payments to the budget: 60 per cent - to the state budget, 40 per cent - to the local government special budget, but in the state budget 100 per cent include tax payments for disposal or incineration of waste. In the explanatory memorandum to the draft law, I did not find any real justification for the fact that, as a result of the redistributive of tax revenues, municipalities will be deducted one hundred per cent from waste disposal payments. The Latvian Municipal Union delivered a negative opinion on this draft law. Re-allocation of natural resources tax into the dispute section is also included in the agreement and dispute protocol of the Latvian Municipal Union and Cabinet of Ministers for 2020. The draft law “On the State Budget for 2020” provides for income from natural resources tax in the amount of 37.9 million euros. If you look at the relations with the municipalities, then in 2017 the municipalities received 9 million, in 2018 – 11.4 million, in 2019 forecast – 11.8 million, and in 2020 plan – 7 million. So almost minus 5 million. On the other hand, the share of the state budget increases from 16,6 million in 2017 to 30,9 million in the following year. Article 29 of the Law on Natural Resources Tax “Use of Special Budgets for the Protection of the Municipal Environment” sets out very many objectives where municipalities can use these funds – objectives related to environmental protection, such as environmental education and training, environmental monitoring, biodiversity conservation and protection, air protection and climate change” and so on. Landfills are located in municipalities and residents live in the immediate or distant neighbourhood, and Article 29 of the law provides that municipal funds may also be used as a compensation for the residents living in the area affected by the landfill. As a result, municipalities will not receive anything about waste disposal, so waste - municipalities, money - the state. I call for this draft law not to be supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-17-PT13-2013-U23	“About” has applied to speak Member Arthur Tom Ples.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-17-PT13-2013-U24	Hello, colleagues! In essence, there are three important things why the draft law on "Amendments to the Law on Natural Resources Tax" should be adopted and moved forward. As we know, for us as a whole, for Latvia, both in this decade (we have already spoken about this many times), and in the next decade, namely... In 2035, we will only be able to dispose of 10 percent of the total amount of waste generated. We must therefore make a significant contribution to the recycling and recovery of waste and increasingly look at how we can recycle waste, create new products from it and fundamentally change the point of view of it as a waste to a resource. Accordingly, it is proposed to introduce a new nature tax object called... "How to tax more on the incineration of waste". This has a number of positive effects. One would be to promote waste sorting, and there would be a greater incentive not to practice waste. The second important point I would like to highlight. The use of natural resources tax in municipalities has been a very, very controversial and very dubious issue for a long time, because, as well as the State Audit Office has repeatedly pointed out, the use of natural resources tax (as Mrs Jalinskas mentioned, how we should use this tax on natural resources) has not achieved its goal in many cases - to promote environmental management and responsible treatment in a particular municipality. In our view, it is clear that the capacity of municipalities will therefore not be reduced and municipalities will be more responsible to see how to raise awareness of environmental protection and to take concrete action to achieve this. It is also known that the waste plan for the next seven years is already being developed. It is clear that the total number of landfills in Latvia will be reduced, and this is directly related to the fact that in 2035 we will only be able to dispose of 10 percent of the total waste generated. The third point - a very important point - is that this type of tax redistribution will help to strengthen environmental institutions and combat offenders, because we see and know that very long-term environmental institutions, environmental protection institutions have been very weak. It is not clear whether this has been the result of a targeted policy or a coincidence, but it is clear that it needs to be changed. The capacity of the people in question must be promoted, modern technologies must be developed and the vision of how we can already combat those who are not doing much better with the environment pro-actively. And it is these aspects that will help to promote a common understanding of environmental protection and achieve the expected results. Also in next year's budget, municipal revenue will increase overall by EUR 63 million as planned. So that the municipalities will not feel any significant loss. I call for support.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-17-PT13-2013-U25	Please call me! We will vote in favour of transferring the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Natural Resources Tax” to the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission, according to which it is the committee responsible! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 53, for - 12, for - 19. Draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Saeima Presidium proposes that the draft law presented by the Cabinet of Ministers “Amendments to the Law on Higher Education” be submitted to the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission, stating that it is the committee responsible, as well as the Commission for Education, Culture and Science. Do Members object to the referral of the draft law to the commissions? There is no objection. Draft law passed on to commissions. The Saeima Presidium proposes that the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Education” presented by the Cabinet of Ministers be submitted to the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission, stating that it is the commission responsible, as well as the Commission for Education, Culture and Science. ‘ Against” applied to speak Member Jānis Vucāns.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-17-PT13-2013-U26	President-in-Office of the Saeima, very respectable. Dear colleagues, Dear colleagues, I believe - and my view is based on yesterday's session of the Committee on Education, Culture and Science - that this draft law has been put into the budget package to some degree artificially, because there is only one rule in this draft law. It relates to the question already mentioned today that municipalities will be obliged to feed pupils from grades 1 to 4. But everything else that is in this draft law concerns, in essence, the closure of schools or the suspension of public funding for schools which do not comply with certain provisions... Criteria established by the Cabinet of Ministers. As regards the norm on the catering of pupils in grades 1-4, today the majority of the Saeima has already decided to hand over to the committee, namely to the Committee on Budgets and Finance (Tax), amendments to the Law on the Protection of Children, and these amendments provide for the state part in the catering of pupils in grades 1-4, because the law provides for the competence of the Cabinet of Ministers - that the Cabinet of Ministers determines the procedure in which this funding granted by the State is used. However, this same law also contains part of the responsibility of municipalities - an article where, by the way, it is about the fact that the municipality must provide not only shelter and other things, but also food - a diet that is appropriate to the state of health! - any child residing in the territory of the municipality concerned. My question is: why the norm on catering for pupils in grades 1-4 in terms of public funding is in one law... and for the responsibility of the municipality is artificially removed to the Education Law by introducing there a new, unprecedented part of Article 17 - Article 13.1 -, i.e. supplementing this law? All this could be done peacefully in the Law on the Protection of the Rights of the Child by adding one amendment to this law. Consequently, I believe that introducing amendments to the Education Act into this legislative package, the budget package, is an artificial one, and I call on you fellow Members to vote against this draft law being included in the budget package. Thank you. (Applause)
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-17-PT13-2013-U27	Colleagues! We have to vote. Please call me! We will vote in favour of handing over the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Education” to the Budget and Finance (tax) Commission, stating that it is the commission responsible, as well as the Commission on Education, Culture and Science! Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about - 51, it's 31, it's not. Draft law passed on to commissions. The Saeima Presidium proposes that the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Financing of Political Organisations (Parties)” presented by the Cabinet of Ministers be submitted to the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission, stating that it is the commission responsible, as well as to the Commission of State Administration and Local Government. ‘ Jūlija Stepanenko, Member, has applied to speak against”
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-17-PT13-2013-U28	Dear colleagues, We have come to the most cynical and double law in this budget package. Dear colleagues, I call on you to remove this bill from the budget package. I understand that today you have an order to vote in favour, but think carefully! Think well. Because it will be a big decision - what you will be. I'll just explain to you that you're going to fail. ( Interface: “No. ” ) In what sense? The question is, who makes decisions in the Saeima? Answer who makes decisions at the Saeima?Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A. Lejiņš: “Several voters want it!” ) I will reply to you instead. Decisions of the Saeima shall be taken by the coalition. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A. Lejiņš: “It’s in Estonia! Sweden!’ ) That is what we have seen today. 32 versus 52. Everything's clear. Most of the votes belong to you, the respected coalition. We, the opposition, can vote without voting, but we do not have enough votes. So, who has that crucial pie piece? You! And what do the sponsors come to? Well, most likely with you. Otherwise they would be very... I think it's not too good for sponsors if they try to sponsor two or three votes in opposition, if? That is why it is clear. Dear colleagues, you have just admitted that your sponsor's money is disrupting you, and you want to get rid of it. In other ways, this draft law cannot be perceived in any way. It is not in any way perceptible. We also read what is written in the annotation. Informal consultation with KNAB. Unofficial consultations! And the joint decision of coalition parties. The coalition parties met together and decided that they needed more money. Some other parties have been asked, but as far as I asked my colleagues here, no one was required to do so. I don't know... You probably for yourself... asked each other: (Interfaces.) “ Development/About! “Do you want “KPV LV” to give money?” - “Yes, we want to. We need more!” And so on, and so on. It's cynicism at the highest level, colleagues! What do you want to achieve at all with this draft law? Come on, colleagues, just stop taking the sponsor's money! It's very simple. You may not accept these contributions. You can deduct them back, but it depends only on you. Because you are the governors of this Saeima. Just stop doing it and make politics cleaner! Because sponsors can fill the opposition from their head to their feet here, but nothing will change, because you already accept this budget, you pass all the laws. It's your bill. And now explain to me how will you explain to the public that you simply need money for a larger cake during the pre-election period? ( Milestones.) That you just need more money for balloons and flags. Explain! Because only this is what you want. I call on you fellow Members not to support this draft law. But I realize I'm talking to the deaf right now. ( Internouncing call.)
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-17-PT13-2013-U29	Ms Dana Reizniece–Ozola, Member, has applied for a speech. ( Interface: “We will continue to support you. ” ) Council Regulation (EC) No 1257/96 of 20 June 1996 concerning humanitarian aid (OJ L 163, 2.7.1996, p. 1).
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-17-PT13-2013-U30	Colleagues! Since 1998, there has been such a nice tradition that the finance minister is carrying a portfolio, Mr. Zīle's portfolio, to the Saeima with a draft budget. At least part of what you can get in that portfolio. I don't know from when, but there's another tradition that every budget finds a sign that characterises it. The flash memory in which the budget is preserved is also presented in a special form, which corresponds to the contents of the budget. There are ‘vitamins for the economy’ and various other names have been in previous years. This year, Mr. Reira had a five-ball stand in his briefcase. I don’t know if he thought that this budget was called “Everything in the balls!” ... political parties, but I would say... I could give it the title "Gift to the Weak One". That is the budget. Because if we look at what's in the budget... For example, when comparing the budget for 2019 and 2020, 3.4 million present, 0.2 million salaries; Saeima - 2.3 million present, 0.5 million salaries; Presidential Chancellery - about 800 thousand present, 0.5 million salaries (not bad for a new president); and finally political parties - 4.5 million in next year's budget. That's great! ‘ Reconciliation” (worst) - 800 thousand; “KPV LV”, New Conservative Party - almost 650 thousand; Development/About! - 580 thousand; National Association - 560 thousand; Union of Greens and Farmers - 489 thousand. That's great! Well, there's something left out. ... something has also been rejected by the Association of the Regions of Latvia, the Russian Union of Latvia and the Progressive. By this we show that gifts are and need, and they are also given to the weaker. This also shows that this budget, I think, places particular emphasis on the importance of size. Big is beautiful! We do not need small municipalities; we are implementing administrative territorial reform. Small schools also do not need to, it was already included in the Education Law - various criteria for clapping. And we don't need small parties either! The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. S. Riekstins: “ZZS is not needed!” ) I think that if the money cannot be received and competed with us, the big ones, such as the Latgale Party, the Livani Party, the Daugavpils Party, we will finally succeed in creating a cartel of political parties, not a builder. It'll be great, won't it?Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Colleagues! I call on you to support this draft law if you think that the country should start with itself. ( Internouncing call.) For all the other questions we and you also have answers. Well, for example, children's weekends. The Minister says: “Take off senior class holidays!” Teachers’ Remuneration - “Let’s Get From Money Washers!” And to the new medical protests, Mr. Kariņš also answers coldly: “I can advise any new person to keep a bright view!” ( The utterance: “Beaules! ”) ) Let's start with ourselves! (Applause)
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-17-PT13-2013-U31	Please call me! We will vote in favour of transferring the draft law “Amendments to the Law on the Financing of Political Organisations (Parties)” to the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission, establishing that it is the commission responsible, as well as to the Commission of State Administration and Local Government! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 52, for - 7, for - 24. Draft law passed on to commissions. ( Internoint.) Medicines cause noise.) The Saeima Presidium proposes that the draft law “Amendments to the Energy Law” presented by the Cabinet of Ministers be submitted to the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission, stating that it is the committee responsible, as well as to the Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy Commission. Do Members object to the referral of the draft law to the commissions? There is no objection. Draft law passed on to commissions. The Saeima Presidium proposes that the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Energy Efficiency” presented by the Cabinet of Ministers be submitted to the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission, stating that it is the committee responsible, as well as to the Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy Commission. Do Members object to the referral of the draft law to the commissions? There is no objection. Draft law passed on to commissions. The Saeima Presidium proposes that the draft law “Amendments to the Law on the Electricity Market” presented by the Cabinet of Ministers be submitted to the Committee on Budgets and Finance (taxes), stating that it is the commission responsible, as well as to the Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy Commission. Do Members object to the referral of the draft law to the commissions? There is no objection. Draft law passed on to commissions. The Saeima Presidium proposes that the draft law presented by the Cabinet of Ministers “Amendments to the Law “On Land Deeps” be submitted to the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission, stating that it is the committee responsible, as well as to the Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy Commission. Do Members object to the referral of the draft law to the commissions? There is no objection. Draft law passed on to commissions. The Saeima Presidium proposes that the draft law presented by the Cabinet of Ministers “Amendments to the Law “On the Register of Enterprises of the Republic of Latvia” be submitted to the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission, stating that it is the committee responsible, as well as to the Legal Commission. Do Members object to the referral of the draft law to the commissions? There is no objection. Draft law passed on to commissions. The Saeima Bureau proposes that the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Scientific Activities” presented by the Cabinet of Ministers be submitted to the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission, stating that it is the committee responsible, as well as to the Education, Culture and Science Commission. Do Members object to the referral of the draft law to the commissions? There is no objection. Draft law passed on to commissions. The Saeima Presidium proposes that the draft law “On the medium-term budgetary framework for 2020, 2021 and 2022” presented by the Cabinet of Ministers be submitted to all commissions, as well as the Budget and Finance (tax) commission, stating that it is the committee responsible. ‘ Igors Pimenovs has applied to speak against’.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-17-PT13-2013-U32	Good morning, dear Chair! Dear Members, Honourable Members! ‘ The Social Democratic Party Group will not support the proposed legislation on the medium-term budgetary framework for the next three years. This does not contribute to economic development and to the rise in social inequality of the beaks. The medium-term budgetary framework does not provide an answer to the main question of budgetary policy, namely what is planned to increase revenue for the state budget in the coming years. The Minister of Finance is proud that 610 million additional funds have been redeployed to social and other areas in the budget for 2020. However, the state's obligation to provide public funding for health care and education, including the remuneration of employees in line with statutory promises and instructions from international organisations, is still lacking. This increases the risks of poverty, strengthens economic emigration, reduces market demand, the economy continues to stagnate. None of these challenges is a solution within the medium-term budgetary framework. We also do not support this draft law because it, like all the budgets of the post-crisis years, is based on the principles of a false economic policy. As the main instrument of financial stabilisation, the government applies a strict austerity policy. It has created stagnation in Latvia, as well as in all the Member States of the European Union. The policy of austerity can be sensible to reduce debt in an individual country, but if all the Member States of the Economic and Monetary Union, which are mainly interconnected trading partners, are at the same time cutting their spending, the result can only be one - the economy of the Union as a whole. Public budgets are being consolidated, public credit ratings are rising, but financial markets are still not in a hurry to resume lending to the stagnant European market. This is also indicated in the studies carried out by the Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development, and Latvia is not an exception in this respect. But it is even worse that the country is no longer able to fulfil its obligations. It is precisely because of the austerity policy that the country's promises are not being fulfilled. After Latvia joined the World Trade Organisation, joined the European Union and adopted the euro, it cannot use customs duties to regulate import flows, implement other protectionist policy instruments, as well as use the exchange rate of the national currency to promote exports. What are the opportunities for economic development? The funds left to the State constitute State aid for the development of a real economy, including direct public investment in the share capital of companies and tax policy. Meanwhile, we do not see the efforts of the government to invest in policy for the development of new sectors, to create new jobs. Although the Arsenal of the economic development instruments for Latvia is limited to a minimum, the government also does not use the tools at its disposal at a time when the demand for them is as high as never before. On the other hand, the Minister of Finance once again, not without pride in the remark that the second budget in a row has not changed labour taxes, allowing entrepreneurs, in the view of the Minister, to work peacefully. This proud suffocation only proves that the government sees taxes as a fiscal tool, but noting that tax policy is a powerful tool for entrepreneurship and economic development. Colleagues! It is a stagnating budget, but voters expect economic growth, the eradication of poverty, and the reduction of social inequalities. This budget cannot be supported in any way. A Fraction will vote against it. ( Internouncing call.)
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-17-PT13-2013-U33	Arvils Asheradens, a Member, has applied for the floor.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-17-PT13-2013-U34	Dear colleagues, In contrast to the previous speaker, I call for support for this budget. As regards the medium-term budgetary framework for 2020, 2021 and 2022, I would like to say that the government has presented a well-balanced and well-balanced budget. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. Gobzem said: “You have been speaking for 20 years!” ) It should be said that if we look at the macro-economic context, we see a decline in the global economic growth cycle. The government has at its disposal sufficient resources to ensure the country's development in a crisis situation. In its budget, the government has marked four political... the priority development orientations of the budgetary policy. These include reducing the income inequality of the population, increasing the state's human capital, restoring state assets and increasing efficiency in public use. The government has also carefully planned the size of the budget based on GDP forecasts, which is EUR 33.1 billion for 2020 and EUR 36.7 for 2022 respectively. I am sorry, EUR 33.1 billion for 2020, EUR 34.8 for 2021 and EUR 36.7 billion for 2022. The government has also carefully planned the forecast of GDP, which is, I stress, 2.8 per cent for the next three years. This is one of the best GDP forecasts in the euro area area. Latvia has carefully prepared for this issue. I would like to say that the government's current action, without raising taxes and making the most of fiscal space, has ensured that Latvia's economy continues to evolve successfully at this moment, when the big economic wind is moving slower. This is about growth based on internal consumption. In the same way, government finances have been balanced by setting the budget deficit: 0.3 per cent in 2020, 0.2 per cent in 2021 and 0.4 per cent in 2022. The Board of Fiscal Discipline has also assessed the work of the government as positive and thus supports the level of the planned government deficit for the following year and recognises that this is in line with the requirements of fiscal discipline. The Council also welcomes the fiscal collateral buffer set up for 2020, 2021 and 2022. The Council also appreciates the fact that the budget deficit in Latvia is lower than the average in the Member States of the European Union, and the current government also proves to be a welcome... good understanding of budgetary discipline. I would also like to add a few things that I think are very important when it comes to this budget framework for the next three years. First of all, I would like to say that, with regard to the budget, the government acted in line with the plan and that the budget was submitted to Parliament within the deadline, despite the complexity of the coalition. And it reduces the uncertainty in the economy, because really everyone is trying to understand what will happen with Brexit, what will happen with international trade wars. The Latvian Government acted responsibly: the budget was submitted in time. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. (D. Schmit’s intermediate call.) Next and historical... I would like to say that this is historically remarkable when it comes to the actions of this government (Dep. D. Interdependence of Reizniece-Ozola.) 'I do not remember, indeed, since 2010 that the government would have submitted a budget without tax increases... that is very important. The government has not increased taxes, and this has allowed businesses and citizens to have confidence in the future. As for the world economy's stifling... It is clear that there are more negative risks than positive risks and, of course, the most serious risk for the Latvian Government is the so-called Moneyval risk. Indeed, the state of Latvia can reach the grey or even black list. At the moment, I would like to say that the government has acted actively, has organised all the legislation. If Parliament votes for the officials concerned, we will have done all the necessary homework. The financial minister's team and all the others are working to ensure that this situation is balanced, resolved and positive as a whole. So I call on Parliament to support this budget and move forward. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-17-PT13-2013-U35	Please call me! We will vote in favour of transferring the draft law on the medium-term budgetary framework for 2020, 2021 and 2022 to all commissions, as well as to the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission, making it the commission responsible! Please vote mode! Please get the result! There's no one for - 53, against - 33, abstaining. Consequently, the draft law has been passed on to the commissions. The Saeima Presidium proposes that the draft law on the state budget for 2020 presented by the Cabinet of Ministers be submitted to all commissions, as well as the Budget and Finance (tax) commission (Inter-saxes). , stating that it is the commission responsible. ‘ Vjačeslav Dombrovskis has applied to speak against’. ( Milestones.)
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-17-PT13-2013-U36	There is democracy. President-in-Office of the Saeima, very much. High honourable Members! I must admit that I very much like this budget time. You know why? That's a solemn feeling. Because the budget is a summary of the work. Before the budget, all the politicians... Well, not everyone, almost... many talk about how they should be, how they would like to be, how they would like to be, how they need to be... “the success stories” and “the uncompromising rule of law”, “100 × 500” and that “the state must start with itself”, and so on. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. K. Feldman: ‘How much is 100 × 500?’ ) Words, words, words. But the budget is coming, and the budget is a reflection of the work. Then it is all obvious whether the words are followed by works and what is actually what is being done. Let's... Take an example. Let's take the budget for the previous year. Do you remember that you called it a technical budget because it was created by the Kučinski Government, so you, all the new parties, supported it as much as we remember, without any debate. Not even any of you were in this room to defend the budget. Now think about it! You told people, before the elections, how bad its FAO government, the champions of lies and so on, and then you fully supported the FAO vision for this year. Do you think that the people do not see all this and have not noticed anything like this? You've noticed it! This year, colleagues, you will decide on something, but you will review only a few percent of the total national budget. Everything else is the same thing as... by the same government of Kučinsky. Again, without any controversies, and the people see it. We, colleagues, will talk much more and more in detail about this draft budget or any other draft at first and second readings. Let us talk about some aspect of it, but today, colleagues, let us start from the foundations. This draft budget, that is to say, does not comply with Latvian law. In particular, it does not take into account the fact that you have adopted your own law on medical fees. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. Feldman: “What law do we not obey?” ) Some people have even experienced amnesia. Medical pay, medical pay... Colleagues, those who don't remember... Does not comply with the Law on Higher Education, does not comply with the Law on Scientific Activities. These are facts. I have a question for all those parties: is it a "new policy" - not to abide by the laws? This is part of the ‘country of issue’? A country only succeeds when it ceases to comply with the laws? ( Internouncing call.) “Uncompromising Justice” or - which stands for the National Association here... Is that so? ‘ Latvia - Latvians”? When it comes to Latvians, then Latvians' laws... So you shouldn't follow it, shouldn't you? So if other nationalities... only then... Even to the government, colleagues, on the wall are the words “One law - one justice for all”. It's written there. I assume that maybe the Prime Minister has that inscription behind his back, so maybe he can't see it. And you, fellow Members, do you even remember your Member's oath? Does anyone remember your oath, Member's oath, last sentence? ( Milestones.) “I undertake to respect the Constitution and laws of Latvia.” Comply with the law! Therefore, honourable colleagues, if this draft budget does not comply with the laws, including your own laws... and laws adopted by the previous Saeima are still laws... then, when you vote in favour of this draft budget, you will not only not respect the law, but also violate your Member's oath. Each of you who will vote in favour of this budget (Applause.) He'll break an oath! ( Internouncing call.) Therefore, honourable colleagues, I call on Kariņš' Government to withdraw this draft budget, I call on Kariņš' Government to submit to the legislator a draft budget that will comply with the laws of the Republic of Latvia. If, for some reason, the government does not want to do so, then I call on the government to find the courage to submit to the Saeima appropriate amendments to the law on medical remuneration, the law on scientific activities and the law on higher education. I call on my fellow Members not to violate the oath of a Member! Thank you. (Applause)
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-17-PT13-2013-U37	Ivars Zarins has applied for a speech about it. ( Interface: “Window, disprove! ” . Impressions. Depp. I. Zarins: “It will be, yes.” ) Council Regulation (EC) No 1257/96 of 20 June 1996 concerning humanitarian aid (OJ L 163, 2.7.1996, p. 1).
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-17-PT13-2013-U38	Hello, colleagues! Last night I was invited to participate in the trade union meeting of Latvian Health and Social Care Workers, which discussed this budget, about what to do further to them. I was invited to that sitting not as a representative of any political power, as many like to speculate on it now, but simply as a member of the Saeima, who, by his real actions, has shown that he is in favour of the legitimate rights of medical practitioners. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. Mr Feldman: “Why wasn’t I invited?” ) At that meeting, I was invited not only to express my opinion but also to listen to the doctors about how they see them feel in this situation and to share it with you, your colleagues... Indeed, the medical community was very disappointed and disappointed at the government’s decision. They expressed their misunderstanding, they turned to us and said: “Do you, politicians, not understand that we are working on the edge of the burning? All you are doing is not correcting the situation. The situation is becoming more critical. Do you not understand that we will suffer from this not only by us, medical practitioners, but by society as a whole?” They expressed a deep misunderstanding: if Latvia is a legal and democratic state, how can it be that in a legal and democratic state the government can violate the laws? They approached me and said, "How do you understand? You expect us to fulfil our duty for which... you do not even want to pay what is due to us legally, but you do not perform your duties and still want to be paid for it. Is that legal? Is that fair? The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. Mr Feldman: "Ivar, speak "for"! Fulfilling!’ ) Here is really “One law – one justice for all”?” The doctors told me... They say: "We came to these elections, to the parliamentary elections, with the feeling that the parties we can vote on have finally appeared. But it must be that the root of evil, which has not been brought to an end, has spoiled them.” Andis Feldmanis, a representative of the professional organisation of the Emergency Medical Assistance Service, also addressed me at that meeting. He said: “Mr Zariņš, when you discuss the budget law with your Saeima, remind your colleagues they have sworn to the people of Latvia!” I have no difficulty reminding you because, as you know, I know the oath from my head. You made an oath (Internext. Thank you. Thank you very much. ... In your oath, you affirmed that when you assume the office of Member of the Saeima, you undertake to comply with the Constitution and laws of Latvia. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. D. Reizniece-Ozola: “For the best consciousness!” ) This budget is illegal. When you vote on it, you will violate the oath of a Member. Therefore, I call on all those Members who believe that Latvia's budget is to be created simply from the interests of political transactions - ignore the laws, vote in favour of this draft law! Because the doctors... In order for the doctors to know who the Members are, thanks to which it has happened, which they have roasted... The root of this evil. In order that the entire public may soon be able to know the names of these Members, because they may be read in all hospitals near all the offices where people will have to wait long queues for medical services... long, paying rows. Let them know who to thank for such fate! I call on you to vote in favour of this draft law for all those Members who do not want to honour the oath they have made to the people of Latvia, to whom it hinders them in order to be able to carry out their political transactions, because perhaps in this way you will be released from this obligation very soon, because perhaps this is... then there will be the last budget that will be able to... to be put to the vote by this parliamentary term. On the other hand, I call on all the others who still have this opportunity to vote for their conscience, because it may be still useful for you. Thank you. (Applause)
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-17-PT13-2013-U39	Please call me! We will vote in favour of handing over the draft law “On the State Budget for 2020” to all commissions, as well as to the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission, establishing that it is the commission responsible! Please vote mode! Please get the result! There's no one for - 53, against - 33, abstaining. Draft law passed on to commissions. Dear colleagues, Time to break. Please call me! Please check-in mode for Members! Colleagues! Attention to one important statement. Yesterday our colleague Aldis Blumbergs celebrated a round birthday and we welcome him! (Applause) Name Marija Golubeva, member of the Saeima Secretary, to read the results of the registration as soon as they have been prepared.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-17-PT13-2013-U40	Not registered: Aldis Adamovičs, Jānis Adamsons, Iveta Benhena–Bekena, Mārtiņš Bondars, Gundars Dauge, Inese Ikstena, Nikolai Kabanovs, Armands Krauze, Janīna Kursīte-Pakule, Edmunds Teirumnieks and Reinis Znotiņš.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-17-PT13-2013-U41	Thank you. Interruption until 11 a.m. ( Interruption)
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-17-PT13-2013-U42	Dear colleagues, We're going to keep the Saeima sitting after the break. On the agenda - reports from the Saeima Bureau on draft laws submitted. The Saeima Presidium proposes that the draft law presented by the Cabinet of Ministers “Amendments to the Law on Taxes and Fees” be submitted to the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission, stating that it is the committee responsible. Do Members object to a draft law being passed on to the Commission? There is no objection. Draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Saeima Presidium proposes that the draft law presented by the Cabinet of Ministers “On disposal of real estate for public needs - the border route near the territory of Kelova” be referred to the Legal Commission, stating that it is the committee responsible. Do Members object to a draft law being passed on to the Commission? There is no objection. Draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Council of the Saeima proposes that the draft law “On amendments to the Convention on the Verification and Stamping of Products of Precious Metals” presented by the Cabinet of Ministers be referred to the Foreign Affairs Commission, stating that it is the committee responsible. Do Members object to a draft law being passed on to the Commission? There is no objection. Draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Saeima Presidium proposes that the draft law presented by the Cabinet of Ministers “Amendments to the Law on Taxes and Fees” be submitted to the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission, stating that it is the committee responsible. Do Members object to a draft law being passed on to the Commission? There is no objection. Draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Saeima Bureau proposes that the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Payment Services and Electronic Money” presented by the Cabinet of Ministers be submitted to the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission, stating that it is the committee responsible. Do Members object to a draft law being passed on to the Commission? There is no objection. Draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Saeima Presidium proposes that the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Tourism” presented by the Cabinet of Ministers be referred to the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy, stating that it is the committee responsible. Do Members object to a draft law being passed on to the Commission? There is no objection. Draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Parliamentary Bureau proposes that the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Education” submitted by the Member to the Education, Culture and Science Commission of Papule, Pimenova, Lochmeles–Lunova, Svekova, Cilevičs and Goldberg be referred to the Education, Culture and Science Commission, stating that it is the committee responsible. ‘ Anita Muižniece, Member, has applied to speak against’.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-17-PT13-2013-U43	Hello, honourable Speaker of the Saeima! Colleagues! At the last sitting, I received this "surprise" at 9.00 a.m., as I called it, and asked Members not to support it. I think I made it quite clear why it is absolutely wrong to reduce the qualification requirements for those who want to work in school. I have made further arguments this week. First thing. Pedagogic is a regulated profession, which is talked about by law and clearly and lightly says: the regulated profession has the right to work for a person who has acquired an accredited education programme corresponding to this profession or acquired a professional qualification, which is certified by the law, education or evidence of professional qualifications issued in the Republic of Latvia, and so on. This year, six groups were funded from the state budget, three of which were potential teachers of general education. The certificate was obtained by 120 educators, about 60 of them in general education and in education of interests. It was planned to finance from the state budget two groups in the programme, which gives the right to work as Latvian language teachers. Unfortunately, they were not complete. Now there are roots to look deeper - why people do not want to teach Latvian. We also funded a group of science teachers from the state budget... 70 teachers with the right to work as science teachers, 27-chemical teachers, 25-mathematics, 37-Physics, in total - 159 teachers. If their acquired rights were to be used for the purpose for which they had been trained, then the vacancies in science subjects would have to be filled in. All applicants were given the opportunity to study and accordingly to apply for a job in schools. Likewise, there is no reason to say, as we heard at the previous sitting, that the lack of teachers is due to the lack of educational education. All those who wanted to learn pedagogy were given the opportunity to learn it in the courses mentioned above. We also opened up additional groups. Of these six, the two are open in addition. I also looked at the State Education Information System, and the information on October 1 is such that in 70 regions vacancies are shown, expressed in hours. In total, 8585 hours are available, but in only one region, a full-time 40-hour vacancy is shown as an individual job and support for pupils who are not the subject of training. If we express this vacancy in the rates, we can say that there is a shortage of about 286 educators, but they are not educators in a certain subject at a certain educational establishment at full rate. They are unfilled hours of instruction or other duties charged to teachers for the performance of additional duties, so that they do not exceed the total load required by the Labour Act for 40 hours. Finally, Article 48 of the Education Act provides that ‘the right to work as a teacher is to be exercised by a person who has educational education or who is in education’. That's what I told you last time, I think. Defining the number of hours in pedagogy is not a question of law, Mrs Papule. In the Cabinet Regulations to solve the shortage of teachers - and this is important, colleagues! - there is already a norm that allows you to work as a teacher without educational education for one year under the supervision of a mentor. To explain: the director sees - I have a vacancy, I need... I find a mentor and call any of us, any man who is ready to come to work... he comes to work at school for one year absolutely without any education. Then the other is what I told you about these 72-hour courses. Similarly, in vocational and interest education, working as a teacher without pedagogical education may be provided if the teacher’s workload does not exceed 360 hours per year. ( Internouncing call.) In response to what Mrs Papule said is a short, quick solution to the shortage of teachers, I would say that this is not a solution that will reduce the crisis in education, but in the long term it can lead to an even greater crisis, allowing anyone to work with minimum knowledge in teaching in the education system without a sound, research-based, qualitative approach to children's education and personal development. I call for no support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-17-PT13-2013-U44	Evija Papule, Member, has applied for a speech.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-17-PT13-2013-U45	Madam President, Colleagues! Hello! Well, that was a good statement: come and work without an education! But school is where you can do it. As I said, the aim of my proposal is to provide a solution to the shortage of teachers in the crisis now and now. In fact, in circumstances where students do not receive full education because of the lack of teachers... and it was also a peculiar statement that do not come to teach Latvian and we know why. I would also like to know why. But we may find that out in another discussion. I call on you to think again about the substance of my proposal, because this is an effort to facilitate the efforts of directors to find teachers in almost all subjects of education at all levels, and I hope that this will be achieved in mathematics and in Latvian, primarily. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A. Muižniece: “But directors have opportunities!” ) The sentence that 286 teachers are lacking, but it is not important because it is not already full-time, also sounds a bit unprofessional, because such people... This is the number of people who are currently lacking in official school. I have already mentioned a reference to the Minister's August press conference on 500 vacancies, September - 200 vacancies. ( Interface: “Now is October! ” ) There will also be October - 200 vacancies. I looked at the website of the Ministry of Education and Science, whether there is a discussion about vacancies at all, and found the press release of the Ministry of 10 October on the held meeting of the Consultative Council on minority education issues, where the Council, and therefore the Ministry, as the Board is headed by the Minister, admits: “The minority schools have the same urgent issues as schools with the Latvian language - the lack of educators, the low remuneration of educators”... and so on, and so on. I remind you that I offered a fixed-term solution by 2023 (Interface.) allow all those students who will previously be in these super-school programmes to be trained in “Possible Missions” programmes, to really show that they have returned to school. I repeat: I really hope that the teachers will return, including those who are leaving right now (Dep. A. Muižniece: “To four years reduce requirements! Totally unfounded!’ ) to which we have long said: “You are 50 years of pre-retirement, you are 50 years old, go alone and look for work elsewhere!” That they're coming back. And that young people will come back. Because I very much hope that the government will continue to raise the salaries of educators... or according to the timetable set, which is reflected in our legislation accordingly. That is why I would like to call once again on you to give the opportunity to those who have completed a higher education institution and have completed a higher education institution - those who are now supposed to learn 72 hours - to offer 36 hours... Not so that “come to everyone who can”, but so: “If you have a higher education in a particular field (Dep. A. Muižniece: “There’s a chance!” ; dep. R. Lochmele-Lunova: “Hear!” ), come to work at school and, at the same time, learn Didactics, look at the basics of pedagogy, because the mentors will certainly help you at school.” I'm talking about them here, too. So it is now a public policy in education. School and schoolmates will also help to learn teaching skills. The solution is already needed now, especially because from next year - from next year! - the entry into force of the new standard. The new standard will be introduced in primary school... gradually, of course, but it will be implemented. Who will put it in place? And more. I really acknowledge Mrs Anita Muižniece's parliamentary secretary of the Ministry of Education and Science, and she also has experience in an educational institution. I invite: coalition, present good proposals and good solutions so that teachers at school are now and immediately so that teachers and school directors can do their job professionally! And don't read the problem... on vacancies, on some further courses... Submit amendments to the law, and we will support you! Thank you. (Applause)
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-17-PT13-2013-U46	Colleagues, we have to vote. Please call me! We will vote in favour of handing over the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Education” to the Education, Culture and Science Commission, stating that it is the committee responsible! Please vote mode! Please get the result! On - 31, against - 47, refraining from - 1. The draft law has not been passed on to the commission. The Saeima Bureau proposes that the draft law “Amendments to the Criminal Law” presented by the Legal Commission be referred to the Legal Commission, stating that it is the committee responsible. Do Members object to a draft law being passed on to the Commission? There is no objection. Draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Saeima Presidium proposes that the draft law submitted by the Legal Commission “Amendment to the Law “On Procedure of Entry into Force and Application of Criminal Law” be referred to the Legal Commission, stating that it is the committee responsible. Do Members object to a draft law being passed on to the Commission? There is no objection. Draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Saeima Bureau proposes that the draft law “Amendments to the Criminal Procedure Law” submitted by the Legal Commission be referred to the Legal Commission, stating that it is the committee responsible. ‘ Against” has applied to speak to Member Valery Agešins.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-17-PT13-2013-U47	Dear colleagues, Draft law “Amendments to the Criminal Procedure Law” is directed at the same time as two other draft laws – “Amendments to the Criminal Law” and “Amendment to the Law “On Procedure of Entry into Force and Application of the Criminal Law” – as the aim is to relax the work of law enforcement authorities in order to detect as many criminal offences as possible. I recommend that all these draft laws be assessed and dealt with, in particular the amendments to the Criminal Procedure Law, through the human rights prism. In keeping with the stated objective and understanding the situation of the law enforcement authorities, it should be noted that, at the same time, we must not forget the human rights aspect. The draft law lays down the obligation of the detained person to provide true evidence if the person exercises the right to testify. In addition, if the leader of the proceedings finds that the suspect has given false evidence, such conduct may be recognised as aggravating circumstance. As an argument, the fact that state resources are currently being wasted to prove guilt is being wasted, as well as the fact that suspects need to be disciplined. I think that limiting the fundamental rights of the defence in this way is not the right way to live in a legal, not political, state in which human rights are not taken into account. I believe that this restriction of rights will turn into a manipulative tool for obtaining, at any price, a true or false recognition of suspects - to put them in their corner and to obtain confirmation of a more user-friendly version of the investigation, not to find an objective truth. There are several studies that that weary of the investigation and the circumstances depressed, innocent people often admit their guilt so that only the process drivers would be more comfortable. Even later, by changing their testimonies and refusing false recognition, people still fall behind bars, because law enforcement authorities want to conclude investigations more quickly and do not want to change the already prepared version. Such a solution is therefore not acceptable. In my opinion, for the investigation to be more effective, the intellectual capacity of the services needs to be strengthened, wages raised and material security improved. I recommend voting against this bill.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-17-PT13-2013-U48	Andrey Judin has applied for a speech about it.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-17-PT13-2013-U49	Dear colleagues, We worked for a long time with the draft law “Amendments to the Criminal Procedure Law”. Initially we received the proposal from the Permanent Working Group of the Ministry of Justice, then there were several sittings in the Sub- Commission on Criminal Law Policy, where we debated by inviting experts, and finally the Legal Commission also supported the draft law. If you asked about what this bill is about, I could not answer in one sentence. We will, of course, be able to talk more detail about this later on, because there are a number of issues there. We want to solve the problem, for example, by appealing for the appointment of an expert, improving the process of agreement, allowing action to be taken if new circumstances have been discovered after the prosecutor's sentence, indicating that there are problems. There are several other things, but in principle I see that some colleagues are responding to two proposals, and one was just told by Mr Agešina. That is why I will allow you to comment on this proposal. The proposal is very simple. At present, the Criminal Procedure Act provides for the responsibility of witnesses, victims, if they lie. The accused shall not be held liable, nor shall the suspect be held liable, if he lies, have any negative consequences. But it is wrong to think that the Criminal Procedure Law allows a person to lie. This allows the suspect or accused person to remain silent or to speak. If a person chooses to speak, he must tell the truth. What do we see in practice? A man invents a version, perhaps, absolutely impossible, and a process promoter works to test. It was checked and found to be untruthful, and then our client says: “Oh, I really confused. Everything was different,” and puts forward a new version, and we are once again working to check it. But, dear colleagues! Tell me, please, where does the Criminal Procedure Act state that a suspect or accused person can lie? There's no such norm! But in our practice, some believe that they can. If such opinions exist, it is very important to state in the law: “No lie!” I understand that a person can forget something. It's possible, let's say, that's the situation... but if you start talking, tell the way it was, not figure out something! The second point I would like to make is the question of a judicial debate. There is currently no limit to the time of the judicial debate. And what do some people do, some people? To delay the process, they speak, speak, speak and speak. Without content, without meaning, without understanding, they repeat the same, and the court sits and listens, and nothing can be done. For example, I looked at digital things... digital television case materials. They debated for 13 months. And you can say, “But it’s good!” The question is what? A test of evidence was carried out before the debate, where exactly everything related to the evidence was spoken. The debate is a time when opinions can be expressed. And their point of view cannot even be found in the judgment, because that is just the point of view. Well, in principle, the outcome is not particularly affected then. We were told by judges who, in principle,... Well, some even believe that, in general, it is important to limit the debate. It is important to tell you how long you can continue. What do we offer? We propose that the court should allow maximum time for the debate. And again, some shout: “Breakness! What did you think? This will limit fundamental human rights." This may reduce the lawyer's income, yes, because it will no longer be possible to debate for a long time, as long as we have sometimes accepted. But I think this will by no means jeopardise the quality of the proceedings. Of course, we will see the judgment sooner. Colleagues! I ask for support for these draft laws, and let us continue to work. Thank you. (Applause)
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-17-PT13-2013-U50	Please call me! We will vote in favour of handing over the draft law “Amendments to the Criminal Procedure Law” to the Legal Commission, stating that it is the committee responsible! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 59, 25, abstaining. Draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Saeima Bureau proposes that the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Gambling and Gaming” presented by the Cabinet of Ministers be referred to the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission, stating that it is the committee responsible. Do Members object to a draft law being passed on to the Commission? There is no objection. Draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Saeima Presidium proposes that the draft law “Amendment to the Law on Detection” presented by the Cabinet of Ministers be referred to the Commission for Defence, Home Affairs and Prevention of Corruption, stating that it is the committee responsible. Do Members object to a draft law being passed on to the Commission? There is no objection. Draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Council of the Saeima proposes that the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Railway Transport” presented by the Cabinet of Ministers be referred to the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy, stating that it is the committee responsible. Do Members object to a draft law being passed on to the Commission? There is no objection. Draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Saeima's Bureau proposes that the draft law on the amendment to the Law on Scientific Activities presented by the Education, Culture and Science Commission be referred to the Education, Culture and Science Commission, stating that it is the committee responsible. Do Members object to a draft law being passed on to the Commission? There is no objection. Draft law has been passed on to the Commission. Report by the Saeima Bureau on the granting of leave. For unpaid leave granted to Maria Golubeva on 14 October this year. The Saeima Bureau received an application from a Member, Maria Golubeva, requesting her to be granted unpaid leave on 14 October this year. The Saeima Bureau has granted leave and shall inform the Saeima thereof. Election, approval, appointment, dismissal or dismissal of officials, expressions of trust or distrust. Draft decision “On Release of Anda Vītola, a judge of the Supreme Court from the office of a judge”. On behalf of the Legal Commission, Mr Valery Agešin, Member.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-17-PT13-2013-U51	Dear colleagues, During the meeting of the Legal Commission on 15 October, the draft decision “On the dismissal of Anda Vītola, a judge of the Supreme Court from the office of a judge” was reviewed. Members of the Commission have examined and unanimously supported the draft decision. On behalf of the Legal Commission, I call on the Supreme Court judge Anda Vītols to be released from office of the judge due to health condition.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-17-PT13-2013-U52	Please call me! We will vote for the draft decision “On Release of Anda Vītola, a judge of the Supreme Court from the office of a judge”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about - 83, it's against and refrains from - it's not. Decision adopted. Draft decision “On the dismissal of Inese Biteniece from the position of judge of Riga district court”. On behalf of the Legal Commission, Mr Valery Agešin, Member.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-17-PT13-2013-U53	During the sittings of the Legal Commission on 15 and 16 October, the draft decision “On the dismissal of Inese Biteniece, a judge of Riga district court from the office of a judge” was reviewed. Members of the Commission have unanimously supported the draft decision. On behalf of the Legal Commission, I call on Inese Bitenieki, a judge of Riga district court, to be released from office of a judge at his own wish from 26 October 2019. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-17-PT13-2013-U54	Please call me! We will vote for the draft decision on the dismissal of Inese Biteniece from the position of judge of Riga district court! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 81, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. Decision adopted. Draft decision on the withdrawal of Member Inese Ikstena from the National Administration and Municipal Commission. Please call me! We will vote for the draft decision “On the withdrawal of the Member Inese Ikstena from the State Administration and the Municipal Commission”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about - 80, it's against and refrains from - it's not. Decision adopted. Draft decision on the withdrawal of Member Arthur Tomas Pless from the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy. Please call me! We will vote on the draft decision on the withdrawal from the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy of Member Arthur Tomas Plēšs! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 82, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Decision adopted. Draft decision on the election of Member Inese Ikstena to the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy. Please call me! We will vote on the draft decision on the election of Ms Inese Iksten to the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Decision adopted. Draft decision on the election of Member Arthur Tomas Pless to the Commission of Public Administration and Local Government. Please call me! We will vote on the draft decision “On Election of Member Arthur Tomas Plesa to the Commission of Public Administration and Local Government”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. Decision adopted. Treatment of requests by Members Opinion of the Appeals Board On the agenda - request of Members Ivars Zariņa, Jānis Tutina, Valija Agešina, Jānis Adamson, Vital Orlova, Edgars Kucina, Jānis Krišāns, Arthur Rubika, Jānis Urbanovičs and Ivans Ribakovs to the Minister of Economics Ralf Nemiras "On the validity of the Ministry of Economics' actions regarding the results of OIC power plant inspections". On behalf of the Commission - Member Linda Liepiņa.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-17-PT13-2013-U55	Hello, colleagues! On 9 October, the Request Commission addressed a request from Members to the Minister for Economic Affairs, Ralf Nemiro, ‘On the validity of the Ministry for Economic Affairs’s action in relation to the results of the OIC power plant inspections’. The replies originally received from the Ministry of Economics were not... was incomplete and, for this reason, a letter was sent on behalf of the Commission with a request to complete the information already submitted. The Ministry of Economics also did so by detecting irregularities detected in the inspections of power plants owned by certain undertakings. The Request Commission also received information on the infringement found for each economic operator. On the day of processing of the request... The checks were carried out at 246 OIC power plants, and warnings were issued at 46 plants. In total, extended information on 35 alerted power plants and three power plants for which mandatory procurement rights have already been abolished was submitted to the Panel meeting. Unfortunately, in an in-depth interview with representatives of the Ministry of Economic Affairs, it had to be concluded that the written responses contained various inaccuracies. Members also asked quite a lot of questions about the inspection process itself, and the long bureaucratic path that must be taken to stop a power plant, even if it found serious irregularities, could result in the recovery of the aid granted by the State. These checks - by receiving letters, sending letters, requesting answers and... Whereas receiving the replies of the owners can even take years, as we concluded. And I would like to remind you that this control mechanism, as these stations are controlled, has been created by the Ministry of Economics itself. Hence, we can think that the ministry itself did not have a real desire over the longer term to deal with the rogue OIC beneficiaries. Let me just give you two examples from the committee meeting. First example: the power plant, in which even severe damage to the meter was detected a year ago, continues not only to operate, but continues to receive OIC... the full amount of this State aid. And another example: for a decision to be taken on the abolition of mandatory procurement rights, for a power plant - not for an operator, but for a power plant! - three warnings must be received. This means that the same economic operator, if he owns more than one power plant, may have more than three such warnings. At the meeting of the Commission, the Members of the Ministry of Economic Affairs pointed out that such a situation, with such a delay in decision-making, is unimaginable in other sectors where the damage of measuring apparatus, such as cash registers, is being treated against an enterprise - not its unit, but against an enterprise! - it would be a flashing thing. And so, too, the questions put by Members at the committee's sitting are very well-founded - by which point are OIC entrepreneurs so much that they can continue to operate and receive state aid even for a long time after serious irregularities have been found there? I would like to remind you of the opinion expressed by the Ministry of Economic Affairs that so far there has been insufficient capacity and funding to carry out inspections of OIC power plants and further procedures. Surprisingly, such an important measure has so far not had sufficient funding, as the benefit to the State would be many times greater as a result of the disposal of the unfair beneficiaries of the OIC. Letters were prepared to the Prosecutor General's Office and the Corruption Prevention and Combating Bureau with a request to assess the possible negligence of officials, without responding quickly enough to apparent violations of OIC power plants, resulting in large-scale losses to the State. The vote in the Commission was as follows: in favour of - 5, against - 7, abstained - 2. Consequently, the Commission acknowledged that Members' request should be rejected. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-17-PT13-2013-U56	Let us start a debate. Name to Member Ivars Zarins.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-17-PT13-2013-U57	Colleagues! We continued to follow the OIC scene in our footsteps. Unfortunately, it must be recognised that the OIC sphere is still ongoing - contrary to the beautiful promises made to the public before the elections. And there is evidence of this. The President of the Commission has already described what this picture looks like. I would like from the beginning to show the common context so that you can understand why this request was made at all. In other words, what indicates that the OIC is still ongoing? Perhaps you have heard about the fact that real inspections of OIC stations have finally begun. This is one of the most important things that are necessary to deal with the OIC. Because one thing is beautiful promises, the other thing is real works. And to get to the real works, the first step is real checks on these stations. These are finally happening. But what happens next? After these checks are finally carried out - and these checks are finally carried out not by the Ministry of Economics, but by a special group of competent experts! - and, when these experts have drawn up reports on these checks, they shall submit them to the Ministry of Economic Affairs. And now just the facts. These checks have been carried out since last summer. More than 200 stations have been tested. All this has been reported to the Ministry of Economic Affairs. You have heard what the Ministry of Economics has done, what has it done? What has been the way forward for the Ministry of Economics when assessing these results? The President of the Commission has already mentioned that these decisions have, on the basis of which they have been linked... As though there have been many decisions, many warnings have been given. And the Ministry of Economics tried to manipulate and hide what it has done - it sent from the beginning a simple list of stations where... The Ministry says, “Well, these we have warned!” , but don't say what about. After we re-- When requested by the Ministry of Economic Affairs to provide information on which the Ministry of Economic Affairs had actually warned these stations, it appeared that warnings were issued for other offences not related at all to the OIC regulations. Simple, you can see examples. The Ministry of Economy had, of course, pointed out a link to the results of these inspections. They had avoided sending a table summarising what had really happened. I did not move, looked at these materials (they were more than 500 pages) and can be seen in the Request Commission with examples of the reality and the work done by the Ministry of Economics. So in reality, the test reveals facts that show that there is a high level of fraud. For example, with self-consumption of electricity. It can be assumed that this station is cheating on the fact that all own consumption is put into compulsory procurement. This is a clear violation of the law. Obvious fraud. According to the Ministry of Economics, when they look at the table they have sent, they say they have issued a warning for this station. But if we clarify what has been warned of, it is said, for example, about breaches of safety at work equipment. And the Ministry says: “We have responded to it.” So, colleagues, to get you to understand that analogy, it's about being a road policeman who sees a car driving, and who stops this car because it's overspeed, say, five kilometres per hour. He stops and sees that this machine has also hit a man - there's a body lying in the car. And what's the road cop doing? He warns this driver and lets him drive further. Because overspeed - five kilometers per hour - nothing more can he do. This is the way in which the Ministry of Economics tries to present that their actions have been legal. The first question that I asked the Ministry of Economics was, not for nothing at the opening of the Panel on Petitions: ‘Is it an obligation in a legal state to comply with all the rules? Can one rule be complied with on a selective basis, the others may not?’ Of course, the Ministry of Economics said: “How? Well, of course, this is a rhetorical question. All legal provisions shall be complied with.’ Then, looking further at this request, we have shown by the facts that the Ministry of Economics is actually doing exactly the opposite. Because, how did they justify their actions? Like this road cop. He said: “How about that? Well, according to road traffic regulations, I was able to give them only a warning!” Although the law was violated in parallel - murder, crime. Just like in the case of these stations. It is obvious that these stations carry out a criminal offence, an offence that could be classified as fraud on a particularly large scale. And what does the Ministry of Economics do? They say: “No, we don’t see it. We are simply warning about something else.” If they are asked, “Well, why are you doing this?” - “Well, we appreciate everything only within the framework of the Cabinet Regulations.” That is, they selectively withdraw from all regulation, regulation, one rule and only look at this one rule, whether it has been complied with. The rest is not interested in them. We took three such cases in the sitting... Right away... Resist. Well, it is simply obvious where it was evident that the Ministry of Economics did not fulfil these obligations, that in fact the officials of the Ministry of Economics were doing particularly high levels of fraud. This was demonstrated. The Ministry of Economics tried to say: “You know, we didn’t have time. We did not have time to react to all this." We drew them an example where such an infringement was found more than a year ago. There was no time either? All this, colleagues, shows that, unfortunately, contrary to all the beautiful promises that someone is going to end this phase, in fact, after these facts it now looks like... deal with the cover of this scenario. Here, too, I would call on the parliamentary committee to pay attention to this, because it is also one of your tasks: to clarify how these stations are actually being monitored at the moment, whether this regulation is appropriate, how it was designed in the interest of it, because... It was very peculiar, very strange - to listen to representatives of the Ministry of Economics who said that they can do nothing, because the regulations of the Cabinet of Ministers, you see, they are. But who then drew up the regulations of the Cabinet of Ministers? Who then was the one who, as a matter of urgency, led them into the government around Christmas. — Int. so you can do this? No, it was the Ministry of Economics during the last government. This example should also be seen as measuring instruments. Imagine, colleagues, in another business... a broken measuring instrument. A representative of the Ministry of Economics comes here, finds... It is given that this fact has been established, but the Ministry of Economics does not respond to it. You can imagine something like that, let's say, in a company that doesn't even use the cashier, where you just put all the money past the cashier, the cheques aren't being prescribed, the check comes and says: "It's okay! Keep going! Well, we'll warn you there that maybe the gloves weren't that you didn't do anything like that, but keep doing everything." It's like... the same is true of this regulation at present in this sector. It's obviously not... This is obviously not in line with the rules of law, with the principles of the rule of law, and certainly such regulation should be changed. Therefore, my fellow Members, I also call on all those who were sitting... The Members expressed their indignation at such things. They said, “How can we deal with all this if the Ministry of Economics cannot solve it?” The solution is ready, it's waiting! This is about amendments to the Electricity Market Act. I call on you, colleagues, to support this draft law when we look at it. I will be the rapporteur for this bill. And some Members have already asked them to be reminded at the moment we look at this bill, that it is these amendments that would help to put an end to this climate, this absurdity with the economy... the OIC station inspections currently carried out by the Ministry of Economic Affairs. With this request, we proved to be... It is justified, and really should look at it here in the Saeima. I call, colleagues, on you, especially those who stand up for the rule of law, on openness, on fairness, to answer for their words, to defend their values and to vote in favour of this request, so that we can consider it here in the Saeima. To come Minister and explain. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-17-PT13-2013-U58	Name to Member Viktor Valain.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-17-PT13-2013-U59	Colleagues! I could reassure Mr Zariņš - this aspect is also addressed by the parliamentary committee of inquiry. And I will certainly put forward a proposal... This should be one of the proposals that the investigative commission puts forward as its vision of how to reduce the arbitrariness of these OIC entrepreneurs, let us say so. It really seems incomprehensible - what can it be: you're breaking the law, you're being reproved, three times reproved! - But all the time you're still paying this support. You could've been wearing it for almost a year... you were able to continue to violate the law peacefully and to receive these payments peacefully. Colleagues! The problem is also that this issue does not fall within the competence of the Saeima. These control mechanisms are issues within the competence of the Cabinet of Ministers. Making these mechanisms stricter - this is only in the hands of the Cabinet. And if you also vote against this request, I call on you: perhaps in the coalition council, or wherever you call on the Minister, call for these rules to be amended by the Cabinet itself and indeed make the order more stringent! How it happens now - it's just a joke about the laws of Latvia. I call for support.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-17-PT13-2013-U60	I closed the debate. On behalf of the commission, is there something to add? No, no. Please call me! We will vote for the Member Ivars Zariņa, Jānis Tutina, Valija Agešina, Jānis Adamson, Vital Orlova, Edgars Kucina, Jānis Krišāns, Arthur Rubika, Jānis Urbanovičs and Ivans Ribakovs' request to the Minister for Economic Affairs Ralf Nemiro “On the validity of the Ministry of Economics' actions regarding the results of OIC power plant inspections”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about - 32, it's against - 50, it's not. The request is therefore rejected. Colleagues! New proposals have been received for changes to the agenda of the sitting. The Legal Commission asks for a first reading review of the draft law on Amendments to the Criminal Law. Are Members opposed to this amendment of the agenda? There is no objection. The order of business has been amended. The Legal Commission is asking to include in the agenda of the sitting the draft law “Amendment to the law “On Procedure of Entry into Force and Application of Criminal Law” at first reading. Are Members opposed to this amendment of the agenda? There is no objection. The order of business has been amended. And the Legal Commission asks for the first reading of the draft law “Amendments to the Criminal Procedure Law”. Are Members opposed to this amendment of the agenda? ( Interface: ‘ Vote! ’) ) Members wish to vote. Please call me! We will vote for changes to the agenda of the sitting, including the draft law “Amendments to the Criminal Procedure Law” at first reading! Please vote mode! Please get the result! - 61, against - 23, refrains - not. Draft legislation is on the agenda of the sitting. The Commission for Education, Culture and Science is asking for the first reading of the draft law “Amendment to the Law on Scientific Activities” to be included on the agenda of the sitting... and put it on the agenda as the first draft law under the heading ‘Review of draft laws’. Are Members opposed to this amendment of the agenda? There is no objection. The order of business has been amended. Examination of draft laws. Draft Act ‘Amendment to the Law on Scientific Activities’, first reading. Member of the Commission for Education, Culture and Science Jānis Vucāns.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-17-PT13-2013-U61	Dear colleagues, Dear colleagues, At the meeting of the Commission for Education, Culture and Science yesterday, on 16 October, following the encouragement of the Ministry of Education and Science, it decided to direct the examination of the draft law “Amendment to the Law on Scientific Activities” in the Saeima as a matter of urgency. This amendment extends the term of office of the current Latvian Scientific Council until mid-year next year until 30 June 2020. This amendment is related to the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Scientific Activities” submitted to the Commission today, with a view to changing the administration of the Latvian scientific system. Those norms that are currently divided into three institutions, those governance principles that are divided into three institutions – the Latvian Scientific Council, the State Education Development Agency and the Study and Science Administration – are intended to be consolidated into one institution. Such norms have been incorporated into the Law on Scientific Activities. However, in order for the current Scientific Council to be operational during this transitional period, which has experience in dealing with the relevant issue, and at the same time, the work on carrying out the examination of the various scientific programmes has not ceased, deciding on the allocation of public funding to the various programmes and projects, this proposal has been made. On behalf of the Commission, I call for urgent urgency to be given to this draft law.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-17-PT13-2013-U62	Please call me! We will vote for the urgent recognition of the draft law on the amendment to the Law on Scientific Activities! Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about - 80, it's against and refrains from - it's not. Draft law has been declared urgent.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-17-PT13-2013-U63	On behalf of the Commission for Education, Culture and Science, I call for support to be given to the draft law at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-17-PT13-2013-U64	Please call me! We will vote in favour of the first reading of the draft law on the amendment to the Law on Scientific Activities! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 81, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. Draft legislation supported at first reading. Please set a time limit for the submission of proposals and a time limit for consideration at the sitting of the Saeima.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-17-PT13-2013-U65	The Commission for Education, Culture and Science has authorised me to ask the Saeima to support this draft law at second reading as well. Please support second reading!
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-17-PT13-2013-U66	Are Members opposed to the examination of the draft law without re-examination by the committee responsible? There is no objection. Please call me! We will vote in favour of the second, final, reading of the draft law on the amendment to the Law on Scientific Activities! Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about - 80, it's against and refrains from - it's not. The law is passed. Draft law “Amendments to the Law on Taxes and Fees”, second reading. The draft law has been declared urgent. Member of the Commission for Budget and Finance (Tax) Mārtiņš Steins.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-17-PT13-2013-U67	Hello, honourable Speaker of the Saeima! Hello, colleagues! In the Budget and Finance (Tax) Commission we have examined the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Taxes and Fees” for the second reading. 17 proposals have been received. 1. - the proposal of Finance Minister Reira, which provides for the exclusion of Article 1 of the draft law with a view to its transposition into other articles. The Commission shall be supported by a corresponding change in the numbering of the following articles.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-17-PT13-2013-U68	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-17-PT13-2013-U69	2. - the proposal of Finance Minister Reira, which - like the previous one - provides for the transposition of the article. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-17-PT13-2013-U70	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-17-PT13-2013-U71	3. - the proposal of Finance Minister Reira. In order to avoid confusion, the proposal gives clarity. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-17-PT13-2013-U72	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-17-PT13-2013-U73	4. - the proposal of Finance Minister Reira. Supported by changing the numbering of subsequent parts accordingly.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-17-PT13-2013-U74	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-17-PT13-2013-U75	5. - a technical and editorial proposal from Minister of Finance Reira. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-17-PT13-2013-U76	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-17-PT13-2013-U77	In order to avoid any confusion, proposal 6 provides for a clear indication that the SRS informs both the taxable person and the competent authorities of the Member States of the European Union concerned of the decision taken in the context of this law. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-17-PT13-2013-U78	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-17-PT13-2013-U79	7. - the proposal of Finance Minister Reira, which relates to the previous one. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-17-PT13-2013-U80	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-17-PT13-2013-U81	8 / 8 - the proposal of Finance Minister Reira, which clarifies the article. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-17-PT13-2013-U82	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-17-PT13-2013-U83	9. - the proposal of the Minister for Finance Reira, which relates to previous proposals. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-17-PT13-2013-U84	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-17-PT13-2013-U85	10............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - the proposal by Minister of Finance Reira that candidates proposed by the Minister of Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-17-PT13-2013-U86	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-17-PT13-2013-U87	11. - the proposal of Finance Minister Reira, which is a editorial clarification. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-17-PT13-2013-U88	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-17-PT13-2013-U89	12. - the proposal of Finance Minister Reira, of a technical and editorial nature. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-17-PT13-2013-U90	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-17-PT13-2013-U91	13. - the proposal of Finance Minister Reira. It is also of a technical and editorial nature. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-17-PT13-2013-U92	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-17-PT13-2013-U93	The 14th proposal makes the rule clearer by Finance Minister Reirs so that there are no misunderstandings. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-17-PT13-2013-U94	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-17-PT13-2013-U95	15............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - the proposal of Finance Minister Reira, which lays down confidentiality requirements. The Commission supports this proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-17-PT13-2013-U96	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-17-PT13-2013-U97	16. - a technical proposal from Minister for Finance Reira. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-17-PT13-2013-U98	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-17-PT13-2013-U99	And 17, concluding, is the proposal of Finance Minister Reira. The Commission is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-17-PT13-2013-U100	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-17-PT13-2013-U101	I call on Members to support the draft law at second, final, reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-17-PT13-2013-U102	Please call me! We will vote for the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Taxes and Fees” in the second, final, final reading! Please vote mode! Please get the result! On - 74, against and refrains - not. The law is passed. Draft Act ‘Amendments to the Energy Act’, second reading. The draft law has been declared urgent. On behalf of the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy, Member Atis Lejiņš.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-17-PT13-2013-U103	Dear President of the Saeima. Dear Members, Honourable Members! Now we are coming back to this issue. We are at a historic moment - we need to adopt amendments to the Energy Act, which states that Finland, Estonia and Latvia will be in a single gas market. In the Commission, we have examined eight proposals; they are essentially all from the Ministry of Economics. But the Ministry of Economics cooperates closely with the Legal Office. And these are technical nature rules that determine how gas operators work. I call on you to support the Commission's decision. ( Internouncing call.)
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-17-PT13-2013-U104	Members of proposal 1...
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-17-PT13-2013-U105	There's eight. ( Internouncing call.)
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-17-PT13-2013-U106	... support. Let's go through all the proposals - the regular reporting arrangements.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-17-PT13-2013-U107	Proposal 1, if? The proposal also comes from the Ministry of Economic Affairs.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-17-PT13-2013-U108	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-17-PT13-2013-U109	The proposal also comes from the Ministry of Economic Affairs. ( Internouncing call.) They are of a technical nature, are difficult... ( Internouncing call.)
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-17-PT13-2013-U110	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-17-PT13-2013-U111	The Commission supported... The same is true for 4. - from the Ministry of Economics... No, responsible... It is our proposal, the commission responsible, right! It was a little little change. The commission responsible also supported it itself.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-17-PT13-2013-U112	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-17-PT13-2013-U113	The same is true for 5. - It is also from the Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Economics, Mr Miezins... Mr. Peacock... Mr. Miezaiņš's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-17-PT13-2013-U114	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-17-PT13-2013-U115	Then we go on. Six more. - from the Ministry of Economics... We supported it.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-17-PT13-2013-U116	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-17-PT13-2013-U117	Then there's 7. - It's also from the Ministry of Economics... We unanimously supported it, as we have all done before.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-17-PT13-2013-U118	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-17-PT13-2013-U119	Last, 8 is also from the Ministry of Economics... We also unanimously supported this, and I therefore call on you to accept...
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-17-PT13-2013-U120	Members also unanimously support the last proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-17-PT13-2013-U121	The last one, 8:00?
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-17-PT13-2013-U122	We supported it.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-17-PT13-2013-U123	Yeah. Now I am calling for the draft law to be supported! Historic moment. ( Milestones.)
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-17-PT13-2013-U124	Please call me! We will vote in favour of the draft law on Amendments to the Energy Act at second, final, final reading! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 76, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The law is passed. Draft law “Amendment to the Packaging Act”, third reading. On behalf of the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy – Member Jānis Vitenbergs.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-17-PT13-2013-U125	Hello, colleagues! This bill had to be reported to Arthur Tom Plesh, but he chose to go to another commission. Good luck in the new commission and serious challenges ahead! The Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy has examined and prepared for the third reading of the draft law “Amendment to the Law on Packaging” of the Saeima sitting. We received three proposals. All three from the Law Office. Unfortunately, they were submitted after the deadline (for reasons of justification) and these proposals are followed by a commission. 1. - a proposal from the committee responsible to clarify the title of the chapter. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-17-PT13-2013-U126	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-17-PT13-2013-U127	Thank you. 2. - a proposal from the committee responsible supplementing the transitional provisions. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-17-PT13-2013-U128	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-17-PT13-2013-U129	3. - a proposal from the committee responsible. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-17-PT13-2013-U130	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-17-PT13-2013-U131	Please support the draft law at third reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-17-PT13-2013-U132	Please call me! We will vote in favour of the draft law on "Amendment to the Packaging Act" in the third, final, final reading! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 79(Dep. J. Witenberg: “Thank you!” ), against and refrains - not. The law is passed. Draft law on the termination of the status of non-citizen for children, third reading. On behalf of the Commission for Human Rights and Public Affairs, Member Artus Kaimiņš.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-17-PT13-2013-U133	Hello, colleagues! We examine the draft law “On Stopping Granting the status of non-citizen to Children” (No. 274/Lp13) at third, final reading. A total of four proposals were received from the draft law. All the proposals were made by Mr Janis Dombrava. He had not come to the commission himself, and neither of the Members was willing to defend Mr Dombrava's proposals. Mr Dombrava, I see, has applied for a debate. All the proposals made by Mr Dombrava, so the four I have already mentioned, are... the idea he had was that... his proposals provide for the exclusion of all articles of the draft law. Mr Dombrava had not arrived at the commission, as I said. The proposal was rejected by five votes against, no votes in favour and one abstention. Proposal No 2 - six votes, all 'no'...
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-17-PT13-2013-U134	We are still talking about proposal 1.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-17-PT13-2013-U135	Proposal No 3...
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-17-PT13-2013-U136	Mr. Artus Neighbours! Proposal No 1. So, on proposal 1...
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-17-PT13-2013-U137	I'm all...
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-17-PT13-2013-U138	Oh, are you reporting all the proposals together?
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-17-PT13-2013-U139	Yeah. I'm all... It's just.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-17-PT13-2013-U140	Okay. That is also possible.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-17-PT13-2013-U141	So, colleagues, four proposals. Nobody is in favour. Proposal 1 is (Minimum.) ...
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-17-PT13-2013-U142	No, it's possible.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-17-PT13-2013-U143	... Dombrava's proposal to exclude Article 1 of the draft law. As I said, the Commission is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-17-PT13-2013-U144	Let us start a debate. Name of Member Maria Golubeva.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-17-PT13-2013-U145	Dear President of the Saeima. Dear colleagues, I would remind you that the purpose of the law is to terminate the granting of the status of non-citizen to newborn children from 1 January. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. I. Riena: “We have the Law on Citizenship!” ) We have already debated this draft law, several arguments have been heard both for and against. I believe that these arguments must be treated with respect. I cannot agree with the argument that we cannot trust these children and therefore we do not need to grant them the status of Latvian citizen, unless the parents are non-citizens who have not chosen to do so themselves. I would remind you that the status of non-citizen was created as a temporary solution for the citizens of the USSR, who have not become Latvian citizens. And those children who will be born after 1 January will be born almost 30 years after the restoration of Latvia's independence. I invite you to trust the restored state of Latvia and its ability to attract these children. I invite you to trust the future citizens of Latvia. There are several studies that show that economic growth is higher in countries where people trust each other more. And there people also trust the state, political parties and parliament more. I wish my country Latvia to become a major state of trust. I think that today we have a unique historical opportunity to end the granting of non-citizen status to newborn children of Latvia. I think we should seize this opportunity. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-17-PT13-2013-U146	Name to Member Janis Dombrava.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-17-PT13-2013-U147	Dear Saeima! October 1944. Most of Latvia's territory was once again occupied by the Red Army. Several thousand Latvians have been murdered in that month, and several thousand Latvians are fleeing towards Kurzeme in order to escape from the red terror. October 1950. A year ago, deportations have taken place. Many people have escaped red terrorism in the woods. During this period Latvia is sent... military and civilians have been sent to ensure that Latvia is never any longer an independent state. Women, men, children are being murdered. ( Internouncing call.) And it is done by certain people - by names and surnames. October 1991. Despite the opposition of the Interfront and many of those who have participated in the repression of the Latvian population, Latvia still regains its independence and, given that the Western countries have too noble intentions of potential cooperation with the Russian Federation, does not allow what happened after the Second World War in many Eastern European countries, where illegally arrived persons are called to leave the country or are forced to leave the country. This does not happen in Latvia. Latvia must accept the fact that there are many hundreds of thousands of people who have entered illegally with us. Moreover, a few years later, the state of Latvia shows the good will and allows these persons to become Latvian citizens. As a reward for this, we get a referendum on two state languages, where only these Latvian citizens, several hundred thousand, vote in favour of two state languages. It is now October 2019, 30 years have passed... almost 30 years since the restoration of independence, but there are still families (and I do not want to speak in the categories “children”) who do not want to become Latvian citizens under any circumstances. Do not want their children to be Latvian citizens. How else can this fact be explained that they did not want to say in the form that they would like their child to become a citizen of Latvia? And to all these circumstances the Saeima still drives forward the bill that now, even if they do not want to be Latvian citizens, even if they may think about going to their homeland, they will have to be Latvian citizens. The Legal Bureau catches its head on such a legal technique offered by the Presidential Chancellery, on the part of Mr Vējonis, but the Saeima, despite opposition from the Legal Bureau, continues to direct this draft law. I understand that, with my speech, I will not convince the majority of Members who believe in a cull that they will do a good job today, even though in fact we will actually simply fulfil the objectives of Russia's foreign policy and create the first precedent for the automatic granting of citizenship to non-citizens. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. I. Zarins: “You are now fulfilling the goals of Russia’s foreign policy!” ) I call on this pointless draft law to be rejected or to support these my proposals, which will make it completely pointless. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-17-PT13-2013-U148	Name to Member Aivars Gaidan.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-17-PT13-2013-U149	Madam President, Dear colleagues, It is not that non-citizens living in Latvia, let us say, have only restrictions - that they cannot participate in municipal elections or Saeima elections. They also enjoy some privileges for which... I didn't hear anybody talk here. It is no secret that many non-citizens live in Russia. Consequently, non-citizens regularly visit it. The legislation currently in force in Russia provides that non-citizens of Latvia have the opportunity to travel to the Russian Federation without a visa. Consequently, if we look at the financial side, the annual visa to Russia costs EUR 90. If there are four persons in the household, the total amount is EUR 360. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. V. Dombrovskis’ intermediate call. Perhaps this is also an answer to Mr Dombrava, why he does not choose to accept Latvian citizenship. Citizens of a Member State of the European Union do not enjoy such privileges that they can travel to Europe, to Schengen countries and, at the same time, to travel without a visa to Russia. What is the problem? The problem is that, let us say, one of the wise people in our country has come up with the idea that “non-citizen” in English should translate aliens, that is, “foreign”. In my view, it would be logical if “non-citizen” had been translated non-citizen, as is the case in other countries. That would be understandable. At the moment, non-citizens are facing problems that in some countries they simply cannot enter or have great difficulties, because then it happens that at the border inspection post he simply... reads that Latvian “foreign” travels around the world... Let's understand one thing: it's not that the world is turning around Latvia... but Latvia is turning around the world... and no one knows our history how this status has actually developed - the status of a non-citizen... It would be at least logical if it had been translated adequately. On the way. This draft law presented by Raimonds Vējonis is not intended for individual political parties to fuel hatred between Russians and Latvians, but it is about ending the granting of non-citizen status to children from 1 January 2020. This bill must be approved, because it is in the interest of the whole country... We are accordingly undermining the reputation of the state and the international image... Investors have to create one, let's say... create the impression that everything is in order in our country. We can put our head in. R. Lochmele-Lunova: "Maybe it's better to just fix it, not create an image!Is that so? “)... put the head in the sand and make the... that this draft law should not be directed... That is why I ask my colleagues to support it, because it would have been on our agenda too early or late. ( Internouncing call.) Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-17-PT13-2013-U150	The name of the Member, Andrejs Judin.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-17-PT13-2013-U151	I really regret that, not only in the first but also in the second and third readings, we are still talking about the concept. The roll of order does not mean that three readings in a row talk about it - to be or not to be standard. Seeing 1st proposal... Well, I hope maybe we'll finish the debate, huh? I call on my colleagues, however, to talk about the specific proposal. And the first proposal tabled by Member Dombrava is very simple. In particular, proposal 1 provides for the exclusion of a provision which provides that from 1 January there will be no new non-citizens. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. Mr. Riena: "Mr. Judine, have you read the opinion of the Legal Bureau? You should understand as a lawyer!” ) So the draft law foresees that there will be no new non-citizens, but Mr. Dombrava proposes: “No, we want new non-citizens!” I don't want any new non-citizens. I fully agree that our approach is liberal. And there's no problem parents choose. But the question is not about parents, the question is not about those 10 or 15 children. The question is, does Latvia want to live forever in such a way that it has people with this strange status? Do you think it's a public sale? You think that is good for us, except for the political... Any political dividends? We do not benefit from it! And in time, naturally... in time, we must say: “There will be no new! This draft law lays down such a norm. Colleagues! I call for Mr Dombrava's proposal to be rejected and for the issue of non-citizenship to be closed once.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-17-PT13-2013-U152	The name is Digit Schmidt.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-17-PT13-2013-U153	Dear colleagues, Ladies and gentlemen! Well, we're having such a replica of what John Dombrava said. You, John, not me, none of those in this room have any logical reasons for fighting for freedom in battle, are you? We weren't at Cesis student's jewellery, we didn't fall at Cesis, were we? And you, Jānis, probably couldn't really fight for Latvia's independence on the barricades. If I understand correctly, when I restored the Institute of Citizenship, you were probably three years old. It would be hard to imagine that at the age of three you could have earned this gift or received it as a big national sow, this honor – to become a citizen of Latvia. And how did you differ from those children not yet born in Latvia at the age of three - exactly you? Because you had a different origin of ancestors, because someone could find a pre-war Latvian passport and prove your pre-war citizenship? Just think ever of what you differ from those who have not yet been born! (Applause)
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-17-PT13-2013-U154	Name to Member Artus Neminis.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-17-PT13-2013-U155	Hey, colleagues! We could end up taking on this subject. Now is the third reading. I call for indeed, after the committee's vote, to take action, to move forward, to stop it all the time being a subject of embarrassing, embarrassing and embarrassing. ( Internouncing call.) This concerns 1 January 2020. Good morning! Third reading, good morning! Mr. Dombrava takes up this proposal and specifically submits it, does not come to the commission, comes here to the table and begins to tell us about the distance - sometime, somewhere, something... Let us end the Second World War, as Dagmar Beitnere-Le Galla said! In this case, colleagues, let us follow the committee's vote, please! Let us not enter into this debate any more on citizens, the non-citizens. We are talking about children who have not yet been born. Yes, some are already in the belly, yes, but the birth is not yet. That's it. Two presidents brought us this to the Saeima, one and... The other one, too, as he strengthened this... Where is the problem? And what do you laugh when John speaks, let us accept? For what? Why did you escalate the situation? One John with the other John. Colleagues, I would ask you to support what the Commission has decided and go smoothly, and... Let's go! Thank you, Ivar!
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-17-PT13-2013-U156	Name to Member Ivars Zarins. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A. Neighbours: “Ivar, you are not John!” ) Council Regulation (EC) No 1257/96 of 20 June 1996 concerning humanitarian aid (OJ L 163, 2.7.1996, p. 1).
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-17-PT13-2013-U157	Art! You turned to us and asked where the problem was. I'll tell you where the problem is. The problem is that some good people want to play this war. That for some good political forces it is a matter of life and death - as a National Union. ( Internouncing call.) So that society could be divided here so that Latvians could feel threatened, so that they could show on one’s finger and say: “Look, these are the enemies! These are independent of our country!” So for them it's a question of existence - to keep this... so that the non-citizens who have not yet been born in this country may be present. ( Internouncing call.) To have something to fight with, to have something to prove, how they take care of the future of the Latvian people here, because they can't offer anything else. That is why they come with such proposals, and that is why, Artus, we are discussing this pointlessly here. Thank you. ( Milestones.)
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-17-PT13-2013-U158	Name to Member Aldi Gobzem. ( Internouncing call.)
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-17-PT13-2013-U159	I am, of course, against Mr Dombrava's proposal. I have to say very simply: fear of unborn children is neither patriotism nor courage. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A. Muižniece: “It was already!” ) Escalating this situation from the tribunal is neither patriotism nor courage. Fear should come from non-compliance with your promises. Fear should come from the fact that you obviously cannot provide education in the Latvian education system so that people who have acquired the status of a non-citizen so far would or would not be loyal to the state... But in fact, if you're afraid, then you acknowledge that you've ruined the education system in 29 years. If you are afraid, then you acknowledge that you are not actually the patriots of the future of Latvia. For hatred against an unborn child is evil. This is human evil. And it's not funny, Mr. Neighbours, and it has nothing to do with politics - from this wing or its wing. Fear of children and fear of unborn children is simply evil, Mr. Dombrava! Become better! Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-17-PT13-2013-U160	I closed the debate. On behalf of the Commission, what should be added?
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-17-PT13-2013-U161	On behalf of the Commission, I would like to say that I am afraid of idiots, but I cannot say that on behalf of the Commission. Therefore, proposal 1 has not been supported by the Commission. Please do not support.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-17-PT13-2013-U162	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 1. - Mr Dombrava's proposal! Please vote mode! Please get the result! About - 25, against - 58, refraining from - 1. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-17-PT13-2013-U163	2. - That's Mr Dombrava's proposal. This is also not supported by the Commission. ( Interface: ‘ Vote! ’) ) Council Regulation (EC) No 1257/96 of 20 June 1996 concerning humanitarian aid (OJ L 163, 2.7.1996, p. 1).
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-17-PT13-2013-U164	Members want to vote. Please call me! We will vote in favour of 2. - Mr Dombrava's proposal! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-17-PT13-2013-U165	Thank you. 3. - the proposal of Member Janis Dombrava, which provides for the exclusion of Article 3 of the draft law. There is no support in the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-17-PT13-2013-U166	Members... ( Interface: ‘ Vote! ’) ) wishes to vote. Please call me! We will vote in favour of 3. - Member Dombravas's proposal! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-17-PT13-2013-U167	And last, 4, John Dombrava's proposal is not supported either.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-17-PT13-2013-U168	Members... ( Intercretion: ‘ Vote! ’) ) asks for a vote. Please call me! Let us vote in favour of 4. - Member Dombravas's proposal! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-17-PT13-2013-U169	Dear colleagues, On behalf of the Commission, I call for support for this draft law at third, final, reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-17-PT13-2013-U170	Please call me! We will vote in favour of the draft law on the termination of the status of non-citizen for children in the third, final, reading! Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about - 60, it's 25, it's not. The law has been passed. (Applause) On the agenda - Draft Law Amending the Law on Budget and Financial Management, third reading. Member of the Commission for Budget and Finance (Tax) Mārtiņš Steins.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-17-PT13-2013-U171	Hello, fellow Members, again! All subsequent seven draft laws relate to the implementation of the codification system for administrative irregularities. And in addition, there are several other technical and editorial clarifications. The first draft law, namely the ‘Amendments to the Law on Budget and Financial Management’, contains three proposals. 1. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Partially supported, included 2. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-17-PT13-2013-U172	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-17-PT13-2013-U173	2. - Commission proposal. The title of the article has been changed and the article has been clarified. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-17-PT13-2013-U174	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-17-PT13-2013-U175	And 3. - a proposal from the Legal Bureau which provides for the entry into force of a chapter of the law. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-17-PT13-2013-U176	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-17-PT13-2013-U177	I call for support to be given to the third, final, reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-17-PT13-2013-U178	Please call me! We will vote in favour of the draft law on amending the Law on Budget and Financial Management at third, final, final, reading! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 76, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The law is passed. Draft law “Amendments to the Law on Lottery in Goods and Services”, third reading. Member of the Commission for Budget and Finance (Tax) Mārtiņš Steins.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-17-PT13-2013-U179	The draft law contains one proposal, which is a proposal from the Commission. Supported by changing the numbering of the following points accordingly.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-17-PT13-2013-U180	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-17-PT13-2013-U181	I call for support for the third, final, reading of this bill.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-17-PT13-2013-U182	Please call me! We will vote for the draft law “Amendments to the Law on the Lottery of Goods and Services”, third, final, final, reading! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 76, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The law is passed. Draft Act ‘Amendments to the Law on Notices of Payments to Authorities by Commercial Enterprises Engaged in the Mining Industry or the Development of Primary Forests’’, third reading. Member of the Commission for Budget and Finance (Tax) Mārtiņš Steins.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-17-PT13-2013-U183	Three proposals have been put forward in this draft law. 1. - a proposal of a technical nature of the legal office. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-17-PT13-2013-U184	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-17-PT13-2013-U185	2. - The legal bureau's proposal, which provides for... specify the transitional provisions. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-17-PT13-2013-U186	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-17-PT13-2013-U187	Also 3. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-17-PT13-2013-U188	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-17-PT13-2013-U189	I call for support for the third, final, reading of this bill.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-17-PT13-2013-U190	Please call me! We will vote for the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Notices of Payments to Authorities by Commercial Enterprises Engaged in the Mining Industry or the Development of Primary Forests” third, final reading! Please vote mode! Please get the result! Not by - 82, not by - and refrains. The law is passed. Draft law “Amendments to the Law on Accounting”, third reading. Member of the Commission for Budget and Finance (Tax) Mārtiņš Steins.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-17-PT13-2013-U191	The third reading of the draft law “Amendments to the Law “On Accounting”” received two proposals. 1. - a proposal from the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission. The competence of the Office for the Prevention of and Fight against Corruption is clarified. The Commission supports this proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-17-PT13-2013-U192	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-17-PT13-2013-U193	2. - Commission proposal. It is planned to supplement Article 22 of the draft law, supported at second reading, with the second paragraph, that administrative infringement proceedings concerning the violations referred to in Article 19 of this Law, if committed by a political organisation (party) or an association thereof, shall be carried out by the Bureau of Prevention and Combating Corruption. This proposal is supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-17-PT13-2013-U194	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-17-PT13-2013-U195	I call for support to be given to this draft law at third, final, reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-17-PT13-2013-U196	Please call me! We will vote for the draft law “Amendments to the Law “On Accounting” in the third, final, reading! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 81, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. The law is passed. Draft law “Amendments to the Law “On Monitoring of State Proves”, third reading. Member of the Commission for Budget and Finance (Tax) Mārtiņš Steins.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-17-PT13-2013-U197	Two proposals have been received in this draft law. 1. - Legal Bureau's proposal on the addition of transitional provisions... clarification of the entry into force. The Commission has been supported by editorial clarification.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-17-PT13-2013-U198	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-17-PT13-2013-U199	2. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-17-PT13-2013-U200	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-17-PT13-2013-U201	I call for support to be given to this draft law at third, final, reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-17-PT13-2013-U202	Please call me! We will vote for the draft law “Amendments to the Law “On Monitoring of Public Provess”” in the third, final, reading! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 79, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The law is passed. Draft law “Amendments to the Law “On Excise Tax”, third reading. Member of the Commission for Budget and Finance (Tax) Mārtiņš Steins.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-17-PT13-2013-U203	We have also examined the draft law “Amendments to the Law “On Excise Tax”” in the Commission. Nine proposals have been received. 1. - a proposal from the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-17-PT13-2013-U204	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-17-PT13-2013-U205	2. - the proposal of Finance Minister Reira. Partially supported, included 3. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-17-PT13-2013-U206	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-17-PT13-2013-U207	3. - a proposal by the Commission which clarifies the responsibility of the State Police and State Revenue Service in relation to the particular regulation. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-17-PT13-2013-U208	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-17-PT13-2013-U209	4. - the proposal of Finance Minister Reira. Partially supported, included 5. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-17-PT13-2013-U210	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-17-PT13-2013-U211	With five. - the budget and financial (tax) commission's proposal clarifies the norm and makes it clearer. The Commission supports this proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-17-PT13-2013-U212	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-17-PT13-2013-U213	6. - the proposal of Finance Minister Reira. Partially supported, included 7. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-17-PT13-2013-U214	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-17-PT13-2013-U215	7. - Commission proposal. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-17-PT13-2013-U216	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-17-PT13-2013-U217	8 / 8 - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Editative clarification. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-17-PT13-2013-U218	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-17-PT13-2013-U219	9. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-17-PT13-2013-U220	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-17-PT13-2013-U221	I call for support to be given to this draft law at third, final, reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-17-PT13-2013-U222	Please call me! We will vote for the draft law “Amendments to the Law “On Excise Tax”” in the third, final reading! Please vote mode! Please get the result! Not by - 82, not by - and refrains. The law is passed. We shall continue the examination of draft laws after a break. Please call me! Please register the Members! Name for the statement to Member Artus Neminiņš.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-17-PT13-2013-U223	Members of the Commission on Human Rights and Public Affairs! Colonel 13.20, in 50 minutes, we have a sitting here in the Yellow House. 13.20! Ten minutes before the beginning of the sitting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-17-PT13-2013-U224	Name to Marija Golubeva, member of the Saeima Secretary, for reading the results of the registration.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-17-PT13-2013-U225	Not registered: Aldis Adamovičs, Jānis Adamsons, Iveta Benhena–Bekena, Mārtiņš Bondars, Gundars Dauge, Ilmārs Dūritis, Inese Ikstena, Nikolai Kabanovs, Armands Krauze, Janīna Kursīte-Pakule, Edmunds Teirumnieks and Reinis Znotiņš.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-17-PT13-2013-U226	Thank you. Interruption until 13.30 a.m. ( Interruption)
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-17-PT13-2013-U227	Dear colleagues, We're going to keep the Saeima sitting after the break. On the agenda - examination of draft laws. Draft law ‘Amendment to the Customs Act’, third reading. Member of the Commission for Budget and Finance (Tax) Mārtiņš Steins.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-17-PT13-2013-U228	Hey, colleagues, again! So I'm going on. Of the seven draft laws that I have mentioned, we are now looking at the seventh draft law that we have examined within the Budget and Finance (Tax) Commission. Three proposals were received for the third reading of the draft law amending the Customs Law. 1. is a proposal from the Legal Office, which is editorial. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-17-PT13-2013-U229	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-17-PT13-2013-U230	2. There is also a proposal from the Legal Office specifying the transitional provisions. The Commission is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-17-PT13-2013-U231	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-17-PT13-2013-U232	And also 3. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. The Commission is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-17-PT13-2013-U233	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-17-PT13-2013-U234	I call for support for the third, final, reading of this bill.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-17-PT13-2013-U235	Please call me! We will vote in favour of the draft law “Amendment to the Customs Act” in the third, final, reading! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 54, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. The law is passed. Draft law “Amendments to the Streek Act”, third reading. On behalf of the Commission for Social Affairs and Labour, Member Evita Zālīte-Grosa.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-17-PT13-2013-U236	Hello, colleagues! In the Commission for Social and Labour Affairs we have examined and submitted to the third reading the draft law “Amendments to the Streika Law”. This draft law, like the previous one, has been drawn up within the framework of the system of codification of administrative irregularities in sectors. One proposal has been received at the third reading: a proposal from the Legal Bureau. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-17-PT13-2013-U237	Let us start a debate. Name to Member Raimond Bergman. ( Internouncing call.) Mr. Bergman, have you applied in the debate? Mr. Bergmanis, however, does not want to debate. Members support this proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-17-PT13-2013-U238	The proposal is supported. On behalf of the Commission, please support this draft law at third reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-17-PT13-2013-U239	Please call me! We will vote in favour of the draft law “Amendments to the Streikis Act” in the third, final, reading! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 69, against and refrains. The law is passed. Draft law “Amendment to Labour Law”, third reading. On behalf of the Commission for Social and Labour Affairs - Member Vitaly Orlovs.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-17-PT13-2013-U240	Thank you for the Bureau. Dear Members, Working with the draft law “Amendment to Labour Law” (No. 115/Lp13). No proposals have been made for the third reading. On behalf of the Commission, please support the draft law at third, final, reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-17-PT13-2013-U241	Please call me! We will vote in favour of the draft law "Amendment to Labour Law" in the third, final, final reading! Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about - 70, it's against and abstains. The law is passed. Draft law “Amendments to law on the involvement of employees in decision-making in a European commercial company, European cooperative society and cross-border mergers”, third reading. On behalf of the Commission for Social and Labour Affairs - Member Normunds Gunna.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-17-PT13-2013-U242	Hello, colleagues! The Commission for Social and Labour Affairs prepared for third reading a draft law “Amendments to the Law “On the Participation of Workers in Decision-making in a European Commercial Company, European Cooperative Society and Cross-border Merger of Capital Companies””. Two proposals from the Legal Bureau were received at the third reading. Proposal No 1. It clarifies the title of Chapter VI of the Law. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-17-PT13-2013-U243	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-17-PT13-2013-U244	Proposal No 2 It clarifies the title of Section 28 of the Law. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-17-PT13-2013-U245	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-17-PT13-2013-U246	I invite you to support the draft law at third, final, reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-17-PT13-2013-U247	Please call me! We will vote for the draft law “Amendments to the law on the involvement of employees in decision-making in a European commercial company, the European cooperative society and the cross-border merger of capital companies” in the third, final reading! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. The law is passed. Draft law “Amendments to the Law on Information and Consultation of Employees of European Union-wide Commercial Companies and European Union-wide Commercial Groups”, third reading. On behalf of the Commission for Social Affairs and Labour, Member Evita Zālīte-Grosa.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-17-PT13-2013-U248	This is also one of the draft laws of the system of codification of administrative infringements – “Amendments to the Law on Information and Consultation of Employees of European Union-wide Commercial Companies and Employees of European Union-wide Commercial Groups”. No proposals have been received by the Commission. On behalf of the Commission, I ask you to support the third final reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-17-PT13-2013-U249	Please call me! We will vote on the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Information and Consultation of Employees of European Union-wide Commercial Companies and European Union-wide Commercial Groups” in the third, final reading! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. The law is passed. Draft law on ‘Amendments to the Law on Press and Other Media’ (No. 412/Lp13), first reading. On behalf of the Commission for Human Rights and Public Affairs, Member Boris Cilevičs.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-17-PT13-2013-U250	Dear colleagues, This draft law also relates only to decoding. The Commission of Human Rights and Public Affairs reviewed the draft law submitted by the Cabinet of Ministers “Amendments to the law “On Press and Other Media”” and decided to support the said draft law and to direct it to the Saeima for first reading. Please support me.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-17-PT13-2013-U251	Please call me! Vote on the draft law “Amendments to the law “On Press and Other Media”” (No. (412/Lp13) first reading support! Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about - 75, it's against and it's abstaining. Draft legislation supported at first reading. Please set a time limit for the submission of proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-17-PT13-2013-U252	The Commission is proposing a deadline for the submission of proposals, 31 October this year.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-17-PT13-2013-U253	Thank you. The deadline for submitting proposals is 31 October this year. Draft law “Amendments to the Law on Taxes and Fees”, first reading. On behalf of the Commission for Budget and Finance (Tax) - Member Dana Reizniece-Ozola. ( Independence: “Dana! ”) ) Dana Reizniece-Ozola!
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-17-PT13-2013-U254	I'm sorry, Colleagues! This is a draft law ‘Amendments to the Law on Taxes and Fees’. We're amending the law. The Ministry of Finance has prepared this bill... and the government as a whole... in order to decode the Latvian Code of Administrative Violations, providing for penalties and violations of the law of the sector for which penalties in the field of taxation are applied. When preparing this draft law, the authors indicated that when thinking about what violations were mentioned, the danger of an offence, public harm, consequences of an offence, topicality and the applicability of the offence to public law has been assessed. The "advisory first" principle is also respected. The conclusions and recommendations of the State Audit Office have also been taken into account that when establishing penalties and the form of violations, it is necessary to take into account whether this penalty also performs a preventive function; sometimes other relations and forms thereof with taxpayers should also be considered. There are a number of things that are intended here as tax offences. The main case, or first one, is tax avoidance and the payment of charges equivalent thereto. A second important infringement is the failure to comply with the registration procedure for taxpayers. The third is the payment of non-accounted wages, non-compliance with the conditions for declaring cash transactions and restrictions on use, non-compliance with the requirements for the use of electronic devices and devices for recording taxes and other charges, information on tax returns... failure to comply with the deadlines for submitting the declaration and failure to notify the suspected transaction. In the Commission, we had quite a sharp debate on this draft law. And there was also the joint session organised by Mrs. Strike. Thank you for that. The Legal Commission, together with the Commission on Budget and Finance (Tax), discussed one subject related to tax penalties policy, i.e. automatic penalties in the event of a failure to submit a declaration on time. And that's the place for the discussion. But what I would like to stress from the Commission is that this is not a bill that currently provides for automatic punishment. It will have to be discussed in the context of other laws. At the moment, on behalf of the Commission, I am asking for this draft law to be supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-17-PT13-2013-U255	Please call me! Let's vote for... If Members wish to debate, please apply in good time! We will vote for the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Taxes and Fees” at first reading! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The draft law at first reading has been supported. Please set a deadline for the submission of proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-17-PT13-2013-U256	We expect proposals for second reading by 1 November this year.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-17-PT13-2013-U257	Thank you. The deadline for submitting proposals is 1 November of this year. On the agenda - draft law “Amendment to the Law on the Restriction of Pornography”, second reading. On behalf of the Commission for Human Rights and Public Affairs, Member Artus Kaimiņš.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-17-PT13-2013-U258	We are looking at the draft law “Amendment to the Law on the Restriction of Pornography”. We have received three proposals from the Commission. All these three proposals received are editorial, all of them coming from the Legal Office. 1. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. The Commission is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-17-PT13-2013-U259	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-17-PT13-2013-U260	2. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. This is also supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-17-PT13-2013-U261	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-17-PT13-2013-U262	3. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-17-PT13-2013-U263	Members are in favour. ( Interface: ‘ Vote! ’) ) However, Members would like to vote on proposal 3? ( The box “Yes! ”) ) Please call us! We will vote in favour of 3. - The legal office's proposal! Please vote mode! Please get the result! There's no one for - 63, against and refrains. The proposal is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-17-PT13-2013-U264	On behalf of the Commission, I call on... Please support the draft law on ‘Amendment to the Law on the Restriction of Pornography’ at second reading. On behalf of the Commission, please support.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-17-PT13-2013-U265	Please call me! We will vote for the draft law “Amendment to the Law on the Restriction of Pornography” at second reading! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. The draft law at second reading has been supported. Please set a deadline for the submission of proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-17-PT13-2013-U266	24 October 2019.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-17-PT13-2013-U267	Thank you. The deadline for submitting proposals is 24 October this year. Draft law “Amendments to the Law on Declaration of Property of Natural Persons and Undeclared Income”, second reading. On behalf of the Commission for Budget and Finance (Tax) - Member Lubova Švecova.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-17-PT13-2013-U268	The draft law “Amendments to the Law on Declaration of Property Status and Undeclared Income of Natural Persons” is under consideration (No. 370/Lp13) at second reading. Six proposals have been received by the Commission. 1. - a proposal from the finance minister, Mr Reira. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-17-PT13-2013-U269	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-17-PT13-2013-U270	2. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. The Commission shall be supported by a corresponding change in the numbering of the following articles.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-17-PT13-2013-U271	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-17-PT13-2013-U272	3. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-17-PT13-2013-U273	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-17-PT13-2013-U274	4. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Partially supported, included 5. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-17-PT13-2013-U275	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-17-PT13-2013-U276	5. - a proposal from the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-17-PT13-2013-U277	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-17-PT13-2013-U278	6. - a proposal from the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-17-PT13-2013-U279	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-17-PT13-2013-U280	Please support the draft law.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-17-PT13-2013-U281	Please call me! We will vote in favour of the second reading of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Declaration of Property and Undeclared Income of Natural Persons”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! On - 74, against and refrains - not. The draft law was approved at second reading. Please set a time limit for the submission of proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-17-PT13-2013-U282	This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-17-PT13-2013-U283	Thank you. The deadline for submitting proposals is 22 October this year. Draft law on ‘Amendments to the Law on Press and Other Media’ (No. 399/Lp13), second reading. On behalf of the Commission for Human Rights and Public Affairs, Member Artus Kaimiņš.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-17-PT13-2013-U284	We examine the draft law “Amendments to the law “On Press and Other Media”” (No. 399/Lp13) at second reading. The Commission for Human Rights and Public Affairs has examined this draft law and has not received any proposal. This draft law provides that, with the adoption and entry into force of this Law, municipalities will no longer be able to set up and issue media, and until 31 December 2019 they will have to submit an application to the Register of Enterprises for the exclusion of media owned by them from the Register of Enterprises. However, this does not mean that the draft law is directed against the obligation of municipalities to inform the public about the developments in the territory of the municipality concerned. On behalf of the Commission for Human Rights and Public Affairs, I call for support for the draft law at second reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-17-PT13-2013-U285	Please call me! Vote on the draft law “Amendments to the law “On Press and Other Media”” (No. Support for second reading 399/Lp13! Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about - 75, it's against and it's abstaining. The draft law was approved at second reading. Please set a time limit for the submission of proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-17-PT13-2013-U286	31 October 2019.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-17-PT13-2013-U287	Thank you. The deadline for submitting proposals is 31 October this year. Draft law “Amendments to the insolvency law”, second reading. On behalf of the Legal Commission, Member Jānis Iesalnieks.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-17-PT13-2013-U288	Hello, colleagues! I recall that this draft law involves technical amendments to the insolvency proceedings of natural persons. One proposal was received by the Commission for the second reading - Member Viktoras Valaiņa - which concerns the deadlines of the plan for the cancellation of natural persons' obligations. For the purposes of this Article, a combination of graduations shall be made up of the length of the period of insolvency proceedings of the natural person concerned in the discharge of a part of the obligation. The proposal by Viktoras Valaiņš removes one of these parts outside. This, according to experts, makes their system a little frustrating and is not beneficial in fact for creditors or debtors wishing to discharge these obligations. In the Commission's view, this proposal was therefore rejected and was also rejected in the committee's vote.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-17-PT13-2013-U289	Let us start a debate. Name to Member Igor Pimenov.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-17-PT13-2013-U290	Good afternoon! I think this is a very good proposal. For a long time, this amendment "will demand" in the insolvency law, as initially the law provided that persons with small debts would go faster in insolvency proceedings than debtors with large debts. On the other hand, in the current version of the law, small-debted persons often pay their debt to creditors within 18 months, while persons with, for example, 20 thousand euros of debt - only one year, that is, 12 months. This is not in line with this objective. I therefore think that Mr Valaiņa has rightly done that he has tabled this proposal. I call on the Saeima to support this proposal, because the logic of the proposal is absolutely clear and acceptable. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-17-PT13-2013-U291	Name to Member Aldi Gobzem.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-17-PT13-2013-U292	I would like to clarify what Mr Iesalnieks said. In fact, the Commission did not have a clear view that the proposal was not correct, because the logic of the proposal was, by its very nature, the one that should be. In particular, the current version of the law provides that people with higher debts can go through insolvency proceedings in the shorter term. On the other hand, a person with a lower amount of debt has at least half a year longer duration and more limitations in insolvency proceedings. Mr Valaiņa's proposal was, in essence, to turn this situation around: that the shorter deadline for insolvency proceedings is for people with lower debts. The problem identified was that some further provisions of the insolvency law should be amended with this proposal. I therefore call, however, for this proposal to be supported at least in conceptual terms and for this discussion to be left to the third reading. For the proposal has nothing in principle to do with any political disagreement between parties, let us say, but it provides for a simple logical order of things. It cannot be as it is now - that the insolvency law provides that people with low indebtedness are forced to stay late in insolvency proceedings longer than people with higher indebtedness. That was the whole point of this proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-17-PT13-2013-U293	I closed the debate. Is there anything to be explained in the name of the commission?
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-17-PT13-2013-U294	Yeah. Member Valainis also agreed that he could submit a more precise proposal for the third reading. Because this proposal provides for the exclusion of the part in question at all, although if I wanted to deal with this situation, as the applicant wanted... wanted to, then, propose a different version to that part, rather than disabling it completely. I therefore call on the Commission to share its view and not to support this proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-17-PT13-2013-U295	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 1. - Mr Valaiņa's proposal! Please vote mode! Please get the result! On - 27, against - 42, refraining from - 1. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-17-PT13-2013-U296	I call for support for the draft law at second reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-17-PT13-2013-U297	Please call me! We will vote for the draft law “Amendments to the insolvency law” at second reading! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 68, against and refrains - not. The draft law at second reading has been supported. Please set a deadline for the submission of proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-17-PT13-2013-U298	October 22nd.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-17-PT13-2013-U299	Thank you. Consequently, the deadline for the submission of proposals is 22 October this year. Draft Act Amending the Railway Act (No. 386/Lp13), first reading. On behalf of the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy, Member Sandis Riekstins.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-17-PT13-2013-U300	Hello, colleagues! Having examined the draft law “Amendments to the Railway Law” submitted by the Cabinet of Ministers, the Commission of Economics, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy decided to support the said draft law and to direct it to consideration at the first reading of the Saeima. The draft law was drafted by the Ministry of Transport to ensure the transposition of the Directive of the European Parliament and of the Council of 11 May 2016, the interoperability of railway systems within the European Union and the adoption of railway safety requirements related to the removal of administrative and technical barriers to the creation of a single European railway area. The draft law also provides for a number of new functions of the State Railway Technical Inspection. The amendments are expected to enter into force on 1 January 2020. The Commission has supported the draft law and on behalf of the Commission I ask it to support it at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-17-PT13-2013-U301	Please call me! Vote on the draft law on amendments to the rail law (No. (386/Lp13) first reading support! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 76, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Draft legislation supported at first reading. Please set a time limit for the submission of proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-17-PT13-2013-U302	The deadline for submitting proposals is 31 October this year.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-17-PT13-2013-U303	Thank you. The deadline for submitting proposals is 31 October this year. Dear colleagues, Proposals for changes to the agenda have been received. Members Budrikis, Pucens, Bluķe, Iesalnieks and Goldberga are asked to exclude paragraph 72 of the draft law “Amendment to the Civil Service Law” from the agenda of the sitting. Are Members opposed to this amendment of the agenda? ( The box “Yes! ”) ) Members have reservations. Then we have to vote. Please call me! Let's vote on the change... that changes to the agenda of the sitting of the Saeima would be made by excluding from it paragraph 72 of the draft law “Amendment to the Law on State Civil Service”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Decision adopted. Draft legislation is excluded from the agenda of the sitting. Draft law “Amendments to Latgale Special Economic Zone Law”, first reading. On behalf of the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy, Member Janina Kursīte.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-17-PT13-2013-U304	Hello, colleagues! We work with the draft law “Amendments to Latgale Special Economic Zone Law” at first reading. The draft law has been drafted by the Ministry of Environmental Protection and Regional Development, and these amendments are related to the draft law “Amendments to the Law “On Taxation in Free Ports and Special Economic Zones” approved by the Saeima at first reading”. During implementation of Latgale Special Economic Zone Ministry of Environmental Protection and Regional Development has identified several problems in application of the norms of the Law “On Tax Application in Free Ports and Special Economic Zones” and Latgale Special Economic Zone Law – there are interpretation possibilities regarding granting of permission to apply direct tax relief, as well as conduct of commercial activities in the territory of Latgale Special Economic Zone. The draft law establishes a list of sectors to be supported in the territory of Latgale Special Economic Zone, where entrepreneurs will be able to qualify for tax relief. The aim of the draft law is to encourage investment in Latgale region. The Commission has examined the draft law at first reading and I ask for its support.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-17-PT13-2013-U305	Please call me! We will vote for support for the first reading of the draft law “Amendments to Latgale Special Economic Zone Law”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about - 71, it's against and refrains from - it's not. Draft legislation supported at first reading. Please set a time limit for the submission of proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-17-PT13-2013-U306	11 November of this year.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-17-PT13-2013-U307	Thank you. The deadline for submitting proposals is 11 November this year. Draft Act Amending the Railway Act (No. 378/Lp13), second reading. On behalf of the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy, Member Sandis Riekstins.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-17-PT13-2013-U308	Today, at second reading, we will consider the draft law "Amendments to the Railway Act". The draft law was drawn up by the Ministry of Transport to ensure administrative and public order in the railway sector. The draft law provides for supplementing the Railway Law with the norms resulting from those articles of the Latvian Administrative Violations Code, which provide for penalties for violations in the field of maintenance and use of railway traffic. Two proposals were submitted to the second reading. The proposal is a proposal from the Legal Bureau to supplement the transitional provisions with a reference to the specific provisions of the law which enter into force at the same time as the Law on Administrative Responsibility. The proposal was supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-17-PT13-2013-U309	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-17-PT13-2013-U310	Proposal 2 is also a proposal by the Legal Bureau, which provides for the exclusion of the reference to the time of the law's entry into force. The proposal was supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-17-PT13-2013-U311	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-17-PT13-2013-U312	Please support the draft "Amendments to the Railway Act" at second reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-17-PT13-2013-U313	Please call me! Vote on draft law on amendments to the Railway Law (No. 378/Lp13) at second reading! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 76, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The draft law at second reading has been supported. Please set a deadline for the submission of proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-17-PT13-2013-U314	The deadline for submitting proposals is 24 October this year.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-17-PT13-2013-U315	Thank you. The deadline for submitting proposals is 24 October this year. Draft law “Amendments to the Law on Aviation” (No. 377/Lp13), second reading. On behalf of the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy, Member Krišjānis Feldmans.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-17-PT13-2013-U316	The Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy has examined and prepared for consideration by the Saeima in the second reading of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Aviation” (No. 377/Lp13) I note that the draft law referred to above, as a proposal for second reading for the purpose of legislative efficiency, includes the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Aviation” (No. 387/Lp13). But this particular draft law was drafted by the Ministry of Transport and prepared to expand the range of owners, real beneficiaries and employees of aviation companies whose reputation should be verified. In total, two proposals were put forward for second reading in the draft law. The proposal is the proposal of the Minister of Transport Telelis Linkaitas, which delegates to the Cabinet of Ministers the task of determining the procedure for exempting certain categories of passengers from the airport security check. The proposal is supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-17-PT13-2013-U317	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-17-PT13-2013-U318	Proposal 2 is the Commission's own proposal, which is incorporated into this draft law into the draft law No. 387/Lp13 provides for an extension of the period for drafting the regulations referred to in Section 4.1.3 of the Aviation Act. The proposal is supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-17-PT13-2013-U319	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-17-PT13-2013-U320	So all the proposals have been examined. On behalf of the Commission, I ask you to support the draft law at second reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-17-PT13-2013-U321	Please call me! We will vote for the draft law “Amendments to the Law “On Aviation” at second reading! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. The draft law at second reading has been supported. Please set a time limit for the submission of proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-17-PT13-2013-U322	The deadline for submitting proposals is 24 October this year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-17-PT13-2013-U323	Thank you. The deadline for submitting proposals is 24 October this year. Draft law “Amendments to law on the privatisation of land in rural areas”, second reading. On behalf of the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy, Member Ivars Zarins.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-17-PT13-2013-U324	Colleagues! We work with amendments to the law on the privatisation of land in rural areas. Three proposals have been received. Proposal No 1 - the proposal by Member Janina Kurse, which provides for the addition of exceptions to the transactions concerning agricultural land. Rejected by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-17-PT13-2013-U325	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-17-PT13-2013-U326	2. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. It is a editorial proposal which provides for clarification of the title of Chapter VIII. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-17-PT13-2013-U327	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-17-PT13-2013-U328	And 3. - a proposal from the Legal Office specifying the way in which administrative infringement proceedings are to be initiated. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-17-PT13-2013-U329	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-17-PT13-2013-U330	Thank you, colleagues. I call for support for the draft law at second reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-17-PT13-2013-U331	Please call me! We will vote for the draft law “Amendments to the law on the privatisation of land in rural areas” at second reading! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 76, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The draft law was approved at second reading. Please set a deadline for the submission of proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-17-PT13-2013-U332	October 24th.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-17-PT13-2013-U333	The deadline for submitting proposals is 24 October this year. Draft law “Amendment to the Alerts Act”, first reading. On behalf of the National Administration and Municipal Commission – Member Dace Bluķe.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-17-PT13-2013-U334	Good afternoon, dear colleagues! The Commission of the State Administration and Local Government reviewed the draft law presented by the Cabinet of Ministers “Amendment to the Law on Alert Creation” and unanimously decided to support its examination at the first reading of the Saeima. What, then, does this draft law provide? These will be two new forms of administrative irregularity. One is the creation of negative consequences for the alarm officer and his relative, and the other is the deliberate provision of false information by means of an alarm officer's report. The draft law also provides for the imposition of penalties for these offences and competence in the application of penalties. The Law will enter into force on 1 January 2020 simultaneously with the Law on Administrative Liability. I would remind you that the Alert Law came into force on 1 May this year. In accordance with the transitional provisions of the law, the Cabinet of Ministers was obliged to draft and submit such amendments to the Latvian Administrative Violations Code. According to this task, amendments to the Code of Administrative Violations of Latvia were originally developed, however, since it will expire on 1 January of next year and the administrative violations are now included in sectoral laws, then this administrative responsibility should also be included in the Anxiety Law. I call for support to be given to the draft law at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-17-PT13-2013-U335	Please call me! We will vote in favour of the first reading of the draft law “Amendment to the Law on Alerts”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 78, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Draft legislation supported at first reading. Please set a time limit for the submission of proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-17-PT13-2013-U336	The deadline for the submission of proposals for second reading is 24 October.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-17-PT13-2013-U337	Thank you. The deadline for submitting proposals is 24 October this year. Draft law ‘Amendments to criminal law’, first reading. On behalf of the Legal Commission, Member Juta Strike.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-17-PT13-2013-U338	Dear Members, The Legal Commission has submitted its draft law ‘Amendments to the Criminal Law’ for consideration. Briefly, the progress of the draft law. Thus, the original version of the proposals has been developed by the Ministry of Justice. It has also been discussed in working groups of the Ministry of Justice, involving industry experts and specialists. After that, a further wide-ranging debate - and indeed several sub-committees - on the draft law had also been extended to the Commission on Criminal Law Policy of the Legal Commission. The solutions accepted by Members were presented in this draft law. In the following, the problems to be addressed by this draft law are: They are linked to shortcomings in various... different... In the areas of criminal law. First, a fine clause. Currently, a fine can be imposed as an additional penalty ranging from a minimum monthly salary of 1 to a minimum monthly salary of 100. With regard to criminal offences, the amount of the fine shall remain unchanged. This is a proposal to increase the level of fines as an additional penalty for minor, serious or particularly serious crime in a way that is proportionate and effective. Secondly, the provision on conditional conviction. A problem has been identified that conditional conviction is appropriate in cases of sufficiently serious offences. These cases have been reported on several occasions and have been described extensively. As a result, the amendment we are proposing is intended to limit the possibility of conditional conviction in the event of a particularly serious crime. In particular, the proposals have been developed in the context of the practice of money laundering (the third paragraph of Article 195 of the Criminal Law, the sanction of which provides for deprivation of liberty from 3 to 12 years) to impose conditional conviction. It is proposed that conditional conviction of particularly serious crimes can be applied if the court has been sentenced to a maximum of 3 years of imprisonment, thereby reducing the scope for conditional conviction in individual cases. The next problematic rule. Article 58 of the Criminal Law contains a provision providing for the possibility of releasing from liability a person who has committed an offence for which the Criminal Law provides for the signs of an offence, but which does not cause such damage as could be sentenced to a criminal penalty. We propose that this really hard-to-perceived and complicated legal structure be replaced by a minor offence. The definition of a ‘minor offence’ is provided for in another law. The amendment to Article 186 is intended to be made on the destruction or damage of property by negligence. At present, this offence is a formal offence with no harmful consequences. In the future, it is envisaged to determine the consequences - the serious damage that has occurred as a result of such a criminal offence. The draft law also provides for the exclusion of Article 189, which lays down the responsibility of the security staff for the care of non-conscious or careless property. It should be stressed that officials already have responsibility for omission or negligence. In cases where such irresponsible behaviour is on the part of the security officers... If such action is established, it must be dealt with in accordance with the procedure laid down in the Labour Law. The amendment to the heading of the first paragraph of Article 230.1 provides for the waiver of criminal liability for breach of the rules on the keeping of animals in the event of a minor injury to the victim. In the future, administrative responsibility for this decriminalised infringement will be provided for. There is no doubt that there will be criminal liability for the violation of the rules on the keeping of animals in the event of moderate or severe injury to the victim. Significant amendment to Article 260 and Article 263 of the Criminal Law. I advise you to listen, it can apply to many! Currently, a person is called criminally responsible for an accident caused by a minor injury to the body. The Commission considers that decriminalisation of such offences is necessary: there is now administrative responsibility. Of course, responsibility also remains for minor personal injury when the driver has been exposed to intoxicating substances. Nothing is changing here. This is the only decriminalisation that has occurred without exposure to intoxicating substances. Finally, Article 295 provides for a waiver of criminal responsibility for the influence of court officers, taking into account that there is no longer an institution of court officers in the Latvian judicial system. On behalf of the Commission, please support the draft law on First Reading Amendments to the Criminal Law. Debate, if?
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-17-PT13-2013-U339	Let us start a debate. Name to Member Aldi Gobzem.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-17-PT13-2013-U340	I would like to talk about two points... when the draft law will be passed on to the commissions and in fact there will be a discussion on what adjustments to make. The first section is about minor offences - about offences where... for example, property has been stolen, say, property of a small amount. It is proposed that we actually go in the direction that these smallfts are decriminalised, but I think this is not the right direction for the reason that, in essence, we then say that we can simply take goods in a shop up to a certain amount; in principle, there can be no criminal liability. The problem in criminal proceedings is that, in such small cases, for example, thefts, the procedural actions to be carried out are exactly the same as when a large-scale criminal offence is committed. And so the problem that needs to be addressed is the revision of these proceedings so that there is no, say, the same amount of paper that needs to be examined and written in case of a jar theft, the same procedural steps should be taken. It's crucial... the most important problem. And also elsewhere in the world, in fact, these issues are not automatically being closed, but essentially looked at in the context, as it is related to procedural actions. That's one chapter. The second section. What's missing in this bill... The criminal law... and what I would call on the Members... I must probably turn to the opposition, not to the position, but... on what we were talking about this morning. In particular, Article 18 of the Satversme of the Republic of Latvia establishes an oath of a Member of the Saeima in which a Member of the Saeima undertakes to observe the Constitution, which is a law, and other laws. In principle, we should be submitting an addition to the criminal law - an amendment that criminalises a Member of the Saeima for not complying with his parliamentary oath. Such a proposal would discipline the coalition, given that the laws incorporate issues on medical salaries, on teachers' salaries, and that today 53 Members of the Saeima violated their oath, thus violating the Constitution, thus violating the law. And there was no responsibility for these Members. ( Milestones.) But since the Saeima Member has taken the oath that is set out in the Constitution, in fact... violates the most important law in the Republic of Latvia. This should be criminalised, and I call for it to be introduced by the legislative commissions after it has been handed over. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-17-PT13-2013-U341	The name of the Member, Andrejs Judin.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-17-PT13-2013-U342	During the Commission meeting, we tried to clarify the substance of the proposals and each question was clarified, and today Mrs Strike repeated the substance of the question. But I think it is very important that true information be heard from this platform. When it comes to committing an offence... the commission of an offence for which... which has not caused any damage to the imposition of a penalty, is either a heavy construction. The draft law is proposed to replace it with the word... with the words ‘minor’... ‘non-essential’, so use other words. But Mr Gobzem said that we were talking about the decriminalisation of theft. There is no such proposal. Nobody's offering to decriminate theft. Article 180 of the Criminal Law provides for a liability for theft committed to a small extent, i.e. the damage caused does not exceed one minimum monthly salary. Responsibility for this offence will continue. At the same time, however, given that no serious harm has been caused, a person can be released from responsibility. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. And Gobzem said, But this is it, to deliver from the charge. ) This is the law in force. It is now envisaged. This is planned now and will continue to be the option. But it's not automatic release. If a person has committed the first violation, the leader of the proceedings may take such a decision, but he may also continue criminal proceedings. We are not talking about life at all, we are talking about a specific draft law. If a Member of the Tribunal claims that the draft law provides for decriminalisation, he lies. Is this in line with the oath that has been given? (Applause)
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-17-PT13-2013-U343	The name to Member Aldi Gobzem for the second time. ( Milestones.)
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-17-PT13-2013-U344	Mr. Judine, you have probably not read what you have submitted. The draft law clearly shows the possibility of not imposing criminal liability on these matters, in fact putting an end to the proceedings. So, of course, it provides for the possibility of continuing as if, but it indirectly gives rise to the possibility of ending cases. If such a norm is adopted in the future, it is clear that it will be implemented in life precisely because small-scale criminal offences are as numerous and complex as serious, complex criminal offences. In such situations, it is quite clear what the outcome will be in order not to get up. I therefore particularly wanted to emphasise that the solution is not to close cases in these cases, but... A solution that should be seen in the light of the fact that the Criminal Law and the Criminal Procedure Law will be open, is to review the many procedural actions that make criminal proceedings more difficult. Judges are also talking about this, Mr. Judine. The judges talk about the problem as procedural actions carried out during pre-trial investigation, which often overlap with the actions to be carried out during court proceedings and need to be repeated. And these are the questions... It makes no sense to prolong the course of criminal proceedings. I therefore call on you, Mr Judine, to read your own proposals before you climb the platform. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-17-PT13-2013-U345	The name to the Member, Andrejs Judin, for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-17-PT13-2013-U346	Closing the debate... closing the debate with Mr Gobzem, now I have at least a clearer picture of where the problem is. There is the word 'decriminalisation', and there is the word 'exemption from criminal liability', and that is not the same thing. Decriminalisation, which you have spoken at least twice, means excluding an article from criminal law. There's no longer any responsibility. And I repeat to you that we do not have such a proposal. You are talking about possible exemptions from criminal liability. It shall be governed by the law in force. And there is no proposal to give up this option. So, Mr. Gobzem, well... We can use this platform to educate you, but it is not useful. (Applause)
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-17-PT13-2013-U347	I closed the debate. Mrs. Strique, is something to be added? ( Internouncing call.)
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-17-PT13-2013-U348	On behalf of the Commission, I would like to draw attention to what is really being decriminalised. There will no longer be criminal liability for the influence of the judges, because there are no judges anymore. There will also be no more criminal liability for the occurrence of an accident and for minor injuries to the body. It is really decriminalised. There is also a decriminalisation of a situation where a breach of the rules on the keeping of animals has caused a slight injury to the body. That is what is being decriminalised. On behalf of the Commission, I wanted to emphasise this. And I call for the vote on the draft law at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-17-PT13-2013-U349	Please call me! We will vote in favour of the first reading of the draft law on criminal law. Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Draft legislation supported at first reading. Please set a time limit for the submission of proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-17-PT13-2013-U350	7 November of this year.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-17-PT13-2013-U351	Thank you. The deadline for submitting proposals is 7 November this year. Draft law “Amendment to law “On Procedure of Entry into Force and Application of Criminal Law”, first reading. On behalf of the Legal Commission, Member Juta Strike.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-17-PT13-2013-U352	The Legal Commission has also submitted a draft law “Amendment to Criminal Law “On Procedure of Entry into Force and Application of Criminal Law”. As I said earlier, this draft law has also been drafted by the Ministry of Justice, and experts were also involved, it was discussed much at the Commission for Criminal Law Policy. This amendment is linked to the amendments envisaged in Article 58 of the Criminal Law, further defining the concept of a minor crime. The proposals for what should be understood as a minor criminal offence were a number of, until the discussions at last recognised the option of a minor offence as meeting one of the two criteria. In particular, as far as the amount of the property loss is concerned, it should be noted that the offence has resulted in an inherited loss which does not exceed half of the established minimum monthly salary, or, as is currently the case, EUR 215. And if the infringement does not exceed the material loss, it must be established that the threat of interest has been negligible. More. It is important to be aware that there is no discharge in case of a minor criminal offence - not, to be said again - not! - mandatory, it is not an imperative rule. The leader of the proceedings will always have to assess the application of Article 58 of the Criminal Law, taking into account all circumstances of the case and the information characterizing persons. For example, when establishing cases when a person has repeatedly committed a criminal offence that could probably be considered minor, the leader of the proceedings will have to continue this criminal proceedings even if the threat of interests is small or material, the property loss does not exceed one half of the minimum monthly salary. On behalf of the Commission, please support the first reading of the draft law amending the law on the procedure for the entry into force and application of the criminal law.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-17-PT13-2013-U353	Please call me! We will vote for support for the first reading of the draft law “Amendment to the Law “On Procedure of Entry into Force and Application of Criminal Law”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Draft legislation supported at first reading. Please set a time limit for the submission of proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-17-PT13-2013-U354	The deadline for submitting proposals is 7 November this year.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-17-PT13-2013-U355	Thank you. The deadline for submitting proposals is 7 November this year. Draft law “Amendments to the Criminal Procedure Law”, first reading. On behalf of the Legal Commission, Member Juta Strike.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-17-PT13-2013-U356	The Legal Commission has submitted for consideration the draft law drafted by the Commission “Amendments to the Criminal Procedure Law”. Like the two draft laws mentioned above, this draft law has been drafted by the Ministry of Justice. This has also been the subject of extensive discussions involving experts in the criminal justice policy sub-committee. If necessary, detailed information can be found in the Sub-Committee on Criminal Law Policy minutes on the discussions that have taken place, as well as the draft laws mentioned above. The amendments are broad and affect several criminal law institutes. I would like to highlight the most important amendments to the Criminal Procedure Law. The amendments provide that the performance of the procedural tasks may, by itself, take place in cases where the leader of the proceedings has ordered him to carry out an investigative activity. The next proposal to amend the Criminal Procedure Law concerns the rejection of the investigating judge. Currently, the law provides that the President of the court is to reject. In cases where the President of a court is busy in another case or is not in employment, the immediate adoption of such a decision shall be delayed, thus delaying the proceedings. It is therefore intended to amend the provision by providing that the judge of inquiry will be able to decide on the rejection without delay. A number of proposals concern the restricted right to appeal against a decision. Such amendments are designed to ensure uniform application of the rules on appeal against decisions of procedure, including on the taking of decisions which are enforceable without delay. Abandonment of the possibility of appeal shall apply to decisions on the determination of the expertise, decisions on withdrawals, decisions on the request for information from credit or financial institutions. I was surprised that lawyers had come to mind that any decision could be appealed, even a simple decision that information would be requested. Obviously, appeals against such decisions were always directed at delaying the process. Therefore, it is also made clear that these decisions are not subject to appeal, although by their very nature they were no longer subject to appeal. It should also be noted that there is a fundamental change of concept in relation to the exercise of the rights of the defence. Until now, the Criminal Procedure Act did not restrict the apprehended persons, including those (I think it could also be interesting for many) who are suspects, right to lie, to put forward incredible versions, thus putting pressure on the process promoter with false versions. The law does not prevent the person from testifying at the present time and in the future, the person can always remain silent. It should be stressed, however, that the law must provide that when that person chooses to bear witness, she must not lie. Until now, defence tactics have often been based on false testimony. I would even say - quite often, not often. This attitude needs to be changed by providing for a person’s obligation to give true evidence in the future. The amendments are designed to clarify the arrangements for shaking in vehicles, provided that the persons present on the vehicle are also subject to shaking, thus avoiding problems identified in practice. The law already provides that, if there is a decision to search in a particular space or area, the persons, cars located in the designated area are also subject to search. The amendments to Section 182 of the Criminal Procedure Law would specify that those persons who are in the car are also subject to search for which a decision has been taken. Thus, if you are in a car for which it has been decided that it needs to be removed, then the persons who are on it are also subject to the shaking. The draft law also includes proposals for an agreement process to ensure that this process is applied more effectively. In addition, the draft law establishes a uniform approach with regard to the composition of the first instance court by providing that in future, in all courts of the first instance, the judge shall be single-member. Regarding the sentence clause. The amendments provide for relaxation of the court by extending the prosecutor's powers to impose a sentence clause. The amendments relating to the possibilities to limit the delay in the administration of justice are also relevant. These amendments aim to improve the capacity of the judge to conduct criminal proceedings in accordance with the fundamental principles of criminal procedure, ensuring procedural economy and quality of court proceedings. These amendments provide for the right for judges to determine the length of the court's debate and the last term to be heard. It should be stressed that the unlimited period of debate so far has also been very widely used to delay proceedings. The proposal to limit the time of the debate does not mean that there is always a time limit, but the judge has the right to impose a reasonable limit on the time of the debate. Certain amendments relate to changes in the definition of a minor offence in criminal law. And there are also purely editorial amendments, such as the change in the name of the Security Police. I would like to reiterate that these amendments are broad and that the detailed annotation of the draft law provides a precise justification and explanation for all the norms included in the draft law. On behalf of the Commission, please support the draft law on Amendments to the Criminal Procedure Law at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-17-PT13-2013-U357	Please call me! We will vote for the draft law “Amendments to the Criminal Procedure Law” at first reading! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Draft legislation supported at first reading. Please set a time limit for the submission of proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-17-PT13-2013-U358	The deadline for submitting proposals, as for the two previous drafts, is 7 November this year.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-17-PT13-2013-U359	Thank you. The deadline for submitting proposals is 7 November this year. Examination of draft decisions Draft decision “On the change of the commission responsible for the draft law “On real estate at Ezermalas iela 24/26 and Ezermalas iela 28, Riga, transfer to the association “Latvijas Mazpulki”” (No. 182/Lp13). On behalf of the Commission for Education, Culture and Science - Member Anita Muižniece.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-17-PT13-2013-U360	Good afternoon! On behalf of the Commission for Education, Culture and Science, I will ask you to support the draft decision for draft law No. 182/Lp13 - transfer of real estate on Ezermalas Street to the association “Latvijas Mazpulki”. Here I have to tell the history of this bill, because this is 12. Draft Saeima law. So that's 13. The family started working... It was December 19, last year, when we looked at this bill at the Commission for Education, Culture and Science. At the time, the Education, Culture and Science Commission considered that it was not competent enough to decide on the matter, and we also submitted it to the Legal Commission for further viewing. As we can see, the Legal Commission is quite busy and indeed has not gone further so far. And also in view of the fact that on 11 September this year, the Education, Culture and Science Commission looked at a draft law of a nature similar to that - about the transfer of property to the Wagner Society - we ask that this draft law be returned from the Legal Commission to the Education, Culture and Science Commission so that it can be moved forward. So I call on everyone to support the draft decision.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-17-PT13-2013-U361	Please call me! We will vote for the draft decision on the change of the commission responsible for the draft law “On real estate at Ezermalas iela 24/26 and Ezermalas iela 28, Riga, transfer to the association “Latvijas Mazpulki” (No. 182/Lp13)’. Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 79, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Decision adopted. Draft decision on extension of the deadline for submitting proposals to Riga Rihards Wagnera Street 4, Riga (No. This Regulation shall be binding in its entirety and directly applicable in all Member States. Member of the Commission for Education, Culture and Science Raivis Dzintars.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-17-PT13-2013-U362	Good afternoon, dear colleagues! I would like to say that there are no conspiracys here (Dep. A. Neighbours: “I don’t believe!” ) - in the Committee on Education, Culture and Science, all Members agreed unanimously to call for a vote (HAVE: "Where are the conspiracys?" ) to extend the deadline for the submission of proposals. Quite simply, the experts of the Ministry of Culture, in cooperation with the Legal Bureau, still need time to do everything legally necessary to achieve the statutory objectives, which I have already reported on when we decided conceptually on this draft law at first reading. So I'm calling for support.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-17-PT13-2013-U363	Please call me! We will vote on the draft decision on the extension of the deadline for submitting proposals to the Riga Rihards Wagnera Street 4, Riga (No. (353/Lp13) for the second reading until 4 November 2019’! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 79, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Decision adopted. Honourable Members! The agenda of the sitting was examined. I must inform you about the replies to Members' questions given today at 17.00. The question by Member Zariņa, Agešina, Rubika, Krišanas and Pimenov to the Minister of Justice Janis Bordans “On the rule of law of government decisions and understanding of the principle of the rule of law of the Minister of Justice of the Republic of Latvia”. The written replies received shall not be satisfied. The Minister informs that no oral answer can be given. Member of the Ministry of Welfare of Klementyeva, Agešina, Rubika, Krišana and Zarins “On failure to act by the Ministry of Welfare without applying personal income tax relief in full, including disability relief, without complying with the requirements of the law”. The written replies received shall not be satisfied. The Minister informs that he will not be able to attend the oral procedure. Member Zariņa, Tutina, Agešina, Kucina and Adamson’s question to the Minister for Health Ilze Viņķelis ‘On information on the limited availability of information regarding the legal basis of the Government’s decision regarding the amount of funding allocated to health care’. The written replies received are not satisfactory, but the oral Members do not wish to ask questions. On behalf of Member of the Minister of Justice of Zarina, Krišana, Rubika, Ribakava and Orlova, Janis Bordans, “On the right of the executive not to execute the decision of the Saeima”. The written replies received shall not be satisfied. The Minister informs that no oral answer can be given. The Minister of Justice of the Republic of Lithuania and the Minister of Justice of the Republic of Lithuania “On the actions of the Cabinet of Ministers in breach of the mandate of the Saeima”. The written replies received shall not be satisfied. The Minister informs that no oral answer can be given. Mr Janis Bordans, Member of the Minister of Justice of Zarina, Krišana, Rubika, Ribakova and Orlov, “On the actions of the Minister of Justice, ignoring the task assigned by the Saeima to the government”. The written replies received shall not be satisfied. The Minister informs that no oral answer can be given. Minister of Justice of Zariņa, Krišana, Rubika, Ribakava and Orlovas, Janis Bordans, on the grounds of voluntary government action. The written replies received shall not be satisfied. The Minister informs that no oral answer can be given. Member of the Minister of Justice of Zarina, Krišana, Rubika, Ribakava and Orlovas Janis Bordans “On the principle of the rule of law and the principle of legality”. The written replies received shall not be satisfied. The Minister informs that no oral answer can be given. Member of the Minister of Environmental Protection and Regional Development Juris Pūcem, about the advertising campaign of VARAM, Liepiņa, Smita, Sprūde, Stepanenko and Gobzem. The written reply received shall be granted to the applicants. Member of the Minister of Agriculture Kaspars Gerhards, Liepiņa, Smita, Sprūde, Stepanenko and Gobzem “On the situation with the OIC beneficiary company Lielmežotne”. The written replies received are not satisfactory, but Members do not wish to ask further oral questions. On the question of Member Liepiņa, Smita, Sprūde, Stepanenko and Gobzem, Minister of Finance Janis Reirs, about limitation of cash costs for employees of public administrations. The written reply received shall be granted to the applicants. So today's answers to Members' questions will not happen. New questions have been received from Members. Members Klementyev, Agešins, Orlovs, Krišāns and Lochmele-Lunova put forward the question “On a statement by the Minister for Welfare about a possible increase in the high pension tax from 20% to 50%”. We hand it over to the Prime Minister for a reply. Member Zariņš, Klementjevs, Cilevičs, Ribakovs and Orlovs submitted a question “On the participation of officials of the Ministry of Economics in the cover of possible criminal offences in relation to the results of “OIC power plants” inspections”. Name for motivation to Member Ivars Zarins.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-17-PT13-2013-U364	Colleagues! Today, we dealt with a request which demonstrated that the officials of the Ministry of Economic Affairs are dealing with possible criminal offences. And now we want to find out whether this is the case with the Ministry of Economic Affairs, or whether the Ministry of Economics simply does not know what their officials are doing in the Ministry. We very much hope that we will receive meaningful answers from the Minister for Economic Affairs. If not, then we will have another request in which we will clarify all this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-17-PT13-2013-U365	The question is referred to the Minister for Economic Affairs. Members Liepiņa, Stepanenko, Sprūde, Smits and Gobzems submitted the question “On limitation of cash costs for employees of public administrations”, which is submitted to the Minister of Finance for reply. Members Liepiņa, Šmits, Stepanenko, Sprūde and Gobzems submitted a question “On economic activities of “Lielmežotne” biogas station within the framework of mandatory procurement” that we submit to the Minister of Economics for reply. Members Liepiņa, Šmits, Sprūde, Stepanenko and Gobzems submitted a question “On bonusing officials of the State Revenue Service’s Tax and Customs Police Administration for criminal offences discovered and prevented by direct action”, which we hand over to the Minister of Finance for reply. Members Stepanenko, Gobzem, Schmidt, Sprūde and Liepaja submitted a question “On Draft Law No. 447/Lp13 ‘Amendments to the Law on the Financing of Political Organisations (Parties)’ harmonisation process and the information included in the annotation’, which we forward to the Minister of Justice for their response. Please call me! Please register the Members! Thank you. Name to Marija Golubeva, member of the Saeima Secretary, for reading the results of the registration.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-17-PT13-2013-U366	Not registered: Aldis Adamovičs, Jānis Adamsons, Iveta Benhen-Beken, Raimonds Bergmanis, Mārtiņš Bondars, Gundars Dauge, Vjačeslavs Dombrovskis, Ilmars Dūritis, Inese Ikstena, Ritvars Jansons, Nikolai Kabanovs, Aleksandrs Kiršteins, Armands Krauze, Janīna Kursite–Pakule, Edmunds Teirumnieks and Reinis Znotiņš.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-10-17-PT13-2013-U367	Thank you. I'm closing the sitting.
