ParlaMint-LV_2019-09-19-PT13-2009-U1	Good morning, honourable Members! We will begin the sitting of the Saeima on 19 September 2019. First of all, changes to the agenda of the sitting adopted by the Saeima Bureau. Members Kols, Dombrava, Schnore, Indriksone, Jansons, Izalnieks, Kirštein and others are asking to include in the agenda the draft decision on the participation of the Republic of Latvia in the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe. ‘ Inese Lībiņa-Egnere, Member, has applied to speak against’.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-09-19-PT13-2009-U2	Good morning, dear colleagues! I would like to introduce some arguments at once with regard to the topicalities of the delegation of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe. This is about our reaction, about the shameful concessions of the Council of Europe and the restoration of voting rights to the delegation of the Russian Federation and the fact that Latvia cannot accept it. Latvia needs to show a strong spine against it. The question is, how? Latvia has understood that one is not a soldier, and here, too, we have already debated the fact that we and like-minded people have to come together, talk and, although it may seem at first seem unrealistic, it must start to change the position of the majority with a little bit. We have gathered here in Riga at the beginning of September - for the first time in the history of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe - nine similar-minded delegations. The Heads of all these delegations, as well as the Head of the Monitoring Committee, came to the Saeima and we discussed these issues. Mr Kola was also present as the rapporteur for this proposal. To our surprise, our suggestion is that at first... that a possible tactic would have to start with the boycotting session, which did not give a majority response. At present, only Poland has referred to this, but even Georgia, which has been suffering from Russian occupation for 10 years, said that they wanted to be present and yet to talk about these uncomfortable things at the session. Ukraine is not yet a new delegation... definised. They had a meeting yesterday, they agreed to meet on Friday. We expect new developments from Ukraine on Friday. Latvia, we understand that first of all we have to show solidarity with Ukraine. If Ukraine decides not to drive, we, as a delegation, do not travel either. That is clear. This would not require such a draft decision today. It should also be borne in mind that Georgia is the next Presidency. If, in accordance with the draft decision, we suspend either the entire 2019 session or longer, then... Georgia's request, made here by the Heads of Delegation to me and the whole delegation together - to support them in their very difficult Presidency when Russia would come to them and perhaps also be able to make some kind of provocation... we can't support them... Mr. Cole's definitely... perhaps tell us its reasons, but the main aim of this draft decision is to show the spine and show that we stand up against the fact that the Council of Europe has lost its prestige and (a different draft decision) "discredits and explicitly despises the values of the Council of Europe". Yeah, I'm ready to sign under every word. The question is: what are we doing with this - forgetting the door and insulting it, and saying that we do not have it, are we going, working, working hard, and continue the coordination we have begun? If Latvia is not present, then the new Baltic Plus group, which coordinates its actions, will simply not be able to stabilise and exist. I am very pleased that the Conference on the values of the Council of Europe organised at the end of October by the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe will also be attended by Mrs Mūrniece, Speaker of the Saeima. She will not deboquote this conference, but will go and speak - she will show the spine. I do not know if the Chief Justice of the Supreme Rada will be there, whether the Chairman of the Parliament of Georgia will be there, but Latvia will take and express its position. The question is: if Ukraine drives, if Georgia drives, do we, as Latvia, choose to expect someone else to do this difficult work, or do we continue to coordinate, continue to talk, continue to be uncomfortable? Thank you to the Latvian delegation of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe for their great work. I am truly proud that we each as a member of the delegation, despite being part of one or the other political party, position or opposition, are united. Colleagues! I call on you to vote against the amendments on the agenda.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-09-19-PT13-2009-U3	“A Member has applied to speak about” Rihards Kols.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-09-19-PT13-2009-U4	Dear President of the Saeima. Dear Members, honourable Members, Thank you both to Mrs Lībiņa-Egnere for her insight from the point of view of the delegation and for what has emerged from these consultations with like-minded countries. It is clear why such a draft decision was presented today. We, the National Association, call on the Saeima to decide on a specific position of Latvia regarding the participation of the Latvian delegation in the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe. Of course, we have different sources and networks of communication, as we communicate with like-minded countries, and as heads of delegation communicate with representatives of delegations. On the other hand, as Head of the Foreign Affairs Commission, I communicated with the Heads of Foreign Affairs Commissions in the respective countries. And not everything is white and black, as it is reflected. You see, at its meeting on 6 September, this may have been a little vague, especially for a number of other delegations. Perhaps I abstained from expressing such a strong position and support for this policy of non-Participation. It was concrete... That week, the Ukrainian Parliament only met for the first time, and the representatives who arrived at the meeting - the Head of the Foreign Affairs Commission, a non-elected representative of the delegation - did, of course, refrain from expressing a clear position because they did not have such a mandate. But, in a number of discussions, in a number of discussions, in a number of questions, however, that distribution of votes was actually... According to Georgia's representative... he called for a vote on the position, but once again there was an encouragement to the delegations that we did not really have the mandate to express their position. Then, in reality, the question is: why, with what aim did many delegations come to this meeting? So it is clear that we will decide something, and the mandate can be given to the delegation. This situation with the representatives of Ukraine has caused confusion in the representatives of other delegations and, in the end, resulted in the... there will be a deadline, let's go back, let's consult our delegations and our parliaments. The result is that countries that have said they do not support... have been listed. but Ukraine has still not decided. Ukraine will decide tomorrow. And if we read the draft decision, it only applies to plenary before the end of the 2019 session of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe... subject to certain conditions. It is not that we are not empty - we are clearly calling for concrete action from the Parliamentary Assembly. The fact that we're coming back... Since June... If this happens and the Latvian delegation participates in this plenary session at the end of September, at the beginning of October, then I have to ask: what was the point of making a demarche in June, if we return to this framework as if nothing had happened? What the draft decision proposes is, yes, to stop until the end of the session. With the new session coming back, we are explicitly calling for confirmation from the Parliamentary Assembly that the resolutions adopted so far on the violations of the Russian class are in force. For, you see, I had a meeting with the President of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe and, asking: "What is happening with the resolutions adopted so far on Russia?" , the answer was: “They are not really binding on Russia.” Of course, for many, shock - how can it be? Well, you see, for a very simple reason, Russia did not participate in those sittings when these resolutions were discussed and voted on. So they're... There was no legitimate right to speak, to express its opinion... And the position is that of the Articles of Association... that, you see, these resolutions are not actually valid. Then it's our duty to have one... that the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe makes it clear and clear that these resolutions are binding on the Russian Federation, as well as to the delegation. And the second, which is the most important issue that has led to such a situation, is the existence of a procedure, the absence of a procedure in the very Parliamentary Assembly... How can the Council deal with Member States that are opposed to its statutes, principles and values? And we continue to promise that such a procedure is being established and will be... and will confirm... I think we are clearly saying in this draft decision that we are coming back to plenary when these procedural rules are on the agenda - in the sense that there is also a clear responsibility for the Russian Federation, because all these previous resolutions should be in force.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-09-19-PT13-2009-U5	Thank you. Colleagues, we must vote in favour of the draft decision.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-09-19-PT13-2009-U6	I call on my fellow Members to support them in their efforts to put them on the agenda.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-09-19-PT13-2009-U7	Please call me! We will vote for the inclusion of the draft decision on the participation of the Republic of Latvia in the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe on the agenda of the Saeima sitting! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 27, for - 59, for - 1. The draft decision is not on the agenda of the sitting. Members Lochmele-Lunov, Dombrovskis, Kucins, Švecova and Agešins are asking for changes to the agenda of the sitting and to include the draft law “Amendments to the Law on State Social Insurance”. ‘ Regina Ločmele-Lunova, Member of the European Parliament, has applied to speak about’.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-09-19-PT13-2009-U8	Hello, colleagues! In accordance with Rule 79 of the Parliament's roll of order, we submit the draft law "Amendments to the Law on State Social Insurance" and ask for it to be placed on the agenda of the Saeima's sitting today. The nature of the amendments to the law is to set, from January 2021, a 0.14 percent lower rate of the state social security contribution, in line with the government's decision to reduce the amount of unemployment benefit in the following year and the time limit for its payment, which will allow to immerse EUR 12 million at the expense of the unemployed. We believe that these amendments to the law must be adopted as a matter of urgency in order to prevent Latvian citizens from experiencing another humiliation that will appear in the decline of social guarantees for workers, violations of legitimate expectations and gross disregard of the opinion of the social partners. This draft law is by nature the free assistance of members of the Group's Saskaņa to the "political zero" that is currently being placed in front of the public and media welfare minister Ramona Petraviča. The fact that Mrs Petravičas herself told journalists very openly that none of the welfare priorities of the government gave her extra money next year, but, behold, the Ministry of Finance recommended looking for it at unemployment benefits - what they had to pay for those hard-working people... The Minister obediently complied with the recommendation of the Ministry of Finance and straightened the saying that the shorter time for receiving the benefit could motivate the unemployed to look for a job, without any depths or explanation to the public, whether unemployment in Latvia is currently mostly a fractional or structural nature, how unemployment is affected by factors limiting mobility, to what extent the actual unemployment rate in the country has come closer to the natural unemployment line and why in some courses for unemployed people the place should wait for a whole year, let alone references to what problem studies or OECD recommendations are made. More! It turns out that both trade unions and the Employers' Confederation of Latvia are the first to hear about the plan to reduce the amount of unemployment benefit and the payout period after three months. According to LDDK Director General Līga Meņģelsone (I quote): “This is a classic issue that should be discussed at the meeting of the National Tripartite Cooperation Council, but the government has once again chosen to take a decision before negotiating with the social partners.” According to the LDDK social affairs expert, “the principles of insurance are based on the condition that we provide costs or services in accordance with the conditions in force at the time when the contributions were made. The unemployment insurance benefit for persons shall be calculated from the 12-month contributions ending two months before unemployment enters into force’. Even bank analysts point out that in Latvia, when growth has slowed down (and this is due to the difficulties of export industries), in order for growth to continue, it should take care of both more consumption and more to create a sense of safety for people when they lose their jobs. I cannot disagree with the opinion of journalist Inga Paparde that this government proposal shows that there is in fact no additional money for welfare and that shortening unemployment benefits is a desperate step to obtain at least an additional million euros for the increase of the minimum pensions from 66 to 80 euro. Let me remind you once again that it is about 12 million. Next year, the Privatisation Agency will be allocated an additional 1.1 million for unknown objectives, and a further five million for political parties... but the government decides not to touch these millions and please the pensioners at the expense of the unemployed. In general, it is already becoming a trend for this government, such as a trend of fashion - to take children away to put on teachers, to take off the unemployed to put on pensioners. Elegants! You know what some people who have ever voted for your party think about it? They told you that maybe you yourself, Minister, will have to feel unemployed in the skin... Like your party members. But in order not to happen, both members of KPV LV and other coalition parties have the opportunity to correct the situation and listen to the views of the Free Trade Union of Latvia.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-09-19-PT13-2009-U9	Thank you. The speaking time is over.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-09-19-PT13-2009-U10	In case of a reduction in the duration and amount of the allowance...
ParlaMint-LV_2019-09-19-PT13-2009-U11	Honourable Members! The speaking time is over.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-09-19-PT13-2009-U12	... should also reduce...
ParlaMint-LV_2019-09-19-PT13-2009-U13	The speaking time is over! Please turn off the microphone member in the station! The speaking time is over! (Applause) Do Members object to the inclusion of a draft law on the agenda of the sitting? So we have to vote. Please call me! We will vote for inclusion of the draft law “Amendments to the law “On State Social Insurance” in the agenda of the Saeima sitting! Please vote mode! Please get the result! On - 34, against - 54, refraining from - 1. Draft legislation is not on the agenda of the sitting. Reports by the Saeima Bureau on draft laws submitted. The Saeima Presidium proposes that the draft law presented by the Cabinet of Ministers “On the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Latvia and the Government of the Republic of Lithuania on the Maintenance of the Latvian-Lithuanian State Border and the Activities of Plenipotentiary Border Representatives” be referred to the Foreign Affairs Commission, stating that it is the committee responsible. Do Members object to a draft law being passed on to the Commission? There is no objection. Draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Council of the Saeima proposes that the draft law “Amendments to the Law on the Protection and Management of the Marine Environment” presented by the Cabinet of Ministers be referred to the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy, stating that it is the committee responsible. Do Members object to a draft law being passed on to the Commission? There is no objection. Draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Saeima Presidium proposes that the draft law presented by the Cabinet of Ministers “Amendments to the Law “On Procedure of Entry into Force and Application of Criminal Law” be referred to the Legal Commission, stating that it is the committee responsible. Do Members object to a draft law being passed on to the Commission? There is no objection. Draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Saeima Presidium proposes that the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Insolvency” presented by the Cabinet of Ministers be referred to the Legal Commission, stating that it is the committee responsible. Do Members object to a draft law being passed on to the Commission? There is no objection. Draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Saeima Presidium proposes that the draft law “Amendments to the Forest Law” presented by the Cabinet of Ministers be referred to the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy, stating that it is the committee responsible. Do Members object to a draft law being passed on to the Commission? There is no objection. Draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Parliamentary Bureau proposes that the Member Klementyeva, Cilevičs, Pimenova, Ribakova and Orlovs be referred to the Social and Labour Commission, according to which it is the committee responsible. ‘ For” applied to speak Member Andrejs Klementjevs.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-09-19-PT13-2009-U14	Yeah, thank you. High honourable Members! Please look into our proposal. You know, last week we heard promises... that the government found two million... The Minister for Welfare promised that there would be money to compensate growth... But, you know, I have no confidence in the Minister for Welfare. The Minister of Welfare also promised to raise the basis for calculating the minimum pension to EUR 99 next year. Is the promise fulfilled? Not fulfilled. Once again empty promises and no realizations. The Minister of Welfare for the year told about the fact that there will be amendments to the law “On State Pensions” and there will be a supplement for the length of service until 1996 for persons who retired after 2012. Is it realized? Not implemented. Some promises and some lies! So I cannot - trust the Minister and support the proposal that something will be compensated for only next year. Therefore, my proposal and the Group's proposal - in Article 32 of the Law on State Pensions - to guarantee all persons who have reached the age of 80 free of charge to supply a pension... and to supply persons with disabilities free of charge. We are not talking about compensation; we are talking about the fact that these people cannot physically go to the ATM. We are talking about people over 80. You know, they're afraid of the Internet, they don't have such a good memory to remember their PIN code; they're worried they're gonna be wrong twice when they come to the ATM and then they won't get anything. They're trying to talk to their neighbors, friends, and relatives... However, we still need to support their traditional desire for cash at home. This is a social project. You know when for the first time we started talking about delivery from Latvijas Pasts, this event cost 0.70 cents. We never... When the legislator adopted that decision in 1998, 1999 we did not plan to make that delivery. We wanted to change the traditions of people so that they could get this money in another way - via ATMs, through bank cards, via the Internet. We tried... We wanted pensioners to be modern, but we knew there would be categories... those who still trust more poster and cash. We are talking about people who are not going to be made today. Let us not force them to be modern. They are over 80 years old, they have poor memory, they have problems leaving. And it is a socially responsible policy - to make these people feel comfortable. You know, we never... we, the Members who took this supply decision, for the opportunity to receive money in this way, did not plan to earn it; we know at all times that this is a socially-granted measure. And today put it on a commercial... make it a source of profit for Latvijas Pasts - it is not fair. Five euros: for people, this is a lot. This represents more than seven per cent of the average pension. Therefore, it is proposed that such a provision be included in the law, so that, in all the years to come, whatever the government may be, what kind of ministers will be, who promise and responsible for their words - politically responsible ministers - these people would be able to receive this service - the delivery of pensions at home - for free. I would like to remind you that Latvijas Pasts is a state-owned company, and its grant is a real contribution to the development of Latvijas Pasts. And I'd like to say, if you don't believe it, check the annotation. 38 thousand are people over 80 years of age. All the others who receive this service - they are disabled... Group I, II. I don't know if we can start to guarantee the internet throughout Latvia, but there are a lot of complaints from people living in the countryside that they might use the Internet, but it's so weak in the regions where they live... that they cannot pay utilities via internet services. That's why it's easier for them to communicate with a postman, to communicate with someone who comes and brings this money. Social-oriented Members, please vote in favour of this proposal. We will not be poorer if we take these measures and pay for the provision of pensions from the state budget. Thank you. (Applause)
ParlaMint-LV_2019-09-19-PT13-2009-U15	Ms Ramona Petraviča has applied for a speech.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-09-19-PT13-2009-U16	Dear Chairman of the Saeima. Dear colleagues, A couple of months ago “Latvijas Pasts” broke the contract, declaring that it is unable to ensure the delivery of pensions at home at the current tariff – EUR 2.39. By removing a new competition, the winner was Latvijas Pasts, who was the only tenderer. A fee of EUR 4,88 per delivery was offered. The Ministry of Welfare has examined various options and options to compensate for or cover expenses related to the delivery of the pension at home. We looked at the possibilities of compensating for the cost of Group I and Group II disabled people and people over 80 years of age. The person receiving pensions at home is about 70,000. Analysing the profile of beneficiaries shows that 75 percent of them are this group - disabled groups I and II and persons above 80 years of age. The Ministry of Welfare therefore creates an opportunity within the scope of its budget to compensate all those who receive a pension at home, without dividing by age or any other criteria. If he compensated... not offset, but paid, the supply of pensions for the disabled in Group I and Group II and for persons over 80 years of age, is very likely to rise rapidly as the number of disabled in Group I and Group II totals 110 000 plus more seniors. The Ministry of Welfare's budget is not so large as to allow us to cover the costs of postal supplies, but we have found the best solution: to compensate for the cost of the service for all those who have chosen the service of "pension delivery at home". So I ask you not to support this proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-09-19-PT13-2009-U17	Colleagues, we must vote in favour of passing the draft law on to the commission. Please call me! We will vote in favour of handing over the draft law “Amendments to the Law “On State Pensions” to the Commission of Social and Labour Affairs, which states that it is the committee responsible! Please vote mode! Please get the result! - 34, against - 55, abstaining - not. The draft law has not been passed on to the commission. The Presidium of the Saeima proposes that the Member Dombrava, Pucena, Kazinovska, Indriksone and Kursīte-Pakules refer the draft law “Amendment to the Law on Apartment Property Law” to the Commission of State Administration and Local Government, stating that it is the committee responsible. Do Members object to a draft law being passed on to the Commission? There is no objection. The draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Council of the Saeima proposes that the draft law submitted by the Commission for Human Rights and Public Affairs “Amendments to the Law “On Press and Other Media” be referred to the Commission for Human Rights and Public Affairs, stating that it is the committee responsible. ‘ For” applied to speak Member Artuss Kaimiņš.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-09-19-PT13-2009-U18	Andris from Jelgava planted four trees last week and introduced a new cherry variety that Latvia needs. Maris has traveled all viaducts from Adaži, and he appreciates the condition of roads. Alexander Rēzekne was for the concert and realized that such concerts needed to be organised more. Gatis also had a concert in Jurmala. Gatis realized that there was a lot to be done... cultural environments, especially in Jurmala. With Alexander, Mary can also make co-photos or whatever... Dear Members, We have finally come to the point that both Gatis, Alexander and Maris will not be able to tell us how well they are going to their job in doing their job. And this is about municipal newspapers, which are still defined by law as informational publications. But the law... The law adopted in 2017 is not being complied with and in principle is a newspaper that distorts the private media market. I think it's printed. In this case, we're moving here at last 25 years... These advertising newspapers, which are really plastic paper, so that no one can soak them in any mailbox, that they are eternal... and can't even fuel the fireplace... But it's about this being the first... we are moving to first reading. I very much hope that there will also be proposals on how... how municipal expenditure will look into the future. I see that these municipal expenditures could be simple - an uncoloured sheet of A4 format, the same “head” for all municipal expenditures. The Czech Republic has such a model. Not that we see Andrew or any other entity. Of course, there are exceptions - in Ventspils, Aivars has some kind of opportunity to tell children how to go... or someone else... That is already an exceptional case. Yeah... whether the municipality needs to subsidise a private medium or not - this is what we will see further with this whole law development. We have to record very specifically in the law what the municipality may or may not publish. At best, what they could perhaps publish is the name days - which have the name days. The publication must be once a month. It is now that some of the richer municipalities are twice a week... monthly. No, thank God. Some are once a month... But the problem that we encountered in the Commission is that there are also municipalities where there is nothing but the newspaper of the municipality, and that is true. But it's so little that there's... we will be able to come up with another option so that people living in such municipalities can actually also get the relevant information. This proposal was in the Saeima for three years and did not go ahead with anything. Finally, it is going ahead with this government. In any case, congratulate Andris from Jelgava, congratulate Alexander from Rezekne! Maris will certainly receive the greetings as well, and Gatis from Jurmala, too, will he not? ( Internouncing call.) Well, yeah! You all know the other words. All right! I call for real support. Let's go! Finally, in 25 years' time, we are going to have the municipal newspapers, if you can say so, because here we need just scrupulous, dry information about the decisions that have been made and the Member... without any opinion on what they are actually doing. Thank you. Let's go! (Applause)
ParlaMint-LV_2019-09-19-PT13-2009-U19	Do Members object to a draft law being passed on to the Commission? There is no objection. Draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Saeima Presidium proposes that the draft law presented by the Cabinet of Ministers “Amendment to the Law on Alerts” be referred to the Commission of the State Administration and Local Government, stating that it is the committee responsible. Mr. Valains, you'll talk... Is that so? The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. V. Valainis: “ Against”! ) Mr Viktors Valainis has applied to speak against.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-09-19-PT13-2009-U20	Good morning, honourable Speaker of the Saeima! Colleagues! This bill... This is a new law that just... has just begun to work, and the sole purpose of this law was to protect alarmers. And when this law was adopted, it was also agreed that it would take some time and let us look at the statistics, then how the real law works, how many real alarms, how the false alarms are. But without such information, a draft law came from the government, which will, by its very nature, make it possible for such alert reports to not be submitted. If you read what the amendment to the law is about... The amendment to the law is in favour of providing administrative liability for false information. So the original aim of the law was to protect alarmers, but now with such an amendment we want to strengthen the responsibility of alarmers for providing false information and start to think about whether they are right or not. In my opinion, the regulation that exists at the moment... at those few cases... How many alarm messages are there? We need to wait before we come to the Saeima with this bill. I think we should not now support this draft law. You should see the question, the fastest one year later, but not right now, when the law has just begun to work.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-09-19-PT13-2009-U21	Colleagues! So we have to vote. Please call me! We will vote in favour of handing over the draft law “Amendment to the Law on Alerts” to the Commission of the State Administration and Local Government, establishing that it is the committee responsible! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 76, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Saeima Presidium proposes the draft law “On Amendment No. 1 In the agreement on law enforcement cooperation of September 2004 between the Government of the Republic of Latvia and the Government of the United States of America, the Foreign Affairs Commission was referred, stating that it was a responsible commission. Do Members object to a draft law being passed on to the Commission? There is no objection. Draft law has been passed on to the Commission. On the granting of leave. This Decision shall enter into force on the day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. We must vote in favour of granting leave. Please call me! Vote on the granting of unpaid leave to Member Roman Money from 21 October 2019 to 25 October 2019! Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about - 85, it's against and abstains. The leave is thus granted. For granting unpaid leave to Member Arthur Tom Pleš on 26 September 2019. Please call me! We will vote for the granting of unpaid leave to Member Arthur Tom Pleš on 26 September 2019! Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about - 85, it's against and abstains. Decision adopted. So the leave is granted. On the agenda - consideration of draft decisions. Draft decision “On promulgating the Emergency in the Administrative Territory of Riga”. On behalf of the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy – Member Jānis Vitenbergs.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-09-19-PT13-2009-U22	Good morning, colleagues! Based on the competence established by laws, the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy has prepared a draft decision on the announcement of an emergency situation in the administrative territory of the city of Riga. The Saeima shall be obliged to approve it or to reject it. That is also what we are going to do today. At its meeting of 17 September 2019, the Commission examined the Cabinet of Ministers Order No. 432 “On the announcement of the emergency situation in the administrative territory of Riga” and did not support it. There was a lively debate in the Commission and it was necessary to vote twice. Both votes divided equally - five against five. The concerns expressed by the Members in the Commission would be divided into two parts. First - on the form of this order of the Cabinet of Ministers came to the Saeima. The view was that if this was an emergency, it was necessary to vote on it last week, but we are talking about it today - in a week's time. The second is about the content. The question was whether this really is an emergency or a targeted action... Or simply negligence or omission of the Riga City Council? And we also heard from all the parties involved in the Commission, and then there was no real consensus among the lawyers of the parties involved, and Members supported this temporary settlement by the Competition Council. And now I call on the Saeima to debate and make a decision. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. J. Urbanovich: “Right!” ) Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-09-19-PT13-2009-U23	Thank you. Let us start a debate. Name of Minister of Environmental Protection and Regional Development Juris Pucem.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-09-19-PT13-2009-U24	Very honourable Speaker of the Saeima! Highly honored Saeima! Last week, September 11, the Cabinet of Ministers adopted an order to declare the emergency situation in the administrative territory of Riga. I will try to tell you briefly about the circumstances in which we have so far reached the order why it was adopted and I will try to respond to the concerns of Members, who have already been expressed in the Commission on Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy - why... Is there a need to continue this situation at the moment? Briefly on the regulation of the law. The emergency situation shall take effect upon adoption of the decision of the Cabinet of Ministers. It does not require any special adversarial procedure. However, in order to ensure parliamentary control of the decision taken by the government, there is a procedure whereby the Saeima decides to approve or reject the order in question. If the Saeima confirms this, then the extraordinary situation continues according to the order of the Cabinet of Ministers. If the Saeima rejects it, then the emergency ends with the moment and so the regulation that has been established with the help of the emergency ends. In the specific situation... we are talking about the situation in the city of Riga in the area of municipal waste collection and disposal. According to the Waste Management Act, the collection and export of municipal waste is organised according to local government procurement or public-private partnership procedures. The law lays down maximum time limits for these procedures; the law sets out the way in which they are to be organised; the law also lays down quite precisely the legal consequences arising from the decision. In fact, it is very precise - even the law quite unspecifically precise - regulation, where days, months and weeks are set... where the legal effects of one or the other occur at the time. In particular, Article 18 of the Waste Management Act sets out a procedure for the selection of a new waste manager and the legal consequences for municipalities, private individuals, as regards waste managers. The law provides that the procedure for waste management chosen by the municipality with the conclusion of the contract has two legal consequences. The first legal consequence is that waste management... The municipality is, of course, obliged to enter into contracts with the successful operators in the relevant procedure. At the same time, the law provides that, with the adoption of this decision, the municipality is obliged to inform all municipal waste producers in a particular city or municipality, and the creators are both natural and legal persons who, through their activities, create municipal waste. And these persons are obliged to conclude an agreement with the waste management operator chosen by the municipality within three months. Riga City Municipality chose to carry out municipal waste... chose the procedure quite uncharacteristically. The vast majority of municipalities in Latvia have done so through public procurement procedures. The municipality of Riga chose to do this in the form of a public-private partnership, establishing a concession with waste managers. This procedure was critically evaluated by the Competition Council, and the Competition Council called on Riga City Council to terminate the procedure and create it in a different way several times, both in 2017, 2018 and in 2019. Unfortunately, Riga City Municipality did not take such a decision throughout this period and the procedure was not changed. As a result, the public-private partnership procedure ended on 14 June this year, the winner was selected and the results were announced. The results were not contested in the legal order, they came into force, and according to the wording of the law, waste management in the city had to start with the new waste manager on 15 September this year. In July this year, the Competition Council initiated an examination case on alleged infringements of competition law following the conclusion of that agreement and adopted a temporary regulation on 9 September which stated that, since there may be a breach of competition law, the two parts of the concession contract concluded shall cease to be valid upon the adoption of this Decision. The Competition Council did not suspend the validity of the entire concession contract. It shall remain in force for the other chapters. In its interim regulation, the Competition Council instructed the municipality of Riga to withdraw the requests of the agreement with the waste managers. The Competition Council did not decide what was happening to the private agreements with the exporters of waste. Their decision was to actually entrust Riga Municipality with what is already the statutory obligation of Riga Municipality, namely to inform municipal waste producers that the situation has changed. A situation emerged in which Riga Municipality was obliged to withdraw its comments. On 10 September this year, the municipality of Riga fulfilled this obligation. Only one of the operators providing this service agreed to the withdrawal. Therefore, the continuation of the contractual relationship did not take place, but there was, of course, an opportunity. The law provides an opportunity to act in such a situation. It is possible to organise a negotiated procedure to find waste managers in an accelerated procedure (within the scope of the Public Procurement Act). However, it would not, by its very nature, have fulfilled the spirit of the Competition Council’s decision, namely to re-establish the previous situation. In addition, it would not solve the most significant legal problem, which is also included in paragraph 3.7 of the Cabinet Order on announcing an emergency situation in the administrative territory of Riga. In particular, it would not have renewed the agreements between natural and legal persons with waste managers and all of them - several hundreds of thousands - would have been obliged to conclude, within a very limited period of time, new agreements on waste management with those who would then be entitled to export municipal waste. Even before the decision of the Competition Council was taken at the end of August this year, we, the Ministry of Environmental Protection and Regional Development, drew the attention of Riga Municipality to the fact that when the case approached the phase... that possible adoption of a temporary resolution... The public was also informed that such a provisional determination could be made. The municipality of Riga should prepare a plan to take action in this situation. Unfortunately, on 6 September, Friday, before the decision... On 9 September, on Monday, we received a reply from Riga Municipality, and in fact most of our replies were devoted to discussing the Competition Council's right to decide on this matter. There was no concrete action plan for the government. And on Monday, with the adoption of the Competition Council decision, it was clear to us that in fact the legal solution within the scope of the existing law... without previous activities from Riga Municipality... This would lead to the situation that on 15, 16, 17, 18 September and many future dates the waste management system could not be fully operational in the municipality of Riga. This is not a triple problem if no municipal waste is exported. That's an important thing. We are used to a situation that is relatively favourable both to the health of the population and to the state of environmental protection – that municipal waste management for the residents of Latvian municipalities is basically taking place. If the management of municipal waste were to be stopped, in fact, at a rather rapid rate, within a few days, we would come to a situation in which there would be a significant threat to the environment and public health; this would lead to a sharp deterioration of the epidemiological situation. This amount of municipal waste that is collected every day from Riga city... If this were not removed, the situation we have seen in some other countries, in other cities, and the risks are very high. For this reason, we are intensively consulting with various lawyers of government institutions on what would be the optimal solution for moving from the previous regulation and ensuring that the essence of the decision of the Competition Council is implemented, while also ensuring that the removal and collection of municipal waste takes place without interruption in the city of Riga. The legal method chosen for this purpose - and it is also a harmonised solution for government employees, both the State Chancellery and the Ministry of Justice - provides for the declaration of an extraordinary situation in the administrative territory of Riga City. This is the only legal way to ensure that household waste generated by private individuals is removed from the territory of Riga city if no agreements have been concluded with the household waste managers. In principle, the order would have had to do with one point: the third... Well, if it doesn't read first... So, naturally, point 3.7. However, given that we were not convinced at the time of the decision that the municipality of Riga would be able to carry out this activity... necessary activities at a sufficient speed, while maintaining the same rates of export of municipal waste for citizens and companies as before 14 September, this order also established a precise procedure for the Riga Municipality to act on the objectives to be achieved and set out obligations to coordinate the activities carried out under this procedure with the Ministry. This regulation would not have been possible without an emergency, because our Ministry does not have the statutory power to monitor and monitor the implementation of specific public procurement procedures. I want to tell you that... Another very important factor is, of course, the chosen legal solution. The emergency has legal consequences. In this exceptional situation, losses may be incurred by certain natural and legal persons. And to cover these losses according to the order of law... The State would have the responsibility for this. But with this order we have stated that in an emergency situation the responsible state institution and the one that also covers the losses, if any, would be the Riga City Council. For potential... or, let us say, the source of concern about this order. Firstly, on the formal side - at which point such an order should be viewed. The specific decision of the government was taken by the Cabinet on the evening of 11 September, if not in prayer, in half a half, or a little later. In accordance with the procedure laid down by the Cabinet of Ministers, the order was prepared for signature, and both I and the Prime Minister signed the order next morning. Actually... I can even say quite accurately that my personal signature was on it at 9: 35. The order came to the Saeima at 11.50 a.m. There has been no delay, there has been no intention of delay in the examination of the matter. The next Saeima meeting was already over at that time. It actually ended just an hour ago. No matter how quickly the lawyers of the state administration and the persons responsible for preparing the draft order for signing work were able to do so more quickly during the planned working hours - so that they could be included before the meeting of the Saeima was closed last Thursday. There was no intention to delay. Further action with the prepared draft order shall be left to the Saeima. The sitting at which it is being discussed is, of course, an ordinary sitting, and it falls today. Secondly, on the substance. In fact, the most significant difference of opinion even before the decision of the Government was taken was between lawyers of the Ministry of Environmental Protection and Regional Development, the State Chancellery, the Ministry of Justice, on the one hand, and lawyers of the Competition Council, on the other. This difference of opinion was based on a different interpretation of the consequences of the provisional regulation adopted by the Competition Council. In the meeting of the Government there was an active discussion on this issue, but in fact both the responsible lawyers and the heads of the Legal Service at the State Chancellery and the Ministry of Justice pointed out that the... the order drawn up is legal, it solves the problem and this proposed solution also actually fully satisfies the nature of the decision of the Competition Council - why the decision was taken by the Competition Council. Why would it be necessary to maintain the order at the moment? If today the Saeima rejects the prepared draft order, it would, in accordance with the second paragraph of Article 10 of the law “On Emergency and Exceptional Situations”, mean that the decision will cease to be valid and the measures introduced by it will automatically lapse. This would mean that the agreements concluded by the Riga City Council last week with the waste managers, including the waste managers, no longer apply for the part that... which are no longer undertakings providing this service. Couldn't be valid anymore... the Riga City Council would not have been entitled to carry out the negotiation procedure foreseen last week. Consequently, all decisions taken and the two contracts concluded under this procedure would also be unlawful. This would, of course, have consequences. Since these days the shipment of waste has taken place and the specific waste managers have fulfilled their obligations, there would be a right of damages and, unlike the current situation... What in an emergency... it has been said that this damage would be compensated by the Riga City Council. The responsibility of the Riga City Council with the repeal of this order would also lose power, and the responsibility would be for the state. In addition, we would return to the situation that we had before the emergency order was adopted, namely that no waste management agreement would still apply - neither the municipal agreements with waste managers, nor the agreements between waste managers and municipal waste producers. A different solution would be needed. Of course, if the Saeima believes that an emergency is an inappropriate solution to this issue, it would not be right if the Cabinet re-decided the emergency situation. This means that other types of regulation should be adopted (probably in a very accelerated procedure - amendments to the law). This would mean that, for some time, at least a few days, but probably longer, municipal waste management would not take place in Riga city. That's why... Yes, in addition to this, we have received a task from the government and are already preparing amendments to the law to ensure the situation following the announcement of the emergency... after the emergency has ended... to ensure the management of municipal waste also in that situation. Amendments to this law will soon come to the Saeima. But the legal situation created by the emergency remains necessary. Therefore, I call on the Saeima to support today's draft decision in order to ensure that risks to the environment and public health are eliminated in the administrative territory of Riga city, that domestic waste is collected and exported in accordance with legal order, while fully respecting the scope of the Competition Council's decision. Thank you. Request to support.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-09-19-PT13-2009-U25	Thank the Minister. The name is Sandy Riekstin.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-09-19-PT13-2009-U26	Hello, colleagues! Before we vote on this as if exceptional situation in Riga, I will tell you a little bit about history. The feet of this story grew up right here in the Saeima. It was already in the seven years that decisions were made to bring the whole waste story to life. But I'm not going so far. I will talk about the last five years. It has already been seen that there are all kinds of backstage games going on in the city to revitalize such an event. If I am not mistaken, three years ago I had tried to run this purchase, but then the complaint was submitted by one of the existing team players. At that time, he didn't play in the team either. Now I will remind you a little bit of what the stakeholders themselves have said. In 2017, waste managers expect transparency and fair competition in Riga for 20 years... Waste management competition - indicated Eco Baltia Group Ltd. and Clean R Ltd. representatives. Eco Baltia Group Chairman of the Board Maris Simanovičs said that the company is conceptually positive about the intention to announce a procurement and form a joint venture with a private company, but it is important to ensure that procurement does not lead to a monopolistic situation in which the winner of the tender takes everything, while other market players are forced to leave the market. What do you mean? It takes time and it is “clean” in which both of these companies are merged. There are no complaints anymore. It's okay! Everything in Riga is fine. Let's go! And it's happening for years. It's not a one-day story. And nothing extraordinary there, colleagues, is not. It was all known. Responsible authorities that reacted, which did not respond... It is their responsibility. But if we now use the Riga City Council's management scheme and we call theft extraordinary, where do we live? It's happening there all the time! ( UK Apparitions) There's nothing extraordinary there! If the last year is followed by the procurement of the Riga City Council and its capital companies, there is a classic picture - one or two applicants, no more. One is below the estimated amount, the other is a little above. It's Riga Rally for years! And then it's okay. But now that the guys just didn't work blackmail... They had opportunities. Knowing that the Competition Council is storming it all now, they could... in addition, in accordance with the procedure laid down by law... carry out this negotiation procedure and extend these contracts without problems, without any emergency stories. They didn't. And three times, why didn't they? Because they need to use this situation for their own benefit. People who say they don't need a monopoly now make it up! What, then, has suddenly happened? I understand, colleagues from the New Unity, yesterday in the press there was a message that you also supported this exceptional situation. Then there is a new unity on the Riga Council? Because they're talking something completely different! Do you not trust your Riga City Council colleagues who have studied the whole story that they have been seeing in the entos for years? Nice! Good luck! Colleagues! I... another fresh reminder. The same “Gets EKO” has just finished the procurement. Of course, there are two applicants... Well, because the law lays down at least two. At least this is what the Riga City Council is trying to respect and its capital companies, including. And... which “Getli EKO” will provide information, advertising and similar services? Vest Advertise. ( FROM THE GROUP: “The time has come to an end! ” ) Nice! I call, colleagues, on you to consider what you are voting on before the vote. Nothing extraordinary has happened in Riga, just continues theft. (Applause)
ParlaMint-LV_2019-09-19-PT13-2009-U27	Mr. Riekstin, your speaking time is over. The name of Member Arthur Tom Plesh.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-09-19-PT13-2009-U28	Dear President of the Saeima. Colleagues! Yes, we can see that the Riga City Council's management has not been a great manager, a great defender of the interests of its citizens in recent years. ‘ Riga Traffic Saga, “Riga House Manager”, other very big problems that have grown in Riga. Of course, it's not nice to get involved... Also at this particular moment, when the nature of the waste crisis is potentially a very serious one in the city of Riga. Almost half of the waste produced throughout the territory of Latvia comes from Riga city. If the emergency situation in the Saeima is not supported today, there are immediate negative consequences: the waste is not exported, and this is a very, very serious threat to the environment, health and well-being of the Riga population, because the waste mountains are a prerequisite for the rapid spread of diseases in such a densely populated city. Therefore, I am very happy in that regard, and thank you to Juris Pucem, who offered this solution, and to the Cabinet of Ministers, who supported this decision to create an emergency situation in the city of Riga in order to find a sustainable solution for waste management in Riga for a temporary period. If honestly, I am not at all clear why we have to spend time in very long discussions if the welfare of Rigans and the right to live in a clean and orderly environment are at stake. Therefore, I hope, colleagues - if the Riga City Council has not been able to take care of its citizens for a long time, at least we, the Saeima, can take care of the Rigans and their right to live in a clean and orderly environment. (Applause)
ParlaMint-LV_2019-09-19-PT13-2009-U29	Name to Member Krišjānis Feldman.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-09-19-PT13-2009-U30	Good morning! Yeah, thank you. So, interesting events with this exceptional situation. I will not go into the details of how it could have happened at all and who is responsible for the laws that allow monopolies for 20 years, and so on. The public is already sufficiently informed about this. But when we talk about this chronology, it's very interesting. If the Competition Council had not taken that decision at all, the ‘clean’ settlement would have been blocked for a long time. We wouldn’t even talk about anything here, guys at Dzirnavu Street rubbed hands: “It’s cool, we cut 700 million, well!” Because Mafia -- there's a thing like that -- says it... they think in the long term - we need to take a euro from every person; we need not take a million euros from one person, we need a euro from every one, two euros. This was the case for OIC and the waste scheme. As early as 9 September, the Competition Council adopted this decision on an exceptional... on this provisional arrangement and gave time. And they ordered two things to be done between them. They ordered it until September 12 - immediately, but no later than September 12! - Riga City Council to withdraw requests for contracts with waste managers so that they can continue their work. Did the Riga City Council do this? Of course not! Because there were already plans to pee and think about what to do... The mill on the street... at the same time. The other thing they had to do among them - until September 12 - no later than that! - to inform Riga’s waste producers, i.e. the people of Riga, about the situation and the fact that all these “pure” letters sent out and so on... not to be taken into account, the system continues to function as before. Did the Riga City Council do this? Of course not! Because Burov was personally responsible and designed the situation along with the waste mafia, who then gathered at 7.57 Dzirnavu Street at a known oligarch office on Tuesday morning. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A. Neighbours: “What? Which one? Which one?’ ) Cocks! ( Intercretion: “You see... “ Thank you very much. ” — And there was also the founder of the party “Latvia for Development” – it is Gundars... ( Interface: “Yes... “ And now comes... and has been supported by law... for a period of at least five years... in order to be able to set up this monopoly... And then... What's up with the office... how the Competition Council's decision could be circumvented. For they didn't wait, they, the word of honor, didn't expect one institution to resist. What an insanity! How did he let it go?Oh, no, no, no, no, I guess that Nemo has been pressed! Thank him. And then there was the construction of an emergency situation. One day failed to accept, the other day - also... In the Cabinet, it was possible to push it through. And Karin said (and you can see it in the record): “It’s some crazyness!” ( End quoted) (Laughter) But they voted in favour. (Applause) But then the most interesting began in the Saeima sitting. You know, when last time there was an emergency... then there was an extraordinary sitting of the Saeima. Well, emergency! But no - this exceptional situation can calmly wait for the decision of the Saeima, because it is necessary to break the circle further, we need to give the impression that it is irreversibly. Therefore, after the Saeima meeting ended on Thursday, September 12 at 10 a.m. (you can see in the minutes), only documents from the Cabinet of Ministers came in about the need to decide the Saeima... to decide on the approval of the emergency situation. All Members had already gone home, except for the new Conservatives, probably. (Laughter) (See paragraph 4.5 of this Regulation.) There wasn't even the slightest beating that there was a need for an emergency sitting. ( Internouncing call.) He could have called on Friday, Saturday. And only on 15 September would there really have been some problems. But no--to delay by one week so that the situation is irreversible... It's like! Even today we can vote 'no', do not fall into waste mafia blackmail, because now Burov says: "There are no problems! Even if there is no emergency, I guarantee that the waste will be exported." But there is a need for an emergency, these two companies that carry out... participate in the creation of a monopoly. I call on you not to support the Mafia! Thank you (Applause)
ParlaMint-LV_2019-09-19-PT13-2009-U31	The name of the Member, Martin Bondar.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-09-19-PT13-2009-U32	Madam President, Dear colleagues, Dear colleagues, Let me be honest: I am not a specialist in waste, so I will not talk about waste. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. K. Feldman: “What specialist are you, Martin?” ) But! What I know... What I know (Interior call.) - that there is a difference between elections and government. ( The box “Yes! ”) ) And the time of elections - the time of elections! - Just in front. And, you know, the Riga City Council elections are a little further than the American Presidential elections. The election of the American President has just begun, but to start the campaign of Riga at the moment, listen, the powder will not be enough! It just won't be enough powder! The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. Feldman: “Think about people! ” ) Our attitude to the management of Riga is well known to everyone. But we also know the date when there are elections. Colleagues, I recommend you take a careful look at the calendar! ( Interface: “The subject is waste, not elections! ” ) Thank you. And please support the announcement of the emergency. ( Milestones.)
ParlaMint-LV_2019-09-19-PT13-2009-U33	The name is Digit Schmidt.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-09-19-PT13-2009-U34	Dear colleagues, Ladies and gentlemen! Waste around the world has two character characteristics as to how to say. Same everywhere in the world. First of all, they (Dep. S. Riekstins: “Smurf!” )... That's it! The first name is correct. First of all, they stink as a result of natural laws. As it does, it smells different, but overall the waste smells, and that's logical. But then there's a second quality that has nothing to do with physics, in general, nature laws. It's very strange that it's smashed from the waste right into the suit of politicians. Surprisingly, not elsewhere, but directly in the suit of politicians. Unfortunately, Riga is no exception. I understand that many people don't like how Ushakov and America managed Riga. Me, too, no! Not only with regard to waste, but also with regard to many other things, but... I understand that there is a wish for them to avenge themselves. But I just want to say one thing... Perhaps you have not noticed, but in this way you will not avenge them, because both gentlemen are currently living in Brussels and someone else is exporting the waste. Those to whom you can avenge are, in fact, the Rigans. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. L. Ozola: “We don’t want to overpay!” ) Finally, I would like to say that we... I understand that there is a desire to integrate, as we say, political smells with smells in the environment, making such a decision and covering the emergency situation, but I do not know whether that would be what we should go to Riga. One. Second. I understand that we want to achieve results in international competition, but I believe that Naples should compete with some other characteristics - football - and instead try to overtake them, not in this waste, as you say, to put them in second place and to take the honorary first. In my opinion, this is not where we should direct not only Riga, but Latvia in general. Thank you. I will support this continuation of the emergency situation. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. E.Zālīte–Gross: “Of course! Who doubted it!” ) Council Regulation (EC) No 1257/96 of 20 June 1996 concerning humanitarian aid (OJ L 163, 2.7.1996, p. 1).
ParlaMint-LV_2019-09-19-PT13-2009-U35	Name to Member Artus Neminis.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-09-19-PT13-2009-U36	I'll start from below. I don't know much about human trafficking, but I think it would be at the bottom. Then there could be prostitution, then there could be drugs, then there could be weapons, and then there could be a waste business. That's the business stage, I think... the manner in which it is broken down. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. I. Zarins: “How do you know that?” ) Dear colleagues, I am 38 years old and the Treaty is 20 years old. That means when I'm 58, but Andris with a beard will be 81. I. Zarins: “It won’t be!” ), as he currently has 61. In my opinion, this is a completely distorting treaty at all. Close something for 20 years?Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, That is the principle of bad governance. Five years, okay, but not 20! In addition, in a monopoly... You can't do that! That's not right! Next thing. Dear Members, KPV LV will also not support the announcement of the emergency situation today, but... I have to remind you where you are who you are. You are members of the Saeima. The Saeima is the highest decision-making power in Latvia. The Cabinet of Ministers shall have executive powers. The executive power shall comply with the decisions of the supreme decision-making power. ( Milestones.) The executive power has decided one, but the decision-making authority can decide differently. And in this case (interim.) The decision-making power shall give its decision. Remember that you have the opportunity to change your opinion! In short, that would be all. Mr Pūce's concerns about who will then remove the waste from LIDO Krasta Street. Well, let's figure out something in three months! If you can't throw that waste out of LIDO or any other supermarket on Krasta Street... I think that's a deal. In any case, I would like to thank Ms Abraham very much for his updating of the situation. I think that, at last, every Rigaian knows what the waste business is, because society is very involved in this topic. Very well, society is being educated. And I think this three-month period... What could happen now... and these treaties remain in force, Mr. Pouce, everything is going on. I think there's no reason for stress. Colleagues, ladies and men, let's not argue about this! Let's just not argue, huh? Without personal remarks, some things and so on... but, quite simply, a 20-year contract. What are we talking about? Thank you. I call for no support. (Applause)
ParlaMint-LV_2019-09-19-PT13-2009-U37	Name to Member Krišjānis Feldman for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-09-19-PT13-2009-U38	Yeah, thank you. I need to remind you of one thing. It was mentioned here that two gentlemen, who are these constructions, have fled to Brussels... The authors of this scene. I have to tell you bad news - The Housing and Environment Committee is led by Stepanenko in the Riga City Council, and he has not fled anywhere. He is a party member of the so-called Mayor of Riga right now - Burov. They're in one party. By the way, there's nowhere... Nothing... Jackie, who planned this one, is currently the head of the Riga City Council. And how much betrayal, “Developing!” Is that so? We were all together in the Riga City Council. We had... We have information. You with VARAM resources may in principle have even more information than we do. And ironically, when we fought against the opposition in the Riga City Council... Well, the young Conservatives really struggled for real, not as now yours flicker with anti-state forces. We are now watching the news that SAVEHA is the largest supporter of the emergency situation. CORRELATION TABLE What's going on here? ( FROM THE GROUP: “A new coalition to the top! ” ) That is exactly what the new coalition is: INTEROPERABILITY, ZZS and "Development/About!" Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. (Laughter) Thank you very much. Come on, Mr Bondara, to think about the elections and Development/About! Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. Finally, think about society. (Applause)
ParlaMint-LV_2019-09-19-PT13-2009-U39	The name of Member Juta Stricky. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. J. Strike: “I’m going to hit it?” ; dep. A. Clementyev: “How are you talking!” ) You have four minutes. That's enough?
ParlaMint-LV_2019-09-19-PT13-2009-U40	Yeah. ( The box “Let’s Live Friendly! ”) ) Mr Schmidt, I really sat down and thought if political waste from political groups would talk about waste. He was talking! It's okay in the country. (Applause) Substitution: “Intelect!” ) Emergency. This is not an extraordinary situation; it is an extraordinary, greedy desire to earn. Yeah, we're scared of what's going on here. SAYS have used to scare everyone. In times of Communism, we were also terrified by many. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. D. Šmits: “There you are specialists!” ) I now legally - legally! - I'll explain what happens if we don't. A decision of the Competition Council will apply. This means that it will not be possible to take away the recommendations and waste will continue to be collected at the prices of previous contracts. What if we support the emergency? Three months will pass, we will again hear these threats that we are hearing here, and then we will be told: “Whether you pay or we will not take the waste away.” We will now hear it regularly, because it really is a wish to circumvent the decision of the Competition Council, to break the existing treaties and constantly blackmail us now with the monopoly that has been in place for several years. Of course, all these manures with which we will now be frightened have a name. That name is Burov. Don't let him tell you he's a young person in the domain! He voted as a Member for all the previous decisions that led us there. That's why for the Rigaers... not raise prices for the existence of previous agreements, follow the decision of the Competition Council. Because otherwise we'll be told... In bad condition there are bridges - emergency situation! We don't want to comply with a law - an emergency! We do not want to comply with the judgment - the emergency! Where is the actual crisis, the storm, the fire? Why are we... Is that so? We have no emergency! We have a desire not to comply with the Competition Council's decision without waiting for the court's decision. I call for this draft decision to be voted against. Thank you. (Applause)
ParlaMint-LV_2019-09-19-PT13-2009-U41	Mrs Strike and the other colleagues who are taking part in the debate, I call for a new look at the Code of Ethics for Members of the Saeima (Applause). , in this case Article 7. Please, let us, in the debate, treat our colleagues in the Saeima with respect. Mr. Witenberg, you don't think you're going to have a debate with a minute? ( Internouncing call.) Please call me! Please register the Members! Time for notifications. Name to Member Rihard Cole.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-09-19-PT13-2009-U42	Dear and honourable Members of the Commission on Foreign Affairs, In five minutes' time, a meeting of the Foreign Affairs Commission will be held in the sittings of the Foreign Affairs Commission. Please be quick and be timely. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-09-19-PT13-2009-U43	Name for the statement to Member Artus Neminiņš.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-09-19-PT13-2009-U44	Members of the Commission on Human Rights and Public Affairs, please... four minutes and ten seconds to the Red Hall - five minutes to the sitting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-09-19-PT13-2009-U45	Name for the statement to Member Martin Bondar.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-09-19-PT13-2009-U46	Members of the Budget and Finance (Tax) Commission, please do not forget that the Budget and Finance (Tax) Commission will start in a few minutes' time on our premises. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-09-19-PT13-2009-U47	Name to the member of the Saeima Secretary for the reading of the results of the registration.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-09-19-PT13-2009-U48	Has not registered: Raimonds Bergmanis, Anda Čakša, Gundars Dauge, Inese Ikstena, Andrejs Judins, Artuss Neimins (Interface.) ... Yes, Maris Kučinskis.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-09-19-PT13-2009-U49	Thank you. Interruption until 11 a.m. ( Interruption)
ParlaMint-LV_2019-09-19-PT13-2009-U50	Dear colleagues, We're going to keep the Saeima sitting after the break. On the agenda - draft decision on declaring the emergency situation in the administrative territory of Riga. We are continuing the debate. Name to Member Janis Dombrava.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-09-19-PT13-2009-U51	Dear colleagues, Before the break, we saw a very negative thing that the members of the Latvian parties gave each other the most expression from the platform while the creators of the real problem are sitting very quiet (The group said “And rejoice!” ) and are happy. It is often said that the larger the municipality, the more efficient it is managed. However - how often are we here in the Saeima dealing with the problems that have been caused by the municipality of Salacgrīva, the municipality of Smiltene or the municipality of Krustpils? And how often do the Saeima and the government have to deal with the problems of the largest municipality in Latvia - Riga? The problem is not in the size of the municipality, but in the power of the managers. Ušakov, Turlais, Burovs are completely incapable owners who do not know how to manage their municipality. I think it would have been only right if the government had already been in 2019, when the Minister of Environmental Protection and Regional Development, Kaspars Gerhards, came with an initiative to release the Riga City Council, would have done so. At that point, even before we put all these problems in the amount we have at the moment. But now we need to think about how to go ahead with solutions. In my opinion, Riga is very poorly managed against other municipalities. It is self-evident that it is possible for every private house to apply free of charge for sorted waste containers. A sorted waste container is placed at every private house, which can be used free of charge by these people. There it is a normal phenomenon that underground containers are being constructed near apartment houses, where waste is produced and many people are living at the same time. To make any such development path in Riga? What are you doing? This is not the case in any of Russia's gulfs! Why should this happen in Riga? And imagine, anyone who has concluded a contract with waste managers in Northern Vidzeme is sent to the e-mail calendar at the beginning of each year when the waste will be exported. And so, text messages are sent every week or every other week or during any other period - depending on how a person has applied for - to remind you: “You are going to export the waste tomorrow.” For such communication to take place in Riga with customers? Forget it! ( Internouncing call.) And now we see a situation where the Competition Council has suspended specific decisions in a situation where it is not clear how further waste management could be organised. There is a proposal by the Minister of Environmental Protection and Regional Development to declare the state of emergency in Riga, which will once again confirm the failure of Riga City Council to work and take decisions. I hope that one day even the most proud supporters of the “Harmonization” will open their eyes and see how weak your presence in the Riga City Council is, how weak they are in the municipality. ( From a political group, ‘ On the subject! ’) ) At the same time, I hope that everyone is aware: if we are declaring an emergency today, this does not mean that it must remain until mid-December. This exceptional situation can also be eliminated much earlier by decisions of the government and the Saeima. I really hope that VARAM will also be active and will not wait for this maximum time limit, but already next week or next week will come with concrete legislative initiatives that will help to solve these problems in the country instead of Riga City Council. We must take care of Rigans, even if the Riga City Council is unable to perform its work qualitatively.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-09-19-PT13-2009-U52	The name is Mr. Janis Wittenberg.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-09-19-PT13-2009-U53	I'm going to talk on behalf of my own, not of the commission, and then I'm going to remind you that we were looking at this issue in the commission a week ago, when it was not yet announced... the emergency. Then could not have noticed such a thing that the Competition Council reported... and had such a deplorable attitude toward them. And it was also reprimanded - what have you come at the last minute? Why didn't you come before? But, well, that's not true. I have prepared such a chronological review of the activities of the Competition Council. It has written letters to the responsible authorities and has been complaining since 2017. For example, on 14 February 2017, a letter was sent to Riga City Council about its planned public-private partnership agreement in the area of waste management. Hope! The next letter - in March of the same year, VARAM also writes to the Riga City Council. But the feeling that no one has responded is simply purposefully directed towards the interests of a group of people, not the interests of Riga residents. And now, at this point, we are in an emergency... I would even like to say that it is like artificially designed to quickly conclude these contracts (because the procurement procedure does not work in its classic expression). We must support the Competition Council because, as for these people who have invested so much, we will now say: yes, you are beatings, you have done well, but now we will not really take you into account. When? Because often, when looking at various procurement procedures, entrepreneurs no longer believe in competitive conditions in Latvia. At this point, when the Competition Council has reacted actively, we do not believe in the Competition Council. I think that is absolutely unacceptable. As Mr Dombrava has already mentioned, we are already addressing the problems of “Riga traffic” here... waste, roads, bridges; soon we in the Saeima will have to take and take care of those cats, which are currently in the Riga City Council. So... (Applause) Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-09-19-PT13-2009-U54	The name to the Member Digim Schmit for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-09-19-PT13-2009-U55	I just have a brief comment on them in the debate... not even about culture (it is not worth talking about), but the content that I have heard here today. I've got these... Well, that's one big question. In principle, if you sum up together, members of the coalition party from the UKP say about other members of the coalition party, Development/About! above all, that their partners cover some illegal monopoly, some schemes. Well, actually, we're... Well, maybe it didn't sound like that, but, summing up together, it's there, as this kind of support for organised crime actually happens, isn't it? ( Internouncing call.) If I'm right... If I understand correctly, then that is it. But there would be some nuance. First of all, as you probably noticed, it was a government decision. And with Development/About! there, as it is not enough, there is also a need for New Unity and National Associations in that case. You say that you have a different opinion, but technically you have created this coalition here, you are its pillar and the pillar of this premiere. And technically, technically, you are members of this organized group - remember it! - while you support this government and its decisions. Thank you. ( Internoint.) Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-09-19-PT13-2009-U56	Name to Member Sergey Dolgopolov.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-09-19-PT13-2009-U57	Dear colleagues, Everything was discussed, except the one we are currently debating. This situation has highlighted a number of things. First. There are problems in the area of waste management, starting with amendments to laws and ending with practical applications. These problems must be tackled primarily by the Saeima. That's the point number one. Point number two. Monitoring is likely to be insufficient and the actions of the Competition Council were nevertheless delayed and led to an worsening of this crisis. Thirdly. Think about this, we are talking about the emergency situation today. Do not give God if a flood situation arises. — From the UK Group: “How can we compare it?Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. “) or nothing else! This rhythm, this pace at which we address the issue of declaring an emergency, does not withstand any criticism. For if a real critical situation arise and we should talk about preaching an emergency, that process could last for several days or even long weeks! That is the third problem. And the fourth thing. Today it is not about it - Riga City Council works well or badly. Today, we are talking about it (Dep. E.Zālīte-Gross: “It’s never talk about!” )... Today it is about how to avoid a number of problems, including litigation, when dealing with legal issues. We have enough time to sort out legislation and, to say, try to disprove the statements made by Mr Neighbouring and by some other Members; before that, it is time. But in order to deal with the current problem, it is necessary to announce the emergency situation. We do not live in Italy, thank God, and mentality is different to us. Otherwise, Riga streets would be full of waste. And the examples that had been given, let's say, from other regions... by the way, those waste management contracts have been concluded for very long periods. I call for support to the decision of the Cabinet of Ministers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-09-19-PT13-2009-U58	Name to Member Viktor Valain.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-09-19-PT13-2009-U59	Colleagues! I think we have a very, very modern Parliament - it follows all the latest trends in Europe. And I would like to say, for what do we have opposition if we have such a coalition? It is a pleasure to watch you argue with one another today about a decision taken jointly by the government! What seems to me to be worth such reflection in this decision - those three months that have been given. We have to assume that everything is in its entirety in terms of how to address this crisis situation in the capital. However, for our part, there will be a question for the government itself as to whether such a government could exist at all at the moment if we return to the same draft decision within three months. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-09-19-PT13-2009-U60	Name to Member Aldi Gobzem. Are Members opposed to merging the two times of the debate? And the objections! Then we will have to vote if there are objections. Please call me! Let us vote for bringing together the two times of the debate for Member Aldim Gobzem! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 72, for - 2, for - 3. Consequently, the time for the debate is combined.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-09-19-PT13-2009-U61	Dear Latvian people! What you hear and see today is one beautiful theatre, and I will try to prove to you why it is a theatre. This problem, which we are talking about, arose far away in 2010. I would like to remind you, which government was then driving the Waste Management Act, so that it could actually be possible to make management monopolies. The head of state was the hero of personal success story Valdis Dombrovskis. If we look further, what was the next head of government? It was also a Unity. If we look at the amendments to the Waste Management Act and did not oppose the creation of such a situation, but actually just promoted it, then the Minister for Economics, who is sitting here today in the Chamber for Development/About! leader Daniel Pavilut. Historically, the perimeter of waste management business began at that time, and it is these people who should initially take responsibility for the chaos that is today. If we go further and continue to be responsible, we need to deal with a few more questions. One of them is the obvious situation created by the Riga City Council when making a specific competition. The Terms of Reference of the tender are public and accessible to all, and it is clear from this invitation to tender that only one tenderer actually meets the requirements of the Terms of Reference, and that this is a good example of Clean R. For example, the following section of the competition: Experience in the management of municipal waste for a continuous period of three years in one city with a population of up to... over 500 thousand. This is only for one applicant. It is clear that this tender was awarded to a single tenderer. But! I would like to remind you what we have in the opposition of the Riga City Council. In the opposition of Riga City Council we have Unity, we have Development/About! and we also have a BIP. I don’t remember that these organisations would have been very active. — Dep. S. Riekstins: “Nemuldi!” ) and had raised concerns about the competition. There's another detail that's very strange. Today, for example, a coalition partner in the UKP is on the table and very actively opposes... But it is felt in this sense. BIP... I would like to remind you that we have a portfolio of the Minister for Justice and that the Minister could legitimately resolve this situation without a theatre in the Saeima. It doesn't solve it! Grabin's drums at Riga City Council, but use his post to solve this situation - you can't! Obviously there is no competence to do so. Another theatre point to remember today... and that, of course, tells a lot about the events in the Saeima and so on. Today there will be a vote in which the National Alliance and the SAA will vote in a friendly manner. I feel that the National Association is also in opposition to the Council. But the feeling that there is no such position and opposition here, especially given what the UK said today to Development/About! . I do not understand at all how humanly, if a person has self-esteem, you can endure and tolerate the fact that you, Daniel, and the other colleagues in your coalition, with whom you sit at one table, are called the mafia. Even though there is no doubt that Juris Puce is... and his organisation is in close contact with the waste managers - Mr Kokorevich, for example. That this close relationship is reflected, for example, in regular communication with Mr. Simanovic. And, of course, it is only a coincidence that waste managers have suddenly started to support the basketball club VEF financially. (Laughter) (See paragraph 4.5 of this Regulation.) Then, after this whole theater, we will vote, let us cast out people who, of course, have objectively used the law created by Unity & Co for their own benefit, obviously. After the meeting of the Saeima is over, everyone will be friendlyly going to the canteen or the pipe, and smiling one another will say, “See how I put you together!” And the other one will smile: “Yes!” And everything, this whole coalition or this opposition will collapse after the Saeima sitting. That is why I want to say to you, dear Latvian society, that this is all one big theatre. If someone wants to resolve the waste crisis, then both the Minister of Justice and those who are here today from the parliamentary troupe are shouting about corruption in an organization. And I completely agree that there is corruption there and there has been corruption there. But by using the knowledge of their ministry many - many many! - for years, Juta Strike would have been fighting this corruption long ago, and then we should not be talking about the problem here today. And by the end. If we are talking about a crisis issue... ( The utterance: “Time! ”) ) Council Regulation (EC) No 1257/96 of 20 June 1996 concerning humanitarian aid (OJ L 163, 2.7.1996, p. 1).
ParlaMint-LV_2019-09-19-PT13-2009-U62	Mr Gobzem, you also have a combined period of debate.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-09-19-PT13-2009-U63	That's obviously what we're supposed to do next time... Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-09-19-PT13-2009-U64	Name to Member Daniel Pavilut.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-09-19-PT13-2009-U65	Dear President of the Saeima. Members of the Bureau! Colleagues! Ladies and gentlemen! Today's debate, I must say, is that, on temperament, both on the south and on the Italian side, I do not seem to agree with Mr Dolgopolov, because temperament will hit a high wave. But I will try to be applied today and talk about the substance of the matter under consideration. Some comments give the impression that we would decide today whether the Cabinet of Ministers or the Competition Council is right. ( Insight: “That’s it! ”) ) It seems that these colleagues have not gone into the substance of the matter, because today the decision of the Saeima is about whether or not to confirm the exceptional situation declared by the Cabinet of Ministers on the basis of these reasons... the purpose for which such a decision has been taken by the Cabinet of Ministers. I would like to emphasise that, when this decision is taken, the Cabinet of Ministers, when announcing an emergency situation, has weighed all 'for' and 'no', having heard various views. I like some in this room... has also been present in this debate. I think some of them certainly watched video as well. The debate was serious and difficult, but I can assure you that all the views were heard and weighed down. No one in this room owns a monopoly on legal justice either in the short or in the long term. In the meeting of the Cabinet of Ministers, opinions differed. And with regard to what the Competition Council considered to be the third point of its decision. What has really happened or has not happened, or what can or cannot be done with previous agreements with waste managers, in the previous four - differing opinions on this. It was a serious discussion. But the government debated this issue and made a decision. The government lawyers, lawyers of the State Chancellery, lawyers of the Ministry of Justice considered that the emergency situation was justified. Here we may be able to afford to speak with all kinds of words, to name and to express our personal views for the sake of faith. The Cabinet shall, when making its decision, weigh for and against. There are situations in which the government has a responsibility to act because the government, as executive power, must be aware of the consequences and possible developments and the government must take responsibility. And the government has done so. Today, in this debate, the question is, of course, whether the Saeima trusts the government, the head of the government itself, the ministers, that they have made a balanced, reasoned and, above all, necessary decision. I believe - yes, so I definitely call on everyone to understand that we also take responsibility for the consequences of this situation, for what will happen at the moment when the button is pressed... if the Saeima does not approve the extraordinary situation announced by the Cabinet of Ministers, what will be the consequences. And I'll let you quote... First of all, according to the law, orders will lose... Order No will cease to be valid 432 So these new Riga City Council agreements with waste managers will no longer apply. Contracts between waste managers and primary producers and owners of municipal waste will no longer be in force. The Riga City Council will no longer have the rights that have been used with the decision of the Cabinet of Ministers to conduct the negotiation procedure. Consequently, decisions taken under this procedure and the contract concluded will be unlawful. There will also be possible financial consequences, because the decision taken by the government inter alia imposed on the Riga City Council an obligation to assume the financial consequences of possible actions arising from this export or non-export of waste and conclusion or non-closure of contracts. If we cancel this emergency decision, then these possible consequences... the possible claims of waste managers will be made against the state, and this will be the responsibility of the Saeima. Consequently, I call on everyone to take this decision, taking into account the political desire of all Members to poise and carry it out, and to do everything else... and it really feels that each other is already in such an electoral regime... Realizing the consequences, everyone will have the responsibility for making the decision! I call on us to support our government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-09-19-PT13-2009-U66	The name of Member Linda Ozola.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-09-19-PT13-2009-U67	Good afternoon, dear colleagues! In fact, I did not intend to talk about this item initially. But as our debate has turned out to be quite broad, it was time to reflect on their content, and I also chose to respond to a few things. Our opposition colleague, Mr. Smith... and Mr Valaiņš tried to put Members and perhaps the whole of society, pointing out that we have divisions and we are not united about the joint decision taken by the government. It may be appropriate to point out that the decision in the government was not entirely unanimous. The ministers of the new conservative party did not support this draft decision, this order, which was adopted by the government by a majority vote. And that will probably not surprise you, too, how the new Conservative is going to vote here in the Saeima today. But that does not mean that the coalition is divided or we are in some way in favour of our government. If I understand correctly - and I hope that we are united in this sense - parliamentary democracy functions in this way. The President of Latvia has also addressed us and pointed out that Parliament is monitoring the work of the executive. And this time we monitor and appreciate. We trust, but we appreciate and will take responsibility with our vote for what we will have assessed. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. I. Zariņš: ‘How?’ ) And first and foremost, we will take this responsibility before the Rigars. I'm calling... Then another colleague from the opposition, Mr Gobzem, spoke about this and called on the Minister of Justice to almost use his post and do it - exactly what? I think you didn't say it to the end. Instead, you said that we were just rubbing the drums. Here I would like to point out that we are very strongly in favour of the rule of law. It really is! And the Minister of Justice will not abuse his post. But we promote and encourage society into civic activity (Interview.) what people did. They really went out in the streets and expressed their position on this matter. I hope that in the coming years and ahead, our society will become increasingly civilised, and this will also make the government and decision-makers listen to them. You, Mr Gobzem, also criticised the New Conservative who had not spoken and did nothing in the presence of the Riga City Council. That will not be true. I myself was a Member of Riga City Council before I came here in Saeima, and our Members both talked about this issue and pointed out it in good time, and turned to the law enforcement authorities with their applications, including on waste issues. And probably the most important thing... Two more things. One. However, I call for confidence in the Competition Council, which is an independent institution in our country. There are many situations in which we, as a society, expect a decisive decision of the Competition Council, and this institution has been and is very decisive, it has given its own decision. Mrs Strike very clearly outlined what will happen if we do not approve of the emergency situation today. The Competition Council's decision will be in force and the waste disposal agreements that have been in place before 15 September will be in force. Point. Mr. Feldman also made it very clear that the Riga City Council did not perform the tasks assigned to the Competition Council in front of Rigars. We should not forget that. We really respect this very important independent institution in our own country. And probably the most important. I address the question to the Minister: what is important to the Rigas today? What do they want to hear today? The most important thing for them is prices. They don't want to overpay. As a Riga woman, I also don't want to overpay for exporting the waste. This service is already very expensive. I allow the Minister to probably respond to this debate, and I call on you then to state very clearly to the Rigas how they will then be priced if the emergency situation is confirmed today. We call for no approval, but when we find that this possibility exists, what about the costs for the Rigans? This is the most important question that we very much want to know the answer. That is what we are most concerned about. Thank you. (Applause)
ParlaMint-LV_2019-09-19-PT13-2009-U68	Name of Member Anita Muižniece.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-09-19-PT13-2009-U69	Hello, honourable Speaker of the Saeima! Dear colleagues, Thank you, Linda. I too... I have not planned to speak today, but we have the same points of view - and I must not be surprised at why. Mr Pavilosta pointed out that the aim of the emergency is to deal with the situation. I will say that it is to make the Rigans quickly, quickly conclude new contracts with certain companies. I have to remember a very recent situation in a municipality in Pierīga where, after quite dubious procurement, which I would say was imposed and legitimised by the Ministry of Environmental Protection and Regional Development at the time, the monopoly on waste management, which is still under trial at the moment... The people were told that if you don't conclude the new treaties quickly, quickly, you won't have the ones who export the waste, you will have the mountains of waste, there will be risks for the environment. Well, the municipality is relatively small, and of course we did. And then what happened? Linda, thank you for referring to prices. In this regard, I would also like to hear the answers. Because it happened that after the conclusion of the contracts... After a few months... Oh, yeah, the winner was the same Clean R, I forgot to add. Small cost items such as the rent of waste containers have been increased. It's like a trim - from six cents to 67 for small volumes, and from five to 44 for large containers. How much is it? It's 12 times. And how does it look Clean R? During the planned period of the contract - seven years, thank God, not 20 - the planned 29 thousand will be collected, 364.5. The proportion of residents of Riga and residents of this municipality is 30 against 1. Calm down on your own, colleagues. (Applause)
ParlaMint-LV_2019-09-19-PT13-2009-U70	The name of the Member, John Adamson.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-09-19-PT13-2009-U71	Dear colleagues, We are discussing the issue of declaring the emergency situation in the area of waste management in Riga city. The government took a decision last Wednesday, but we are only looking at it this Thursday. In my view, the emergency situation is a situation where immediate action is needed, a cardinal and rapid decision is needed, what to do and what to do. Many things were discussed today... Annoyance... In fact, only Mr Dolgopolov touched on one of the fundamental problems - our legislation. For 10 years already, unfortunately, I am not able to achieve an amendment to the relevant law on the change of the financial framework, so that the whole situation we are discussing today - the monopolies... One municipality has 30 years of actually covered contracts, the other has 20... You could continue and call certain municipalities, but it is not the essence of this. The situation is now very simple. Any citizen formally enters into an agreement with the operator on the disposal of waste. In reality, try not to conclude this contract! Where are you going to be with that waste? But a tender for the shipment of waste is announced by a municipality or a municipal company. Colleagues! The simplest... the simplest situation... Citizens don't care who withdraws waste, most importantly, that they don't have it and that they are exported at a reasonable price. The residents conclude a service contract with the municipality, and the municipality announces a competition. And then take the waste to the Getlni (in this particular case)... Not as it happens now, that brings the operator... weighs the car - aah, too much weight, let's get back or to the forest. But it is the municipal company or private operator who pays for the incoming waste. As a result, we also solve another problem – waste in Latvia will remain less. And there would be no problem! I have had negotiations with the Members of the Saeima, the Heads of the Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy Commission, all the Ministers for Environmental Protection and Regional Development since 2010, but there have been no hearing ears. I call on the Minister to look at and review the financial system, the scheme itself. It would solve many issues both on monopolies and on possible machinations when from a municipal company... Pay, let's accept, a notional EUR 100 per exported waste, but when you bring to Getliņi, you pay EUR 50. There are those machinations here, and there are those operators who do not want to change the scheme, and the officials of VARAM do not want to change the scheme. Then we may look at those causes, their basics, and not at this time fighting the consequences, and try to reason, reason, and the like. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-09-19-PT13-2009-U72	First name to Minister Juris Pucem for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-09-19-PT13-2009-U73	Highly honored Saeima! It was really interesting to listen to your debate on this issue. I understand that this will be for this house - in parallel with the discussion of a subject on the agenda - all the other issues will be discussed on one hand. This probably increases the possibility that the decision taken is more balanced. Some of the questions, some of the reservations that have been raised in this debate. I will try to answer them. In several speeches, there was a pervasive motive that the exceptional situation would in some way undermine the role and place of the Competition Council's decision. I would like to reject these concerns. The decision of the Competition Council shall remain in full force at the time of the adoption of that decision, the announcement of the emergency situation. Full scale! The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. J. Strike: “It’s not true!” ) On a full scale, including paragraph 3 of the Competition Council Decision, which obliges Riga Municipality to withdraw its comments. Mr Feldman said that the municipality of Riga did not fulfil this task. The municipality of Riga has fulfilled this task on 10 September - and all... I also said this in my first speech... all four comments have been withdrawn. The problem is that only one of the economic operators accepted this withdrawal. ( Subtotal: “Others? ”) ) The others... one said that he would not continue to do this kind of business anymore, one replied that... Two replied that under the existing law, they have no possibility to comply with the provisions of this agreement because the agreements between individuals and waste managers are not in force, and not, as you have emphasised in many speeches, the agreements between the waste manager and the municipality. These are two different types of contracts. The Competition Council has only covered these contracts in its decision. ( The box “No! ”) ) Fourth paragraph of the Decision of the Competition Council, which obliges Riga Municipality to inform about waste managers providing waste management services in its territory, does not exempt citizens and waste managers from the obligation to conclude a waste management agreement, as such an obligation is provided for by law. Moreover, the Competition Council could not at all establish that these contracts were automatically in force. All these contracts - all these contracts! - have lost its power for this moment (interface: "Welcome!" ), it is not the result of a decision on an emergency, it is the result of the regulation provided for in Article 18 of the law on the matter. If he cancels, then what will apply? Such a question was raised in a number of previous debates. And there is a presumption that the rules set by the Competition Council will apply. The problem is that - and I tried to mention it both in my first speech and in the two sittings of the government dealing with this issue - that the Competition Council has not decided on the legal force of the agreements between waste managers and private individuals. Therefore, there is no legal regulation of the Competition Council on this situation. So if this contract is cancelled... without prejudice to any agreements and agreements concluded during an emergency... we return to the situation where all natural persons living in the city of Riga who have concluded a waste management agreement, as well as all legal persons who live here, are obliged to conclude a contract with a new waste management company. In practice, given the number of persons involved, this requires a reasonable transitional period. In fact, the legislator foretold this in this same verse 18. In a situation where the procurement procedure changes and is a new participant, it is planned to have a total of two months; this could be a reasonable period for a municipality of a size such as Riga, taking into account the range of stakeholders involved. Until there's an emergency... As long as there is an emergency, the conclusion of such a contract is not necessary. And here I would like to oppose Mrs Muižniece, who says that the aim of this exceptional situation is to force contracts to be concluded. No, the exceptional situation implies that no contract should be concluded. ( Internouncing call.) With the end of the emergency situation, the Competition Councils will continue... I mean, one more separate question... Mrs. Muižniece did not mention this in her speech, but I heard Mrs. Strique's reply from her place this time while she spoke... At the end of the emergency, there is indeed a situation in which, of course, the regulation of the Waste Management Act and the need to conclude a contract are renewed. For this reason, by approving this order, the Government has also identified in the Protocol Decision the task of our Ministry to prepare the regulation of the law in order to have temporary regulation in place, within which the waste management service in Riga would be provided, while maintaining the regulation stipulated in the Competition Council decision. rules. We are fulfilling this duty. With such a legislative proposal, we will be in both the government and the Saeima within the deadline... until the end of the emergency. So I want to calm down... that the motive for our action is to ensure in any way that a contract is concluded with the newly created company Clean whose right to conclude contracts has, in my view, been rightly restricted by the Competition Council. Therefore, the issue of prices is an important one. In fact, the task of the negotiation procedure (if you read the draft order prepared by the Cabinet of Ministers)... Points 3.1, 3.2 and 3.3 actually impose obligations which, in the absence of an emergency situation, could not be given to the Riga City Council from the government. For example, the obligation to ensure that all contracts are continued without any change in prices or other relevant contractual terms. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. J. Strike: “three months!” ) Yes, it applies to the time of the emergency, but it is the essence of the regulation of the law on the emergency and exceptional situation. Adjustments may be made only for this period. Once again. We have a role to play in this regard. — Dep. L. Ozola: “But then?” )... We have a task, and I will repeat once again, Mrs Ozola, then... We have a task to prepare a bill to solve... that this framework should also apply in respect of the period during which the exceptional situation ends but the case of the Competition Council continues to be heard. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. K. Feldman: “What if it gets lost in court?” ) When will he lose his court? I'm not talking to the grass, I think it's forbidden. ( Interface: “Don’t talk to the grass! ” ) What happens if the Competition Council loses its court? Then the emergency is over. We also need regulation, transitional regulation. My intention is never to allow a 20-year contract and the company Clean to continue to export waste. No way! The legal framework that we will propose will provide for transitional regulation until the Competition Council investigates the case. If the case is closed otherwise... Well, at the moment I would refuse to predict what the result would be... after two years about or after one and a half, when the investigation of the case will end... At least the same Chairman of the Competition Council has predicted how long this case could go. But! My general commitment - and I have said this at both Government sittings last week and several times to the public media - and I say to you today is good... This is a good background for us, both the Cabinet of Ministers and you, the honourable Saeima, to seriously review the rules of monopoly in waste management as a whole. This is a question of that... Perhaps these changes have been driven by good intentions, good intentions... Why have responsibilities and rules been imposed, but these good intentions have unfortunately taken away where the good intentions are usually taken away. The situation of Monopoly currently exists in all municipalities of Latvia, in fact Riga is the only exception in this respect. Common framework on how this has happened... the tail is quite long - and not mentioned in 2010, actually even before. With each regulation of the Waste Management Law, we have strengthened the conditions for creating a monopoly situation throughout Latvia. Rarely, this is justified. This is most often due to the fact that it has been the simplest and most convenient solution to achieve other objectives created by the waste management system. It is most easy to ask companies that are already on the ground, thus strengthening the monopoly power. In the event of non-payment of obligations, compensation shall be granted and the compensation shall be subject to a monopoly. This needs to be addressed. I very much hope that we in this Saeima will be able to make these changes. ( The box “I don’t know, I don’t know! ”) ) The proposal to amend the Waste Management Act was mentioned today, which my colleague, Daniel Pavluts, signed as the performance officer at that time as Minister of Environmental Protection and Regional Development... and presented it to the Saeima. You know what that proposal was? This was as follows: limit the PPP to a maximum of 10 years. That proposal was amended by the Saeima for 20 years. Since there was no regulation at all, an agreement was concluded for 30 years. This is still the case in one municipality. So that I call today to support the order of the Cabinet of Ministers. It is prepared for a very thorough legal consultation to find the most effective solution to this problem. It ensures that the residents of Riga municipality are provided with a waste management service. No other existing regulation would guarantee this. ( Internouncing call.) The call is therefore to support this order and to take a decision responsibly, especially since the responsibility is not only expressed by the promise to take it. — Dep. J. Strīķe: “Are Riga City Council fired?” ); the responsibility is also evident in the work - then it's all out. Not everyone can have such an obligation after the Saeima takes one or the other decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-09-19-PT13-2009-U74	Name to Member Ivars Zarins. ( Insight: ‘ Are you talking about OIC? ’) ) Council Regulation (EC) No 1257/96 of 20 June 1996 concerning humanitarian aid (OJ L 163, 2.7.1996, p. 1).
ParlaMint-LV_2019-09-19-PT13-2009-U75	Hello, colleagues! It is not in vain to say that democracy is a long learning process. And we are at the beginning of this process. This has been demonstrated by this debate. I really have my colleagues in this Saeima, who have been elected for the first time in the Saeima, the zeal and passion to do something, to fight with something. I really see that for many, it really is true. Unfortunately, it is often yours that it discourages your understanding of what you are doing. Listening to your debate today, I think, however, you have understood that to a large extent you have been involved in populism, hypocrisy and the exchange of facts here today. ( The box “Yes! ”) ) I would very much like to... Purely from political competition... I would very much like this vote to be what you want today - so that the emergency situation is not declared so that you can then take full political responsibility for the consequences. Because, unfortunately, now, with your joy... It looks like you're ready to call those you want to defend from him by saying that you want to fight the dragon. Of course, dragons must be fought, but not as you are now. Now, by nature... What you said today... You're basically... You didn't realize that you made an insult to yourself, you made an accusation to yourself. If this is an area that has been implemented for so many years and about which you knew, then what did you do there in the Riga City Council? Where Are Your Applications? Feldman: “What did you do, Ivar?” )... Where are your applications to the law enforcement authorities for all this? Go on. If you say that if today (interim.) ... If you say that if the emergency is not announced today... will be announced, and then will join. — Dep. J. Strikķe: “Who will come in?” ) last horror when there will be... this mafia will go ahead, then by nature you can assure you that you are not going to do anything. Because, by nature, if you really want to fight this scene, not now to make cheap populism at the expense of everything - you simply show that you want to fight, but you don't do anything - then you would do what? Then the next step is that tomorrow you would come and start working with the appropriate amendments to the law, because we can do all this through legislation. All you have to do is just start working and not stealing! The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. Feldmans: “You do it!” ) Start a real fight with what you are talking about here all the time! Otherwise, it is simply an empty embarrassment you are dealing with. And I would very much like to prove it today, but unfortunately I cannot act as irresponsiblely as you do. I am simply not allowed to understand it or to understand it. Colleagues! If you do not really speak empty, then I hope that you will come with amendments to the law. Otherwise, you simply acknowledge that there are huge problems with the rule of law in this country and your coalition, and you cannot do anything. Thank you. ( Internouncing call.)
ParlaMint-LV_2019-09-19-PT13-2009-U76	The name to Member Sandy Riekstin for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-09-19-PT13-2009-U77	Fantastics! A member of the stolen Riga Council Party comes to tell and teach what should be done even though you have such a chance. ( Interface: ‘ That’s it! ’) ) You can now as a... In the Riga City Council to jog... Riga City Council for its Members... to seek and recover the wasted money from very many and different persons, including Mrs Regina, by the way. There is every opportunity to do so, but you are not. You come and tell us what to do... for us, Mr. Zarins. You start doing it yourself and start doing it with your colleagues at the Riga Council (Interview.) , who have looted our capital, and then maybe we'll believe you too. (Applause)
ParlaMint-LV_2019-09-19-PT13-2009-U78	I closed the debate. On behalf of the Commission, Mr Wittenberg, is there something to add? The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. J. Witenberg: “No! Everything has already been said!” ) No. ( Internoint.) (Laughter) Colleagues, we have to vote! Please call me! We will vote for the draft decision “On announcing the emergency situation in the administrative territory of Riga”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 59, for - 24, for - 1. Decision adopted. The agenda shall be for the election, approval, appointment, dismissal or dismissal of officials, for the expression of trust or distrust. The draft decision “On the dismissal of the judge of the Rēzekne Court of Justice of Galin Aleksejeva from the office of a judge”. On behalf of the Legal Commission, Mr Valery Agešin, Member.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-09-19-PT13-2009-U79	Dear colleagues, At the meeting of the Legal Commission on 11 September, the draft decision “On the dismissal of the judge of the Rēzekne court from the office of a judge” was reviewed at his own wish due to reaching retirement age. The members of the Commission unanimously supported the draft decision. On 17 December 2015, the Judicial Qualification Board evaluated the professional activities of the judge Aleksejeva by providing a positive opinion. On behalf of the Legal Commission, I appeal to the judge of the Rēzekne court, Galine Alekseyeva, from the position of the judge at his own wish, from January 2, 2020.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-09-19-PT13-2009-U80	Please call me! We will vote for the draft decision “On the dismissal of the judge of Rēzekne Gaļina Aleksejeva from the office of a judge”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 81, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. Decision adopted. Draft decision “On dismissal of the judge Alda Styņa from the position of judge of Vidzeme district court”. On behalf of the Legal Commission, Mr Valery Agešin, Member.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-09-19-PT13-2009-U81	During the meeting of the Legal Commission on 11 September, the draft decision “On the dismissal of Alda Stynis, a judge of Vidzeme district court from the office of a judge” was reviewed at his own wish due to his retirement pension. The members of the Commission unanimously supported the draft decision. On 14 March 2014, the Judicial Qualification Committee carried out an evaluation of the professional activities of judge Stynis, giving a positive opinion. As of 9 March 2018, Sienien is the Vice-Chairman of the Vidzeme District Court. The work of the judge has been evaluated with awards: in 2017 the Honorary article of the Court Administration on significant contribution and outstanding achievements in judicial development and self-free performance of office duties, in 2018 the Ministry of Justice's Thanksgiving article on cooperation and support in the implementation of functions and tasks of the Ministry of Justice. On behalf of the Legal Commission, I invite Aldi Sieni, a judge of Vidzeme district court, to be released from office of a judge at his own wish from January 1, 2020. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-09-19-PT13-2009-U82	Let us start a debate. The name is Digit Schmidt.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-09-19-PT13-2009-U83	I just wanted to express my enormous thanks to Judge Aldis Sienis for his life contribution to the work of the judge. Great judge, great personality! It is a pity that the retirement age is coming so quickly. I think he is one of the examples of how to decide a fair trial and how to serve as a model for judges and lawyers who intend to become judges. ( Internouncing call.) Yes, I will, of course, vote in favour because we do not... This vote is strange at all. We cannot really vote 'no' at all, but I think we should thank the judges more often from this troupe... not just for judges... for their work for the benefit of the whole country and nation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-09-19-PT13-2009-U84	I closed the debate. Please call me! We will vote for the draft decision “On Release of Alda Styņa, a judge of Vidzeme district court from the office of a judge”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 84, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Decision adopted. Dear colleagues, Requests have been received for changes to the agenda of the Saeima sitting. The Foreign Affairs Commission asks for changes to the agenda of the sitting - to include the draft law on Amendment No. 1 In the agreement on law enforcement cooperation of September 2004 between the Government of the Republic of Latvia and the Government of the United States of America, and to include it as the first section ‘Review of draft laws’. Are Members opposed to such an amendment to the agenda? There is no objection. The order of business has been amended. Members Liepiņa, Stepanenko, Smits, Gobzems and Sprūde are asking to include in the agenda the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Remuneration of Officials and Employees of State and Municipal Institutions”. ‘ “A Member has applied to speak about” Linda Liepiņa.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-09-19-PT13-2009-U85	Hello, colleagues! Hello, double-cotch! Hello, it's KNAB's waste! Why not say that everyone sees the world through their prism of disdain? And I would like to extend these words to those who have made it loud in recent months that I am holding to the office of the Head of the Request Commission for a (net) premium of EUR 800. So here we go! In order to demonstrate that this is not the case, this particular draft law has been created, and I would like to call on all of us, 100 people's servants, to support it so that we can clearly show to our constituents that we are carrying out additional duties for the sake of our competences and skills, not that it is a cheap purchase for coalition-needed votes and unconditional obedience. A couple more things. In addition to what I mentioned, there are morally ethical considerations that are sometimes difficult to record in the law. Here I would like to mention one particular case, one particular Member, and that is Mārtiņš Bondars, who is quite jointly responsible for sinking the "Latvijas Krajbanka" and who should never even stand close to the Parliament's Budget and Finance (Tax) Commission, but who in some strange way runs this commission. Well, that raises various questions. Members are currently provided with sufficient resources to carry out their duties without any additional premium. And I think it would be good practice for us to introduce rotation of commission heads in time. The management of the commissions would not then be given back to a particular party. Because now, as we see, one party or the other goes deep into the drawer - for a long time! - any undesirable or particularly unpreserved draft law. It would only be in our public interest, as they say, if we showed our constituents that the Members they have elected... that we all have the same rights here in this house. And for next year, too. As we know, Members' salaries are linked to the average wage, and you can all be absolutely calm about the fact that your wages will rise, because the average salary will certainly be higher than before. Unfortunately, it must be admitted that the average salary is not linked to teachers' salaries, medical salaries, police salaries, pensions, but Members' salaries are. So that, my fellow Members, I call on you not to be twofold, there is no stress: the basic wage for you in 2022 will be greater. I call on you to support this draft law and show yourself to voters with real works, not just words. There you go! The draft law in question therefore provides for the waiver of the full allowance for all posts, including office in the Bureau, the management of commissions, including the secretaries, the running of political groups and the rest. Thank you for your attention. (Applause)
ParlaMint-LV_2019-09-19-PT13-2009-U86	Mr. Artus Kaimiņš has applied to speak.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-09-19-PT13-2009-U87	Very many certainly wanted to come talk against, didn't they? It is a very grateful question. I think it's autumn time. In fact, you have to go to the mushrooms day and night and you have nothing to get a salary at all. ( Intercretion: “Rightly! ” ) During the election I was in Aloja. The local pensioners had come to listen to what they would then be told, and they said that Members do not need to receive remuneration at all, because they are people's servants. The servants are in service! ( Intercretion: “The neighbor is a servant! ” ) And they have to go into the woods and read mushrooms if they want to eat. And berries. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. J. Adamson: ‘A Fees?’ ) That will have to be the case! What salary is still a question? Linda Liepiņa, the current Head of the Request Commission, is working as if on sport in his commission. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. L. Liepiņa’s intermediate call.) , at least this is what I understand from the rhetoric that was in the mass media... Well, Linda, start with yourself, maybe! You could have given up your bonus in some way. You, as far as I understand, have successfully received this supplement every month throughout the summer. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. L. Liepiņa: “You are already! Is that not so?’ ) On the other hand, for the remuneration of commissions or the Bureau - I think this should be done. And I am talking about this not only because we are representatives of the coalition... I am also speaking here as a coalition Member. But maybe you, the opposition, and those who are "free radicals" here, maybe you just don't know what it is when to go to work? The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. L. Liepiņa: “Divkosis!” ) Just come on Thursday and “blow up” here from the podium or, let's say, shout in front of – that's one. But, for example, to manage the commission, understand the timetable and work with all possible parties - this is something completely different. In any case, this is a very ungrateful topic to talk about. I think it's pretty stupid to put something like that in. On the remuneration of Members, I can say that you can go even further. In principle, I feel that there is a need for more pay for Members. Like you don't agree. No, no? (Laughter) There you go. So... So I would really call for this beautiful, populist example of going mushrooms and berries in the forest to be roasted... What are we gonna do in the woods in winter? What are we gonna eat in winter? So... ( Intercretion: “Yeemarine! ”) ) Then... What'd you get into? You need gas or some kind of fire. So what are you gonna do? ( Internouncing call.) And then go immediately “Latvijas Gāze”. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A. Gobzem: “But you already have the Meroni scholarship!” ) In any case... Colleagues, we don't support this here... I do not think that this is an adequate proposal, but - yes... You're still going to write. Because then at least you can talk on Thursdays, otherwise you don't have to talk about. I am thinking here of "free radicals". The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. L. Liepiņa’s intermediate call.) Thank you, Mrs. Liepiņa. Goodbye.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-09-19-PT13-2009-U88	Colleagues! So one Member has spoken 'for', one for 'no'. Please call me! We will vote for inclusion of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Compensation of Officials and Employees of State and Municipal Institutions” on the agenda of the Saeima sitting! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 29, for - 54, for - 1. Consequently, the draft law is not included on the agenda of the sitting. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. L. Liepiņa: “We see everything here!” ) The Commission of Human Rights and Public Affairs is asking to include its draft law “Amendments to the Law “On Press and Other Media”” on the agenda of the sitting and to direct the first reading without re-examination by the committee responsible. Are Members opposed to this amendment of the agenda? There is no objection. The order of business has been amended. Members Ģirgens, Pucens, Puga, Petraviča, Cielēns, Budriks and others are asking to include in the agenda the draft decision “On the withdrawal of Member Didžis Šmits from the Latvian delegation of the Baltic Sea Parliamentary Conference”. ( FROM a fraction DECLARES: ‘ Why? Does it not work?” ) Are Members opposed to this amendment of the agenda? ( The box “Yes! ”) “But of course!” ) So we have to vote. Please call me! We will vote for the inclusion of the draft decision “On the withdrawal of Member Didžas Šmits from the Latvian delegation of the Parliamentary Conference of the Baltic Sea” on the agenda of the Saeima sitting! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 54, for - 31, for - 1. The draft decision is on the agenda of the sitting. Members Kursīte, Ģirgens, Pucens, Puga, Petravičs and others are asking to include in the agenda the draft decision “On the election of Member Iveta Benhen-Beeken in the Baltic Sea parliamentary conference in the Latvian delegation”. Are Members opposed to this amendment of the agenda? So we have to vote. Please call me! We will vote for the inclusion of the draft decision “On election of Member Iveta Benhen-Beeken in the Latvian delegation” on the agenda of the Saeima sitting! Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about - 54, it's against - 32, it's not. The draft decision is on the agenda of the sitting. Members Pucens, Girgens, Puga, Petraviča, Cielēns, Budriks and others are asking to include in the agenda the draft decision “On the withdrawal of Member Linda Liepiņš from the Latvian delegation of the Baltic Assembly”. ( Internouncing call.) Are Members willing to vote? ( Internouncing call.) Please call me! We will vote for the inclusion of the draft decision “On the withdrawal of Member Linda Liepiņa from the Latvian delegation of the Baltic Assembly” on the agenda of the Saeima sitting! Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about - 55, it's 31, it's not. The draft decision is on the agenda of the sitting. Members Pucens, Ģirgens, Puga, Petraviča, Cielēns, Budriks and others are asking to include in the agenda the draft decision on the election of Member Janina Kursīte in the Latvian delegation of the Baltic Assembly. Are Members opposed to this amendment of the agenda? ( Interface: “There is no objection! ” ) There are no objections. ( Interface: “You can’t object against Janina! Right, John?” ) Thus, there is no objection by Members. Thank you. Treatment of requests by Members Dear colleagues, Member Ivars Zariņa, Regina Ločmeles–Lunova, Vjačeslava Dombrovska, Edgars Kucina, Valeria Agešina, Jānis Krišāna, Ivana Ribakova, Borisa Cileviča, Jānis Urbanoviča and Vladimira Nikonova apply to Prime Minister Arturs Krišjānis Kariņš “On legal nihilistism at the office of Ministers regarding ensuring that the statutory increase in funding for the remuneration of health care workers is provided”. Name for motivation to Member Ivars Zarins.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-09-19-PT13-2009-U89	Seeing the actions of Krišjānis Kariņš... The Latvian film “Emila Does Not Work” comes to mind with the action of the government. Do you remember what Krišjānis Kariņš promised at his first solemn meeting to all of society? ‘ We will work together, listen to and support each other in order to achieve the three main objectives of this government: to raise the well-being of the people, to ensure justice and the rule of law and to reduce inequalities in society in all its manifestations. We will do it." This time... Today we will talk about the rule of law. More recently, the Prime Minister proudly announced to the whole Latvian society that there was as much money in the budget as he had never had. However, we remember, as was the case with compensation for pension supplies. The government stated that it could not grant the money because there was no such delegation in the law. All right! What about medical wages? With regard to the increase in medical salaries already in 2018, the Saeima decided that the government should anticipate this increase in the budget for 2020, with an increase of 191 million. That means plus 120 million. Although Krišjānis Kariņš had claimed that there was as much money as he had never had, and the additional fiscal space alone was much larger than the requirement for medical wages, the government has provided less than 45 million euros in the statutory budget. It is almost three times less than the law. It happens that the government acts with its promises... "When I don't have money, then I can't drink when I have money, then I can't drink! When should I drink?” That means that when I fulfill my promises, Krishjani Karin! The fact that it is said that there is no money in the budget and therefore it could not be done... it is simply pronunciation or more hypocrisy, or even lying to the general public, to conceal the fact that, in fact, political transactions are more important for this government than concern for the public interest, because the law was adopted last year. If there was no money, you could come here and pray for the good of this law. But no, you chose to violate this law. This request is therefore about the legality of the decision taken by the government. This has nothing to do with the competence of the Ministry of Health. We very much hope that Krišjānis Kariņš himself will respond to this request. Instead of hiding behind the backs of women, it will be here as a stateman, as a man will come and tell him why the government has made an illegal decision. I would very much like to see that this time Krišjānis Kariņš should not call me neither hypocrite nor coward who is unable to answer for his promises or actions. Thank you. ( Subtotal: ‘ Please! ’) ) Council Regulation (EC) No 1257/96 of 20 June 1996 concerning humanitarian aid (OJ L 163, 2.7.1996, p. 1).
ParlaMint-LV_2019-09-19-PT13-2009-U90	Consequently, we shall refer the request to the Requesting Commission. The request of Members Viktors Valaiņa, Dana Reizniece-Ozola, Jānis Vucana, Armanda Krauze, Ulda Augulis, Linda Liepiņa, Jānis Dūklavs, Janīna Jalinska, Māra Kučinska and Alda Gobzems, Minister of Environmental Protection and Regional Development Juris Pucem, about the fact that the Minister of Environmental Protection and Regional Development, when ordering research, does not comply with the Law on Public Procurement, has been received. Member Viktors Valainis on behalf of the applicants.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-09-19-PT13-2009-U91	Highly honored Speaker of the Saeima! For this request... Today we're very... We debated the emergency very hotly for several hours, and you saw the circumstances under which the emergency situation is being declared. The Law on Public Procurement, of course, provides, in such circumstances, for specific rules on how procurement can be awarded to each other. In this case, the request is about where the Minister has seen the emergency situation by ordering two studies of more than EUR 200 000 without an open call for tenders, simply calling selected researchers, concluding contracts with them, simply calling it an emergency situation. That's the approach... The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. U. Budriķis: “You just supported it!” ) Such an approach to legislation is not provided for; there are also a number of court judgments which explain what is really an emergency: forest fires, floods and other cases of a similar nature. But in this case, in our opinion, the Minister has openly violated the law. All due respect for these researchers whom the Minister has chosen! Indeed, these are highly qualified researchers. However, they are not the only ones in Latvia, and others should have had the opportunity to participate, to carry their offer for this work. Thank you, colleagues.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-09-19-PT13-2009-U92	We shall therefore also forward this request to the Requesting Commission. On the agenda - examination of draft laws. Draft Act on Amendment No 1 First reading of the agreement on law enforcement cooperation of September 2004 between the Government of the Republic of Latvia and the Government of the United States of America. On behalf of the Commission on Foreign Affairs, Member Richard Coll.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-09-19-PT13-2009-U93	Dear Chairman of the Saeima. Dear Members, honourable Members, The Foreign Affairs Commission received the draft law “On Amendment No. 1 Agreement on law enforcement cooperation between the Government of the Republic of Latvia and the Government of the United States of America of September 2004.’ The draft law was drawn up in response to the US initiative to continue the cooperation already carried out in 2000 and 2004, in particular with a view to promoting capacity building for law enforcement staff, professional development in areas that have become acutely important, including the fight against money laundering and the fight against terrorist financing. These amendments, too, and this cooperation, are closely linked to the financial sector, to the strengthening of our human resources capacity. Of course, this is not just such a one-off measure. It is a long-term cooperation, and this cooperation is designed with a specific objective – to increase the capacity of Latvia and other European partners to fight corruption, money laundering and other international financial crimes, as well as to significantly reduce the time needed for financial crimes and other criminal proceedings. In the context of this cooperation, the US is ready to allocate 2-2.5 million US dollars for this capacity to strengthen capacites, which would therefore be two to four years. As far as the examination process is concerned, in the Foreign Affairs Commission we called for the urgency of this draft law. The urgency is linked to the adoption of the budget procedure in the USA, where it is already necessary to make it clear in October that the Latvian side has made legal commitments. If we do not ratify this agreement, then it is possible that this funding goes to the next country, which may say so, is in the queue - Croatia. It is therefore necessary to decide on this matter as a matter of urgency. In the Commission, we supported the draft law for the first reading, but first of all I call on Members of the Saeima to support the urgency of the draft law.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-09-19-PT13-2009-U94	Please call me! We will vote on the draft law on Amendment No. 1 The Agreement on Law Enforcement Cooperation between the Government of the Republic of Latvia and the Government of the United States of America of September 2004” was declared urgent! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 81, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. The draft law has been declared urgent. Please call me! We will vote on the draft law on Amendment No. 1 Supporting the First-reading Agreement of September 2004 between the Government of the Republic of Latvia and the Government of the United States of America on Law Enforcement Cooperation! Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about - 85, it's against and abstains. The draft law at first reading has been supported. Please set a time limit for the submission of proposals and a time limit for consideration at the sitting of the Saeima.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-09-19-PT13-2009-U95	The Foreign Affairs Commission decided to direct the examination of the draft law at second, final, reading without re-examination by the Commission. I call on Members of the Saeima to support the decided by the Foreign Affairs Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-09-19-PT13-2009-U96	Are Members opposed to the second reading of the draft law without re-examination by the committee responsible? ( Interface: “No! ”) ) There are no objections. Please call me! We will vote on the draft law on Amendment No. 1 In the second, final reading of the agreement on law enforcement cooperation of September 2004 between the Government of the Republic of Latvia and the Government of the United States of America! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 84, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The law is passed. On the agenda - draft law “Amendments to the Postal Law”, second reading. The draft law has been declared urgent. On behalf of the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy, Member Krišjānis Feldmans.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-09-19-PT13-2009-U97	Good afternoon! Consequently, the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy has examined and prepared for consideration by the Saeima at its second, final sitting on the urgent draft law, ‘Amendments to the Postal Law’. The draft law was drafted by the Ministry of Transport and provides for an extension from 1 January 2020 of the current regulation on the provision of subscribing press delivery services and compensation for losses caused by them for one year. In the course of the examination of the draft law, the Commission itself set up one proposal on the basis of a recommendation from the Commission for the regulation of public services, to exclude point 21 of the transitional provisions of Article 2 of the draft law, thus changing the numbering of the following paragraphs accordingly. The exclusion of the above paragraph does not entail the need to find the means to compensate for the loss of supply of the written press services, but rather the fact that the draft law was drawn up some time ago and was intended to extend also the obligations of the universal postal service provider which had already actually been fulfilled. The proposal was supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-09-19-PT13-2009-U98	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-09-19-PT13-2009-U99	On behalf of the Commission, please support the draft law at second, final, reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-09-19-PT13-2009-U100	Please call me! We will vote for the draft law “Amendments to the Postal Law” at second, final, final reading! Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about - 85, it's against and abstains. The law is passed. Dear colleagues, Time to break. Please register the Members! Dear colleagues, Time for notifications. Today's birthday is celebrated by our colleague Eric Pucen, and we welcome him! (Applause) Name of notice to Member Vita Anda Steel.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-09-19-PT13-2009-U101	A reminder to Members of the Commission on European Affairs: we have an ordinary sitting in five minutes' time in the usual space. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-09-19-PT13-2009-U102	Name to the member of the Saeima Secretary for the reading of the results of the registration.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-09-19-PT13-2009-U103	Has not registered: Raimonds Bergmanis, Boriss Cilevičs, Anda Čakša, Gundars Dauge, Inese Ikstena, Andrejs Judins, Maris Kučinskis, Janīna Kursīte-Pakule, Viktors Valainis )... Yes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-09-19-PT13-2009-U104	Thank you. Interruption until 13.30 a.m. ( Interruption) The meeting shall be chaired by the Republic of Latvia 13. Speaker of the Saeima Ināra Mūrniece. Honourable Members! I invite you to take your seats in the Chamber! We're going to keep the Saeima sitting after the break. On the agenda - examination of draft laws. Draft law “Amendment to the Law on the State Border of the Republic of Latvia”, first reading. On behalf of the Commission for Defence, Home Affairs and Prevention of Corruption - Member Mārtiņš Staķis.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-09-19-PT13-2009-U105	Dear colleagues, The Commission for Defence, Home Affairs and Anti-Corruption at its meeting on 10 September has examined the draft law “Amendment to the Law on the State Border of the Republic of Latvia”. This is an important amendment to improve our military mobility. Currently, military personnel enter the Republic of Latvia through specific border crossing points, for example, through Riga International Airport, where these persons are subject to an appropriate inspection. However, when arriving in a country using a different method, such as the debauchery of Baltops, or in another way. — Sitting Leader knocks down with a hammer. ... No exceptions are provided for in the regulatory acts. The draft law provides for persons belonging to the forces of NATO or a member of the North Atlantic Treaty Organisation to cross the external border outside the border crossing point in certain cases. It is intended only for emergencies and exceptional situations to support the joint training of the National Armed Forces and the foreign armed forces. The National Armed Forces will inform the State Border Guard about the need to cross the external border outside the border crossing point, coordinate the place and time of the border crossing as well as the border inspection. The Commission has supported the draft law and on behalf of the Commission I call on the Saeima to support the draft law at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-09-19-PT13-2009-U106	Please call me! ( Internouncing call.) That is why Members still want to debate. Name to Member Nikolai Cabanov.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-09-19-PT13-2009-U107	Madam President, Dear colleagues, Each of us has friends, and if we trust them, we sometimes leave the keys to the apartment. However, different situations can arise in life. It is good that you only need to take care of flowers or look after pets, sometimes the keys leave to help severely ill people. But I do not really understand why Latvia wants to entrust its keys right now, namely border control, to its friends. What is so serious about us? In addition, our friends are so diverse. Why do we not know what number of soldiers are currently on the territory of Latvia? Last week, a discussion on migrant workers was held at the Commission on Citizenship, Migration and Social Solidarity. It was about the need for Latvia to establish a single register for those people who came here to work. But I think that the young people who travel to Latvia to serve in military contingents also have an economic, ecological and demographic impact on Latvia, and so we need to know how much they are here and from where they are and what they are doing. Today, a friend is loyal, but tomorrow he can have his own circumstances. For example, he may argue with your neighbors, with whom you personally have no problems. You can make friends with them at home, but your friend - he is so principled and he wants to account for order throughout the house. Of course, historical examples in current policy can be limited. Every human or national life episode is unique. Analogies can be lame, but I would like to remind you that the pact between Latvia and the USSR on the deployment of military bases was signed almost 80 years ago. Foreign Minister Gothard Wilhelm Nikolai Munter was also a very strong professional, but he confirmed this document in the Kremlin. I have read many originals of Latvian diplomatic documents in the State Archives of Latvia. At the time, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of Latvia does not indicate anywhere that this pact was forced or not voluntary; moreover, Mounter requests Latvian envoys to disprove all speculations in the Western press about the fact that in the future Latvia's political course is not determined in Riga... but the presence of Soviet troops on the territory of Latvia increased and resulted in the loss of independence. The worst thing for the Kremlin and Stalin is that their stay on the shores of the Baltic is not even improved, but the strategic position of the USSR has deteriorated when the powerful opponents - Germany and the USSR - were in the former buffer zone. The last suffered the most. But also those big guys who were hoping to benefit from pro-active placements started to have chance because not all the Baltic people welcomed Soviet troops. We all read RAND Corporation or The National Interest and hear quite a panic talk about the so-called Suvalka Corridor. And I have a question for gentlemen: but you have come here, why are you now complaining that the territory of Latvia, the Baltic territory is not suitable for NATO needs? In fact, we never repeat mistakes; we just make our own mistakes. A permanent denial of Latvia's sovereignty, which has been taking place for 15 years since our accession to NATO, is such a mistake. I would like it to be an irreversible mistake. And let the historians not say later that our Saeima's actions have been counter-stateistic today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-09-19-PT13-2009-U108	I closed the debate. Is there anything to be added on behalf of the Commission?
ParlaMint-LV_2019-09-19-PT13-2009-U109	Yeah. On behalf of the Commission, I would just like to remind you that the bill is that those in the power of this member state of the North Atlantic Treaty only cross Latvia in exceptional situations, in exceptional circumstances or when there is joint training. The border guard will be informed and agreed with the border guard. Please support this draft law.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-09-19-PT13-2009-U110	Please call me! We will vote for the draft law “Amendment to the Law on the State Border of the Republic of Latvia” at first reading! Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about - 70, it's against and abstains. Draft legislation supported at first reading. Please set a deadline for the submission of proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-09-19-PT13-2009-U111	24 September this year.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-09-19-PT13-2009-U112	Thank you. The deadline for submitting proposals is 24 September this year. Draft law “Amendments to the Law on Mobility”, first reading. On behalf of the Commission for Defence, Home Affairs and Prevention of Corruption - Member Mārtiņš Staķis.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-09-19-PT13-2009-U113	Colleagues! This particular draft law was also discussed at the same meeting of 10 September this year. This draft law deals mainly with two issues. First. The eighth part of Section 23 of the Law on National Security, which provides for the right of the Cabinet of Ministers to take a decision on the mobilisation of landguards and reserve soldiers for a maximum period of 72 hours in order to initiate the national defence plan in case of increased military threats... the execution of the national defence operational plan. It is planned that this norm will enter into force simultaneously with the relevant amendments to the Law on Mobilization, which are currently being proposed and provides the legal basis for the mobilisation of landguards and spare soldiers even before the announcement of the state of emergency. It is important that the mechanism provides for the Saeima to be immediately informed of this fact and to carry out an evaluation of the validity of the mobilisation. And the other. This legislation strengthens certain definitions - which are defence industry, defence industry development support and security of supply - as well as strengthening support measures for the defence industry, which are important, comprehensive elements of national defence. The Commission has also supported these draft laws. On behalf of the Commission, I call on the Saeima to support the draft law at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-09-19-PT13-2009-U114	Let us start a debate. The name of the Member, John Adamson.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-09-19-PT13-2009-U115	Dear colleagues, What Mr. Stakis said, what concerns the Earthguard... and the question of mobilisation... There are no questions at all. This section is clearly to be supported. But where is the brother in this bill? No reason, none of which is “enclosed” to mobilization... Listen to the Law on Mobilization! The law on mobilisation, the defence industry... When there was a sharp and lengthy debate about whether or not to allow sixteen-year-olds to participate in hunting, the Ministry of Defence tried to get a whole range of positions in the Arms Movement Act that affect the defence industry. At the Commission meeting, we decided and called on the Ministry of Defence to draft a separate law on what matters to the defence industry. Such a law is certainly necessary. But why is it “to attach” to a law that has nothing to do with mobilisation? Defence industry, like all the other parts of the economy... is one of the components of the mobilisation. Consequently, obviously for the second reading it is necessary to submit proposals that... to ask the Ministry of Defence, i.e. government, to draft a separate law on what is concerned specifically with the defence industry, where our people's interests, intellectual property and so on could also be protected. I call on us to support, but I also call seriously on the Commission and the other Members to work on the quality of this draft law so that we do not find that we have more ships on our cars, because each and the other drives... or an aircraft that also travels on the ground. Every draft law, the law must correspond to that title... what it is meant by its name is accepted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-09-19-PT13-2009-U116	I closed the debate. Is there anything to be explained in the name of the commission?
ParlaMint-LV_2019-09-19-PT13-2009-U117	Yeah. Mr Adamson's proposals are remarkable. We will continue the discussion on this at second reading. Now, please support the draft law at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-09-19-PT13-2009-U118	Please call me! We will vote in favour of the first reading of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Mobility”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 76, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Draft legislation supported at first reading. Please set a deadline for the submission of proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-09-19-PT13-2009-U119	1 October of this year.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-09-19-PT13-2009-U120	Thank you. The deadline for submitting proposals is 1 October of this year. Draft Act “Amendments to the Road Traffic Law”, first reading. On behalf of the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy, Member Sandis Riekstins.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-09-19-PT13-2009-U121	Good afternoon, colleagues! The Commission of Economics, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy, whose head here some want to leave without salary, has examined the draft law “Amendments to the Road Traffic Law” submitted by the Cabinet of Ministers, decided to support the said draft law and to direct it to consideration at the Saeima sitting at first reading. The draft law was drawn up by the Ministry of Transport to implement the codification of sector-specific administrative irregularities. The draft law includes administrative infringements in the road transport sector and defines the competent authorities to which administrative infringements will be subject. Draft law... The Law shall enter into force at the same time as the Law on Administrative Liability. The draft law retains current levels of administrative penalties, but instead of previous withdrawals, the draft law provides for a penalty - the prohibition of the exercise of rights and the withdrawal of rights. Revocation, which means their total withdrawal and their re-acquisition after the expiry of the withdrawal period, is intended for offences for which the prior withdrawal period was more than 12 months, as well as for all offences relating to the driving of a vehicle under influence. In other cases, a ban on the exercise of rights is envisaged. The Commission has supported the draft law. On behalf of the Commission, please support the draft law at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-09-19-PT13-2009-U122	Please call me! We will vote in favour of the first reading of the draft law on road traffic law! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 79, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Draft legislation supported at first reading. Please set a deadline for the submission of proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-09-19-PT13-2009-U123	The deadline for submitting proposals is 10 October this year.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-09-19-PT13-2009-U124	Thank you. The deadline for submitting proposals is 10 October this year. Draft law “Amendments to the Railway Act”, first reading. On behalf of the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy, Member Sandis Riekstins.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-09-19-PT13-2009-U125	The Commission of Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy has examined the draft law “Amendments to the Railway Law” submitted by the Cabinet of Ministers and has decided to support the said draft law and to direct it to consideration at the first reading of the Saeima. The draft law was drawn up by the Ministry of Transport to ensure administrative and public order in the railway sector. The draft law provides for the codification of administrative infringements in the sector, including penalties for violations in the field of maintenance and use of railway traffic. The Law shall enter into force at the same time as the Law on Administrative Liability. The Commission has supported the draft law. On behalf of the Commission, please support the draft law at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-09-19-PT13-2009-U126	Please call me! We will vote in favour of the draft law on amendments to the Railway Law at first reading! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 79, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Draft legislation supported at first reading. Please set a deadline for the submission of proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-09-19-PT13-2009-U127	The deadline for submitting proposals is 3 October this year.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-09-19-PT13-2009-U128	Thank you. The deadline for submitting proposals is 3 October this year. Draft law “Amendments to the Law on Aviation”, first reading. On behalf of the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy, Member Krišjānis Feldmans.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-09-19-PT13-2009-U129	The Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy has examined the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Aviation” submitted by the Ministry of Transport and has conceptually supported it. The draft law was drafted by the Ministry of Transport and was designed to expand the range of real beneficiaries and employees of aviation companies whose reputation would need to be verified in the light of the trend in third-country nationals' attempts to enter the European Union's national market by creating airlines with a fictitious ownership of European Union citizens, but in fact they are third-country nationals whose sources of money are not clear. It is therefore necessary to involve public authorities in the evaluation of newly created aviation companies in order to protect the economic space of the European Union from the influx of illegally acquired funds. Civil aviation aerodromes have also increased in previous years. Three civil aviation aerodromes were certified in 2016, in 2019 - one civil aviation aerodrome. Although civil aviation aerodromes certified recently are small in scope and in terms of services provided, the potential risks to public and national security do not differ significantly from the existing ones identified by law. In order to reduce risks more comprehensively, taking into account the unpredictability of their implementation and possible consequences, the conditions applicable to international airports should also apply to local aerodromes. In addition to the above mentioned amendments made to the Law on State Security Institutions, it is planned to change the name of the Security Police to the new name of the Authority - State Security Service. On behalf of the Commission, please support the draft law at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-09-19-PT13-2009-U130	Please call me! We will vote for the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Aviation” at first reading! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 79, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Draft legislation supported at first reading. Please set a deadline for the submission of proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-09-19-PT13-2009-U131	The deadline for submitting proposals is 26 September this year.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-09-19-PT13-2009-U132	Thank you. The deadline for submitting proposals is 26 September this year. Draft law on the use of genetic resources, first reading. On behalf of the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy, Member Arthur Tom Ples.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-09-19-PT13-2009-U133	Hello, fellow Members, again! At the meeting of the Commission on Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy, we examined the draft law on the use of genetic resources. It is a new law, which is a legal mechanism for the protection of biodiversity and genetic resources, because genetic resources play a very important role in food production, forestry, the development of medicines and cosmetics... and a number of other issues. Therefore, this regulation, which we apply here in Latvia, will be like an international and quite complicated mechanism that will foresee... safe use of research and reservations on how these genetic resources can be applied here and in other Member States of the European Union. This draft law also establishes the body responsible for applying this regulation in Latvia, and it will be the Nature Conservation Agency. In the Commission, the draft law was supported for the first reading. I call on the Saeima to support this.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-09-19-PT13-2009-U134	Please call me! We will vote for the first reading of the draft law on the use of genetic resources! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 76, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The draft law at first reading has been supported. Please set a time limit for the submission of proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-09-19-PT13-2009-U135	October 7, this year.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-09-19-PT13-2009-U136	Thank you. The deadline for submitting proposals is 7 October this year. Draft law “Amendments to the Law on Documents for Persons”, first reading. On behalf of the National Administration and Municipal Commission - Member Regina Ločmele‐Lunova.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-09-19-PT13-2009-U137	Dear Chairman of the Saeima. Dear and honourable colleagues! Having examined the draft law submitted by the Cabinet of Ministers “Amendments to the Law on Documents of Persons”, the Commission of the State Administration and Local Government decided to support the said draft law and to direct it for consideration at the first reading of the Saeima. The draft law, which is directed by the Ministry of the Interior, includes regulation of the administrative liability of persons in the field of personal identification documents and the competence of institutions in the application of penalties, taking into account that the Law on Administrative Liability will come into force on 1 January 2020 and the Code of Administrative Violations of Latvia will be repealed. This Law will enter into force at the same time as the Law on Administrative Liability and will clarify and define administrative responsibility in the field of identity documents, namely responsibility for living without a valid identity document, for damage of an identity document or for making changes to legal marks or original content, for loss or non-transfer of an identity document, as well as for the removal, transfer or acceptance of an identity document in a pledge. On behalf of the Commission, I ask the Saeima to support this draft law at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-09-19-PT13-2009-U138	Please call me! We will vote in favour of the first reading of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Documents for Persons”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about - 75, it's against and it's abstaining. The draft law at first reading has been supported. Please set a deadline for the submission of proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-09-19-PT13-2009-U139	The deadline for submitting the proposals for second reading is 24 September.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-09-19-PT13-2009-U140	Thank you. The deadline for submitting proposals is 24 September this year. Draft law “Amendment to the Law on Declaration of Residence”, first reading. On behalf of the National Administration and Municipal Commission - Member Eriks Pucens.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-09-19-PT13-2009-U141	Hello, colleagues! The Commission of the State Administration and Local Government reviewed the draft law submitted by the Cabinet of Ministers “Amendment to the Law on Declaration of Residence”. This draft law concerns decoding. As we know, the Latvian Code of Administrative Violations will expire on 1 January 2020, and the Ministry of the Interior drafted a draft law that provides for administrative liability for non-declaration of residence to be established in the Law on Declaration of Residence. On behalf of the Commission, I call for support for the draft law at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-09-19-PT13-2009-U142	Please call me! We will vote in favour of the draft law “Amendment to the Law on Declaration of Residence” at first reading! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. Draft legislation supported at first reading. Please set a deadline for the submission of proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-09-19-PT13-2009-U143	September 24, this year.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-09-19-PT13-2009-U144	Thank you. Proposals should be submitted by 24 September this year. Draft law “On transfer of real estate to Riga Rihards Wagnera Street 4, Riga, to Riga Rihards Wagner Association”, first reading. Member of the Commission for Education, Culture and Science Raivis Dzintars.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-09-19-PT13-2009-U145	Dear Chairman of the Saeima. Dear colleagues, We work with the draft law “On transfer of real estate to Riga Rihards Wagnera Street 4, Riga, to Riga Rihards Wagner Society”. As is apparent from the title of the bill, it provides for the non-governmental organisation “Riga Rihards Wagner Association” to transfer the real estate currently owned by the state, which consists of an area of 1564 square metres of land and a four-storey building, as well as movable property in the building. From 1837 to 1839 the world-famous composer Rihards Wagner worked as the main conductor. The building is therefore a cultural monument and an important part of cultural life. From 1988 to conclusion in 2006, Wagner's concert hall was located in the house. Real estate is in emergency condition and has not been in use for 13 years. It was closed in 2006 due to poor technical conditions for visitors. In order to restore, preserve and develop this cultural object, substantial investments are needed, which the country cannot currently provide, and there are no indications that in the foreseeable future, the building could become such a high priority in order to find the funds needed in the budget. According to the Ministry of Finance, more than 16,5 million are needed for the renovation of the building. The Riga Rihards Wagner Society was founded in 2014 with the aim of restoring this cultural and historical monument and making it accessible to the public. The Society undertakes to raise funding through the acquisition of this object in its own ownership in order to ensure the restoration of the building and its use for cultural and educational purposes. The law provides that in the event of termination of the activities of the association, the object shall return to state ownership. Members of the Commission took a careful look at the plans of the society, listened to the head of the society, heard the views of the responsible authorities and decided to support the draft law at first reading. The Ministry of Culture also supported the further progress of the draft law. At the same time, Members expressed the need to supplement the draft law with a more detailed description of the scope of the obligations which the new owner would be obliged to fulfil. The Ministry of Culture undertook to prepare appropriate clarifications for the second reading. This legislative initiative was initially put forward by Members of the Saeima from several political groups and, as I said, in the committee responsible after the examination, its Members decided to support the draft law at first reading. I therefore call on the Commission to vote in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-09-19-PT13-2009-U146	Please call me! We will vote for the first reading of the draft law “On transfer of real estate to Riga Rihards Wagner Association” on Rihards Wagner 4th Street, Riga! Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about - 71, it's against and refrains from - it's not. The draft law at first reading has been supported. Please set a deadline for the submission of proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-09-19-PT13-2009-U147	21 October
ParlaMint-LV_2019-09-19-PT13-2009-U148	Thank you. The deadline for submitting proposals is 21 October this year. Draft law “Amendments to the insolvency law”, first reading. On behalf of the Legal Commission, Member Jānis Iesalnieks.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-09-19-PT13-2009-U149	Hello, colleagues! The draft law on “Amendments to the insolvency law” also relates to the decoding of administrative offences that we have to carry out by the end of this year. In the present case, these are two articles of the Code of Administrative Violations relating to insolvency. The first form of infringement is laid down in the article ‘Not filing an application for insolvency proceedings’. Currently, a penalty is provided for natural persons and board members from 280 euros to 700 euros, as well as with the possibility to deprive these persons of their right to office in capital companies for up to three years. The proposal of the Ministry of Justice is to raise this fine slightly, i.e. to increase the amount of the fine to 300... from 300 to 1000 euros, while the possibility to take away... to take up positions in commercial companies for up to five years. The second article is the following: “Failure of insolvency proceedings and legal remedies”. At present, the penalty for this type of infringement is between EUR 70 and 700, and there is also the right to take away up to three years for these persons to take up positions in commercial companies. Here too, the proposal of the Ministry of Justice is to increase the fine slightly, namely, the fine - from 100 to 1500 euros, by converting these fine units, and to withdraw the right to a post in commercial companies for up to five years. The Commission supported this proposal by the Ministry of Justice, but only raised discussions about the competent authorities. In particular, failure to submit an application for insolvency proceedings... This type of violation is currently examined by the State Revenue Service in relation to taxpayers, and in other cases by the State Police, and these other cases represent a very small part of the violations. As the article ‘Failure of insolvency proceedings and legal redress proceedings’ has been placed under the responsibility of the insolvency control service from 2015... after that experience... Out of some of the processes examined by the State Police in the year, the number of these violations, all taken over by the Insolvency Control Service, increased to more than 100 violations per year. This is due to the fact that the Solvency Control Service has much higher competence to detect this type of infringement than the State Police, for which it was clearly not the first priority. Therefore, in the opinion of the Commission, it would also be useful to transfer the first mentioned article “No application for insolvency proceedings” not only under the responsibility of the State Revenue Service, but... hand over the competence of the police to the Solvency Control Service, which could be more professional and even more extensive to punish for these... infringements of this type. But it will already be the task of the second reading. So I call for this draft law to be supported at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-09-19-PT13-2009-U150	Please call me! We will vote for the draft law “Amendments to the insolvency law” at first reading! Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about - 75, it's against and it's abstaining. Draft legislation supported at first reading. Please set a deadline for the submission of proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-09-19-PT13-2009-U151	October 18th, this year.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-09-19-PT13-2009-U152	Thank you. The deadline for submitting proposals is 18 October this year. Draft law ‘Amendments to criminal law’, first reading. On behalf of the Legal Commission, Member Jūlija Stepanenko.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-09-19-PT13-2009-U153	Dear colleagues, The Legal Commission has examined and prepared for the first reading a draft law promoted by the Ministry of Justice, which has been designed to comply with the task included in the Government's Action Plan – to implement the reform of juvenile criminal responsibility and at the same time to respond to the problems of child offenders, to prevent them from being isolated from society, but to ensure that the resources of the educational nature comply with the general standards of society, as well as to ensure that the child is a full member of society. The draft law provides for the wording of Chapter VII of the Criminal Law, which regulates the features of juvenile criminal liability. The draft thus includes the necessary amendments aimed at providing for changes to the criminal liability of minors and reducing the number of minors subject to the traditional criminal system. The draft law specifically defines the content of the custodial sentence for minors who have not been imposed so far. It is also stipulated that detention of minors is always applied in conjunction with additional penalties - supervision of probation - to ensure that work on resocialisation of minors, as well as changes in thinking and behaviour is continued after deprivation of liberty. At the same time, detention of minors is not foreseen to be applied on a conditional basis. This is necessary in order for minors to be subject to probationary supervision as a basic penalty at the place of conditional conviction. Changes have also been made to the fine for minors. In the future, this type of punishment is not foreseen for them, as the applicants consider that it does not contribute to the resocialisation of minors. The draft law provides for the exclusion of provisions providing for the exemption of minors from the sentenced sentence by the application of educational measures. The investigator, with the consent of the supervising prosecutor or the prosecutor, may terminate the criminal proceedings and send material about a minor for the application of an educational measure. Its minor will not be subject to lengthy criminal proceedings until the trial stage. The draft law also provides for a new approach – the court may decide that a minor who is subject to probationary supervision may be placed in a social correction educational institution “Naukšens” for a period of up to three years. The second block in this draft law is linked to the development of the criminal penalty system as a whole. It provides for the replacement of the term ‘forced labour’ throughout the law with the term ‘public work’, which is a change of term in order to avoid the humiliating nature of the term. Similarly, criminal penalties - supervision of probation - are intended as a basic punishment, and this would be an effective alternative to deprivation of liberty, which would ensure that offenders' thinking and behaviour are adjusted according to their age and psychological characteristics. Probation monitoring as a basic penalty is to be applied only to adult persons who committed violent crimes and crimes of substance addiction on 1 January 2022... crimes related to the use of substance abuse. With effect from 1 January 2022, an additional penalty - police control - will instead apply an additional penalty - probation monitoring. Dear colleagues, On behalf of the Legal Commission, I call for support for the draft law at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-09-19-PT13-2009-U154	Let us start a debate. The name is Mr. Wallary Ageshin.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-09-19-PT13-2009-U155	Dear colleagues, This planned reform of juvenile criminal responsibility can be seen in a positive light, but much will depend on the success of these changes in life. National police data show that the number of crimes committed by minors in 2018 has increased compared to 2017. That is why change is, of course, necessary. However, it should also be borne in mind that there are already some instruments at present that could be used more frequently, i.e. by educational means. One of the coercion means to place children in a social correction education institution “Naužūšņi” by court decision. Although this institution is in part a prison, because it is not allowed to move freely and leave its territory, adolescents in the "Nausen" can at least learn and learn some skills and skills. Unfortunately, the country is taking too little advantage of this opportunity at the moment; it is costly and bureaucratic. I am therefore concerned that this new reform of juvenile criminal responsibility could lead to something similar. The instruments of resocialisation of offenders will be but will not be used. When discussing the reform of juvenile criminal responsibility, I do not call for an immediate amendment to the other existing rules, but for some to be called upon to evaluate and reflect. For example, in Latvia, we know, let us say so, the danger to minors is the fact that criminality pulls a strip over their future career opportunities in almost 30 professions. They cannot work in the justice and home affairs system, and therefore also in the State Fire and Rescue Service, military service. This is the case: If a teenager, for example, has suffered personal injury at the age of 14, he will have life - threatening career restrictions. I think that the consequences of this criminality should be discussed. Foreign experience should also be discussed in a similar way. In France, for example, there is a special judge for minors, and young people and adults in different states of the United States are treated separately and the penalties vary. One study found that almost every young person in adolescence commits a delinquency, but that only a few percent of minors act as criminals - and above all because of a lack of empathy. And these cases are really serious (for example, girls struggles can be very cruel). Sadly, minor violence can be ignored both in the family and at school, but it is known that violence is causing violence. Of course, changes are necessary, I would say, when analysing this offer in both the Criminal Law and the Criminal Procedure Law. However, I would like to draw your attention, colleagues, to the fact that the resocialisation of offenders is at this moment at a very low level in our country, because the country is investing very little in it. And I am not convinced that the situation could change, despite these amendments that we are currently going on. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-09-19-PT13-2009-U156	I closed the debate. Is there anything to add on behalf of the Commission? No, no. Please call me! We will vote in favour of the first reading of the draft law on criminal law. Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 73, against and refrains. The draft law at first reading has been supported. Please set a deadline for the submission of proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-09-19-PT13-2009-U157	The deadline for submitting proposals is 10 October this year.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-09-19-PT13-2009-U158	Thank you. Proposals should be submitted by 10 October of this year. Draft law “Amendments to the Criminal Procedure Law”, first reading. On behalf of the Legal Commission, Member Jūlija Stepanenko.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-09-19-PT13-2009-U159	These amendments - the amendments initiated by the Ministry of Justice - were also examined by the Legal Commission. They relate to the above-mentioned amendments to the Criminal Law, these amendments coincide with forced labour... term change... supervision of probation, the procedure for carrying out supervision and the new procedure for placing minors in a social correction education institution. There are also amendments related to the problem found in practice that it is necessary to take over the decision of a foreign court, with which a person is subject to forced labour, which is determined in months, not in hours, as it is done in Latvia. At present, it can be adapted, but it cannot change the nature and measure of penalties or probation measures. Thus, in practice there are problems both with how to take over a penalty in Latvia and with regard to the “sent” of a penalty in Latvia to another Member State. If a Member State of the European Union imposes a penalty in months, the court shall determine it in hours with 20 public hours per month. However, when a decision is made in Latvia about the “sent” of public works abroad... In court ruling it is necessary to indicate that public work awarded in Latvia is enforceable within a specified period of time. Consequently, the court is supposed to... The court ruling shall specify in addition the maximum number of months, which shall not be less than six and shall not exceed 24 months, where public work executed in Latvia shall be executed. Thus, the substance of the 2008 Framework Decision of the Council of the European Union is fulfilled. On behalf of the Legal Commission, honourable colleagues, I call on you to support the draft law at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-09-19-PT13-2009-U160	Please call me! We will vote for the draft law “Amendments to the Criminal Procedure Law” at first reading! Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about - 80, it's against and refrains from - it's not. The draft law at first reading has been supported. Please set a deadline for the submission of proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-09-19-PT13-2009-U161	The deadline for submitting proposals - also for this... 10 October.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-09-19-PT13-2009-U162	Thank you. Proposals should be submitted by 10 October of this year. Draft law “Amendments to the Law “On the Bank of Latvia”, second reading. Member of the Commission for Budget and Finance (Tax) Mārtiņš Bondars. ( Milestones.)
ParlaMint-LV_2019-09-19-PT13-2009-U163	I'm sorry, colleagues! While collecting the documents... Thus, the Budget and Finance (Tax) Commission has examined amendments to the Law “On the Bank of Latvia” at second reading. First of all, the nature of the amendments is that before we wish the new Head of the Bank of Latvia, we also set clear rules for this new Head of the Bank of Latvia. This means - five years in office and twice, no more, in a row. So so far, there was no such provision in the law. This time we set very clear limits. Secondly, we reduce the board of the Bank of Latvia from six members to four with these amendments. Thirdly, we ask the Cabinet of Ministers... but de facto the Cabinet of Ministers together with the Bank of Latvia, together with the Ministry of Finance, establishes a new law on the Bank of Latvia and examines the possibility of adding a Financial and Capital Market Commission. Well, that is the common frame of these proposals. There are 10 proposals in total. No proposal has been rejected by the Commission. The proposal is a proposal from the Legal Office. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-09-19-PT13-2009-U164	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-09-19-PT13-2009-U165	The proposal is a proposal from the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission. Supported by changing the numbering of the following articles accordingly.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-09-19-PT13-2009-U166	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-09-19-PT13-2009-U167	3. and Mr Kirštein's proposal. Partially supported, included 4. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-09-19-PT13-2009-U168	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-09-19-PT13-2009-U169	4. is a proposal from the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-09-19-PT13-2009-U170	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-09-19-PT13-2009-U171	5. and the proposal from Member Kirštein. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-09-19-PT13-2009-U172	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-09-19-PT13-2009-U173	6. is a proposal from the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission. Supported by changing the numbering of the following articles accordingly.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-09-19-PT13-2009-U174	Let us start a debate. Name to Member Vjačeslav Dombrovskis.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-09-19-PT13-2009-U175	Dear colleagues, I think that you're deeply concerned about whether there are six people on the Board of the Bank of Latvia, four, eight, 10 or... How long it will be. Well, the majority of the Budget and Finance (Tax) Commission says: six is not good to be four. So, why not? Why are you talking about this at all? Three, okay... Such evidence-based policy. Well, we have here some colleagues from some parties quite often teach that policy must be based on evidence, right? What is it? I'll read you a definition. ‘ Evidence-based policy - a policy based on objective, research-based conclusions on the expected or actual impact of the policy, in contrast to a policy based on views of a selective data, an individual or a group of individuals." It's from the Policy Building Manual, the Transparency Coordination Centre. So there should be no doubt that this and other proposals have been made in the Commission, probably as a result of this evidence-based policy. Let us consider how this could have happened. Well, of course: to propose an amendment, a proposal needs to identify the problem. What is the problem with the Bank of Latvia? Well, who then... Is that so? Oh, you can't talk to the grass... I think the biggest thing we remember is that the President of the Bank of Latvia was accused of doing bribery or accepting bribes. That must have been the biggest problem. At that time, a serious analysis or study was carried out. And the conclusion of this study was that the fact that there are six people on the Board of the Bank of Latvia is to blame for everything. We need four. I guess it was, huh? Some may ask questions: Well, what was that logical chain that from bribery to... Why the board? Perhaps a researcher can receive the Nobel Prize for this great revelation. As it turns out - to fight bribery or avoid... To reduce their risk, you need to... The answer is that the board consists of exactly four people. Not six, not five, not eight, but four. Now, of course, the truth is a lot, a lot more primitive, and this evidence-based policy looked like this: suddenly, a commission appeared on the table to reduce from six to four. The Bank of Latvia itself had no idea where this proposal appeared at all, what its origin was, why four. But in general, their mood was that... they work here for a long time, and they've seen not only such strangeness from politicians. Working well with six board members, now trying to work with four. Well, what to do. We asked the coalition politicians why four? We received a reply: because four sounds better than six. And we need to show the public that we are reducing the number of board members, reducing the number of statutory posts. Well then, my fellow Members, the cosmos started at all. Latvijas Banka says: “You know, this current model is that the number of board members is six, but only one - the chairman of the board - is paid for by those board members. All the others are directors of the bank departments, and they do not receive any additional remuneration. With your new order - with four - it will be different. We will recruit, there will be three new posts with new salaries and so on.” Well, what do you say? What can be said here, honourable colleagues? Evidence-based policy. If you support this, vote in favour. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-09-19-PT13-2009-U176	I closed the debate. Is there anything to be explained?
ParlaMint-LV_2019-09-19-PT13-2009-U177	Yeah. The budget and financial (tax) commission always appreciates the opinion of our colleague Vjačeslav Dombrovskis. And Vjačeslav Dombrovskis also had a different opinion at this meeting of the Commission. Of course, he did not exactly tell everything, as Latvijas Banka said, but that was nothing. That's okay! The majority of the Commission supported the decrease in the number of board members from six to four and I call on you to do the same as the panel did and to support6. - the proposal of the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission, where appropriate by changing the numbering of the following articles. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-09-19-PT13-2009-U178	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 6. - The proposal submitted by the Budget and Finance (Tax) Commission! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The proposal is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-09-19-PT13-2009-U179	7. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-09-19-PT13-2009-U180	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-09-19-PT13-2009-U181	8 / 8 - a proposal from the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-09-19-PT13-2009-U182	Are Members willing to vote? Debate. Let us start a debate. Name to Member Vjačeslav Dombrovskis.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-09-19-PT13-2009-U183	Dear colleagues, Let's keep talking about... evidence-based policy. Here someone wants to initiate a discussion about the merger between the FCMC and the Bank of Latvia, if? What do you think would be the first step? Okay, here we want to discuss - prepare a justification, an analysis of what are those comparative 'for' and 'for', plus that they are two separate... either merged or not... And then, on the basis of this analysis, make a decision - we are going ahead with a merger or we are not going forward. If we make a decision that we are going ahead, then we are starting to draft laws, models and so on. Well, in other words, it's like... The time we teach our children. First we think and then we act. Otherwise, what can happen? So you will now vote in favour of giving the Cabinet of Ministers the task of preparing their whole proposal, model and so on. Officials will start to work, prepare... Well, who pays the officials? Taxpayers! So the officials will prepare all these soils, draft laws and so on, make the reconciliations. Then, suddenly somewhere from the middle, there will appear some assessment of them “for” and “to”. And who knows? - it will suddenly prove that there are no benefits from its merger and that there are only costs. Then perhaps even a decision will be made not to go forward with the merger. But time and all those resources will be spent, you know? Therefore, rational politicians and leaders first assess "for" and "no", go ahead or not, and then decide to go ahead, not that we do first, then... then think. Well, wot. But this coalition acts first and then maybe wonders if it should have done so and what the consequences would have. And the results, colleagues, are natural and visible to all people of Latvia.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-09-19-PT13-2009-U184	I closed the debate. Is there anything to be explained in the name of the commission?
ParlaMint-LV_2019-09-19-PT13-2009-U185	Yeah. Colleagues! The decision of the Budget and Finance (Tax) Commission makes a very clear record, which asked the Government to present such an assessment (before submitting the draft law to the Saeima) on the usefulness of such activities as the merger of the Financial and Capital Market Commission with the Bank of Latvia... or Adding the Financial and Capital Market Commission to the Bank of Latvia... Since such an assessment will be, such an assessment will be examined by the Budget and Finance (tax) Commission, and it will certainly be useful for us to look before the law is seen. Therefore, please support 8. - The budget and financial (tax) commission's proposal is also here in the Saeima.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-09-19-PT13-2009-U186	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 8. - The proposal submitted by the Budget and Finance (Tax) Commission! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 60, for - no, for - 16. The proposal is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-09-19-PT13-2009-U187	9. is a proposal from the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-09-19-PT13-2009-U188	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-09-19-PT13-2009-U189	10. There is also a proposal from the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-09-19-PT13-2009-U190	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-09-19-PT13-2009-U191	Request to support the draft law “Amendments to the Law “On the Bank of Latvia” at second reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-09-19-PT13-2009-U192	Please call me! We will vote for the draft law “Amendments to the Law “On the Bank of Latvia” at second reading! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. The draft law was approved at second reading. Please set a deadline for the submission of proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-09-19-PT13-2009-U193	The deadline for the submission of proposals for third reading is 3 October this year.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-09-19-PT13-2009-U194	Thank you. The deadline for submitting proposals is 3 October this year.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-09-19-PT13-2009-U195	Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-09-19-PT13-2009-U196	Draft law “Amendments to the Law on Support for Unemployed and Labour Seekers”, second reading. On behalf of the Commission for Social and Labour Affairs - Member Ieva Krapāne.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-09-19-PT13-2009-U197	The Social and Labour Affairs Commission discussed draft law “Amendments to the Law on Support for Unemployed and Job Seekers” for the second reading. Three proposals were submitted to the Commission. 1. - a proposal from the Legal Bureau, which was supported and included in the Commission 2. - the proposal of the Commission on Social and Labour Affairs.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-09-19-PT13-2009-U198	Consequently, on proposal 1, Members agree with the Commission's view.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-09-19-PT13-2009-U199	2. - The proposal of the Commission on Social and Labour Affairs. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-09-19-PT13-2009-U200	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-09-19-PT13-2009-U201	3. - The proposal of the Commission on Social and Labour Affairs. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-09-19-PT13-2009-U202	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-09-19-PT13-2009-U203	On behalf of the Commission, please support the draft law at second reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-09-19-PT13-2009-U204	Please call me! We will vote in favour of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Support for Unemployed and Labour Seekers” at second reading! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 76, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The draft law at second reading has been supported. Please set a time limit for the submission of proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-09-19-PT13-2009-U205	Deadline for the submission of proposals for third reading: 26 September 2019.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-09-19-PT13-2009-U206	Thank you. The deadline for submitting proposals is 26 September this year. Draft law “Amendments to law on compulsory social insurance for accidents at work and occupational diseases”, first reading. On behalf of the Commission for Social and Labour Affairs - Member Jānis Krišāns.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-09-19-PT13-2009-U207	Dear President of the Saeima. Honourable Members! The draft law “Amendments to the Law on Compulsory Social Insurance for Accidents at Work and Occupational Diseases” was developed at the initiative of the Ministry of Welfare, and the draft law aims to improve the procedure for calculating and harmonising the average salary of insurance contributions (Intersint.) by ways of calculating wages, which are also provided for by other legislation. The draft law provides for a person who is entitled to two services at the same time to receive the most advantageous, as well as specifies certain provisions of the law relating to sickness benefit and reimbursement costs; this is important. The draft law is intended to... The law will enter into force on 1 January 2020, and there is also a reservation that certain norms will enter into force only on 1 January 2021. On behalf of the Commission, please support the draft law at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-09-19-PT13-2009-U208	Please call me! We will vote in favour of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Compulsory Social Insurance for Accidents at Work and Occupational Diseases” at first reading! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 73, against and refrains. The draft law at first reading has been supported. Please set a deadline for the submission of proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-09-19-PT13-2009-U209	The deadline for submitting proposals shall be 10 October.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-09-19-PT13-2009-U210	Thank you. The deadline for submitting proposals is 10 October this year. Draft law “Amendments to the Law “On Press and Other Media”, first reading. On behalf of the Commission for Human Rights and Public Affairs, Member Artus Kaimiņš.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-09-19-PT13-2009-U211	We examine the draft law “Amendments to the law “On Press and Other Media”” (No. 399/Lp13) at first reading. The draft law submitted to the Commission for Human Rights and Public Affairs provides that, with the adoption and entry into force of this Law, municipalities will no longer be able to set up and issue media of mass information. However, this does not mean that the draft law is directed against the obligation of municipalities to inform the public about the developments in the territory of the municipality concerned. The aim of the draft law is to regulate the media environment according to the legal understanding of freedom of the press, separating public relations and information activities implemented by the state administration within the framework of public law from the activities of the media. On behalf of the Commission for Human Rights and Public Affairs, I call for support for the draft law at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-09-19-PT13-2009-U212	Please call me! We will vote for the draft law “Amendments to the Law “On Press and Other Media”” at first reading! Please vote mode! Please get the result! On - 74, against and refrains - not. The draft law at first reading has been supported. Please set a deadline for the submission of proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-09-19-PT13-2009-U213	October 3, this year.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-09-19-PT13-2009-U214	Thank you. The deadline for submitting proposals is 3 October this year. The next item on the agenda - Election, approval, appointment, dismissal or dismissal of officials, expression of trust or distrust. Draft decision “On withdrawal of Member Didzis Šmits from the Latvian delegation of the Baltic Sea Parliamentary Conference”. Let us start a debate. The name is Digit Schmidt.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-09-19-PT13-2009-U215	Dear colleagues, Salt for the procedure, for the essence. And in the end, there will also be one proposal. Of course, self-appreciate their work, regardless of their position, including in the composition of the Latvian delegation at the Baltic Sea Parliamentary Conference... Now I'm not used to doing that. I think that you are the one who will evaluate this. And finally, sometime later in the future, it will be judged by the voter if I ask him once again to appreciate my work. But there are some remarks, however, where I hope that someone will come, let's say, an explanation of these suggestions, because what surprises me a little bit is for the applicants of this draft decision... 10 applicants... If I look right, none of them is in the delegation of the Baltic Sea Parliamentary Conference. Hence, it is probably quite difficult for those who do not. But it's like at first... When I look deeper, however, there is one person with experience - Member, at the same time Minister - Ramona Petraviča, who really participated in the Baltic Sea parliamentary conference in Oslo with a speech and also at the question-and-answer session. Consequently, it is possible that this competence to assess my work arises from that competence. I will go back to that, but there is one procedural issue here. I'm being removed from this delegation... it is not simply one member of the delegation who has been removed, it has happened that I also direct this parliamentary delegation. So at the same time, when I am removed from this delegation, the Head of Delegation has also been removed. Since this is a very important post in international cooperation, it would be very silly and bad internationally if this post were to remain vacant until some uncertain time. I therefore call on you: if we close me out today, then it would be right not only to place a new member of the delegation, but also to elect the Head of Delegation so that there is no break. And here, too, I have a constructive proposal. As I said, Ramona Petraviča, who has experience in Oslo, is the most competent signatory in this matter. I also call for the leadership of Ramon in the Petravic delegation and as Head of Delegation. I'm going to give it a basis. First. I think we would have a very high level of delegation, because we would have two in one: a Member, a Head of Delegation and, at the same time, a Minister. No other Baltic Sea country would have such a situation. We would be very high. Accordingly, at any conference, both the Member and the Minister could take the floor and, at a later stage, will probably also continue the Prime Minister's course in the country where the conference takes place. That, in my opinion, is essential. The second is also a practical question. We would certainly make savings at the expense of missions - ministers and Members. The third is no less important. On competence. Those in the last conference in the delegation, I think, noticed how bright the Prime Minister's speech was. It really was bright, because it was talked about two more days later, both in the backstages and, as you say, in the evening. So that would also be such a contentive contribution. But this is the speech. Someone writes it, and someone has to read it. There's already that writer who's the main source of content. But there was also a very bright question and debate session. I think that the image of Vija Artmane from the film “The Theatre” could only be touched by the advice – if you take a break, you have it to the end! - performance. At the plenary session of the answers and questions to a question which, by the way, came from our own delegates, the Minister took a break and held it to the end. That's it! If Vija Artmane saw this, I think she would say, “Yes! ( Internouncing call.) We have a really real theatre in our politics!” So that you appreciate my work, vote, but don't forget really... I think it's essential... not only to elect a delegate, but also the Head of Delegation, so that there is no break. Since Mrs Petraviča is indeed the most competent, it is also important that there will not be any need for a warm-up period, it will be ready at once. There's talk, but we just need to read it. Thank you. (Applause)
ParlaMint-LV_2019-09-19-PT13-2009-U216	The name of Member Julia Stepanenko.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-09-19-PT13-2009-U217	Dear colleagues, When, a few months ago, there was a discussion here in the Saeima about the wish of non-group Members to change the commission, and this wish was repeated several times, because it was my wish... It seemed to me that this was simply a misunderstanding: one of the coalition colleagues who passed by to me cast out the phrase that my actions to degrade Parliament and should not do so, I should understand that a Member who is not part of a political group should know his seat. ( Internouncing call.) Colleagues! I believe that your action is depressing Parliament, because there is no reason for this draft decision and it is likely that there will be no one. It is likely that those who initiated this draft decision will simply sit down and wait for the vote, because everything has already been agreed. Digim Schmidt has to go somewhere away. Therefore, colleagues, you want to strengthen the tradition that membership of a particular group is more important than his professionalism and contribution. This means that you can decide where he should be at a given time instead of his constituents. This means that, just as you voted against the draft law on allowances for commission work or for the management of political groups, you are now deciding that only membership of a particular group can lead to further work. I call on you fellow Members not to support this draft decision. I invite you to do this.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-09-19-PT13-2009-U218	Name to Member Vital Orlov.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-09-19-PT13-2009-U219	Thank you for the Bureau. Dear Members, I think we all want knowledgeable, educated people who are professionals in their field to exist at various levels in our country, Latvia and the Saeima. If I am not mistaken, Mr. Schmidt has been working for the Ministry of Foreign Affairs for some time. I am sure that he, a man with such experience and knowledge, must continue to work at the Baltic Sea Parliamentary Conference. And I've been in memory since 2002... I guess the first case... Despite the change in governments, there was a minority government, a different combination, but... That's the first case we're after... When there were changes in government, we withdrew people from some Latvian delegation. I call on you, however, to vote against this draft decision so that Member Schmit will continue to work as part of the Latvian delegation for the Baltic Sea parliamentary conference.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-09-19-PT13-2009-U220	Name to Member Aldi Gobzem.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-09-19-PT13-2009-U221	That's a great proposal! I think it is to be supported and Didzis Schmidt is to be removed from his post, because he has finished his university in Paris, he has a great deal of experience in the foreign service, he knows English and French... and not just as I know. And we don't have to put people like this as Parliament's face, because it's logical. It is quite logical given what the coalition's setting is. The coalition's idea is to show us the true face of Parliament, and Didzis is not the true face of Parliament. He has a high education and he will not shame the parliament. (Applause) That is why it is absolutely necessary to put someone in this position who will be ashamed of the House. And another little remark. I understand so that I will vote in this post to Iveta Benhen-Beeken from KPV LV, and to Iveta, who initially voted against the government of Kariņš and then thought about it, I want to wish you to enjoy these lands of Judah, to enjoy this feeling, because there will be no other time! The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. S. Riekstins: “Sorryful! You are not a man!” ) I think that you, the coalition, are doing the right thing. You honor incompetentness and betrayal. ( Milestones.) Thank you. (Applause)
ParlaMint-LV_2019-09-19-PT13-2009-U222	Name to Member Artus Neminis.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-09-19-PT13-2009-U223	A little bit... Hey, I had it, too. Didy, you're right. Seriously. I had it, too. Before... How long?... Four years, Marty, I left LRA? You took me off from an interparliamentary delegation in the Mediterranean. ( Milestones.) And then you put someone who didn't even know how to speak English. It was crazy, I remember. But well, it was... I took it personally, and I thought, "Well, what's that... Because I really did my job well and represented our country... I mean, I mean, I mean, I mean, I mean, I (Laughter) But, you see, I think... You understand Latvian, don't you? (Laughter) Thank you very much. But I think... It's that... Remember how we started tomorrow morning! Now we've been sitting for almost six hours. How did we start tomorrow? We started tomorrow by talking about the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe. In this case, we have the number of people we have in Latvia, we also have so many delegates in the respective delegations. In this case, the National Union has indeed not fallen in the lot, and they are not represented in the Parliamentary Assembly, although there are other groups. We have been talking today about the position of the National Alliance, whether or not we are taking part. In this case, there's... Linda, Bigger! Well, really, with no emotions, the word of honor! Just... it happens that there are political places, you understand, and you are no longer in a political group. So, well, it belongs to... The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. He said: “You know what the country is?Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, “ It is part of the case of this change. Would it be better or not... I'm not gonna tell you if it's right. But it's factions... This is unfortunately the case. So don't take it personally, now! Nothing can be taken personally here at all. That's it. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. He says: “I don’t take it personally! You know what the country is? Who does the State own?’ ) I think the discussion will continue. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-09-19-PT13-2009-U224	The name to Member Aldi Gobzem for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-09-19-PT13-2009-U225	In response to the previous speaker, I have to say that Parliament is not the place where anyone should have something. Parliament is a place which represents the country and its interests as a whole. In response to the previous speaker, it must also be said that it is quite understandable why the previous speaker (Dep. A. Neighbours: “What is my name?” ) may have been withdrawn from an international delegation. I have personally had a situation to drive to represent the interests of a particular political organisation outside Latvia to England, and in this trip, where we were travelling together, this person was already under the total influence of alcohol on the plane. (Laughter) That is understandable. It is not possible to send a person to an international delegation from Parliament if there is such a risk. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-09-19-PT13-2009-U226	The name of Member Iveta Benhen-Beeken.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-09-19-PT13-2009-U227	Hello, colleagues! Thank you very much for the bag! Thank you very much for the dry and clear speech. I haven't heard anything like that before. I am very pleased that competence is being assessed, because it is the primary and most important. It must also be understood that the operation of foreign... There is a way in which we defend and realise Latvia's interests in different delegations and representations. Clearly, social conversations in an informal environment and the knowledge of somelier are highly valued. There is no question of this at all. But this is also about the desire and ability to study facts and see them in a broader context. Of course, we should not forget about a foreign language, too, shouldn't we? And there I will be more than graceful and honored... ( The Room Noise. The head of the sitting shall be knocked down by a hammer. (Laughter)
ParlaMint-LV_2019-09-19-PT13-2009-U228	Meetings of the Saeima shall be held in the official language, Mrs Benhen-Beeken.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-09-19-PT13-2009-U229	I'm so sorry. I'm so sorry! I wanted to show that I had competence and...
ParlaMint-LV_2019-09-19-PT13-2009-U230	Mrs. Benhen-Beeken, you forget where you are.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-09-19-PT13-2009-U231	... foreign language skills.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-09-19-PT13-2009-U232	Mrs. Benhen-Beeken, you have a microphone disabled. The sittings of the Saeima shall be held in the state language. You are here, in Latvia, please! (Laughter)
ParlaMint-LV_2019-09-19-PT13-2009-U233	Very good that we are in Latvia. The simple story is that at any moment I can also show my competence and speak not only in my own language, but also in three other languages. And I'm so sorry that it's come to say that life is harsh and go ahead... Thank you. (Applause) (See paragraph 4.5 of this Regulation.)
ParlaMint-LV_2019-09-19-PT13-2009-U234	The name to the Member Digim Schmit for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-09-19-PT13-2009-U235	I don't like Jacques Širak's former statement, which was related to Latvia's country, that we missed the opportunity to listen. Iveta, right. In some cases, you missed the opportunity to obey. I... Yes, I'm unstable, I'm changing my mind. (Laughter) I think Iveta will really be better than Ramon Petravič. She's just shown it from this pub. In any case, after her speeches too, we will certainly be able to hear a lot of debates there... as they say, between countries. But that is not surprising. Since you, Iveta, asked, I'll remind you of what you said when you changed your opinion on Karina's government. You said: “The fact that we are in this Saeima is a halva. I want to enjoy her.” Good luck! (Applause) Substitution: “Uuu!” ) Council Regulation (EC) No 1257/96 of 20 June 1996 concerning humanitarian aid (OJ L 163, 2.7.1996, p. 1).
ParlaMint-LV_2019-09-19-PT13-2009-U236	Member Iveta Benhena-Beeken's name for the second time. “ You had the opportunity to talk along the way! You should have said everything on the way!” Medicines cause noise.)
ParlaMint-LV_2019-09-19-PT13-2009-U237	So far, I had the fear of this pub, but thank you, Didy! You're just phenomenal. The other one you can't find! It would be more like Mr. Schmitt and still separate copies that can speak beautifully, but when things get to work, the chic just comes together. And that's it! Halava, I'm sorry if the percentage of success is exactly why you're here, and exactly how when the moment came... Then the first thing you did was lift up your hat. It's beautiful! And why not? You know, I'm not sorry! We can drink a glass of wine together, but I don't think I want it. ( Intercretion: “Treasure the halava! ” ) Thank you. ( The drug is noise. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-09-19-PT13-2009-U238	Name to Member Ivars Zarins. ( The Room Noise. Substitution: “Start with the anecdotes!” Thank you. Impression: ‘Do you think what to say?’ ) Mr. Zarins, speak, it's time to go.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-09-19-PT13-2009-U239	That's okay. Colleagues! As you could all see, Members are ready to carry out their duties. I call for the choice to be made and for this, I am sorry, to end respect for no one's creative debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-09-19-PT13-2009-U240	I closed the debate. Please call me! We will be voting on the draft decision on the withdrawal of Member Didžas Šmits from the Latvian delegation of the Baltic Sea Parliamentary Conference! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 51, against - 28, refrains - 1. Decision adopted. Draft decision “On election of Member Iveta Benhen-Beeken in the Baltic Sea Parliamentary Conference in the Latvian Delegation”. Please call me! We will vote on the draft decision on the election of Member Iveta Benhen-Beeken in the Baltic Sea Parliamentary Conference in the Latvian delegation! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Decision adopted. Draft decision on the withdrawal of Member Linda Liepiņš from the Latvian delegation of the Baltic Assembly. The debate is held for five minutes, so Members Strike, Dzintars, Pavļuts, Latkovskis and Pucens are asking to continue the sitting of the Saeima until all items on the agenda are examined. Do Members have objections? There is no objection. The name of Member Linda Liepiņš.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-09-19-PT13-2009-U241	Colleagues! There is already a lot of information about this, that this is not a story of competence or experience. It is a story of how to avenge Members who are, as Mrs Strike said, waste groups. ( Milestones.) Here... I suggest... I propose that other types of waste - coalition waste - go even further. Why were you not doing the same way and did not withdraw me from the Request Commission? So elementary - collect signatures, convene an extraordinary sitting, throw me out of the Request Commission, and the thing done! ( Milestones.) Here's the first. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. Bondars: “Thank you, good offer!” ) That is exactly how, Mr Bondara, you no longer need to attend my committee meetings. Choose the commissions that we need to do, even if you have every sitting, to withdraw us from the commissions. This is your Parliament, but this is your country... The question is, how long? Perhaps also create a special commission for Members who are not part of the political groups - so that you do not have to look at us at all. ( Milestones.) There's something... and then put your agenda there, which we must also deal with there. I have another idea. Maybe you can also make a separate corner in the canteen (Laughter) so that you don't have to look at us at all, and that we don't cause any disgusting in you. And you could also set up a special toilet for us to put a cheaper toilet paper. How far will you go? - That's my question. It's just funny, but thank you for all this, because voters see it and they're coming to a hint of all this watching. (Applause)
ParlaMint-LV_2019-09-19-PT13-2009-U242	The name of Member Julia Stepanenko.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-09-19-PT13-2009-U243	Dear colleagues, In this debate, Mr Kaimina has already said that there are posts, there are seats that are simply due. That's what you said. This means that Linda Liepiņa, whose elections have received more than 11 thousand pluses from the voters (Dep. A. Neighbours: “Come on! Not so much! Five thousand!’ )... I don't think one of you's outnumbered them. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A. Neighbours: “I was 22! She had five!” ) Linda Liepiņa is a person you want to move away at the moment, considering that she (Interior call.) are simply not part of the system. Yes, Mr. Village, you were also in this role in the previous Saeima, and I very well remember your despair and the fact that you complained that you should now live under the ladder. Now you live in a very good place. Depp. A. Neighbours: “What?Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Which ladders?’ ), you are at the Commission for Human Rights and Public Affairs. (Applause) I call on you not to support this draft decision.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-09-19-PT13-2009-U244	The name of Member Regina Lochmele-Lunova.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-09-19-PT13-2009-U245	Hello! I am also a member of the Baltic Assembly delegation (Dep. A. Neighbours: “For the time being!” ), and I'm very sorry that here in the hall... about your culture everything is clear (interface.) Yes, yes, yes... Mr. Neighbour, and the abilities of your actor to the whole nation are also clear and long ago. — Insight. The Head of the Baltic Assembly delegation is not here today. I had the hope that Jānis Vucāns could really say good words about Linda, about her work as part of the Latvian delegation of the Baltic Assembly. That is something that you, those who signed, may not have any idea, and you have hardly ever looked at the agenda and resolutions of the Baltic Assembly. And, at all, are you interested in this? The main thing I'd like to say to Eric Pucen right now. You know, it's that you have to take the lead of a really big group today. I understand you have a shadow... What do you call them there? Commander, I don't know who, but you're the leader. And sometimes in the Saeima in the fight between position and opposition must be one wise person who knows what he is doing. If you think you're making these people weaker in this way, then I think you're wrong. And this mistake is very rude (interface.) , because your actions and the progress of events will be judged not by those who sit here, but by those who sit behind the walls of this hall, who see, hear and understand everything. ( Milestones.) I beg you so much, be careful! Thank you. (Applause)
ParlaMint-LV_2019-09-19-PT13-2009-U246	Name to Member Aldi Gobzem.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-09-19-PT13-2009-U247	Continuing the previous speech, which was about my colleague Didji Schmidt, to a similar note, I have to say that... I think Linda should be released from this post and we should put in positions those who have not seen the world. (Applause) It is clear, however, that the Saeima is used for many excursion missions, because there are a number of our colleagues who did not travel the world before entering Parliament in their previous life. They now have time to learn, and we must give them this opportunity. Because if we don't give them this opportunity, then... Well, you know what the consequences will be. ( The box “What? ”) ) Wet in the heart. I mean, I mean, I mean, I mean, I mean, I (Laughter) It's going to be hot! ( Milestones.) The coalition Members of this bitterness need, of course, to be reduced. Of course, the public should also tell about all the other things - how some Members were taken to work for public money by the state car before John at the meeting of the Request Commission, because they could not come and sit at the wheel at that time. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. S. Riekstins: “Tell me who? What are you doing there now?” ) All these details - that is what the coalition really is interested in. Is the coalition interested in Parliament's reputation? Is the coalition interested in Latvian public interests? No, the coalition is interested in: “We will have a job?” Well, you see, one Member in the previous Saeima had to drive a 20-year-old car that a lawyer bought him, but in this parliament he can already drive a much more proud car, because he has no more office, say, where he was last time, and there are bonuses. The other Members in the previous term had, either, relatively poor circumstances and relatively poor incomes. Now is a private driver, now there are countless tours abroad. But where does the state benefit from it all? Our society is watching these Thursday sittings and thinking about you, coalition! What exactly have you done for the people of Latvia? Some benefit to Latvian doctors or Latvian teachers or Latvian pensioners (Dep. A. Neighbours: Firefighters! ) will come from the fact that... Well, you've now taken Didy Schmidt, well... Is that so? Big Smith's gonna be terribly offended about that matter? You're on your own... show you what you are! You don't show how bad Liepaja is if you bring him back now. You show how much you are actually interested in the land in your desires and in your own interest in society. That is the attitude you are showing with these votes. If you were interested in Latvian society and its interests, you would not do intrigues, because they are only intrigues. I'm sorry, what's the difference that leads some or other commission? It seems to me that the only question - whether this commission is led by the most educated, competent, most capable, most active and kind of person who, in honour, will best represent the interests, not the one who belongs to one political group or another or who has little basic salary and needs a little more - 200 or 300 or 400, I do not know how much more is there for them. ( Internoint.) (Laughter) So... It's so bad! It is so very, very bad - that you all try to convert it into your premium or to turn it into your tour. Maybe we'll start... We're here for almost a year. Maybe at last we start talking about the people of Latvia and adopt laws that are necessary in the interests of Latvian society. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-09-19-PT13-2009-U248	The name is Digit Schmidt.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-09-19-PT13-2009-U249	I know that many of you who voted for me and will now vote for Linda seem stupid, stupid, contrary to your conscience, unnecessary... But now there's a coalition, there's government stability, everything there... The budget is still to be adopted. It is not because of this vote that we are going to go there now to destroy everything. And it's somewhere... and speaking about individual Members, I know that ball is giant, giant, giant... What I mean. There is a group of free Members. It's six people. Not so far till 51. (Laughter) The road has been started. Believe me, there is no better feeling that you can vote according to your conscience. Of course, given that compromises are needed, that there are different ways and disputes to achieve the objective... But if the target... if you do not believe in the purpose, you can vote for the other. It's a fantastic feeling. I think you went to the elections with that will, you said it to yourself, to those who elected you. At least KPV LV said this absolutely, because in recent months I was actually at all the meetings and we said that we would be free people. So that you... When you are tired, then - whatever you have said today, as you have voted today - we will wait for you in the Group of Free Members for the free people. Thank you. (Applause)
ParlaMint-LV_2019-09-19-PT13-2009-U250	The name to Member Aldi Gobzem for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-09-19-PT13-2009-U251	I just wanted to turn to my former colleagues - KPV LV. Before the elections we all drove together and every evening we said to people: "The country must start with itself." The country must start with itself! Everyone has to start with themselves! And you told men that you would not do the same as the old men before, as 11 or 12. In the family and so on. It's not a year. Most of you are young people younger than I am. S. Riekstins: “Ai! Heart bitterness!’ ), but you were much older than those old ones in that previous or 11. In the family. What happened to you during these eight months? Maybe you should start with yourself. Start with yourself - honour the voters that you will be different from those who have been before. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-09-19-PT13-2009-U252	I closed the debate. Please call me! We will vote on the draft decision on the withdrawal of Member Linda Liepiņa from the Latvian delegation of the Baltic Assembly! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 50, for - 29, for - 1. Decision adopted. Draft decision “On election of Member Janina Kursīte in the Latvian delegation of the Baltic Assembly”. Please call me! We will vote on the draft decision on the election of the Member Janina Kursīte in the Latvian delegation of the Baltic Assembly! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 59, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Decision adopted. Honourable Members! The agenda of the sitting was examined. I would like to inform you about the answers to Members' questions scheduled for today at 5 p.m. The question of Members Papule, Zarina, Agešina, Kucina and Lochmele-Lunov by Prime Minister Artur Krišjānis Kariņš “On the Order of the Cabinet of Ministers”. The question was referred to Minister of Education and Science Ilga Šuplinska. The written replies received are not satisfied, but they do not want to ask oral questions. For the Member Stepanenko, Liepaja, Gobzem, Srūde and Smit Minister of Justice Janis Bordans “On the involvement of prison administration in the project”. The written replies received shall not be satisfied. The Minister informs that an oral answer can be given. Will there be applicants? It will. I mean, I mean, I mean, I mean, I mean, I Thank you. Thank you very much. Depp. A. Neighbours: “But there must be at least two!” ) Thank you. Then the Minister can come, because the applicants will be. ( The box “Yes! ”) ) The Minister of Finance of Liepiņa, Gobzema, Stepanenko, Smita and Sprūdze “On compensation to be paid to SRS staff and/or officials”. The written replies received are not satisfactory, but the oral Members do not wish to ask further questions. New questions have been put to Members. Members Dombrovskis, Agešins, Švecova, Papule, Cilevičs and Lochmele–Lunova submitted the question “On a possible reduction in the amount and cost of unemployment benefits”, which we hand over to Minister for Welfare Ramona Petraviča. Members Klementjevs, Orlovs, Rubiks, Agešins and Ribakovs submitted the question “On the action of the Ministry of Welfare to prevent cases of fraud of child parental benefits” that we hand over to the Minister for Welfare. Members Klementjevs, Zarins, Agešins, Orlovs and Ribakovs submitted the question “On possible cases of fraud of parental benefits for children”, which we hand over to Health Minister Ilze Viņķelis. Members Švecova, Lochmele-Lunova, Zarins, Krišāns and Cilevičs have submitted the question “On possible fraud and restriction of competition in the procurement of the Ministry of Health”, which we submit to the Minister of Health for response. Members Stepanenko, Liepiņa, Smits, Gobzems and Sprūde submitted the question “On the issue of the support of tenants of denationalised houses in the Ministry of Economics”. The word for motivation to Member Julija Stepanenko.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-09-19-PT13-2009-U253	Dear colleagues, Quite simply, our questions can be described as follows: will this finally be the government of the tenants of the denationalised houses? We followed the process of adopting the budget for the previous year and found that in the relevant commission Mr Nemiro presented a possible part of the compensation to the tenants of denationalised houses (of the country - 3.5 million), but this compensation was not supported by the government. We want to be clear about this. Is Mr Nemiro prepared to direct this compensation regardless of the will of the government? Is he ready to do everything for the denationalized house tenants (intersor.) finally receive a refund that is fair? Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-09-19-PT13-2009-U254	We put the question to the Minister for Economic Affairs, Ralph Nemir. Please call me! Please check-in mode for Members! Name of the Saeima Secretary Maria Golubeva. The results of the registration.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-09-19-PT13-2009-U255	Not registered: Arvils Asheraden, Raimonds Bergmanis, Boriss Cilevičs, Anda Čakša, Gundars Dauge, Inese Ikstena, Andrejs Judins, Armands Krauze, Edgars Kucins, Maris Kučinskis, Janīna Kursite-Pakule, Evija Papule, Ivars Puga, Ivans Ribakovs (Dep. I. Ribakov: “I am here!” )... Yes, John Wucan.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-09-19-PT13-2009-U256	Thank you. I'm closing the sitting.
