ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-21-PT13-527-U1	Good morning, honourable Members! I invite you to take your seats in the Chamber. Let us begin the sitting of the Saeima on 21 March 2019. First of all, the amendments tabled to the agenda of the sitting approved by the Saeima Bureau. The Legal Commission asks for the draft decision “On approval of Inga Wolf as a member of the State Audit Council” to be included on the agenda of the sitting. Are Members opposed to this amendment of the agenda? There is no objection. The order of business has been amended. The Legal Commission requests that the question ‘On Election of the Chairman of the Central Electoral Commission’ be placed on the agenda of the sitting. Are Members opposed to this amendment of the agenda? The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A. Gobzem: “Yes!” ) Who has reservations? Member Gobzem has reservations. We have to vote. Please call me! We will vote on the inclusion of the question of Election of the Chair of the Central Electoral Commission on the agenda of the sitting of the Saeima. Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 64, for - 2, for - 5. The issue is therefore on the agenda. The Legal Commission shall request that the draft decision on the election of the members of the Central Electoral Commission be included on the agenda of the sitting. Are Members opposed to this amendment of the agenda? There is no objection. The order of business has been amended. The Commission of the State Administration and Local Government is asking for the draft decision on the continuation of administrative territorial reform to be included on the agenda of the sitting. Are Members opposed to this amendment of the agenda? There is no objection. The order of business has been amended. Let us start by looking at the agreed agenda. On the agenda - reports from the Saeima Bureau on draft laws submitted. The Saeima's Bureau proposes that the Member, Dombrava, Kola, Schnore, Teirumnieks and Dzintara's draft law "Amendment to the Law on Cooperative Society" be referred to the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy, stating that it is the committee responsible. Do Members object to a draft law being passed on to the Commission? There is no objection. The draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Presidium of the Saeima proposes that the Member Reizniece-Ozola, Valaiņa, Plantaļa, Kučinska, Koite, Čakša and other draft laws submitted be referred to the Legal Commission, stating that it is the committee responsible. Do Members object to a draft law being passed on to the Commission? ( Internouncing call.) Members want to vote. Please call me! We will vote in favour of handing over to the Legal Commission the draft law “Law on the Release of Natural Persons from Debt”, which states that it is the committee responsible! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 30, for - 52, for - 1. The draft law has not been passed on to the commission. The Saeima Bureau proposes that the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Value Added Tax” presented by the Cabinet of Ministers be referred to the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission, stating that it is the committee responsible. Do Members object to a draft law being passed on to the Commission? There is no objection. The draft law has been passed on to the Commission. Reports by the Saeima Bureau on own-initiative proposals submitted. The National Administration and Municipal Commission has submitted an own-initiative proposal – draft decision on the continuation of administrative territorial reform. Do Members object to the inclusion of this own-initiative proposal on the agenda of today's sitting? Are there any objections? There is no objection. The draft decision is therefore on the agenda of the sitting. On the granting of leave. For granting unpaid leave to a Member, Sandis Riekstins, on 4 April this year. The Saeima Bureau has received an application from Member Sanda Riekstins requesting unpaid leave on 4 April of this year. We must vote in favour of granting leave. Please call me! We will be voting to grant unpaid leave to Member Sandis Riekstins on 4 April this year! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 78, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Decision adopted. The next item on the agenda - Election, approval, appointment, dismissal or dismissal of officials, expression of trust or distrust. Draft decision “On the release of Valerijas Jonikans, a judge of the Supreme Court from the office of a judge”. On behalf of the Legal Commission, Mr Valery Agešin, Member.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-21-PT13-527-U2	Good morning, dear colleagues! During the meeting of the Legal Commission on 12 March, the draft decision “On the release of Valerijanas Jonikans, a judge of the Supreme Court from the office of a judge” was reviewed. Members of the Commission have unanimously supported the draft decision. On behalf of the Legal Commission, I would like to thank the judge of the Department of Civil Cases of the Supreme Court Valerijas Jonikanas for an important contribution to the development of the judicial system of Latvia. I am invited to release Valerijan Jonikan from office as a judge on 30 April 2019 at my own wish due to his retirement.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-21-PT13-527-U3	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote for the draft decision “On Release of Valerijanas Jonikans of the Supreme Court Judge from the office of a judge”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 79, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Decision adopted. And on the agenda - draft decision “On the dismissal of the judge of Latgale Regional Court Jānis Dimperas from the position of a judge”. On behalf of the Legal Commission, Mr Valery Agešin, Member.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-21-PT13-527-U4	During the meeting of the Legal Commission on 12 March, the draft decision “On the dismissal of the judge of Latgale regional court Jānis Dimperas from the office of a judge” was reviewed. The members of the Commission have unanimously supported the draft decision. In 2015, Janis Dimperais was awarded the Ministry of Justice's II-grade Certificate of Recognition and Silver Hair. On behalf of the Legal Commission, I would like to thank the judge of Latgale regional court Janis Dimperais for his important contribution to the development of the judicial system of Latvia, long-term and self-free work. On 3 May 2019 I am invited to release Janis Dimpera from office as a judge at my own wish due to the reaching of the age set for granting an old-age pension. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-21-PT13-527-U5	Please call me! We will vote for the draft decision “On Dismissal of the judge of Latgale Regional Court Jānis Dimperas from the office of a judge”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about - 83, it's against and refrains from - it's not. Decision adopted. On the agenda - draft decision “On approval of Inga Wolf as a member of the Council of the State Audit Office”. On behalf of the Legal Commission - Member Inese Lībiņa-Egnere.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-21-PT13-527-U6	Dear colleagues, Dear colleagues, At the meeting of the Legal Commission on 19 March, we examined the draft decision “On approval of Inga Wolf as a member of the State Audit Council”. Inga Vilka has obtained a doctoral degree in economics under the management of society, has been a lecturer, assistant professor, associate professor, head of the Department of Management at the Faculty of Economics and Management of the University of Latvia. Working in the commission and expert group set up by the President of Latvia, interinstitutional working groups on improvement of the legal environment, revision of state budget expenditure, improvement of activities of municipalities and management issues. Since 2017, Inga Vilka has been Head of Sector 1 of the Fifth Audit Department of the State Audit Office. The members of the Legal Commission listened to the candidates of both the Auditor General and the member of the State Audit Office Council and unanimously supported the approval of Inga Vilka as a member of the State Audit Council. On behalf of the Legal Commission, I would like to confirm Inga Vilka as a member of the Council of the State Audit Office from 26 March this year.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-21-PT13-527-U7	Please call me! We will vote for the draft decision “On approval of Inga Wolf as a member of the State Audit Council”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about - 86, it's against and refrains from - it's not. Decision adopted. And on the agenda for the election of the Chair of the Central Electoral Commission. On behalf of the Legal Commission, Member Jānis Iesalnieks.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-21-PT13-527-U8	Good morning, colleagues! According to the law, a new Saeima must elect the Central Electoral Commission in its full composition within six months of the meeting. Two applications have been received from Members for candidates for the post of Chair of the Central Electoral Commission. One candidate is Arnis Cimdars, the long-term chairman of the Central Electoral Commission, and the other candidate is Kristīne Bēriņa, the long-term Central Election Commission, so that both nominated candidates have a great experience in the work of the Central Election Commission. At its meeting on 19 March, the Legal Commission examined... and listened to both candidates and decided to support Christine Burns’s candidacy. Taking into account the order of the Saeima established that if two candidates are nominated for this post, the Legal Commission invites the Saeima to vote in favour of the two candidates nominated at the same time as the ballot papers. The draft decision should also be supplemented on condition that the elected Chairman of the Central Electoral Commission takes up his duties tomorrow, 22 March, as today's... It is the last day that the lists of candidates for Members of the European Parliament can be submitted to the Central Electoral Commission and, therefore, in order to avoid any interruption in the work of the Central Electoral Commission, these mandates should be approved tomorrow.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-21-PT13-527-U9	Thank you. Let us start a debate. Name to Member Aldi Gobzem.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-21-PT13-527-U10	Good morning, people's servants! In order to understand why I was debating today the candidates for the chair of the Central Electoral Commission, I must say at once that, before these elections, I felt that I would vote against Arni Cimdar. That was my subjective opinion on this issue. And then this question came to the Legal Commission, where we found a very interesting fact that the two candidates for this post, which is a very important post in the country that affects the life of the whole society, because it is about elections... that the two candidates have not been heard by all the parliamentary groups. Even more - Arni Cimdar, who wanted to be heard about his vision of the way forward, in fact, the political groups have refused to listen! I have therefore come to the view that the election of the central electoral committee's leadership is not the wish of this coalition to achieve the best solution with the best vision, but rather some sort of culinary agreement; that everything has already been decided. We already know what the result will be today. I do not want to say that the second candidate would be less worthy to take up this post (I do not know the second candidate), but I want to say that such a procedure in itself lowers the lats of how we choose high officials. Our Parliament is, in fact, not interested in the vision that applicants for high public posts want to give. We are not interested in the vision that the individual candidate will do, but we simply have an agreement: well, this post will be this man, it will be that. It is a political market. That is the reason why I will vote against the two nominated candidates today, not because I would have been subjectively disliked to one of them, but because I was objectively disliked to the way in which we chose national senior officials. And there is no doubt that in the same regime we will continue to choose the highest officials of another country... other posts. I call on Parliament not to deal with this issue today. And in fact, not only with regard to this post, but also with regard to any other post that needs to be approved by Parliament and which affects the life of the whole society. I invite you to first evaluate the offer made by each of the applicants, what he will do in this post and then choose the best offer. I think it would raise both culture... the way in which we choose applicants, as well as the reputation of Parliament. Moreover, this would not harm the candidates put forward. I call on Parliament not to take such action in the future. I understand that it has been a practice for many years, but perhaps once we need to think not only that we are warm in this building... and is totally no matter what the public thinks of Parliament. It does not matter that the Saeima's reputation is critically low. Maybe we need to change this. Change so that society can start to trust Parliament. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-21-PT13-527-U11	The name of Member Inese Voika.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-21-PT13-527-U12	Dear President of the Saeima. Dear colleagues, We must make one of the important and important decisions today, because democracy starts with elections. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. I. Zarins: “Do it come to an end!” ) Fair and fair elections are these democracies... the basis for democratic developments. Our Central Electoral Commission has developed over time as an institution capable of ensuring fair and fair elections, is internationally respected and its advice is heard in many countries around the world. Several years ago, a study was carried out on many Latvian institutions, how well they are carrying out their duties in order to ensure a fair and just state. The Central Electoral Commission under the leadership of Arnis Cimdara was one of the highest-valued institutions in terms of how to manage its resources, what legal framework and how honestly it works. Thank you very much to Mr Cimdara for his two decades of work to build this institution! However, as a coalition of government, we are determined not to create a government government in which a particular organization would depend on one person. We need to create a government where the best come, gives this institution the best that can be given, and pass the booth on. That is why we have chosen today to vote for a new Chair of the Central Electoral Commission. It is in good organizations that managers are often chosen from the inside, because there is collective and growth there, but not taken from the edge to come and change. Our elections do not need shocks, but further improvements. And I agree that we should think about improving the procedure, colleagues, so that those people who take part in it understand what selection is, what are the criteria, so that we ourselves know that we are choosing the best. In the end, however, Mr Gobzem will be political, and this coalition wants a good, strong and honest Central Electoral Commission. I also call on you to vote on this today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-21-PT13-527-U13	Name to Member Krišjānis Feldman.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-21-PT13-527-U14	Good morning! I am already used to the fact that in the last days and perhaps even weeks of this tribunal the programme of 4,000 marks of the election of the New Conservative Party is often quoted. But I have noticed that this happens when it is very beneficial to quote it, grammatically translate it, literally to something. However, this does not happen when it is obvious that the Saeima could decide something that is in line with the programme of a coalition party, including the programme of the New Conservative Party. And here, of course, I have to cit... The CVK yesterday also had a reference directly to this page... So, the CVK... 13. Saeima in the electoral programme. There, the section of the New Conservative Party states: ‘The public administration. Responsible person - Jānis Bordāns.” Among others, it reads: “Heads of public administration institutions in office for a maximum period of 10 years.” That's it! So every time there is a decision by the Saeima that is in line with the programme of coalition parties, given that it will not be quoted from this flank, it will obviously have to be quoted from that flank. It's okay! It's okay! Political logic. And in this respect, I can only say that the new Conservatives will come up with a change today. Thank you. (Applause)
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-21-PT13-527-U15	The name of Member Julia Stepanenko.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-21-PT13-527-U16	Dear colleagues, At first, Mr Feldman has a little clarification. I understand that, at the moment, you are encouraging the management of the country through Mr. Bordan's records in Facebook. Because what you offered (The Room Noise) I mean, actually... At the beginning of the amendment of the law (Dep. Feldman: “That’s it!” ), not just to quote what your manager has said somewhere and sometime. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. ( See K. Feldman's Intersense.) But if we talk about how the country is now dealing with people who have served most of their lives, we also talk about fire-fighters... Now we are also talking about Mr Cimdar. We are talking about the fact that he is simply leaving the door with hypocritical arguments. And these hypocritical arguments: “We didn’t want to waste Mr. Cimdar’s time to see him.” Yes, indeed, Mr Cimdara was very busy waiting for the representatives of the ruling coalition to listen to him. Yeah... In fact, you, my fellow Members, are really new Members here - most of them. And I would like to understand what will guide your choice today, which will be based on the choice of Members of the New Conservative Party (Dep. Feldman: “On our pre-election program!” ), which will also be based on the choice of the other Members who have not been in the Saeima before. Because, in fact, the new conservative party, as we heard from the Legal Commission, has not met any of the candidates. You colleagues from the political group (Dep. J. Strike: “It’s not!” ), you haven't met... None of you have met either Mrs. Berzina or Mr. Cimdar. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. J. Strike: “It’s not!” ) For us in the Legal Commission, Mrs Berzins confirmed that she had not met with the New Conservative Group and the National Association. I would therefore like to understand what your motivation - each one of you - will be to choose today the Chair of the Central Electoral Commission. Finally - and I would also like to respond to the arguments we heard from the Legal Commission from Mr Iesalnieks - that we trust our colleagues in the choice of judges. The judges shall be directed by the Council for the Judiciary after having assessed their work in advance. But the Chairman of the Central Electoral Commission shall be elected by the Members. And this is a matter of national security. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. S. Riekstins: “That’s why!” ) It is a matter for the future of our country as a whole and it must not be the subject of a political market. ( Internouncing call.) Thank you. (Applause)
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-21-PT13-527-U17	Name to Member Maris Kučinskis.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-21-PT13-527-U18	Dear Chairman of the Saeima. Colleagues! Today, it is a little sad (Dep. M. Bondar: “It was sad yesterday!” ) - some kind of association from this heard that... on that... When someone stays old, he is put into horns and taken to the forest - just because he is old. I really know, and I think, that there are a lot of things in the administration that the coalition now... who's in charge. Many are heads of institutions, many of which have not even been seen by many. But they work very well, because they are nowhere, and they are not seen anywhere. I would like to say, at least humanely, to Mr Cimdara for all the time he has led... and the fact that our CEC has not met with condemnations, scandals, or imprudent leadership. Now we're going to the big unknown... Because there are young people who are young themselves and say: “Let us wipe out all that has been done, regardless of how he has done, what he has done, what he has done, what he has done. Let's take him to the forest! Let's throw him away and now let's give him a chance to a person we don't know, and we haven't even met one." Good luck! (Applause)
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-21-PT13-527-U19	Name to Member Raiv Dzintar.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-21-PT13-527-U20	Hello, honourable Speaker of the Saeima! Dear colleagues, Let me say that two honourable, experienced, strong candidates have been nominated for the chair of the Central Electoral Commission, and we have to choose one of them. I really believe that both candidates are experienced and strong. My call is to vote in favour of one of the candidates, Kristīne Bērzins, and I will mention the main point. In my opinion, Kristīne Bērziņa embodies two very important indicators. On the one hand, these are the changes that have been mentioned, on the other, but they are, however, experiences and inheritances. So that I absolutely would not agree with Mr Kučinski in this case that everything good that has been done is being wiped out. Mrs Berzine has had experience since, if I remember correctly, in 1998, the Central Electoral Commission has been very active. Mrs Berzin's education - the master in communication science - is, in my opinion, a very good argument to help the Central Electoral Commission with the aspect of how it may have been somewhat lacking, namely the question of image. We certainly do not want to say that everything that has happened to Mr Cimdara is bad, but I think that this image is an issue in which the Central Electoral Commission could still improve. And the other thing I want to say. It is not true, Mrs Stepanenko, that the representatives of the National Union have not met Mrs Berzin. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. Gobzem: “The Commission said!” ) The representatives of the National Union just like the... I have at least information... New Conservative Party, New Unity, Latvian... Development/About! representatives have met with Mrs. Birzina after hearing him. ( Interface: “With one representative! ” ) I doubt that Mrs Berzine would have refused to present her candidacy to anyone, regardless of the political power of the position or opposition. With Mr Cimdar, the National Association has long been known, we can assess his activities and also appreciate all the positives he has done. Likewise, we had the opportunity to compare and evaluate Mrs. Berzine's candidacy. Therefore, there should be no conflict between policies at present and policies where this is not necessary. We have to choose between two strong candidates, and I call on you to vote in this case for Christine Berzins. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-21-PT13-527-U21	The name to Member Aldi Gobzem for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-21-PT13-527-U22	People who win ideas must be put in high country positions; the fight for ideas must be won rather than surnames. In this particular case, there has not been a fight for ideas, but there has been political obscuration. At one time, a dogboy told the public about what was political delinquency, and this is a problem that is now continuing in the Saeima. Now the dogboy has no claims against it. What I say is that I have no claims against either candidate or candidate. But there has been no discussion about the fact that people with the best ideas have reached or will enter this position. And the other thing. Mr. Cimdar has done a lot for the Republic of Latvia. At least so much respect as to listen to him, not as an old dog to the forest... So much the coalition should have shown respect for the person who has done so much for the Republic of Latvia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-21-PT13-527-U23	The name is Digit Schmidt.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-21-PT13-527-U24	Dear colleagues, Ladies and gentlemen! I have a generally neutral view of both candidates. But the most important question is this: why do we want to change the current CEC manager? I was hoping for those who are encouraging this change to hear some arguments today, but I have not heard these arguments, except that the programme tells someone that a person should not be in office for more than 10 years, which is a very controversial question... It can be adapted everywhere. Maybe in the army, we change officers every 10 years, not longer... General, isn't it? Just for 10 years. It is simply one example, I think, of these approaches to such a general, flat-faced absurdity. In my opinion, the main task of the CEC and the role of the head of this institution are to ensure a fair and fair electoral process. The fact that there is no manipulation of the votes of the voters does not distort anything. Maybe I don’t know anything (Interface: “Yes!” ), but so far I have never heard a serious accusation that it would not be ensured. If we say that we need change, then the question is: what do we need change? Maybe you need something different in your wish or something else... Is that so? I'd like to... I hope that someone else will climb the platform and argue why we simply need to change, because we need to change... Maybe we have to make changes, maybe... I don't know. Someone urges you to vote electronically, to expand the number of compartments... or something else... But please come and put these objective arguments on the table, if any, and convince, not agree again on some coalition... ( Interface: ‘ Cooperation! ’) ), no, I'm sorry, in the Cooperation Council now... agree... development meeting, council meeting, but come with arguments, make sure! ( The interns of MEPs R. Kohl and S. Riekstin.) Politics is the art of persuasion. Try to convince you that the new manager will do... and what it will do better than the previous one! I hope that its changes are not aimed at subordinate the results of the elections to what we want rather than democracy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-21-PT13-527-U25	The name to Anda Chakša, a Member. ( Interface: “What should convince - the ZZS and THESE? ” ) Council Regulation (EC) No 1257/96 of 20 June 1996 concerning humanitarian aid (OJ L 163, 2.7.1996, p. 1).
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-21-PT13-527-U26	Hello, colleagues! I had not planned to speak today, but these arguments, which I heard from Mrs Voika, really made me stand up because I have never been afraid to change people. I believe that a good person is not a profession. Our competences are needed. But when we talk about human change, the story is also about the reasoning of how we choose a young person who will be able to... and then what we expect from this new leader. Because the arguments now mentioned are, unfortunately, more similar to the Latvian folk story that we lead the old father... We're taking her in horns to the forest... and not because there's no... not to say clearly what we expect from the Central Electoral Commission and what we do not like in the electoral process. Is it that it's not clearly broken down... and everyone is free to go to their own constituency? Is it that something has not happened with e-solutions? Isn't it like we're putting responsibility for something in one person at the moment and turning it... Is that so? I am sorry, I am very surprised that it comes from the liberals - talking about age, not very clear arguments. Yes, of course, people must change and be the best possible ones at this point, but are the arguments that you are using today, and the way in which the new candidate is chosen, sufficiently open and transparent, how have you all presented it during the pre-elections? So I'd ask you to think about it, not just take the horns to the forest. Thank you. (Applause)
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-21-PT13-527-U27	Name to Member Daniel Pavilut.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-21-PT13-527-U28	Dear President of the Saeima. Members of the Bureau! Members, Members! Well, what? Well, then I'll try to argue. If it's not understood, it's not heard, then let's talk. Let us start by saying that Mr Cimdara has led the CVK for 21 years. I think he deserves to say a lot, a lot of thanks. First of all, thank you for ensuring the stability of the elections. It is the most important instrument of democracy and a means of democratic participation. And stability has indeed been. That's good. Now let us look at what we think (and visions may be subjective, but we have rights to it) may be lacking. Until the last moment, until the forthcoming elections to the European Parliament, as you know very well, there have been situations where we have not been able to vote with all the official documents of the Republic of Latvia. With ID cards, for example, because the stamp cannot be printed. And, dear colleagues, you in the previous term... and the CEC members have complained about this... turns out to have seemed to be quite comfortable and switch to other models, to digital databases, to an online electoral register is not necessary. In this respect, you must assume your co-responsibilities and the leadership of the CEC, who has not been able to convince you, I think, of your own. If the head of the CEC cannot, for six years from his seat, convince the government and Parliament led by Maris Kučinskis, in which the ZZS prevailed to a large extent, that an additional budget is needed to introduce additional voting stations abroad in order to introduce a digital register and so on, I think that there is a need for some change there. The voter has made his choice, the ZZS does not play such a great role in this Saeima anymore. Likewise, we believe that changes are needed in the leadership of the CEC. Another thing that matters to us. Our programme mentions - we see that Latvia will vote electronically in the future. Yes, at present there are many different concerns, including in the professional environment, that e-elections are not safe. The Estonians have just re-elected Parliament once again, inter alia by means of a previous vote on the Internet. There are some sensible things they do to make sure that the elections are safe and that they are not affected from outside. I think we could experiment with things like that, too. You don't have to try something dangerous or unchecked to do, but at least you have to experiment. Until now, there have been no experiments in the direction of digital elections in Latvia, because Mr. Cimdara has considered it unnecessary. We believe that this should be done. And next thing. Since the Russian invasion of Crimea, we have been talking more actively about both hybrid threats and threats to democracy from outside. We have seen what has happened in the United States and other countries where the elections have been affected. In Latvia too, it was hard work. Before the Saeima elections, the Deputy Director of the State Chancellery was specially established... under the authority of the official, it took place... a working group from different institutions to identify and address these threats. The chairman of the Central Electoral Commission did not participate in the work of this group because he had no tolerance. Not that we as legislator... more precisely, you, as legislator, have not imposed such an obligation in the previous term, but, as far as is known, the President of the CEC has so far expressed a unwillingness to accept the admission of state secrets and agree that such an obligation would be for the Head of the CEC. We are dealing with this in this term of office at the moment. I would like to wish Christine Burns what we will support on the part of our group... we have met him, our Members have also spoken to Mr Cimdar... wish that the good work she has done so far, leading the communication branch of the CEC, would continue. Participation in elections is critical. Good work needs to be continued by informing and talking to the public. The collective trusts Kristīne Burns, she has experience. We believe that she is a suitable, competent candidate and, at the same time, we also believe that she is ready and open to new challenges, new approaches, new methods of managing the electoral system. We would like to wish that in future the elections for the people of Latvia take place in the most convenient way possible, both in the previous vote and during the elections, with all possible documents, introducing digital tools and preparing for the future in the electoral system. I'm going to support Christine Berry. Thank you. (Applause)
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-21-PT13-527-U29	The name to Member Julia Stepanenko for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-21-PT13-527-U30	Dear colleagues, Today, there are arguments about this, Mr. Cimdara... his work is not to blame, but he has really worked too long, very hard for long. We have also heard Mr Bordan think about them for a maximum of 10 years in his office, and I therefore have a question for the coalition: what is Mr Bordan himself in politics? And how much is Mr. Karins in politics? If I don't, 17 years. Isn't it time to put new powers into politics? Why did you choose such a long-served politician for your leadership? The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. E. Zālīte-Gross: “They are voters!” ) And what we heard... No, they're not voters. What we also heard from the Legal Commission and, by the way, Raivi Dzintar, you are in fact wrong because... You could ask Mr Izalnieks and listen to the audiogram of the Legal Commission's sitting - Mrs Berzins has indeed said that she has not met the Group of the National Alliance and the UK Group. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. Mr Dzintars: 'I did not say that the group had met!' ) The fact that perhaps you have met each other, one of you or a representative - it could be, but with each of the Members, with a group she has not met. So your representatives today... your Members will vote today on the basis of an agreement between the political groups, not on the basis of their conscience. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-21-PT13-527-U31	Name to Member Viktor Valain.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-21-PT13-527-U32	Good morning, colleagues! I would also like to thank Mr Cimdara, President of the Central Electoral Commission, first of all, from this platform today. I've had an opportunity to work with him. And I know his competence. And I think no one has ever doubted, within the Central Electoral Commission itself, that he is indeed the most competent person within the Central Election Commission with regard to these issues of general public interest. I have had the opportunity to talk to Mr. Cimdar about how he sees... for the vision of the future, if it were approved. I didn't have a chance to talk to the other candidate... candidates, but what Mr. Pavlut said... Mr Pavļuta said that the budget that we supported yesterday did not include the needs that the Central Electoral Commission has at the moment. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. ( K. Feldman's intermediate call.) So, I know, at least we'll try to get from the National Administration and Municipal Commission that... It would be a commission decision - to submit the things that are needed... But, anyway, we will be voting today and the Central Electoral Commission will have new leadership. For my part, I would like to wish the new leadership to address an issue that has been discussed for years, but which has not yet been resolved. And the whole of Parliament should be involved in this matter. In particular, it is necessary to implement a register of voters in life and to divide Latvian voices living abroad by regions accordingly, so that those people who have left Latgale, Zemgale or Kurzeme... so that they can vote for the region in question, where they come from... where they are declared where they live. Unfortunately, this is not possible at the moment. Colleagues, vote! Today I call on you to vote, really not to make a beautiful competition. The fact that man has been working for more than 10 years... and I didn't hear any accusations, such a really significant accusation that he wouldn't have done anything. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. J. Kursīte-Pakule: “Hear it!” ) On elections. Mr Pavļuta, that is not the question of the Chair of the Central Electoral Commission. That's the competence of the Saeima. Whatever he wants, he can't influence it. And for those 10 years... Well, really... BIP... on these you also had the opportunity to vote in favour of Mr Kariņš. You also had the opportunity to vote in favour of Mr Kariņš! He's been in politics for 17 years... and you didn't have any problems there. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. Mr Feldmans: “The people have been elected!” ) The people did not vote for him, Mr. Feldman, the people did not vote for him! The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. K. Feldman's synopsis; dep. Mr. Schmits: “Who voted? He didn’t stand!” ) Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-21-PT13-527-U33	Name to Member Andris Kazinovskis. ( The head of the sitting was knocked down with a hammer.)
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-21-PT13-527-U34	Dear Chairman of the Saeima. Dear Members, To be honest, I do not really understand what some Members have said in today's debate. Yeah... okay, we're politicians. One another may be recently, another longer. I also have experience, now for about 30 years... since restoration of independence. I've read it, I've been elected... This is the fifteenth time... When I was elected to the Saeima... but I have been elected in the parishes, in the district of various positions - Member, Chairman and so on. In high positions, any official must feel responsible, feel that she will be required to be held accountable, and electoral politicians are very important to prove that they are the perpetrators, and therefore to vote or not again. In this case, Mr Cimdar, I understand that all this time of course he has fulfilled his duties, but he has not had enough competition. I do not see any tragedy today in the fact that there will be a vote. There's one another coming back from him, but maybe he'll be voted back today? It's hard to say. I therefore believe that this vote will simply confirm... as Members of the Saeima, who must continue to be led by the Central Electoral Commission. Thank you. (Applause)
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-21-PT13-527-U35	Name to Member Sergey Dolgopolov.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-21-PT13-527-U36	Dear colleagues, We talked about two different things today. The first thing comes from the law, which is also called the 'Law on the Central Electoral Commission', which deals with the functions that the Central Electoral Commission performs, what tasks it deals with, what it can do, what it cannot do. However, the case should be dealt with in two parts. The first part, which has also been mentioned today, is about improving the electoral system, which is in no way linked to the Central Electoral Commission. It is directly related to the functioning of the Saeima. All its debates on the electoral processes, on the digital elections, on the register, on the rest of it - its discussions have been going on for several years - and it has always been assessed here, in the parliamentary walls, what needs to be done to improve this system. We want to see changes in the electoral law of the Saeima in front of us, even though, given that we have examined the law on "Amendments to the Law on Personal Documents", where the main and only identity document will be an ID card. This means that we have to work automatically on amendments to the electoral law of the Saeima, not on improvements that were in two names before the electoral certificates were issued, which helped to use ID cards... but at the cardinal solution. It is not the task of the CEC; it is not the task of the CEC Chairman. The debate that we still have with the whole of this matter, including the digital vote, is a question for the Saeima. But one cannot disagree that in this case the procedure is extremely important. I am talking about the procedure this time: the election of the president of the CEC. Why? Until now, the CEC has been very active in helping the legislator to avoid mistakes, which is very important because it is not the CEC that manages the electoral process; they control, organise electoral procedures, not the process itself. And the advice that came from the CEC was always very valuable. The last thing we have done is that they are amendments to the electoral law of the European Parliament; they are indeed one of the steps to improve the electoral system in general. It has to be said that these initiatives came not from Members of the Saeima, but from the CEC. The second thing. It would be very good if the groups, the commissions, were to listen to the presidential candidates for their vision - as they believe it is from the point of view of the process, how and what should be done in this area. And then one could also assess who of the two candidates is ready to realize it, who is not. That is why this process is extremely important to us all and society as a whole. I would like to say once again: this is not about the particular candidate. This is about selecting from among the two candidates who are able to continue the case. And in conclusion. The European Parliament elections will take place at the end of May. We want to change the president of the CEC today, precisely in the active phase of the electoral process. Well, do you think that's really a work of mind?Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Could this process not be designed to take place during the elections to the European Parliament and, in the meantime, we will, in a calm spirit, evaluate everything I have just said and then make a decision? Rather than being guided by the principle that plant stables should be cleaned from the beginning to the end and that the process should be carried out as quickly as possible, the better... I call, however, for strong thought to be given before making a mark on the election marks. And for my part, I would like to...
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-21-PT13-527-U37	Mr Dolgopolova, the debate is over.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-21-PT13-527-U38	Whatever the election will be...
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-21-PT13-527-U39	You can ask for an extra time, but the time for the debate is now over.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-21-PT13-527-U40	Whatever the election will be...
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-21-PT13-527-U41	Mr Dolgopolov, I am sorry, I have to turn you off the microphone. You have the right to ask for extra time and combine... Mr Dolgopolova, the debate is over. You have the right to ask for the two times of the debate to be joined up, but you are currently in breach of the time of the debate. The name of the Member, John Isal.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-21-PT13-527-U42	As I have repeatedly referred to what I have said here in the Legal Commission, so that there is no "silent phone", I will now have to repeat what I have already said. That is, in the Saeima, we not only take very many decisions in this case, but in general, we are looking at draft laws, proposals, we are approving officials, and this work is carried out mainly in commissions, where their members, namely representatives of each political group, can get to know the issue fully, all the arguments. Imagine that if all the decisions to be taken by the Saeima were to be discussed by all one hundred Members to all levels of detail, then we would perhaps only make a tenth of what we can do in four years' work on our team here in the Saeima. I understand that individual Members do not have such a team, whose members they could trust, but that is not our fault, the rest of us. It is the fault of these Members themselves that they have not been able to keep their team, to join them or to... But let us not take this responsibility for the rest of the Saeima! In the Legal Commission Members had an opportunity to get acquainted with the arguments of both candidates, with the vision. Both candidates have long-standing experience in the Central Electoral Commission. Both candidates are strong, but in this case one of the two candidates must be chosen. And my choice is Kristīne Berzine. Others will have a different choice. Let us leave their choice to each Member. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-21-PT13-527-U43	The name to the Member Digim Schmit for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-21-PT13-527-U44	Thank you to Daniel Pavolut, who is the only one who encourages change, at least tried to argue why. But these arguments. So electronic voting - very well, using an ID card - very well, but we are very clear that this is a question for the legislator - to adopt such regulation and to ask the Central Electoral Commission to implement it. There's currently a bill in the Saeima... accepted. In my opinion, the normal order of cases is that, by adopting a specific legislative framework, it is commissioned to do so. If the head of the Central Electoral Commission, no matter what it is, fails, then make the next decision - to change, not the other way round, right? Regarding... Only the last remark. For 21 years... and also what Daniel said, and ZZS. The fisheries has indeed led the last government. By the way, for a very long time, there was such an episode with Emsh’s government. But if we count, in 21 years, who has been in power? Who has run this ship then? Those of your biggest cooperation partners, the first ones you have put forward as the first. This appropriation is That's something you don't mention. So if we want to... if someone wants a change here and wants a change, then maybe start with the creation of a government and the choice of the head of government, right? Not the CVC. (Applause)
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-21-PT13-527-U45	I closed the debate. Mr. Salon, or on behalf of the Commission... On behalf of the Legal Commission and what should be added? No, no. The name of the voter, Rihard Kola.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-21-PT13-527-U46	Dear President of the Saeima. Dear colleagues, dear colleagues, As I have already informed you, there will be elections with ballot papers. We have two candidates. Most of you know how to fill in the ballot papers correctly. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A. Neighbours: “But better remind!” ) For those who do not know who has joined the parliamentary group in the last five months, please consult! Clearly, we point to one of the candidates. A ballot paper which does not state any candidates will be invalidated or the ballot paper will be misfilled in such a way that no cross has been marked with the selected candidate in the particular square. If both candidates are indicated, there are crosses between the two, the newsletter shall be invalidated. In any case, if there are any further questions, I am at your disposal. But let's start the vote here, right of me, in Kuluari's room in 15 minutes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-21-PT13-527-U47	So, my fellow Members, I will be a little bit more aware of the procedure. Hence, there is a choice between 'yes' and 'no' on ballot papers or voting marks for each candidate. And you have to mark 'yes' or 'no' when voting for the particular candidate. Thank you. Hence, the vote counters go to organise the voting process. ( The vote is ongoing.)
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-21-PT13-527-U48	Dear colleagues, dear colleagues, I announced that the vote would end in five minutes at 10.27. Those who have not yet done so, please hurry up. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-21-PT13-527-U49	Dear colleagues, I invite you to take seats in Saeima's meeting room. Before I give the floor to the representative of the vote counter, I would like to inform you that Members Dzintars, Feldmans, Pavļuts, Latkovskis and Augulis are asking to continue the sitting of the Saeima without interruption until 12 noon. Do Members have objections? There is no objection. So the sitting of the Saeima will continue until 12 noon without interruption. Member of the Commission for Voice Meters, Richard Coll.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-21-PT13-527-U50	Dear colleagues, dear colleagues, Minutes of the sitting of Saeima Vote Meters 8 for the results of voting by electing the chairman of the Central Electoral Commission. On March 21, this year, in Riga, at the Saeima House, No. 6. In total, 110 electoral marks have been produced. 92 electoral marks have been issued to Members. Defective, replaced - zero. Deleted by the remaining 18. 92 were removed from the ballot box. 85 have been recognised as valid. Seven have been declared invalid. All candidates have been voted against in 3 ballot papers. Thus, by adding the ballot marks, the votes cast on the candidates: Kristīne Berzins: for - 53, for - 32, Arnis Cimdars: for - 29, for - 56. Kristīne Berzina was therefore elected president of the CEC. She will start her duties with March 22, 2019.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-21-PT13-527-U51	Congratulations! (Applause) Congratulations to Christine Berry! We're continuing the Saeima sitting. Dear colleagues, On the agenda - draft decision on the election of the members of the Central Electoral Commission. On behalf of the Legal Commission, Member Jānis Iesalnieks.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-21-PT13-527-U52	Colleagues! In accordance with the law on the Central Electoral Commission, we must also elect seven members of the Central Electoral Commission today. Seven members were also nominated. And all seven were supported by the Legal Commission, having heard two sittings. Consequently, the Legal Commission shall direct the Saeima to approve the draft decision, which shall include the election as a member of the Central Electoral Commission, Edgars Baldunčika, Ritvars Eglja, Sofia Grīnvaldi, Dzintr Kusiņš, Aleksandrs Maļceva, Sigord Stradiņš and Valdis Verneras. This decision, like the previous one, would apply from tomorrow, March 22.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-21-PT13-527-U53	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote on the draft decision on the election of the members of the Central Electoral Commission! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 88, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. Decision adopted. Congratulations, too, to the members of the Central Electoral Commission! (Applause) We're going on. Examination of a request by Members Dear colleagues, On the agenda is a request from Members Ivars Zariņa, Ivans Klementyeva, Jānis Krišāna, Valeria Agešina, Vital Orlova, Regina Lochmeles-Lunova, Vladimirs Nikonovs, Jānis Adamsons, Jānis Urbanovičs and Ivans Ribakova to the Minister of Economics Ralf Nemiro “On the avoidance of the Minister of Economics to provide answers on the substance of the comments made by the Minister of Economics regarding the information report “On the regulation, monitoring and action of the mandatory procurement of electricity and guaranteed capacity” at the meeting of the Cabinet of Ministers on 29 January 2019, following the decision of the Saeima of 10 January 2019.’ On behalf of the Commission - Member Linda Liepiņa.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-21-PT13-527-U54	Hello, colleagues! The Commission considered the request made by the Members of the Saeima Ivars Zariņa, Ivana Klementyeva, Jānis Krišāna, Valeria Agešina, Vital Orlova, Regina Lochmeles-Lunova, Vladimirs Nikonovs, Jānis Adamsons, Jānis Urbanovičs and Ivana Ribakova to the Minister of Economy Ralf Nemiro “In the context of the avoidance of the Minister of Economics, to provide answers on the substance of the comments made by the Minister of Economics regarding the information report on the regulation, monitoring and action on electricity mandatory procurement and guaranteed charges for installed capacity reviewed at the meeting of the Cabinet of Ministers on 29 January 2019 following the decision of the Saeima of 10 January 2019”. The Commission, voting in favour of six Members... The six members of the panel ‘for’ and eight against’ were found to be rejected. On behalf of the Commission, I ask you not to support this request.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-21-PT13-527-U55	Let us start a debate. Name to Member Ivars Zarins.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-21-PT13-527-U56	Good afternoon for all those who are still present at this sitting who are following this sitting! Those who follow this request will have the opportunity to find out a couple of very interesting things. For many they will be sensational, for some they will be shocking. So what is this demand about? This request is linked to the legendary decision of the Saeima to repeal the OIC. Maybe I'll remind you of what this decision has at all. Because, as the public debate shows, there is no real understanding of what has been decided and what fundamental matters have been put forward in this decision. What was the purpose? The aim was to abolish the mandatory procurement component in order to reduce the cost of electricity for all its customers, while respecting the rule of law. And then there is one very specific request by the Saeima to the Ministry of Economics to end the support regime for the people of Latvia that is unfair but individual. ( The NAs and the UK Group are speaking with one another.) I don't bother anyone there? I'm sorry. Okay. What does that mean? This means that in order to be able to implement this decision, the Ministry of Economics must carry out an evaluation of the legality of the existing system: what is right in this system, what is wrong in it, what is legal, which is not legal? In words... in a simple way, to separate the grains from the chaff. Because how we saw it... those colleagues who are not here the first term... In the course of the year, it was demonstrated that there were fundamental problems with this system, which eventually had to be recognised by the Ministry of Economics. Having seen the Ministry of Economics' information report on how it intends to comply with this parliamentary decision, we had justified concerns that in fact the Ministry of Economics is not going to comply with this parliamentary decision, nor is it going to prepare a solution that would help to get rid of the unjust system. To get rid of... It is not about the fact that there are things in this system that are right, and there are things that are wrong. First of all, we need to understand what its unjust things are... should be understood. So... But as the Ministry of Economics teaches it... What's it gonna do? The justified concern is that in fact the Ministry of Economics is simply preparing a new cover for this area. Because these issues, this legal assessment... How it offered to do it... it was not the way in which this measure was to be implemented, but the way in which this decision of the Saeima was not to be implemented. That's what we're already hearing... from existing rhetoric regarding the rule of law. And if we were talking about the rule of law, one of the important things that the public had been trying to keep silent for a long time was about the rule of law of the OIC system. As you know, in order to be able to provide state aid, it must first be agreed with the European Commission. If such State aid is granted without coordination with the European Commission, the provisions of European Union law, which also apply to us, make it very clear that such aid is unlawful. The former government of the Ministry of Economics has desperately tried to hide it and say that everything is all right. Because, you see, it's later harmonised and similar. We have shown by legislation, by regulation, by decisions of European Union law, that, regardless of the fact that this aid has been agreed later, it is illegal. The new Minister for Economics, who doesn't have to cover this abyss... At least he didn't have it until now because he didn't deal with it... his political power in this area has not been involved. He had the courage to accept it and agree to those documents and to refer to it... specify the specific legal provisions in which this is indeed indicated. In words, colleagues, this is now clear: support for 10 years has been illegal. And it still has the status of illegality. All the more so as to prove it... We have also received an answer from the Ministry of Finance, in which the Ministry of Finance confirms the same, and also refers to a specific decision of the Court of Justice of the European Union in which it is written in a direct text. Consequently, a decision of the European Commission declaring non-notified aid compatible with the common market does not make the aposterires lawful implementing acts which were not in force because they had been adopted in breach of that harmonisation procedure. This is Latvia's case. It's absolutely clear! And in this regard, the fundamental question arises: how then does the Ministry of Economics prepare our report to us... How, then, will they cope with the OIC scene? They start to scare us with legal proceedings on the opposite side: that there will be OIC beneficiaries who will come and judge us immediately... billions... They may not have done at all this legal assessment because there is a judgment of the Court of Justice of the European Union which specifically states that there is no legal certainty with regard to unlawful aid. And justified very simply - that a businessman who is honest and reasonable and carries out his business... Before receiving these millions, he was obliged to make sure that this aid was compatible with the European Commission or not. The specific case of Latvia, colleagues! And if we can talk about billions of litigation in this regard, it could rather be exactly the opposite... In particular, the beneficiaries of OIC could come here and say: ‘Listen, the aid has been illegal for 10 years. Compensation us for the damage caused by this illegal aid!” And for them it will be a game in one gate, it will be able to prove it. See, that was our concern in this whole story. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A. Adamovich: “Shok!” ) That is one aspect when it comes to this European... on this request. I'm here... The statements by Prime Minister Kariņš, who also started talking about these billions of proceedings, are also confusing. In the near future, I understand that the government will have to decide on this request. And it will be very interesting to hear how the government will evaluate this performance of the Ministry of Economics, whether it is really properly prepared. Because, as we can see, colleagues had to have this legal assessment first in order to comply with this decision. Is this really done adequately, with full responsibility? I would very much like to see this legal assessment carried out by the auditor company KPMG, which the Ministry of Economics has commissioned to carry out this task and which the Ministry of Economics is still refraining from submitting to us. Although we, as the Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy Commission of the Saeima, are entrusted by decision of the Saeima with overseeing this process... simply we are unable to do this, because the Ministry of Economics refuses to submit this opinion to us, has still not submitted it. It has been submitted to them last week, but the Ministry of Economics has not sent us to. I am looking forward to this with great interest, because for the first time we have a consultant from which we can ask for a full programme. If, as a result of this opinion, Latvia is involved in billions of litigations, justified litigations, for this illegal support, then we will have a consultant from whom we can ask. If the Ministry of Economics now comes to this position, that the only legal risks are those on the part of the beneficiaries of the OIC... because I assume they've measured these risks, aligned... And if they only talk about these one risks, which are on the part of the beneficiaries, then... I assume that we do not then have the risks, according to this opinion from OIC payers. Colleagues, I would really like to see the government take this decision. For, as I said before, for the government to accept the solution prepared by the Ministry of Economic Affairs, this assessment of the rule of law was in principle. If this is not the case, then the next steps cannot be considered; then the government's actions will be anecdotal. It's like... You know, there's been Saturday bars in the past where they were going to plant the trees. There was it: one goes ahead and inserts a special spade into the ground, the other goes with him, cracks the tree inside; the third hole shuts. And that was how the forest was planted. Productive process. Looks like what the Ministry of Economics is doing at the moment... The ministry has released one important thing in this whole story. That is, we have entrusted them to plant the forest. What does the Ministry of Economics do? The Ministry's making it in a hole, but... Whoever plants that tree, so makes this legal assessment - no man! And so the process that they offer you at the site of forest planting, which seems to look exactly the same... So the first goes and makes the hole, the second rock the hole hard... It is about how they offer us that they will comply with this solution, and that we, the Saeima, will comply with this decision. This is one important thing. The other important thing we are talking about in this request. So, like this system at all... When it comes to the legality and adequacy of this system, the European Commission brought this state aid OIC system into line with essential reservations. One of the reservations... and one commitment accepted by the Latvian Government to obtain coordination with the European Commission was that overcompensation would be avoided. Both the European Commission and the Latvian Government acknowledged that support is too generous. And agreed that for this aid to be consistent, Latvia will introduce for its part the prevention of overcompensation, the so-called internal... This IRR, which is the abbreviation from the Internal Rate of Return, is the calculation of the internal rate of return. In principle... is also very clear in the decision of the European Commission, in this harmonisation, that the calculation must take account of all the aid. We had for a long time a rhetoric with the Ministry of Economics about how it really is there. It is obvious in the Cabinet of Ministers regulations that an essential component of support... This support is not taken at all... that is absolutely illogical. So if we want to make the aid proportionate, not excessive, it is logical that the calculation is made over the life cycle of the project, that it is also determined by the end of the aid. Then it is logical that we take into account all revenue and all expenditure, and then we get what profitability this project is doing. The European Commission has set a ceiling. What the Ministry of Economics has done - it has prepared the regulations of the Cabinet of Ministers... And this scheme still works so that all the support that the merchant has received for the electricity generated came into force... Until the entry into force of this new scheme, which came into force with amendments to the Electricity Market Act established during Kariņš, is not taken into account. So that's... In principle, depending on when economic operators have moved to the new scheme, that is to say, between 2007 and 2010 - at that time there was a fundamental shift... So if he started working around 2000 or the 1990s, all the aid he has received is not counted at all. That is, many wind farms, many HES had already, by their very nature, returned everything, they would not have received this support at all. We should no longer pay them anything at all, because they have already received everything honestly after a full programme. In accordance with these regulations of the Cabinet of Ministers, it is possible to get everything new. That is why we asked the European Commission to explain how the European Commission was actually thinking. Since both the European Commission's decision and the legislation to which the European Commission refers in that decision clearly set out the principles from which it is understood that all the aid should have been taken into account. Unfortunately, we received a reply from the European Commissioner, who signed this decision, after the Request Commission had already taken place. Perhaps if the response had been received before the request committee meeting, then the vote would have been completely different. The answer is clear: any aid must be taken into account. Colleagues, do you understand what that means? It can happen that the OIC is still not harmonised, the Latvian side, the government, has not fulfilled what it promised to the European Commission, and the European Commission is misled. There are justified concerns about this now. This means that the fact that OIC is politically covered, and unfortunately still continues, will be confirmed again. Colleagues from CPV LV, I would very much like to hope that you will take this opportunity... You haven't been to this time. It's a chance for you... You have promised your constituents that you will be able to deal with this scene - use this opportunity! Don't get into the same bog as those who've been in there for a long time. Of course, they do not want to be able to cope with it all. This is your political opportunity as a political power to rise, to prove that you are pragmatic, strong and that the voter can count on you. Or enter all the game and bog, sink and go in the flaw. This is a very serious political choice for you. I can tell you, too, what the solution is. For, as I promised you at the beginning, when you took all this to do, I said that I would help you even if you didn't want to do so. I will now tell you what the solution is. The solution is very simple (Dep. A. Neighbours: “Entry in the game!” )): separate the ash from the grain and you will have a solution! ( Internouncing call.) Because there are two... What do you need to understand? The two principal cases are either to give up state aid as such or to give up that part of the aid which has indeed been illegal, which has not been created correctly, and which would indeed have been able to put an end to it. There is no risk of judicial proceedings there. And you already have a ready tool. In the family for almost half a year... In this Saeima, amendments to the Law on the Electricity Market are pending for some three months already in the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy, which offers a solution for separating the ash from the grain. If we colleagues had already gone through this draft law and passed it, then we should not discuss this decision of the Saeima at all, because the problem would have resolved by itself. The separation of the ash from the grain would show that the OIC burden is relatively much, much less. That's one thing. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A. Adamovich: “Where is the shock?” ) Second case. We would clean this area by leaving only honesthearted ones. We have a vision of how we can further develop this really important aspect of our country, renewable energy. However, as long as we have these inefficient, oversubsidized technology solutions, which we have to pay for, we simply... we cannot afford anything else. It will simply be devastating for our economy. And instead of really cleaning it up, we can see that the Ministry of Economics is simply offering to continue this area at the moment. The Ministry has not prepared solutions. Yeah, it said it couldn't be right... can't stop it all. But please give me a solution. Because our aim, in particular, is the objective of the Saeima... I can read: 'with a view to reducing electricity costs'. Now come and offer me how else you can do it! If it is not possible to do so immediately from 31 March, then please suggest how it can be done. There are solutions. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. R. Kols: “Proposals! Come on, offer yours!” ) Unfortunately, they have been offered to the Ministry of Economics for a long time. If one of you is interested in this, I can say that I sent these solutions to the Minister for Economic Affairs when they made their legendary working group and said: “If someone has a better solution, send them!” I prepared and sent it. There was a promise that they would support. They were even afraid to consider, because there are certain things that should be done there, and therefore they did not accept. Because then there would be no reason not to do that. Therefore, my fellow Members, I am calling for this request to be supported and for it to come to what is going on with great responsibility. The current rhetoric is very misleading. I could rebut almost all of these arguments, both on the risks of judicial proceedings, on both heat and on the objectives of the European Commission. There is a solution for how this can be done by paying much less. I call for this request to be supported. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-21-PT13-527-U57	I closed the debate. On behalf of the Commission of Petitions, Mrs. Liepiņa, is there something to add? The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. L. Liepiņa: “No!” ) No. Please call me! We will vote for the Member Ivars Zariņa, Ivana Klementyeva, Jānis Krišāna, Valeria Agešina, Vital Orlova, Regina Lochmeles-Lunova, Vladimira Nikonova, Jānis Adamsona, Jānis Urbanoviča and Ivana Ribakova's request to the Minister of Economics Ralf Nemiro "For avoiding the Minister of Economics from providing answers to questions from the Minister of Economics regarding the members' information report on the regulation, monitoring and action of electricity mandatory procurement and guaranteed charges for installed capacity, which was discussed at the meeting of the Cabinet of Ministers on 29 January 2019 following the decision of the Saeima of 10 January 2019"! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The request is rejected. On the agenda - examination of draft laws. Draft law “Amendments to the Law on Legalization of Documents”, second reading. The draft law has been declared urgent. On behalf of the Commission on Foreign Affairs, Member Richard Coll.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-21-PT13-527-U58	Dear and honourable colleagues! At the Foreign Affairs Commission meeting on 13 February, we discussed amendments to the Law on Legalization of Documents at second reading. And we got three proposals. 1. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-21-PT13-527-U59	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-21-PT13-527-U60	2. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-21-PT13-527-U61	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-21-PT13-527-U62	3. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-21-PT13-527-U63	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-21-PT13-527-U64	I therefore call, colleagues, on us to support the draft law at second, final, final reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-21-PT13-527-U65	Please call me! We will vote in favour of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Legalization of Documents” in the second, final, reading! Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about - 86, it's against and refrains from - it's not. The law is passed. On the agenda - draft law “Amendment to the Law on the Movement of Goods of Strategic Importance”, second reading. The draft law has been declared urgent. On behalf of the Commission on Foreign Affairs, Member Richard Coll.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-21-PT13-527-U66	Colleagues! We also worked with this draft law at the Foreign Affairs Commission meeting on 13 February. We received two proposals for the second reading. 1. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-21-PT13-527-U67	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-21-PT13-527-U68	2. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-21-PT13-527-U69	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-21-PT13-527-U70	I therefore call for support for the draft law at second, final, final reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-21-PT13-527-U71	Please call me! We will vote in favour of the draft law “Amendment to the Law on the Movement of Goods of Strategic Importance” in the second, final, reading! Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about - 83, it's against and refrains from - it's not. The law is passed. On the agenda - draft law “Amendments to the Corporate Income Tax Law”, second reading. The draft law has been declared urgent. On behalf of the Commission on Foreign Affairs, Member Richard Coll.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-21-PT13-527-U72	Colleagues! Like the two draft laws examined above, this is linked to the next one, to the draft law on the rights of British citizens. At the meeting of the Foreign Affairs Commission on 13 February, we looked at this draft law at second reading. We received two proposals. 1. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-21-PT13-527-U73	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-21-PT13-527-U74	2. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-21-PT13-527-U75	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-21-PT13-527-U76	I call for support to be given to the draft law at second, final, reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-21-PT13-527-U77	Please call me! We will vote for the draft law “Amendments to the Corporate Income Tax Law” at second, final, final reading! Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about - 86, it's against and refrains from - it's not. The law is passed. On the agenda - draft law on legal cooperation and the protection of the rights of individuals during the transitional period following the withdrawal from the European Union of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland, second reading. The draft law has been declared urgent. On behalf of the Commission on Foreign Affairs, Member Richard Coll.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-21-PT13-527-U78	Colleagues! This is the most important "roof" law that would establish the rights of British citizens after Britain's possible withdrawal from the European Union. Clearly, at present no one can predict what the result will be. As a result, the second reading received proposals clarifying the purpose and applicability of the law. And then for each proposal separately. 1. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-21-PT13-527-U79	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-21-PT13-527-U80	2. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-21-PT13-527-U81	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-21-PT13-527-U82	3. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-21-PT13-527-U83	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-21-PT13-527-U84	4. - the proposal by Mrs Petravičas, Minister for Welfare. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-21-PT13-527-U85	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-21-PT13-527-U86	5. - the proposal by Mrs Petravičas, Minister for Welfare. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-21-PT13-527-U87	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-21-PT13-527-U88	6. - a proposal from the Minister for Welfare. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-21-PT13-527-U89	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-21-PT13-527-U90	7. - The Foreign Affairs Commission's proposal. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-21-PT13-527-U91	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-21-PT13-527-U92	8 / 8 - the proposal by Mrs Petravičas, Minister for Welfare. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-21-PT13-527-U93	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-21-PT13-527-U94	9. - the proposal by Mrs Viņķele, Minister for Health. Partly supported by the Commission and included in 10. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-21-PT13-527-U95	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-21-PT13-527-U96	10............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - The proposal made by the Foreign Affairs Commission. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-21-PT13-527-U97	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-21-PT13-527-U98	11. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Partly supported by the Commission, included 12. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-21-PT13-527-U99	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-21-PT13-527-U100	And 12. - The Foreign Affairs Commission's proposal. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-21-PT13-527-U101	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-21-PT13-527-U102	13. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-21-PT13-527-U103	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-21-PT13-527-U104	We have therefore examined all the proposals at second reading. I call on my colleagues to support the draft law at second, final, reading, but before the vote I would also call for it... I would like to thank, on behalf of the Commission, both the Ministry of Justice and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and, in particular, the Legal Office of the Saeima, for their very rapid and rapid action so that we can apply these rules and ensure that British citizens, as I have already said, are guaranteed the same rights as British citizens in case of scenario X as they commit themselves to applying parity to our citizens in Great Britain. I therefore call for support for the draft law at second, final, final reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-21-PT13-527-U105	Please call me! We will vote in favour of the draft law on legal cooperation and the protection of individuals' rights during the transitional period following the withdrawal from the European Union of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland at second, final reading! Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about - 85, it's against and abstains. The law is passed. On the agenda - draft law “Amendments to the Law “On Personal Income Tax”, second reading. The draft law has been declared urgent. On behalf of the Commission for Budget and Finance (Tax) - Member Rihards Kozlovskis.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-21-PT13-527-U106	Dear Chairman of the Saeima. Dear colleagues, The Budget and Finance (Tax) Commission discussed a total of 20 proposals at its meeting on 19 March. 1. - the proposal by Minister of Finance John Reir. Supported while continuing to change numbering.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-21-PT13-527-U107	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-21-PT13-527-U108	2. - a proposal from Member Dana Reizniece-Ozola. Not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-21-PT13-527-U109	Let us start a debate. Name of Member Dana Reizniece-Ozola.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-21-PT13-527-U110	Colleagues! The draft law approved at first reading provides that the winnings of cheques will be exempt from personal income tax. We applied this tactic at the moment we introduced the centenary lottery, because it was meant to be such a large, one-off centenary celebration event and a special, large campaign. But I think this is not a good practice - all the lotteries in turn apply tax relief. The Czech lottery project is one of the projects that could certainly be much more in the future. The essence of my proposal is therefore that, at least for solidarity taxpayers, this tax relief would not be applied. If the winnings are received by a solidarity tax payer, the winnings are added to the total income and the tax is paid. I call for this to be supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-21-PT13-527-U111	I closed the debate. What is to be explained or added on behalf of the Commission?
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-21-PT13-527-U112	None.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-21-PT13-527-U113	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 2. - The proposal by Member Dana Reizniece-Ozola! Please vote mode! Please get the result! On -11, against -68, refraining from -4. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-21-PT13-527-U114	3. - a proposal from Member Dana Reizniece-Ozola. Proposals 4, 5, 7, 8, 9 and 10 have been partly supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-21-PT13-527-U115	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-21-PT13-527-U116	4. - The proposal from Member Rein Znotiņš. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-21-PT13-527-U117	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-21-PT13-527-U118	5. - the proposal by Minister of Finance John Reir. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-21-PT13-527-U119	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-21-PT13-527-U120	6. - a proposal from Member Dana Reizniece-Ozola. Not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-21-PT13-527-U121	Let us start a debate. Name of Member Dana Reizniece-Ozola.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-21-PT13-527-U122	Colleagues! Several norms, as well as the Members' proposals incorporated in this draft law, are designed to minimise the number of cases where the introduction of progressive tax systems creates an obligation for part of the population to pay the tax not paid during the year by means of an annual income statement. This can occur when income has grown rapidly over the year or when a person without a job starts to work. If income changes upwards, such adjustment may be made after one year. In order to reduce the number of such cases, the State Revenue Service shall send employers an estimated non-applicable minimum every six months. But since we are currently living in a cycle of economic development and the annual increase in remuneration is rather rapid (in recent years this increase was eight-nine percent, now about six percent is planned... In a natural way), the nature of this proposal (it is also informally discussed with the social partners) is to give another safety valve to the State Revenue Service – to apply the expected non-deductible minimum in the assessment of the... or introduce such a 5 per cent margin. This could reduce the number of cases where a person would have to pay a tax premium at the end of the year as the income rises over the year. In general, I would say that the other amendments, which provide for a longer transitional period to settle with the country, are the most important. This could be an additional element. So I call for consideration and support.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-21-PT13-527-U123	I closed the debate. Is there anything to add on behalf of the Commission? Please call me! We will vote in favour of 6. - The proposal by Member Dana Reizniece-Ozola! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-21-PT13-527-U124	7. - The proposal from Member Rein Znotiņš. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-21-PT13-527-U125	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-21-PT13-527-U126	8 / 8 - the proposal by Minister of Finance John Reir. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-21-PT13-527-U127	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-21-PT13-527-U128	9. - The proposal from Member Rein Znotiņš. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-21-PT13-527-U129	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-21-PT13-527-U130	10............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - the proposal by Minister of Finance John Reir. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-21-PT13-527-U131	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-21-PT13-527-U132	11. - the proposal by Minister of Finance John Reir. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-21-PT13-527-U133	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-21-PT13-527-U134	12. - a proposal from the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-21-PT13-527-U135	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-21-PT13-527-U136	13. - Member... I am sorry, the proposal of Minister of Finance Janis Reiras. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-21-PT13-527-U137	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-21-PT13-527-U138	14............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - a proposal from the Group of the Greens/Farmers' Union. Partially supported, included 15. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-21-PT13-527-U139	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-21-PT13-527-U140	15............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - a proposal from the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-21-PT13-527-U141	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-21-PT13-527-U142	16. - the proposal by Member Lubova Svekov. Not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-21-PT13-527-U143	Let us start a debate. The name of the Member, Lubov Svekov.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-21-PT13-527-U144	Dear Voters! The essence of my proposal is to introduce amnesty, a one-off measure (Call Noise). , those people who have entered the yoke of the tax debt because of the progressive, regressive tax system that has been introduced, and I ask... The net wage for this group, category of hands, is on average up to EUR 1000. In Estonia, this category of population refers to a group of people to be supported and additionally provided by the state. They are already considered as average income in Latvia. In this category mainly there are mothers who have been on decree leave, who have started working... and could not apply the relevant exemptions under the scheme. I believe that it would only be fair on the national side to ensure the principles of good governance and legitimate expectations, the conditions for establishing an intelligible and simple system. I therefore ask for the amnesty of these tax debtors and I ask you to vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-21-PT13-527-U145	I closed the debate. In the name of the commission, what is to be explained?
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-21-PT13-527-U146	No, it's not.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-21-PT13-527-U147	No, no. Please call me! We will vote in favour of 16. - the proposal tabled by Member Svekova! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 18, no, 67, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-21-PT13-527-U148	17. - the proposal by Member Lubova Svekov. Partly supported and included 20. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-21-PT13-527-U149	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-21-PT13-527-U150	18. - a proposal from Member Dana Reizniece-Ozola. Partially supported, also included 20. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-21-PT13-527-U151	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-21-PT13-527-U152	19. - the proposal by Minister of Finance John Reir. Partially supported, also included 20. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-21-PT13-527-U153	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-21-PT13-527-U154	And 20. - a proposal from the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-21-PT13-527-U155	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-21-PT13-527-U156	Therefore, colleagues, we have examined all the proposals received. Request to support the draft law at second, final, reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-21-PT13-527-U157	Please call me! We will vote for the draft law “Amendments to the Law “On Personal Income Tax” at second, final reading! Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about - 86, it's against and refrains from - it's not. The law is passed. On the agenda - draft law “Amendments to the Education Law”, third reading. On behalf of the Commission for Education, Culture and Science - Member Anita Muižniece.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-21-PT13-527-U158	Good afternoon, honourable colleagues and honourable colleagues! The Education, Culture and Science Commission has received 11 proposals for the third reading of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Education”. They have been examined by the Commission and shall be referred to the sitting of the Saeima. 1. is a proposal from the Minister of Education and Science, Long Suplinsk. The Commission has partially supported and included 2. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-21-PT13-527-U159	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-21-PT13-527-U160	2. - a proposal from the Commission for Education, Culture and Science. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-21-PT13-527-U161	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-21-PT13-527-U162	3. - a proposal from the Minister for Education and Science. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-21-PT13-527-U163	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-21-PT13-527-U164	4. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-21-PT13-527-U165	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-21-PT13-527-U166	5. - the proposal of Minister for Education and Science Šuplinska. Partly supported and included 2. - in the Commission's proposal... In proposal 7, I am sorry!
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-21-PT13-527-U167	Proposal No 7. Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-21-PT13-527-U168	6. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Partly supported, included in proposal 7.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-21-PT13-527-U169	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-21-PT13-527-U170	7. - a proposal from the Commission for Education, Culture and Science. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-21-PT13-527-U171	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-21-PT13-527-U172	8 / 8 - a proposal from the Minister for Education and Science. Supported and included in proposal 11.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-21-PT13-527-U173	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-21-PT13-527-U174	9. - a proposal from the Minister for Education and Science. Partially supported, included 11. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-21-PT13-527-U175	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-21-PT13-527-U176	10............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - a proposal from the Minister for Education and Science. Partially supported, included 11. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-21-PT13-527-U177	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-21-PT13-527-U178	11. - a proposal from the Commission for Education, Culture and Science. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-21-PT13-527-U179	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-21-PT13-527-U180	Consequently, all proposals have been examined and supported. I call for support to be given to the draft law at third, final, reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-21-PT13-527-U181	Please call me! We will vote in favour of the draft law “Amendments to the Education Act” in the third, final, reading! Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about - 85, it's against and abstains. The law is passed. On the agenda: Draft Law amending the Maritime Code, second reading. On behalf of the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy, Member Arthur Rubik.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-21-PT13-527-U182	Hello, colleagues! We are working on the draft law amending the Maritime Code. Document No. 679. The commission responsible received two proposals for second reading. 1. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-21-PT13-527-U183	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-21-PT13-527-U184	2. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-21-PT13-527-U185	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-21-PT13-527-U186	On behalf of the Commission, please support the draft law at second reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-21-PT13-527-U187	Please call me! We will vote in favour of the second reading of the draft law on the Maritime Code. Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 87, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The draft law was approved at second reading. Please set a time limit for the submission of proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-21-PT13-527-U188	The deadline for submitting proposals is April 4.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-21-PT13-527-U189	Thank you. The deadline for submitting proposals is April 4. On the agenda - draft law “Amendments to the Law on Protected Service”, second reading. Member Jānis Urbanovičs on behalf of the Commission on Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-21-PT13-527-U190	Dear Chairman of the Saeima. Dear colleagues, We work with the draft law “Amendments to the Protected Service Law”. Because it's inherited from 12. Saeima, there are some reminders. In particular, on 22 April 2014, the Cabinet of Ministers approved an information report on the implementation of the codification of administrative irregularities in sectors. From that moment on, the Cabinet of Ministers tasked all ministries to decode the Latvian Administrative Violations Code, namely, to deal with all special laws. All ministries in the sector need to shift irregularities from the Single Paper of administrative offences and their penalties to specific laws. This process has just begun, and the end is not visible. Although criticism of this approach is increasing among persons belonging to the judicial system, the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy is not one that can provide a legal assessment of the usefulness of such an approach. The Commission has therefore examined all three proposals from the Legal Office. The proposal was supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-21-PT13-527-U191	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-21-PT13-527-U192	2. - Just like that.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-21-PT13-527-U193	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-21-PT13-527-U194	3. - Yeah, too.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-21-PT13-527-U195	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-21-PT13-527-U196	I invite you to support the draft law on "Amendments to the Law on Protected Services" at second reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-21-PT13-527-U197	Please call me! We will vote for the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Protected Services” at second reading! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 88, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. The draft law at second reading has been supported. Please set a time limit for the submission of proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-21-PT13-527-U198	The Commission's management will wait for proposals until 4 April.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-21-PT13-527-U199	Thank you. The deadline for submitting proposals is April 4. On the agenda - draft law “Amendments to the Law on Public Private Partnership”, second reading. On behalf of the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy, Member Arthur Rubik.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-21-PT13-527-U200	Colleagues! We work with the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Defence and Security Procurement”. Document Number...
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-21-PT13-527-U201	No, no, no! Draft law “Amendments to the Law on Public Private Partnership”.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-21-PT13-527-U202	I'm sorry. We are working on the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Public Private Partnership”. Document No. 687 The committee responsible for the second reading has received one proposal. It is a proposal from the Legal Office, which was supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-21-PT13-527-U203	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-21-PT13-527-U204	On behalf of the Commission, please support the draft law at second reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-21-PT13-527-U205	Please call me! We will vote for the second reading of the draft law on "Amendments to the Law on Public Private Partnership"! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 84, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The draft law at second reading has been supported. Please set a deadline for the submission of proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-21-PT13-527-U206	The deadline for submitting proposals is 18 April this year.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-21-PT13-527-U207	Thank you. The deadline for submitting proposals is 18 April this year. On the agenda - draft law “Amendments to the Law on Defence and Security Procurement”, second reading. On behalf of the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy, Member Arthur Rubik.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-21-PT13-527-U208	Colleagues, we work with the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Defence and Security Procurement”. Document No. 688 The committee responsible for the second reading has received one proposal. This is a proposal from the Legal Office, which has been supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-21-PT13-527-U209	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-21-PT13-527-U210	On behalf of the Commission, please support the draft law at second reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-21-PT13-527-U211	Please call me! We will vote in favour of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Procurement in the Defence and Security Sector” at second reading! Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about - 85, it's against and abstains. The draft law at second reading has been supported. Please set a deadline for the submission of proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-21-PT13-527-U212	The deadline for submitting proposals is 18 April this year.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-21-PT13-527-U213	Thank you. The deadline for submitting proposals is 18 April this year. On the agenda - draft law “Amendments to the Fisheries Act”, second reading. On behalf of the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy, Member Arthur Rubik.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-21-PT13-527-U214	Colleagues, we work on document No. 692, draft law ‘Amendments to the Fisheries Act’. The committee responsible for the second reading has received 21 proposals. 1. - The proposal of the Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Agriculture, Janis Grassbergs. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-21-PT13-527-U215	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-21-PT13-527-U216	2. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Partly supported and included 5. - on a proposal from the committee responsible.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-21-PT13-527-U217	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-21-PT13-527-U218	3. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Partly supported and included 5. - on a proposal from the committee responsible.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-21-PT13-527-U219	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-21-PT13-527-U220	4. - The proposal of the Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Agriculture, Janis Grassbergs. Partly supported and included 5. - on a proposal from the committee responsible.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-21-PT13-527-U221	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-21-PT13-527-U222	5. - a proposal from the committee responsible. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-21-PT13-527-U223	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-21-PT13-527-U224	6. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. It is partly supported and included in 8. - on a proposal from the committee responsible.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-21-PT13-527-U225	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-21-PT13-527-U226	7. - The proposal of the Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Agriculture, Janis Grassbergs. It is partly supported and included in 8. - on a proposal from the committee responsible.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-21-PT13-527-U227	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-21-PT13-527-U228	8 / 8 - a proposal from the committee responsible. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-21-PT13-527-U229	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-21-PT13-527-U230	9. - The proposal of the Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Agriculture, Janis Grassbergs. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-21-PT13-527-U231	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-21-PT13-527-U232	10............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - The proposal of the Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Agriculture, Janis Grassbergs. It has been partly supported and included 11. - on a proposal from the committee responsible.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-21-PT13-527-U233	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-21-PT13-527-U234	11. - a proposal from the committee responsible. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-21-PT13-527-U235	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-21-PT13-527-U236	12. - The proposal of the Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Agriculture, Janis Grassbergs. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-21-PT13-527-U237	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-21-PT13-527-U238	13. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Partly supported and included in 15. - on a proposal from the committee responsible.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-21-PT13-527-U239	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-21-PT13-527-U240	14............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - The proposal of the Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Agriculture, Janis Grassbergs. Partly supported and included in 15. - on a proposal from the committee responsible.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-21-PT13-527-U241	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-21-PT13-527-U242	15............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - a proposal from the committee responsible. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-21-PT13-527-U243	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-21-PT13-527-U244	16. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-21-PT13-527-U245	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-21-PT13-527-U246	17. - The proposal of the Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Agriculture, Janis Grassbergs. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-21-PT13-527-U247	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-21-PT13-527-U248	18. - The proposal of the Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Agriculture, Janis Grassbergs. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-21-PT13-527-U249	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-21-PT13-527-U250	19. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-21-PT13-527-U251	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-21-PT13-527-U252	20............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - The proposal of the Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Agriculture, Janis Grassbergs. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-21-PT13-527-U253	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-21-PT13-527-U254	And 21. - The proposal of the Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Agriculture, Janis Grassbergs. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-21-PT13-527-U255	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-21-PT13-527-U256	On behalf of the Commission, please support this draft law at second reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-21-PT13-527-U257	Please call me! We will vote in favour of the second reading of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Fisheries”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 87, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The draft law was approved at second reading. Please set a deadline for the submission of proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-21-PT13-527-U258	The deadline for submitting proposals shall be 11 April.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-21-PT13-527-U259	Thank you. The deadline for submitting proposals is 11 April this year. On the agenda - draft law “Amendments to Law on Technical Supervision of Dangerous Equipment”, second reading. On behalf of the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy, Member Ivars Zarins.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-21-PT13-527-U260	Colleagues! We work with the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Technical Supervision of Dangerous Equipment”. Two proposals have been received for the second reading. 1. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-21-PT13-527-U261	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-21-PT13-527-U262	2. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-21-PT13-527-U263	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-21-PT13-527-U264	The Commission calls for support for the draft law at second reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-21-PT13-527-U265	Please call me! We will vote for the second reading of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Technical Supervision of Dangerous Equipment”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 87, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The draft law at second reading has been supported. Please set a time limit for the submission of proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-21-PT13-527-U266	4 April of this year.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-21-PT13-527-U267	Thank you. The deadline for submitting proposals is April 4. On the agenda - draft law “Amendments to the Law on Conformity Assessment”, second reading. On behalf of the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy, Member Arthur Rubik.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-21-PT13-527-U268	Colleagues! We work with the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Conformity Assessment”. Document No. 694. The commission responsible has received six proposals. 1. - the proposal of the Minister for Economic Affairs, Ralph Nemir. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-21-PT13-527-U269	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-21-PT13-527-U270	2. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-21-PT13-527-U271	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-21-PT13-527-U272	3. - the proposal of the Minister for Economic Affairs, Ralph Nemir. Not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-21-PT13-527-U273	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-21-PT13-527-U274	4. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. It has been partly supported and included 6. - on a proposal from the committee responsible.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-21-PT13-527-U275	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-21-PT13-527-U276	5. - the proposal of the Minister for Economic Affairs, Ralph Nemir. It has been partly supported and included 6. - on a proposal from the committee responsible.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-21-PT13-527-U277	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-21-PT13-527-U278	6. - a proposal from the committee responsible. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-21-PT13-527-U279	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-21-PT13-527-U280	On behalf of the Commission, please support the draft law at second reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-21-PT13-527-U281	Please call me! We will vote for the draft law “Amendments to the law “On Conformity Assessment” at second reading! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 88, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. The draft law at second reading has been supported. Please set a time limit for the submission of proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-21-PT13-527-U282	The deadline for submitting proposals is April 4.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-21-PT13-527-U283	Thank you. The deadline for submitting proposals is April 4. On the agenda - draft decision “On extension of the deadline for the submission of proposals” of the draft law “Law on Freedom Monument and Riga Brothers’ Cemetery” (No. (39/Lp13) for the second reading until 4 May 2019.’ Please call me! We will vote on the draft decision on the extension of the deadline for the submission of proposals in the draft law on the Freedom Monument and the Riga Brothers Cemetery Law (No. 39/Lp13) for the second reading until 4 May 2019’! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 88, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. Decision adopted. On the agenda - draft decision “On establishing a co-responsible commission for the draft law “Amendments to the law “On International Treaties of the Republic of Latvia”” (No. 201/Lp13).’ Please call me! We will vote on the draft decision “On establishing a co-responsible commission for the draft law “Amendments to the law “On International Treaties of the Republic of Latvia”” (No. 201/Lp13)’. Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 81, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. Decision adopted. On the agenda is the examination of the own-initiative proposal. Dear colleagues, We should make a break. The Saeima Bureau shall have a proposal to hold the meeting of the Saeima until all items on the agenda are examined. Do Members have objections? (Interface: ‘We support the Bureau! ’) ) There are no objections. We shall continue with the draft decision on the continuation of the administrative territorial reform. On behalf of the National Administration and Municipal Commission, Member Uldis Budriķis.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-21-PT13-527-U284	Hello, colleagues! As Mr Kariņš emphasised yesterday, administrative territorial reform is one of the priorities of this government. This draft decision was previously included as a draft law, but the Law Bureau gave an assessment and ordered that this draft law on the draft decision be redesigned, because in essence it does not contain legal norms, but has a decisive content. The draft decision ‘On the continuation of administrative territorial reform’ already contains its substance in its title. With this draft decision, we, the Saeima, would give the green light to continue the reform. We would set a deadline for the Cabinet of Ministers to develop and submit to the Saeima by 1 December 2019 a draft decision setting out many issues that are specific to this reform. As Minister Pūce sees it, he presented this road map to the Commission of Public Administration and Local Government on Tuesday. Juris Pūce may later also tell you exactly about the deadlines. I call for support for the draft decision so that, by the end of next year, we can complete this reform and put an end to at least one thing. I call for support.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-21-PT13-527-U285	Let us start a debate. The name of Member Dace Bluke.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-21-PT13-527-U286	Dear colleagues and colleagues! Today we need to decide on the continuation of the administrative territorial reform. I would remind you that the reform started in 1998. Since then, 21 years have passed. A healthy generation has grown since the reform started, but it has not been completed either. The Ministry of Environmental Protection and Regional Development has an ambitious goal – to establish in Latvia by 2021 such municipalities as are able to fulfil the statutory functions of municipalities and provide quality services to citizens at reasonable costs. We have too many municipalities that are unable to do so at the moment. It is not possible to arrange waste disposal in its own territory, it is unable to provide high-quality secondary education, some are unable to cut the grass and manage their properties. It is not possible to provide quality health and social services to its citizens, attract entrepreneurs to the road of at least one kilometre, and it is not possible to provide at least one professional staff responsible for planning the municipality's territory. The grants from the municipal financial equalisation fund receive 104 of 119 municipalities. Fifteen municipalities help to maintain the remaining 104. It is very strange that cities and districts, which call themselves developed, people - friendly and prosperous places, are unable to perform their functions properly without the help of others. A large part of this is also not able to do so with financial assistance from other municipalities. Over a couple of years, we will not achieve that the fund for equalisation of municipal finances is no longer needed at all, but we can take steps in that direction to reduce this proportion - 15 to 104 -. In order to achieve the objective of the reform, it is necessary to identify and realise the desires and needs of entrepreneurs, how to sort out the territory and make it attractive for entrepreneurs who create jobs with competitive wages. In order to achieve the objective of the reform, it is necessary to assess how rational the activities of all 2800 local authorities are. Does the state budget have to maintain so many boards, family lists, orphan courts, municipal administrations and other institutions? It is necessary to assess how these functions can be implemented in a more professional, faster and better-quality manner, and how to provide citizens with better services at reasonable costs. This reform is needed to reduce the inequalities between small and large municipalities. There have been arguments that this cannot be done in such a short time and proposals have been made that we should discuss it for a few more years. In this way, we will expect another generation to grow, but the reforms will still only be at the level of discussion. There has been a lot of talk, and we need to start. I am convinced that the Minister of Environmental Protection and Regional Development Juris Pūce with his team is not afraid of his work and that they are ready to move from negotiations to active action, are ready to meet with the leadership of all 119 municipalities, answer questions and explain the incomprehensible to create Latvia, which, after the next municipal elections in 2021, would be more powerful and able to develop, so that people would have better living conditions, to end discrimination against the population after their place of residence, so that the municipality can independently fulfil the functions assigned to them in its administrative territory. At that time, citizens will also have confidence in the ability of their municipality to operate. I therefore call on you to vote in favour of the draft decision on the continuation of administrative territorial reform. (Applause)
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-21-PT13-527-U287	Thank you. Name of Minister of Environmental Protection and Regional Development Juris Pucem.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-21-PT13-527-U288	Hello, very honourable Speaker of the Saeima! Highly honored Saeima! I would like to begin by thanking the Commission of the State Administration and Local Government, the Legal Office and my colleagues from the Ministry of Environmental Protection and Regional Development for their highly effective and responsible work, which has resulted in this draft decision. Administratively, territorial reform has been a long process. Its beginnings have already taken place in the last century. It has had several attempts, each time against difficult political choices and various conflicting interests. The final reason for the reform was 2008, 2009, which resulted in the adoption by the Saeima of a new and currently existing Law on Administrative Areas and Populations. It created the new territorial division of Latvia (at that time - with 118 municipalities, now - 119). Already at the time of the adoption of the law, a third of municipalities did not meet the criteria set by the Saeima itself. There's almost half now. The criteria, I remind you, were developed by experts over a number of years to argue, to attract researchers. And the map of municipalities created, created by the decision of the Saeima, hid large inequalities already incorporated into it. In terms of population, the smaller municipality currently has 1000 or slightly more inhabitants. The largest districts have a population of over 30 thousand. Differences are so large that norms of the law “On Local Government” on municipal functions have turned into fiction. There is no equal treatment for such different circumstances. That's why it didn't work. As a result of the thoughtless division of municipalities, citizens acquire a wide variety of public services provided by municipalities – in different amounts and in different quality. ( The head of the sitting was knocked down with a hammer.) There is a real inequality between citizens, depending on their place of residence. Moreover, this difference is growing. Local governments with a larger population more quickly adapt to changes in our Latvian population regarding the services provided by the local government and public administration in general. 20 years ago the municipal social service service was to accept the application of the citizen, assess its compliance with certain criteria and decide whether or not to grant the status, grant or grant the benefit. We now expect that the social service will have assessed the structure of the population of the municipality, possible demand for social services, drafted and provided a whole palette of social services. And then the social worker, on an individual basis, will decide on the best model of support for the client and the selection of the services that the individual needs. The differences are substantial and will continue to grow. The services provided by municipalities are professionalised. We expect this, too. However, this process raises the question of how productive work is in the public sector as a whole and in municipalities. Automation, artificial intelligence and large data will provide an opportunity to provide an increasingly better and more targeted public service. Development opportunities are, in fact, grand. However, the current structure of municipalities cannot and will not be able to use these opportunities in any way evenly. If we do not take a decision on administrative territorial reform, that in order for the capacity of all municipalities to meet the needs and opportunities of today, part of Latvia's population will be more and more discriminated against. Short-term concerns about reform will always be and the country must listen to them. The government must talk to citizens, civil society, entrepreneurs and local authorities to find the best possible solution for administrative territorial reform. That is why I myself am committed to offering experts a prepared, balanced reform of local governments, as well as to discussing this offer with all local authorities in Latvia that will be affected by this reform, as well as meeting the people of these local governments, in accordance with the European Charter of Local Authorities. The reform must enter into force with the next municipal elections. If we do not do this now, we should wait again four years, during which the injustice I mentioned above will only increase. This means a tight schedule of work. Already in the autumn, the Cabinet of Ministers will present to the Saeima a draft law on new administrative territories and settlements, which should be adopted by June 2020. The draft law will be discussed widely, local government organizations, Latvian Municipal Union, business organisations will be involved. Everyone in Latvia will have the opportunity to speak. I will also ask the Commission of Public Administration and Local Government to find enough time for discussions when the draft law is not yet ready, but there will be ideas. But the reform offer will certainly be. That's what I promise you. Today I am asking the Saeima to support the continuation of administrative territorial reform. I ask for the Saeima and the government to implement in their joint work the municipal reform in the interests of the people of Latvia within the next 14 months. Thank you very much. (Applause)
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-21-PT13-527-U289	I closed the debate. Thank the Minister. On behalf of the Commission, does Mr. Budrik want to add something? No, no. Please call me! We will vote on the draft decision on the continuation of the administrative territorial reform. Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 88, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. Decision adopted. (Applause) I must inform you about the answers to Members' questions scheduled today. As a matter of urgency, the question to the Prime Minister “On the intolerant attitude of the government towards envelope wage payments” was submitted to Reizniece-Ozola, Dūklava, Plantis, Kučinskas and Bergmanis. The written replies received shall not be satisfied. The Minister informed that he could not attend the oral response to a working visit to Brussels. Member Krišana, Orlova, Lochmele-Lunovo, Kucina and Tutina question to the Minister for Welfare “On Increasing Pensioners’ Income”. The written replies received are not satisfactory, but Members do not wish to ask further oral questions. So, colleagues, today's answers to Members' questions will not happen. New questions have been received from Members. Members have been asked about the action of the EM in communication with the European Commission on the implementation of the Saeima decision on the abolition of the mandatory procurement component. It was presented by Members Zarins, Clementyev, Adamson, Niconov and Lochmele-Lunova. Name for motivation to Member Ivars Zarins.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-21-PT13-527-U290	Colleagues! In order to help the Minister for Economics to deal with the task assigned to him by the Saeima and to help him understand what he should communicate with the European Commission, we have prepared questions. First of all, we need to find out what he really asked the European Commission. Because there are some serious differences between the rhetoric with which he comes publicly and what we have received from the European Commission, which gives rise to reasonable fears that perhaps someone really does not want to comply with the Saeima's decision and is actually looking for reservations, but correspondence with the European Commission is designed to be used subsequently for non-compliance. There are therefore these issues which, I hope, will dispel our concerns and help the Ministry of Economics to comply with our decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-21-PT13-527-U291	The question is referred to the Minister for Economic Affairs. Members Reizniece-Ozola, Valainis, Augulis, Krauze and Vucāns submitted a question “On the financing provided for in the draft law “On the State Budget for 2019” in connection with the abolition of the mandatory procurement component (OIC)” that is submitted to the Prime Minister for reply. Please call me! Please register the Members! Dear colleagues, Today's 45th anniversary is celebrated by our colleague Edwin Schnore. And we have a tradition of welcoming Members on their feet. (Applause) There are no notifications. Name to the member of the Saeima Secretary for the reading of the results of the registration.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-21-PT13-527-U292	Not registered: Raimonds Bergmanis, Boriss Cilevičs, Vjačeslavs Dombrovskis, Inga Goldberga, Ieva Krapāne, Evija Papule, Ivans Ribakovs, Jānis Tutins and Atis Zakaitistovs.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-03-21-PT13-527-U293	Thank you. I'm closing the sitting.
