ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-30-PT13-540-U1	Good morning, honourable Members! I invite you to take a seat in the Chamber so that we can begin the Saeima sitting on 30 May 2019. First of all, the amendments tabled to the agenda of the sitting approved by the Saeima Bureau. Members Dzintars, Kols, Teirumnieks, Indriksone, Jansons and others are asking that the draft decision on the extension of the deadline for submitting proposals be included on the agenda of the sitting (No. This Decision shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. Are Members opposed to this amendment of the agenda? There is no objection. The order of business has been amended. Members Latkovskis, Adamovičs, Kozlovskis, Pucens and Budriks are asking to exclude the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Public Welfare Organisations” from the agenda of the Saeima sitting. Are Members opposed to this amendment of the agenda? There is no objection. The order of business has been amended. Members Golubeva, Pless, Steel, Bluke, Iksten, Stein and others are asking for the draft decision on the withdrawal of Mrs Golubeva from the Education, Culture and Science Commission to be on the agenda of the sitting. Are Members opposed to this amendment of the agenda? There is no objection. The order of business has been amended. Members Voika, Ples, Steel, Bluke, Iksten, Stein and others are asking for the draft decision on the withdrawal of Inese Voika from the Foreign Affairs Commission to be put on the agenda of the sitting. Are Members opposed to this amendment of the agenda? There is no objection. The order of business has been amended. Members Golubeva, Pless, Steel, Bluke, Iksten, Stein and others are asking for the draft decision on the election of Ms Golubeva to the Foreign Affairs Commission to be on the agenda of the sitting. Are Members opposed to this amendment of the agenda? There is no objection. The order of business has been amended. Members Voika, Ples, Steel, Bluke, Iksten, Stein and others are asking for the draft decision on the election of Inese Voika to the Education, Culture and Science Commission to be on the agenda of the sitting. Are Members opposed to this amendment of the agenda? There is no objection. The order of business has been amended. On the agenda - reports from the Saeima Bureau on draft laws submitted. ( The head of the sitting was knocked down with a hammer.) The Parliamentary Bureau proposes that the draft law on “Amendment to the Law on the Security of Public Entertainment and Holiday Events” presented by Member Iesalnieks, Kiršteina, Indriksone, Janson and Schnore be referred to the Commission for Human Rights and Public Affairs, stating that it is the committee responsible. ‘ Against” applied to speak Member Boris Cilevičs.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-30-PT13-540-U2	Yeah, thank you. Dear colleagues, Once again, the members of the National Alliance are proposing to introduce new prohibitions, claiming that this will contribute to security. The problem undoubtedly exists, but any ban must be justified. I am very surprised by the text of the bill's annotation. I'm sorry, it's a purely political description. I was expecting a legal basis. Colleagues! This is about restricting fundamental rights, namely freedom of assembly. Such restrictions are possible and may be necessary, but they must be duly justified on a case-by-case basis. The proportionality must be justified. In particular, it must be justified, first, that such restrictions have a legitimate aim and, second, that such restrictions are necessary in a democratic society. Here in this text, I do not see it. The applicants, for example, state that many of the former republics of the USSR are restricting the use of George's tape as a symbol of neo-imperialism in Russia, but no specific country has been mentioned and it is not said how the use of George's tape is restricted. With regard to the term ‘ Georga lente’, it is said here that it is the most widely used term in society. It may be that this is the case. But if we limit something and ask the law enforcement authorities to implement such a rule, we must legally clearly define what the band is, especially given that this provision of the law includes its sadly famous word, “also in a stylised way”. Well, one example from the media. Please tell me if it's the famous Sandra Kalniete dress (Dep. R. Kols: “Incinerate!” ), which she burned publicly, is George’s tape in a stylized manner or isn’t it? Yes, of course, its burning did not take place at a public entertainment event (Dep. R. Col’s intermediate call.) in time, but given that the media, journalists and it was widely published there completely unexpectedly, it was still quite a public act. So I really wouldn't want to be the policeman who will have to implement this rule. To justify that the use of Georg's tape really poses a threat to Latvia's security, the applicants simply address the concerns of the Latvian public. Of course, the public opinion must be taken into account. But different parts of society think very differently. A simple reference to the views of some people is unlikely to be grounds for restricting fundamental rights. In the second section of the annexation, the applicants write: “The adoption of a draft law in society will reduce the impression that Latvian state authorities do nothing to restrict the distribution of totalitarian ideology in public space.” So what is the purpose? Indeed, reduce the safety risk? Is it simply a PR action to create the impression that you are doing something? Colleagues! I see Mr. I'm going to talk now. You were Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Justice. I very much hope to expect legal arguments from you - it is precisely the basis for the need to restrict fundamental rights, so that we do not lose, once again as a country, as the Saeima, at different levels of the courts. That's how... I do not see an opportunity to support this draft law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-30-PT13-540-U3	“On” has applied to speak Member Jānis Iesalnieks.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-30-PT13-540-U4	Good morning, colleagues! Analogue amendments are also presented in the next draft law “Amendment to the law on meetings, moves and pickets”, so I will talk about both draft laws. At present, both laws prevent the use of the totalitarian regime, the Soviet Union and Nazi Germany in meetings, moves, pickets, as well as public entertainment and celebrations, but at the same time these laws do not prevent the use of another symbol, which today is used much more frequently in Russian imperial propaganda against the statehood of both Latvian and other former Soviet republics. And that is to say, the orange black stripes of George, which are often seen, for example, at the events of 9 May. In 2014, when Russian mercenaries, the so-called green people, entered Crimea and Eastern Ukraine with the aim of occupying and adding them to Russia, these mercenaries often had no distinguishing signs other than those of the George belt, which was put on uniforms without any other distinguishing signs, and were tied to arms and used in a different way. Looking back to history, George's tapes have been part of several military awards of the Russian Empire and also of the Soviet Union since the mid-18th century, but in 2005 the "Jorge tape" campaign was launched in Russia, making it a general symbol of Russia's power. Originally, the sentimental significance of George's tape is increasingly overshadowed by the praise of Russia's empire every year, and currently, George's tape has become a unified sign of recognition for people living in the Russian propaganda space who want Russia's territorial expansion within the former Soviet Union, thus also connecting Latvia's territory to the Russian Federation. It has made a number of countries that have suffered or are afraid of suffering from Russian aggression either ban the use of Georg tapes, as is also the case in Ukraine (this is also reflected in an annotation which Mr Cilevič has obviously not read carefully), or officially recommend not to use these tapes, as is the case in Kazakhstan, Kyrgyzstan, Belarus and Georgia. Russia has based its gross violations of international law on grossly false propaganda, and its official mass media is in fact spread a new totalitarian ideology that portrays the former Soviet republics, including Latvia, as failed countries without the right to independence in deciding their fate. George's tape has played an important role in this ideology, as it symbolises both the status of the Soviet Union as the “releasing” of Eastern Europe and the right of the Russian Empire to its historic territories. In Latvia's society, this raises concerns about Russia's security threats, and it is also not hidden by the security authorities of Latvia. In line with the generally accepted standards of democracy, the state has the right and duty to protect the democratic system from threats, and therefore also to restrict the use of totalitarian ideology and its symbols. I therefore look forward to your support for the proposal to ban the use of the Russian neo-imperialist symbol - the George tape - in public events. I call for support to be given to this draft law as well as to the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-30-PT13-540-U5	Colleagues, we must therefore vote in favour of the draft law being passed on to the commission. Please call me! We will vote in favour of handing over the draft law “Amendment to the Law on Security of Public Entertainment and Festivals” to the Commission for Human Rights and Public Affairs, stating that it is the committee responsible! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 68, for - 1, for - 19. The draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. J. Izalnieks: “Thanks, colleagues!” ) The Bureau of the Saeima proposes that the draft law tabled by Member Iesalnieks, Kirštein, Indicice, Janson and Schnore ‘Amendment to the law on meetings, moves and pickets’ be referred to the Commission for Human Rights and Public Affairs, stating that it is the committee responsible. ( The head of the sitting was knocked down with a hammer.) Can we keep sitting? ( The Room Noise. (See paragraph 4.5 of this Regulation.) Member Vjačeslav Dombrovskis has applied to speak against.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-30-PT13-540-U6	President-in-Office of the Saeima, very much. High honourable Members! I think that there is obviously no point in debating the minds of the National Alliance as regards who, where, why, and with what purpose the so-called George belts are used. I think that nobody will be able to influence the deep conviction of the members of the National Alliance that it is George's tapes (and right now!) is an important threat to the independence, security and development of the Latvian nation through centuries. Today, the National Union claims that George's ribbons should be banned because they have discovered the rule of law - such a logical chain between the events of 2014 in Eastern Ukraine and that of George's tapes. This took only five years for the National Association. ( Internouncing call.) There are leaders of nations who mobilize and inspire their people to outstanding achievements in economy, science, technology, culture. And there are politicians who offer confidence at the expense of the minority: "You need to hit those Russians so that they know their place. And know how great and powerful we are.” There are politicians like that. And that's the National Association. Dear colleagues, On this point, I would like to appeal to your common sense. I understand that it is not worth appealing to the National Association... I think it makes no sense to appeal to the New Conservative Party as well... I do not know if it makes sense to appeal to those groups of Members who left the former KPV LV party, but perhaps some of them... could definitely. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. (A. Neighbourhood sub-scenario) But, my colleagues, I appeal to those of you in a coalition that is adults in this coalition. Well, you know who you are if. Well, think about it, please! Yes, I understand that your first instinct is to support this once again... that only the nationals would have eaten. Well, for a while, if. But you need to understand that it's a public emergency. ( Internouncing call.) I'd even say that there's hatred in the purest way. Think about whether you really need it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-30-PT13-540-U7	Mr Ritvars Jansons has applied for a speech.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-30-PT13-540-U8	Dear colleagues, Why prohibit the use of SS signs at meetings? Answer: In 1946 the International Tribunal of Nuremberg criminalized the SS organization. Why prohibit the wearing of Georga tapes in meetings, moves and pickets in Latvia? It supports aggressive imperial policy of another country in Latvia. We must treat the memory of soldiers who died during the Second World War with siege, but we must turn to the victory of Russian propaganda in the Great Ethic War to export the concept to Latvia, which Russia also supports financially. 9 May 1945 for Latvia is the beginning of the secondary occupation of the Soviets. In 1944, in 1945, at least 78 268 Latvians were repressed for political reasons - more than in the Stalinic deportations of 1941 and 1949. A more detailed study of the records of prisoners at filtering points and camps could reach as much as 100,000. In 2005, shortly before the day of the widely celebrated victory in Russia, the Russian federal propaganda company RIA Novosti developed the idea of introducing a special victory day symbolism, offering to use the Georga belt for this purpose. The so-called country policy abroad also serves Russia's political influence abroad. Since 2009, there has been a specific programme “Working with Peoples abroad”. In Latvia, the target audience is both citizens and non-citizens. The programme aims to support the coordinated complex activities organised by various national organisations, as well as to provide them with the symbol of the Russian state. This programme, of course, refers to the international campaign "Jorge lentite". The National Association already submitted this bill to the last Saeima, when Ukraine's events and Russian aggression were topical in Ukraine. The influence of this parliament has been reduced and there is every opportunity to adopt this draft law. Please support the progress of the draft law.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-30-PT13-540-U9	Please call me! We will vote in favour of handing over the draft law “Amendment to the Law “On Meetings, Steps and Pickets” to the Commission for Human Rights and Public Affairs, which states that it is the committee responsible! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 70, for - no, for - 19. The draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Saeima Presidium proposes that the draft law “Amendments to the Law on the Financing of Health Care” presented by the Cabinet of Ministers be referred to the Commission of Social and Labour Affairs, stating that it is the committee responsible. ‘ For” applied to speak Member Ilmārs Dūritis. Please enable... Okay. So make a proposal from the platform.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-30-PT13-540-U10	Hello, dear colleagues! I have a proposal to hand over this draft law... the establishment of a Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission as the responsibility for this draft law, as it concerns in essence the tax area and, in fact, also raises the issue of the revision of the low-tax regime. The health budget is mainly financed by tax revenues; my call is to define it as a responsible Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-30-PT13-540-U11	Thank you. Mr. Valaiņš, you will speak against. ‘ Against” applied to speak Member Viktors Valainis.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-30-PT13-540-U12	Good morning, colleagues! Highly honored Speaker of the Saeima! The previous speaker called for the draft law to be passed on to the Budget and Finance (Tax) Commission, but I would call on the draft law to be returned to the government, asking it to do what the Minister has promised. I really remember all the speeches that we made in this Saeima very noblely, that this bill is... that the arrangements adopted by the previous government are not correct and that there are enormous challenges. All this can be agreed until you said yourself that you would offer a solution. I have great respect for Ministers Viņķelis. She really is the man who is bravely all right. Her statements about the solution she offers... These were, however, statements on a specific solution. But in this case... This draft law only provides for the postponement of the problem by 2021. Colleagues, how can it be that we have such, so important, a question about which so many spears are broken, now with a light hand to 2021! Just as easy then we could say that the next Saeima decides on it. I think it's not right that the situation... when we are now approaching the budget debate... Colleagues! There are popular decisions, and there are unpopular decisions. There is no great deal for this coalition, a bright future, if you are not able to make unpopular decisions either. That solution, proposed by Viņķele, was nothing particularly pleasant to vote for, but it was a solution. On the other hand, what you now offer... The solution proposed by the government is simply to wipe this problem under the guise. The negotiations on the budget will begin immediately, in the summer (interim: "It has already begun!" )... ‘3 × 500’... and will be familiar with any further proposals... The money is needed. Everyone is talking about the need for some political initiatives. This, in turn, means that it just stays... also your initiatives that the next budget could take... The problems are only growing in one another. And the solutions - well, I really don't see the solutions. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. M. Bondars: “That’s why you’re in opposition!” ) This proposed solution is limited to postponing the problem. Colleagues! I call on this bill to be returned to the government so that the government comes... so that the Minister comes with the proposals that he had made in his public space. Let her come now! All of us, if we make such decisions, will have a much easier life on the budget... These are not a few million; they are quite large amounts. I think we ourselves will have a great surprise at how much your own initiatives will cost and where to look for money. Minister Viņķele offered, but you are now giving up. But the most difficult thing in all of this is that with a very large pump there were statements that the previous government's regulation is not good, everything must be abolished: "We will come with a new one." So where's that new one? This is such a big, big one. Let's say, look at you. I call on you to return this bill to the government.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-30-PT13-540-U13	Colleagues, so we have to vote in favour of passing the draft law on to the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission, making it a commission responsible. That was the proposal. Please call me! We will vote in favour of handing over the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission to the draft law "Amendments to the Law on the Financing of Health", which states that it is the committee responsible! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 81, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Saeima Bureau proposes that the draft law “Law on Private Pension Funds” presented by the Cabinet of Ministers be referred to the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission, stating that it is the committee responsible. Do Members object to a draft law being passed on to the Commission? There is no objection. The draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Parliamentary Bureau proposes that the draft law ‘Amendments to the Law on Personal Income Tax’ submitted by the Member Reizniece-Ozola, Krauzze, Dauges, Vucana, Kučinska, Bergmanis and Jalinska be referred to the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission, stating that it is the Commission responsible. ‘ “A Member, Dana Reizniece-Ozola, has applied for a speech.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-30-PT13-540-U14	Good morning, Madam President of the Saeima. Colleagues! This draft law contains basically two things. One block of rules is aimed at promoting collective agreements and ensuring mobility by offering companies the opportunity to provide their employees with transport services without being subject to personal income tax. The regulation, which exempts from the obligation to pay personal income tax on catering services, has been in force for more than a year. This was the agreement with the social partners, employers and trade unions. This draft law provides for an extension of the same exemptions without increasing the amount (EUR 40 per employee, not exceeding € 480 per year) but also for transport services. We know that this would be especially relevant in regions where there is often a situation where a person works in one place... It's not possible to provide him with a job... to the workplace... and the employer often organises transport, currently paying for a tax that is not really reasonable. This would have little fiscal impact, but in terms of economic benefits, I think it makes great sense. The second block, in turn, targets the fight against the shadow economy in the area of scrap metal by proposing to set the personal income tax rate at five per cent. We see that we can have a positive fiscal effect at the expense of corporate and labour taxation in the first year - 0.9 million euro, in the second year - 1.3 million euro and in the third year - 2.5 million euro. By reducing the size of the shadow economy, this would give legal business the opportunity to invest in certified scrap reception sites, recycling plants, as well as to recruit more workers. I call on you to support this draft law and to work with it in the Budget and Finance (Tax) Commission. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-30-PT13-540-U15	Do Members object to a draft law being passed on to the Commission? ( The box “Yes! ”) ) Then we must vote. Please call me! We will vote in favour of transferring the draft law “Amendments to the Law “On Personal Income Tax” to the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission, establishing that it is the committee responsible! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 34, for - 55, for - 3. The draft law has not been passed on to the commission. On the agenda is the Bureau's report on the own-initiative proposals submitted. The Commission for Mandates, Ethics and Applications has submitted its own proposal – the draft decision “On the rejection of 16 544 collective application by Latvian citizens “On Monuments for Fighters Against Nazism Protection”. Do Members object to the inclusion of this own-initiative proposal on the agenda of today's sitting? There is no objection. The draft decision shall be placed on the agenda of the sitting. On the granting of leave. For unpaid leave granted to Member Nikolai Cabanov on 23 May this year. For unpaid leave granted to Member Nikolai Cabanov on 23 May this year. The Saeima Bureau has received an application from Member Nikolai Kabanov requesting unpaid leave on 23 May this year. The Saeima Bureau has granted leave and shall inform the Saeima thereof. For unpaid leave granted to Member Vital Orlov on 29 and 30 May of this year. For unpaid leave granted to Member Vital Orlov on 29 and 30 May of this year. The Saeima Bureau has received an application from Member Vital Orlov for unpaid leave on 29 and 30 May of this year. The Saeima Bureau has granted leave and shall inform the Saeima thereof. For unpaid leave granted to Member Uldis Augulis from 28 May to 30 May this year. For unpaid leave granted to Member Uldis Augulis from 28 May to 30 May this year. The Saeima Bureau has received an application from Member Ulds Augiels requesting unpaid leave from 28 May to 30 May of this year. The Saeima Bureau has granted leave and shall inform the Saeima thereof. On the agenda - Election, approval, appointment, dismissal or dismissal of officials, expression of trust or distrust. The draft decision is “On the appointment of Madara Plepja as a judge of a district (city) court”. On behalf of the Legal Commission, Mr Valery Agešin, Member.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-30-PT13-540-U16	Dear colleagues, At the meeting of the Legal Commission on 21 May this year, the draft decision ‘On the appointment of Madara Plepja as a judge of a district (city) court’ was considered. Members of the Commission have unanimously supported the draft decision. On behalf of the Legal Commission, I call on Madara Plapi to be a judge of a district (city) court. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-30-PT13-540-U17	Please call me! We will vote for the draft decision on the appointment of Madara Plepja as a district (city) court judge! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. Decision adopted. On the agenda - draft decision on the withdrawal of Marija Golubeva from the Commission for Education, Culture and Science. Please call me! We will vote on the draft decision on the withdrawal of Marija Golubeva from the Commission for Education, Culture and Science! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 89, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. Decision adopted. On the agenda - draft decision on withdrawal of Inese Voika from the Foreign Affairs Commission. Please call me! We will vote for the draft decision on the withdrawal of Inese Voika from the Foreign Affairs Commission! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 87, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Decision adopted. On the agenda - draft decision on the election of Maria Golubeva to the Foreign Affairs Commission. Please call me! We will vote on the draft decision on the election of Maria Golubeva to the Foreign Affairs Commission! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 89, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. Decision adopted. And on the agenda - draft decision on the election of the Inese Voika to the Education, Culture and Science Commission. Please call me! We will vote on the draft decision on the election of the Inese Voika to the Education, Culture and Science Commission! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Decision adopted. On the agenda - consideration of Members' requests. Opinion of the Appeals Board The request made by Members Viktors Valaiņa, Armands Krauze, Ulda Augulis, Raimonds Bergmanis, Janis Dūklavs, Janina Jalinska, Gundars Dauges, Anda Chakša, Julia Stepanenko and Māra Kučinska to the Minister of the Interior Sandis Ģirgens “On possible inaction of the European Parliament’s election sabotage and the Minister of the Interior”. On behalf of the Commission - Member Linda Liepiņa.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-30-PT13-540-U18	Good morning, colleagues! On 15 May this year, Members of the Saeima made a request to the Minister for the Interior, Sandis Ģirgen, “On possible inaction by the European Parliament’s election sabotage and the Minister for the Interior”. The request was addressed to the Commission on 22 May when it appeared that this failure to supply information would be the only problem that would arise. And, as you know, there are other kinds of problems that the Request Commission discussed yesterday and which we will debate next week. But now, about these letters. First of all, I would like to thank all and all officials who have done their best to ensure that the elections take place and take part in the elections for as many people as possible in Latvia. At the meeting of the Commission, the Minister of the Interior, Sandis Ģirgens, was heard, who provided members of the Commission with very detailed information on how the tender procedure for the supply service was conducted, in which SIA Reller and the State Joint Stock Company Latvijas Pasts participated. The result was that Reller won and, in fact, because of it, these supply problems also arose. By 16 May, 172 applications were received for not receiving a call for elections. It must be said that the Minister gave a very detailed account of all the work that had been done so that, however, as many people as possible could receive the invitation. And given that elections are a matter of national security, the Commission expressed a rather unified view that the elections could be subject to a different procurement procedure, taking into account the degree of security required, and in the future companies such as Reller would not be subject to such orders. The majority also expressed the need for a vote in the elections to the European Parliament that would not be attached to a particular electoral district. I think that these issues will still be dealt with not only in our commission. I hope that in our commission no longer, but in other commissions. This request was not supported by the Commission. Ten Members voted 'no', three voted in favour, and one Member did not vote. I therefore call on the Saeima not to support this request. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-30-PT13-540-U19	Let us start a debate. Name to Member Viktor Valain.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-30-PT13-540-U20	Good morning, colleagues, again! When we made this request to draw attention to what is happening in connection with the elections to the European Parliament, that was not the first time. We have already warned the committee responsible that this situation is gradually getting worse. However, in this case, the request to the Minister concerns letters which have not been sent. I cannot say that the Minister has not done everything he could. Indeed, he has done much, as he demonstrated at the commission meeting, and he has demonstrated much by doing so. However, one thing remains. The fact that the minister concluded an agreement with a highly dubious company on which the market... who has quite a lot of reputation problems in the market... such a national issue. I think that was a minister's mistake. If the law interferes with doing something... Colleagues, we demonstrated last Thursday how the law can be amended if it interferes with some activity on such important issues. We saw the result. I think it is difficult to determine the number of people who could not participate in the elections, but that was the case. According to the CEC management, about half of Latvia's population did not receive this invitation. When we looked at last week's amendments to the electoral law of the European Parliament aimed at changing working time, we agreed that we would not find those responsible. However, on Friday, the Minister of Justice announced... violated an agreement that was in Parliament. I thought it was... not only between Members of Parliament, but also between political parties. The Minister of Justice clearly stated in the public media who was guilty. Yesterday, the Appeals Commission had a similar proposal. There, as one of the applicants, I asked the head of the Central Electoral Commission: is the words of the minister concerned true? She replied very clearly: no, it's wrong. Then there is the question for KP's colleagues. The Minister of Justice can already build cheap populism on such statements, but these are state affairs and say that the previous one is always responsible for everything... let us not come back to a debate in which a number of Members pointed out that it is unreasonable to change the leaders in the European Parliament's election process. This whole great chain led to the result we expected. I don't want to be in this case... Of course, when assessing the situation, the Minister was able to refer the law to Parliament in good time so that by law we would determine that the post is the one that sends these letters. It could have been done one day. We saw that the law can be passed in a few hours until the announcement is made. It was his mistake. And that's the only reason why Mr. Girgen can be asked... support as a request by the Saeima... However, I think the Minister did quite a lot. Indeed, he objectively did quite a lot in the situation in which he was. But it seems unacceptable to me that now you are starting to show by your fingers - you are guilty, and you are guilty, and a number of solutions are being invented. Now, after the war, everyone's smart. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. S. Riekstina and dep. ( See K. Feldman's Intersense.) But what I think was... Highly honourable members of the coalition, I think you should give yourself these loud statements. I really am not afraid of these words: on behalf of cheap populism, go and call the national media... The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. (M. Bondar’s intermediate call.) I allow this to be done by a Member, but if this is done by a government minister, if the government minister lies publicly in public media... The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. (M. Bondar’s intermediate call.) Colleagues, I also felt that perhaps it was Cimdar, who has signed up to all the terrible contracts, but yesterday in the Commission, Mr Bondara, you were here when you asked this question to the CEC. Do you really lie to the new head of the CEC? You've appointed him for yourself. ( The box “Tell me what she said! ”) ) I don't think she's lying. She replied specifically. ( Insight: ‘ Well, what did she answer? ’) ) The question was: were the contracts concluded during Mr Cimdar’s time those that affected all these problems? And she said no. The problems affected... created exactly the contract that had already been concluded in her time, which... During the cymdar, the negotiation procedure was initiated, but led to the end of the procedure, directly responsible... directly by the Head of the CEC. Colleagues, I could go in more detail and tell you how she came to this Treaty. And I think the UKP colleagues would not like this: to hear this information (inter-speakers of UK Members.) Who was responsible for that... on this negotiated procedure and who took the lead in this whole case. But I call for this request to be supported. And in case... Of course, coalition discipline... ( The UK Members ’ Interns.) Let's not talk about it... Of course, the coalition will not support such requests. But in essence you have this here... Cooperation Council where you discuss matters... The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. J. Strike: “Meet!” ) What exactly is this - meeting, if any? Coalition meeting (Laughter) ... Cooperation meeting, if? I still need to learn this terminology... ( Milestones.) Well, then talk to the government ministers about quite a simple thing. We are fighting false news in the public space. Cybersecurity and other things that everyone likes to mention... But when a government minister, in this case the Minister for Justice, declares in the public media the day before the elections who is responsible for all these pumpkins, he should take responsibility for the words he says. And in this case, he simply lied to the whole of Latvian society in the public media in the morning. That's what it was. Colleagues, you can be sure of this. Who's guilty, Cimdar?Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Well, colleagues, look at those contracts. Cimdar has long since been the Head of the CEC. ( Internouncing call.) And the most regrettable thing at the moment is that they show everyone with their finger - who's to blame. The Prime Minister is not guilty, the Minister of the Interior is not guilty, the leadership of the CEC is not guilty. Yesterday, the demand committee felt as if we had come to the court. Well, then one defends... That's the way the lawyers speak... One defends and says, “I will immediately prove my integrity in this matter.” Well, colleagues, that's stupid. Society also demands even one responsible person. It seems strange to me. — Dep. (M. Bondar’s intermediate call.) ... It seems very strange to me that only one person has apologised to Latvian society on the matter. Colleagues, you know what it was. It was President Raimonds Vējonis. The only one who apologized. Is that not deplorable? Colleagues! Everyone shows one another with their finger: “You’re guilty! You're guilty!' But only one apologies - the President of Latvia. All the others: “These don’t apply to me! We kind of put everything down here, but these don't apply to me! We elected ourselves there and there. They shrunk.” We did not do fundamental things. We have done everything in this period, but what is really fundamental... Close the bridge! What hasn't been done! Now everyone has cooled up, working for the people. But one important issue for democracy - the elections to the European Parliament - is that we cannot ensure in the normal way. And what result is expected? The fact that one another is shown by a finger and the only one who apologizes is the President of Latvia. Is the President of Latvia really the person who will still have to apologize for all the coalition's failings? The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. Mr Feldman: “On the malfunctions of the ZZS!” ) Colleagues! ( Internouncing call.) And Krišjāni Feldman!... That's good! Yeah... This is even more regrettable: it is even more regrettable that the opposition had to offer a solution to these problems... resolution. You saw it yourself, you supported it. Thank you for this, all the respect. But the fact that the opposition had to do so in such a situation... The opposition was what came and offered a solution. How many are you... You have published there - 10,000 took advantage of this opportunity to change the section thanks to our vote. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. K. Feldman: “ Viktor, when will you build a sports hall in the beautiful hill?” ) Thank you all for that. But this is rather regrettable: the fact that the opposition had to do so must come with such a proposal. It's... This only means that the coalition is, in a way, weak - it is not able to come up with solutions. How did the Prime Minister then say? It was imagined that it could also be a solution, but it could not be imagined that you could simply change the law in one day. Well, colleagues! I am thinking of these issues, both for the European Parliament elections and for the parliamentary elections. Of course, I do not want to blame, not everyone can know everything, but these proposals, which sound right now, what to do in the next elections - that is nothing new. It's all approved. It is simple to see things still to be done in the relevant ministries, including the electoral registers, so that these letters can be refused. There is a need for successive cases in order to be able to take such a decision. The Saeima would have done this a long time ago, including for these elections. You can’t simply do that. — Dep. ( K. Feldman's intermediate call.) until an electronic address system is arranged. You can't just do that, colleagues! You yourself... ( Milestones.) In the Commission, we will be able to speak... The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. S. Riekstins.) In the Commission, we will be able to talk about these issues. There are certain people who are responsible for this, and I think they will also meet these issues within the relevant deadlines. All of them have their own deadlines. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. (M. Bondar’s intermediate call.) But now I’m going back to it (Dep. J. Strike: “Don’t!” ), which I mentioned once. I think it's worth repeating. I think it is not good that the Minister of Justice lies in the public media. That's not good! ( Milestones.) That's not good. And, colleagues, I think you should talk to your... Whatever you call it, I like to call it coalition counsel... Talk about these issues there... You don't need to lie to the Minister, and I'll tell you... all due respect, however, for Mr. Girgen, she did a lot. He did not make everything perfect, but he did much to put this matter in order in some way, but the anger on my part is precisely about the statement by the Minister of Justice. It was cheap populism on his part. ( Internouncing call.)
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-30-PT13-540-U21	The name is Sandy Riekstin.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-30-PT13-540-U22	Hello, colleagues! Fantastic, Mr. Valains! For populism, and what else did you teach us here... Go to the Beauty Hill, show the residents the gym you have built, and then let's talk about all these things! (Applause) But the thing. At the meeting of the Panel on Petitions, the perpetrators and the root of the problems and everything else were mentioned, which was heard by all colleagues. You are not, unfortunately, Mr. Valaiņš! Let's start with it. That's the announcement. Last October, if I remember correctly, a decision was taken on the allocation of additional funding, but somehow it happened to that previous government... You said you knew something there, but you forgot to give the money. ( From the ZZS fraction: “Why? ‘ 3 × 500’? ), as in this case. ( Internouncing call.) The money was granted in April, I think, and the treaties, that is, specifically... ( The internouncing names of the members of the ZZS Group.) In April, money was allocated for the possibility of an election before the day of elections, i.e. a pre-voting. But delivery contracts were only concluded at the beginning of this year. On the basis of the procedure laid down in the Law on Public Procurement, there was no possibility of circumventing or not concluding the contract... In addition, it was repeatedly preached to the supplier of the supply businessman. And now you're telling me that the minister of justice or something else is guilty! No, in fact, the previous government, which could have dealt with many of these things by law, would be guilty, and we would not be able to do so at all. You were in the previous government, Mr. Valaiņš! A you are now coming and you are actually lying. ( From the ZZS Group: How long will you talk about the previous government?) (Laughter) As long as you learn to pull at least the crosses together correctly! (Laughter) Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-30-PT13-540-U23	Name to Member Viktor Valainin for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-30-PT13-540-U24	Colleagues! I do not criticise the Minister of Justice for some previous government, or something else, I criticise the Minister of Justice for lying in a public space, and I do not think that is acceptable. But you mentioned the funding, and I think it's for this... At the time of the request, Mr Riekstins began to speak on the right subject and I think that must also be explained. For this money. Yes, in the commission responsible, in the Commission of Public Administration and Local Government, this issue was moving, and there was a rather unique situation: cannot pass the law, because there is no money, and there is no money, because there is no law. And then the Commissions (Deep. Feldman: “Why was that money to find?” )... Members of the commission were in such known nozzles. There were different letters. There was also a demand for money. I think it was, well, pretty... A pretty big thing we asked... we, the entire commission together, prayed, and they were... I won't remember exactly... they were really over a million euro to ensure the whole process. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. S. Riekstins: “What is the connection with the demand?” ) And then the order is as follows: Members passed this law with all the annotation, and the justification for this funding was that it should be seen in the budgetary context. But what's the CVC? The CEC is, however, an organization that... There are these independent organisations. The CEC's management has a special time on the government's agenda when they can go and ask for some financial resources. In this case, the CEC management was not even invited to the government sitting to carry out this... to enable them to make this request. Unfortunately, that was already the time of the new government. However, the CEC leadership found an opportunity to arrive without an application, and the government listened to them. The question was why the government just... There was room to resolve this issue without waiting for the budget if that is so important. Of course, I accept that there is no bad intentions here and that the government could not simply anticipate such consequences, but the process was also not very bright on the part of the government. On the Saeima side and on the responsible ministry... Thanks to the actions that were then from the Commission and the Minister... Three savings were made in playing with ministers. Three times the public budget was saved. And I know this letter, which Dana Reizniece-Ozola signed, that there is no funding for the time being. However, following this letter, some actions were also carried out. And the money was saved three times. No new computers were bought in each section of the commission, as requested in this letter. And, you know, not because of the computers, the whole system "percented" of this system. These were other reasons. In my opinion, to blame the fact that someone in the past has not done something right... I think it was all right. The question was how all of this was brought to the end. And there, I think it's pretty... Well, quite wrong... That would be the mildest word to say. It would be quite wrong to say that everything was done correctly. Colleagues, I still think that this demand and this problem in substance... It is necessary to find, and also to name, who really are those guilty. But a better result would be if we arranged those laws all together, without dividing political parties, to arrange all those laws all together, so that no such issues can arise in the future. And you may not be public... Maybe not publicly... We don't do it publicly! Let's make a deal! We don't do it publicly! The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. Mr Feldmans: “You’re already doing public!” ) But shame their Justice Minister at least on the coalition board. ( Milestones.)
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-30-PT13-540-U25	The name of the Member, Kaspars-Girgen.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-30-PT13-540-U26	Hello, colleagues! I just wanted to say, no matter who lied, but before me this man is Viktor Valainis. And don't be shy about your Facebook account to delete the video as you tell the residents of Jēkabpils that thanks to you, they can walk on a new Pasta street. ( Internouncing call.) Unfortunately, when you promised it, this street had not even begun to renovate where to go on a new street. ( Internouncing call.) Thanks to you, two schools with pupils have been renovated. Unfortunately, the renovation of these schools has not even started yet. Well, who would be that liar? Thank you. (Applause)
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-30-PT13-540-U27	The name of Member Julia Stepanenko.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-30-PT13-540-U28	Dear colleagues, Mr. Riekstins, I think he's a little rotten again, because he said that the demand is that there's no funding, there's nothing. But he has confused two requests because he talked about the request that we were looking at in the Commission yesterday. Indeed, yesterday in the Commission, the question was that the electronic data exchange system was not working properly. According to the CEC, sufficient funding was not allocated to test it and was therefore included in the budget as a matter of urgency. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. S. Riekstins: “In general I am talking about lies!” ) Mr Riekstins, this is a request concerning the failure to send letters. The failure to send letters is due to the fact that there was a competition organised by the former Minister for the Interior, but the new Minister for the Interior did not see problems in the fact that the winner is an questionable reputation firm. If we are talking about respect for the constituents, the people who come to the penthouse must be respectful of all Latvians, then it is perhaps the fact that, Mr Riekstins and Mr Girgens, it was the KPV LV and KPP voters who did not receive the letters and those who could not normally vote in the penthouse. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. Mr Feldman: “We will know better who didn’t get there!” ) Therefore, please respect your constituents and do not make any unrelated accusations from the platform. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-30-PT13-540-U29	Name to Member Armand Kraus.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-30-PT13-540-U30	Hello, colleagues! Yes, many voters really, I think, stayed at home, went to friends, and did not go to the elections. But the essence of the matter, why this request was made, was that the law was violated. We're talking today... I don't know about some old things, about previous governments... Then we could also start talking about the work of the Minister of Justice Bordāns in the 1990s – “The Way of Latvia” – or when he was a Kommunian. Let's talk about how he worked as a Komunian. No, let's not talk today. We will talk about the demand because, I repeat, about half... If you go and ask people in the audience, even more than half of them raise their hands that they have not received this notification. The law has been violated. Of course, it must be recognised that the Minister Ģirgen tried to report voters in various ways. These types may have been illegal, as why should the EDS be reported on the elections? The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. Mr Feldman: “Why not?” ) I do not see how the State Revenue Service would be involved in any way in the electoral process. In this case, perhaps this is a violation of the General Data Protection Regulation, perhaps we should look at whether we respect the protection of personal data. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. Feldman: “We noticed!” ) When it comes to procurement... Procurement, as you know, was fully organised during Minister Ģürgen's time. It was repealed and organised again. And what did he choose? They chose a company that not only did not deliver, but the contract for delivery was also concluded at a price seven times higher than 10 months ago. In 10 months, has the price increase been seven times? I think this is really a matter for the coalition. If the price on the market can rise seven times... it has not changed... then there are grounds for examining whether there are any corruption risks. See, where the former KNAB staff sit, right here in the Saeima Hall, there's a bunch of assistants. ( The UK and U.S.C.E. MEPs interns.) Now, get in here! Investigate the risks of corruption! But perhaps there are no risks there, perhaps simply there has been corruption and so everything has been arranged. Take some letters, and put the rest in your pockets. Think about how you can even notice... seven times the price 10 months ago! We come back to this violation of the law. Yes, the law has been violated, at least an article relating to the fact that 70 days before the elections must be delivered to the voters of the letter. Of course, the Minister for the Interior must take full responsibility, as it was organised by the Authority for Citizenship and Migration, which is the monitoring body of the Minister for the Interior. And the Minister had to act in accordance with the law much faster than... When it became clear that no letters had been received, he was waiting until the last moment. In fact, the elections were coming. We knew clearly... And the Minister did nothing until the opposition took action. So if we take into account the other law under which the Minister had to supervise this institution, then we see that he should have acted, but he has not acted. There has been a lack of action on the part of the Minister. And that is why there is this demand. I think political responsibility and also legal responsibility... And also for these strange purchases... It's really... I draw attention to and hope that the Office for Prevention and Combating Corruption will really examine why. — Dep. S. Riekstins: “Then Latvijas Pasts is also corrupt!” ) has had such an increase in prices.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-30-PT13-540-U31	The name to the Member is Att Zakaitistov.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-30-PT13-540-U32	Good morning, colleagues! Returning to the request - the request has two parts. And one... The second part is about the failure of the Minister for the Interior. In fact, both the opposition and the position agree that there was no such inaction. And I would like to thank the Minister from the troupe for his innovative and active work on this matter from the political party KPV LV to Sandis Girgen. The second part we talked about relates to the concept of sabotage. And we can't understand that, because that concept wasn't defined. I looked at the definition of sabotage. Sabotage - this is a deliberate action in the back of the enemy, trying to destroy material values in various ways. It is really difficult here to understand the use of the word sabotage. ( Internouncing call.) I would like to recommend using a broader arsenal when choosing a word. For example, the word “abordage” would also fit very well in this... Let's say, "Abordage of Parliamentary Elections" or "Parliamentary Elections" (Laughter) ‘The Vernisage of Parliamentary Elections’. (Laughter) All these words are valid. And at the moment when decisions are made on sabotage issues... Indeed, in my opinion, the next demand could be more complete by broadening the vocabulary. Thank you. (Applause)
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-30-PT13-540-U33	Name of Member Dana Reizniece-Ozola.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-30-PT13-540-U34	Colleagues! You use the two words “previous government” too often as a fig leaf to cover up your gross failings. And believe me, it won't stay that long. I also believe that Mr Girgen is responsible for this situation. Because it cannot be that when you see that the importance of the state (I would even say - security!) issues - organising elections and sending out statements... Already when he saw that the competition was winning and going to provide this delivery service to a company that is registered in the Purvciems apartment and has a share capital of EUR 2845 - there was already an experienced, intelligent, responsible minister at that time... he had to cast out his antennas and he had to stop this process. At that point in time, the public procurement law framework had to be used, according to which procurement on national security issues could be carried out without a public procedure. Mrs. Liepāja said that yes, in the future some time it should be done. No, that's what we're supposed to do right now! This was a task that had to be done now. — Dep. S. Riekstins: “Where were you?” ), in these elections. Penalty sanctions. It's nothing that most of Latvia's population have not received these consignments?Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The penalties are 30,000... Not as much as 30,000. And this small company receives 300 thousand as a fee! Is that normal? It's not normal! If you use public money in this way, you will not have enough not only 500, 500, 500, but also there will soon be a hole in the budget. You don't handle public money as a responsible owner! The private sector would have been made redundant for a long time. ( Internoint.) Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-30-PT13-540-U35	Name to Member Aldi Gobzem.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-30-PT13-540-U36	Hello! ( Internouncing call.) On this point, I think a coalition would find a problem if the European Parliament were not elected to New Unity or National Association (Applause). , but four seats would be received by the party represented by Tatjana Ždanokas. Then you would see the problem. What do I mean by that? What is on my side is not a accusation that a minister would not have done anything. Personally, I don't think Sandis Ģirgen is guilty of this case. But I think it's wrong if the coalition comes and laughs from the podium. ‘ Yes, everything was super, everything was very good!” We would gain much more than a society if the coalition came and explained - the problems were such, they were such and not to put them into the previous government. We will solve these problems in the future as follows and as follows. Yeah... I repeat. If four seats in the elections to the European Parliament had been taken by Ždanook and no national association, I am sure that the National Association would climb the ladder and say that there have been problems and that the perpetrators of these problems should be brought to justice. That's all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-30-PT13-540-U37	I closed the debate. Mrs. Liepaja, is something to be added on behalf of the Commission? Please call me! We will vote for a Member Viktoras Valaiņa, Armands Krauze, Ulda Augulis, Raimonds Bergmanis, Janis Dūklavs, Janina Jalinska, Gundars Dauges, Anda Čakša, Julia Stepanenko and Māra Kučinskas Minister for the Interior Sandis Ģirgens “On possible inactivity of the European Parliament elections and the Minister for the Interior”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! On - 32, against - 59, abstaining - not. The request is therefore rejected. On the agenda - examination of draft laws. Draft law “Amendments to the Law on National Sanctions of the Republic of Latvia”, first reading. On behalf of the Commission on Foreign Affairs, Member Richard Coll.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-30-PT13-540-U38	Dear President of the Saeima. Dear Members, honourable Members, During the meeting of 23 May, the Foreign Affairs Commission reviewed the draft law “Amendments to the Law on National Sanctions of the Republic of Latvia” submitted by the Cabinet of Ministers, asking to see it in the urgency procedure. The draft law is really large, so immediately on the substance of the amendments. As we know, we must immediately implement concrete measures to meet the requirements set out in the Moneyval report and to strengthen Latvia's capacity to combat money laundering and terrorist financing. Development of the weapons of mass destruction programme, illicit proliferation and smuggling of arms and materials, technological developments, hybridity and cyber-activity, as well as weak export controls in various countries threaten international peace, security and stability. These risks are not only relevant in the context of our national security, but also in the context of the stability of the financial sector and international reputation. In order to combat international threats and to regularise the financial system of Latvia, it is necessary to introduce specific recommendations, which in turn provide for certain amendments to existing regulatory enactments, including the Law on National Sanctions of the Republic of Latvia and the Republic of Latvia. The specific amendments that we are looking at at at the moment are reviewing and improving the legal framework for financial sanctions, updating it in line with the problem situations identified in the application as well as the shortcomings identified in the Moneyval report, in particular in relation to the identification of competent authorities, the recommendations in paragraphs 6 and 7 of the Guidelines for Best Practices of the Financial Transactions Task Force and the time of entry into force of the sanctions imposed by the UN. And a little more detailed than the bill itself. The amendments clarify and supplement the terminology. In particular, the definitions of ‘competent authority’ and ‘true beneficiary’ are supplemented. The draft law also provides for clarification of the range of entities subject to compliance with sanctions and enforcement, emphasising that the sanctions imposed by the state must be observed and enforced by all persons in Latvia, and in addition providing that persons are obliged to execute sanctions without delay and without prior notice. The draft law also clarifies the rules on the imposition of sanctions in the field of public procurement in order to ensure maximum protection of the interests of customers, public service providers and public partners or their representatives and to minimise the risk of sanctions affecting the performance of the contract. It clarifies and extends the scope of the legal range of persons in respect of whom the sanctions provided for serve as a basis for the exclusion of a particular tenderer from the award procedure, in addition to the verification of sanctions and the exclusion of tenderers. It should be noted that sanctions are also foreseen for the applicant, the true beneficiary and... a member of the board or board of a human capital company, the beneficial owner, the legal representative or the procurator, where the applicant is a human capital company. Go on. It is also important that the draft law establishes additional competent institutions - the Banking, Financial and Capital Market Commission of Latvia, National Cultural Heritage Administration, Lottery and Gambling Supervision Inspectorate, etc. - and their powers in execution of sanctions. In line with foreign best practice and recommendations made by international experts, the draft law provides for the establishment of a Sanctions Coordination Council aimed at facilitating the establishment of a single contact point with all guidance and contact details available. Currently, the regulation provides that Latvia may propose international sanctions only after the Cabinet of Ministers has established national sanctions in accordance with the law. However, this is not always the most effective and appropriate way and sometimes requires sanctions at international level rather than at national level. That is why this issue has been addressed in Article 3 of the draft law, which provides for the possibility for Latvia to propose the imposition of international sanctions without imposing national sanctions. Latvia may impose on the person the grounds, the amount of evidence and the political importance of proposing certain international sanctions against that person. The draft law also provides for liability in the areas of administrative, international and national sanctions. In view of the recent scandalous events in the Latvian financial sector caused by the insufficient internal control system of a credit institution, as well as the repetition of such events in Estonia later, such punishment is necessary to ensure that a person is able to control... that sanctions are applied, and that there is no risk of negative consequences for themselves or for all financial sectors. The Foreign Affairs Commission also decided to determine the urgency of this draft law. Therefore, I also call for the draft law to be declared urgent at the Saeima sitting.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-30-PT13-540-U39	Mrs. Reizniece-Ozola, would you like to take part in the debate or talk about urgency? The urgency? ( Interface: In the debate!) ) Debate. Thank you. Let's vote. Please call me! We will vote for the urgent recognition of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on National Sanctions of the Republic of Latvia and the Republic of Latvia”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 84, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The draft law has been declared urgent. Let us start a debate. The name of Member Linda Ozola.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-30-PT13-540-U40	Good afternoon, dear colleagues! As the rapporteur has stated in very detailed terms, this proposal, the legislative proposal, relates to security threats arising from international terrorism, the proliferation of weapons of mass destruction and money laundering schemes. International sanctions are imposed on multinational companies dealing with such matters. But, it turns out, the Latvian financial sector is often used to circumvent and avoid these internationally established sanctions. As a result, as we have heard, we have Moneyval recommendations, we also have intergovernmental organisations - the Financial Transactions Task Force (FATF) - recommendations that foresee and recommend countries (not only for Latvia) to put in place an effective system to combat money laundering, terrorist financing and proliferation of weapons of mass destruction. Annotation of this draft law also states that the implementation of these recommendations depends directly on the national security, economics and welfare of the population of Latvia. I'd say it's not a little bit. Therefore, this particular draft law must be recognised without forgiveness. And it really is today a reproach for the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and the previous government. We heard a short while ago that the previous government had been a nearly innocent child and a fully responsible master, but this bill, which is before us, is linked to the recommendations of the Moneyval report. I looked again at the Moneyval report, and there it is written on the white floor that already in 2017, our banks have been used to circumvent sanctions related to proliferation. At that moment, the first concrete steps to improve this situation, which is linked to the establishment of guidelines for our financial sector, with specific improved internal control programmes in banks, are also being implemented in order to avoid such sanctions in Latvia. This is 2017. On the other hand, the law is only now before us and, given the very short deadlines, we really have to adopt it on an urgent basis, so thank you for supporting the urgency. We will arrange the legislative framework because we need it in Latvia. We want our financial system to be organised so that there is a favourable environment for investors, because we need it ourselves, but I urge colleagues to also pay attention to real action in Latvian law enforcement institutions. International reports have been written and our international partners confirm that real and immediate action results are expected from Latvia, or in English - immediat outcomes. And it's a real case and a judgment in the courts. In order for money laundering and terrorist financing cases to be brought before the courts, the prosecutor's office must prepare the cases and refer them to the court. There are a number of points in the Moneyval report where the responsibility of the prosecutor's office is highlighted, and we too, as legislator, will need decisiveness to talk about it. For as pointed out by the Minister of Justice of the Republic of Latvia, indecisions tend to be costly. Council Regulation (EC) No 1234/2007 of 22 October 2007 establishing a common organisation of agricultural markets and on specific provisions for certain agricultural products (Single CMO Regulation) (OJ L 299, 16.11.2007, p. 1). That was the amount of money that we could not direct to other needs, including the social needs of our citizens. But this draft law, of course, I call for support. Thank you. (Applause)
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-30-PT13-540-U41	Mr. Schmidt, will you have ten minutes to debate? That's enough? Name to the Member... That's enough for 10? Digit for Schmidt.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-30-PT13-540-U42	Hello, colleagues! I'm in favour of... I call for support for this draft law, but I have to say a few things. What was brought to the Foreign Affairs Commission really was a brother, and I will not even repeat what the Legal Office said about that bill. This is not the first time that the Foreign Affairs Commission receives an absolute brother (Dep. I. Zarins: “What?” ), and on a regular basis in that brother's... Participation of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. Linda, right, that's the previous government. But, as we know, the Minister has not changed for us and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs is in the same place. I would like to draw attention to this and call for this one to come to an end. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-30-PT13-540-U43	Mrs. Reizniece-Ozola, you're going to have a debate with nine minutes? Name of Member Dana Reizniece-Ozola.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-30-PT13-540-U44	Colleagues, I also call for support for this draft law and for its urgency. Things included in this bill were already agreed in the previous government. In response to Linda Ozola, who says that the previous government has done nothing... It was the previous government that was the first to put the financial sector right after 20 years of use as a walking farm. In 2016, the liability of the board members to the banks was strengthened, and in 2016, penalties were imposed, which amounts to 10 percent of the annual turnover in the banks and not a few tens of thousands... that billions were transferred... Often, it's also really black money. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. ( K. Feldman's intermediate call.) Last year, an action plan was developed for the implementation of the Moneyval recommendations, most of which were also implemented. This question, too... It was also one of them (Dep. J. Strike’s intermediate call.) measures... It should have been adopted for today. As in the Law on Credit Institutions (Dep. S. Riekstin’s intermediate call sign.) ... As a minister, I asked the Ministry of Finance to prepare. It was ready. You were asked for several months to get it at all until the Saeima meeting. Time is really money here. Moneyval will be in the middle of the year. For several months you cannot get one bill by the Saeima, you will not be able to achieve results. Speak wisely, you're not doing anything! ( The Room Noise)
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-30-PT13-540-U45	I closed the debate. Is there anything to add on behalf of the Commission? ( Internouncing call.)
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-30-PT13-540-U46	On behalf of the Commission, I can only say that... It is clear that we can show one another here with our finger again, who is guilty and who is not, who has not done it. It is important that we work. And in the Commission the main setting is (interface.) , to have a quality draft law, so that we too ( Intersorpts.) ... Thank you. ( For the debate, Mr. Cabanov applies. Substitution: Ooo! ) The debate has probably been closed. In any case, this draft law is necessary. These amendments, as I said, are huge. But what the Foreign Affairs Commission will always scrupulously evaluate is the quality of the law, so that there are no legal consequences in the long term, because we understand that many things we do on an urgent basis for various reasons. On behalf of the Commission, please support the draft law at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-30-PT13-540-U47	Please call me! We will vote for support for the first reading of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on National Sanctions of the Republic of Latvia and the Republic of Latvia”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The draft law at first reading has been supported. Please set a time limit for the submission of proposals and the time for consideration at the sitting of the Saeima.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-30-PT13-540-U48	The deadline for submitting proposals is 4 June this year. Second reading - Saeima sitting on 13 June.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-30-PT13-540-U49	The deadline for submitting proposals is 4 June this year. Review at the Saeima sitting on 13 June this year. Thank you. On the agenda - Draft Law Amending the Law on Credit Institutions, second reading. Member of the Commission for Budget and Finance (Tax) Mārtiņš Bondars.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-30-PT13-540-U50	Madam President, Dear colleagues, Dear colleagues, The Budget and Finance (Tax) Commission has examined amendments to the Law on Credit Institutions for the second reading. 25 proposals have been received. 1. - The proposal of the Ministry of Finance and 2. - the proposal from the Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Finance, Mr Zakatistova. Supported by the Commission. They clarify terminology (as a result of changes in the title of the Law on the Prevention of Money Laundering and Financing of Terrorism), replacing the words “the financing of terrorism” with the words “the financing of terrorism and proliferation” and replacing the name of the Control Office (Dep. I. Zarins: “I can’t keep track of what he’s talking about! Can’t hear!” ) to the Financial Intelligence Service (as amended by the Law on the Prevention of Money Laundering and the Financing of Terrorism). Proposal 1 is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-30-PT13-540-U51	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-30-PT13-540-U52	2. - A proposal from the Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Finance, Ata Zakatistov. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-30-PT13-540-U53	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-30-PT13-540-U54	3. - A proposal from the Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Finance, Ata Zakatistov. Partly supported and included 4. - a proposal from the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-30-PT13-540-U55	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-30-PT13-540-U56	This concerns changes in the name of the Control Service (as a result of changes to the Law on the Prevention of Money Laundering and the Financing of Terrorism). 4. - a proposal from the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission. Supported by changing the numbering of the following articles accordingly.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-30-PT13-540-U57	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-30-PT13-540-U58	5. - A proposal from the Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Finance, Ata Zakatistov. Supported by the Commission. It clarifies the wording of the first paragraph of Article 126.2 in order to clearly determine the regulatory requirements under which the credit institution’s liquidation and self-liquidation process is to be controlled by the FCTC. This is supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-30-PT13-540-U59	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-30-PT13-540-U60	6. - the proposal by Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Finance, Ata Zakatistov, which has been partly supported and included 7. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-30-PT13-540-U61	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-30-PT13-540-U62	7. is a proposal of the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission and specifies the procedure and process for the development and approval of a methodology for the enforcement of anti-money laundering and counter-terrorism and proliferative financing requirements applicable to the liquidation or self-liquidation process. The inclusion of such a provision in the law will clearly set out the procedure and the responsibilities of the institutions by preventing any disagreement between the supervisory and controlling authorities on obligations and rights in liquidation or self-liquidation proceedings. So seven. - The proposal of the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-30-PT13-540-U63	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-30-PT13-540-U64	8. is the proposal of the Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Finance, Ata Zakatistov. Partially supported, included 9. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-30-PT13-540-U65	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-30-PT13-540-U66	9. - a proposal from the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission. It's supported. It provides for a mandate for the Financial and Capital Market Commission to lay down requirements for the methodology for meeting the requirements for the prevention of money laundering and terrorist financing and proliferative financing requirements of a credit institution in a liquidation or self-liquidation process. So it's 9. - The proposal of the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-30-PT13-540-U67	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-30-PT13-540-U68	10............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - A proposal from Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Finance, Ata Zakatistov, which is a technical clarification. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-30-PT13-540-U69	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-30-PT13-540-U70	11. - the proposal by Member Lubova Svekov. There is no support in the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-30-PT13-540-U71	Colleagues, let us start the debate on the 11th proposal after a break. Please call me! Please register the Members! Dear colleagues, On Sunday, the round anniversary was celebrated by Member Rihard Kozlovskis, and today's anniversary is celebrated by Member Karina Sprūde. We welcome them! (Applause) Time for notifications. The name of the Member, Martin Bondar.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-30-PT13-540-U72	Colleagues! Budget and financial (tax) commission members! Please note that the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission will be held immediately. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-30-PT13-540-U73	Name to Member Artus Neminis.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-30-PT13-540-U74	Members of the Commission on Human Rights and Public Affairs! I'm right now in the Red Hall for the commission. Now! Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-30-PT13-540-U75	Name to Member Uldis Budric.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-30-PT13-540-U76	Meeting of the Commission of Public Administration and Local Government - now. Please do not hesitate, too. In the Chamber of the Commission. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-30-PT13-540-U77	Name to Marija Golubeva, member of the Saeima Secretary, for reading the results of the registration.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-30-PT13-540-U78	Not registered: Uldis Augulis, Sergejs Dolgopolovs, Gatis Eglitis, Artuss Neiminis... ( Interface: ‘ Yes! ’ ) is, Jānis Krišāns... ( Interface: ‘ Yes! ’ ) is, Anita Muižniece, Ināra Mūrniece... The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. Mūrniece: “I am! I guess I don't... “) and Vitaly Orlov.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-30-PT13-540-U79	Thank you. Interruption until 11 a.m. ( Interruption) ( Interruption)
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-30-PT13-540-U80	Dear colleagues, We're continuing the Saeima sitting. On the agenda - Draft Law Amending the Law on Credit Institutions. Debate on Proposal No 11 The name of the Member, Lubov Svekov.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-30-PT13-540-U81	The aim of my proposal is to provide for a mechanism to directly monitor and terminate the self-liquidation process. The proposal clarifies that the self-liquidation of a credit institution may be terminated and thus shift to forced liquidation in the event of a material breach of the requirements of the law on credit institutions and other regulatory provisions governing the activities of the credit institution, including the requirements for the execution of a self-liquidation plan or methodology and the prevention of money laundering and terrorist financing. The proposal clarifies that the self-liquidation of a credit institution cannot be terminated because of any breach of the regulatory requirements, but in particular in the case of breaches of the regulatory requirements relating to the activities of the credit institution and to the prevention of money laundering and terrorist financing. It provides for a common system of provisions of the Law on Credit Institutions, as the wording of the recommended version is similar to that contained in point 8 of the first paragraph of Article 27 of the Law on Credit Institutions. A credit institution’s licence (authorisation) shall have the right to revoke if the credit institution does not comply with the requirements of this Law and other regulatory enactments regulating the activities of the credit institution. At the same time it emphasizes compliance with the requirements of the prevention of money laundering and terrorism financing in the self-liquidation process (this is in line with the annotation provided by the Cabinet of Ministers). The requirement of a material infringement contained in the proposal ensures that creditors of a credit institution cannot be subject to... create negative consequences for the least serious infringement. This undermines the possibility of abuse of the regulation through forced winding-up in the interests of a person. It is also in conformity with the Satversme because it ensures proportionality for the limitation of the rights of individuals to dispose of their property. The recommended version ensures that a decision on the termination of the self-liquidation procedure and the compulsory winding-up of a credit institution is taken by a court assessing the substance of the infringement established by the law and thus preventing a situation in which the commission is granted the right to take a decision on the termination of the self-liquidation of the credit institution alone, with a direct impact on the rights of ownership of the shareholders of the credit institution. The decision shall be taken within the competence of an independent and subject to the law of the court. The court has an obligation to assess whether there is a standard basis for winding-up of self-liquidation and forced liquidation, not only formally assess compliance of the application with the requirements of the law, as is currently the case in the amendment proposed by the Cabinet of Ministers. The potential risk of corruption and the possibility of abuse of regulation is mitigated, as two institutions are involved – the commission, which first detects the violations and applies on the grounds of these violations, and the court, which examines the circumstances specified in the application, listens to the views of the parties and evaluates whether, in a particular case, the conditions laid down in the norm for taking such a decision exist. The involvement of the court also reduces the risk that legal proceedings against the state of Latvia will be initiated, because the decision is taken by the court when examining the question of substance, not formally. On the basis of the opinion and views of the Commission, it is also ensured that the provision complies with the 12th principle of the Basel Committee on Banking Supervision standard, which requires the banking supervisor to be operationally independent and the procedures to be transparent. The recommended version provides for the possibility for the commission to apply alternative, more protective means to achieve the aim of the norm - appointment of the trustee. Paragraph 6 of the first paragraph of Article 113 of the Law on Credit Institutions in force already provides for the appointment of a commission trustee in case the commission finds that the credit institution does not comply with the requirements of regulatory enactments regulating the activities of the credit institution. It is specified that the trustee may also be appointed in the self-liquidation process if, when establishing certain circumstances, the requirements of the Law on Credit Institutions and other regulatory enactments regulating the activities of the credit institution, including requirements regarding the implementation of the self-liquidation plan or methodology and prevention of money laundering and terrorism financing, are significantly violated. This is consistent with the existing legal framework for credit institutions, under which the commission may already appoint a proxy if the credit institution does not comply with the legislation relating to the activities of credit institutions. In order to ensure a balance between the rights of the shareholders of the credit institution on the one hand and the interests of the State on the other, it is envisaged that the commission should first assess the appointment of a trustee. At the same time, the commission has the right not to use the appointment mechanism of the trustee, but to immediately move to the most limited means (application to court for termination of self-liquidation). Compliance of the norm with the Satversme is ensured, as less restrictive means of interests of an individual are included. The Commission is granted discretion in the choice of funds, but this discretion is limited to a legally-integrated criterion. The Commission needs to establish that the appointment of a trustee is not or will not ensure the legality of self-liquidation...
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-30-PT13-540-U82	Mrs Švelova, the time for your debate is over. ( The utterance: “Time! ”) ) Are there objections to merging the two times of the debate? There is no objection.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-30-PT13-540-U83	Thank you. Thank you. ... to submit an application for winding-up. And the proposal refers to the provisions of the law on credit institutions governing the appointment of a trustee... and the procedure for contesting it, as well as the rights, duties, remuneration and other matters of the trustee. The powers and tasks of the trustee included in the Law on Credit Institutions from 115 to 123 shall be consistent with the aim of the norm – to provide effective means to ensure the legality of the self-liquidation process. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-30-PT13-540-U84	I closed the debate. Is there anything to be explained in the name of the commission?
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-30-PT13-540-U85	Dear colleagues, dear colleagues! I thank Mrs Švekova for her proposal, but it was not supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-30-PT13-540-U86	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 11. - the proposal tabled by Member Svekova! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 19, for - 47, for - 1. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-30-PT13-540-U87	12. - the proposal from Members Kirštein and Indrickson. This is also not supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-30-PT13-540-U88	Members shall not object. About 12? Mrs. Schvekov, 12? No, you don't.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-30-PT13-540-U89	13. - A proposal from the Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Finance, Ata Zakatistov. It is supported by the Commission. All three proposals... So the previous... the three proposals - 11, 12 and 13. - concerns a provision concerning the right of the FCMC to appoint a trustee who is provisionally placed under the management of a credit institution in a self-liquidation process until the court confirms forced winding-up, recognising that the self-liquidation process has been subject to irregularities and confirming the nomination of the liquidator recommended by the FCMC. It is, by its very nature, an intermediate solution for the supervision to have at its disposal the appropriate instruments to continue the control until the court decides on the declaration of winding-up and the appointment of the liquidator. So 13. - The proposal from Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Finance, Ata Zakatistov, was supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-30-PT13-540-U90	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-30-PT13-540-U91	14............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - A proposal from the Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Finance, Ata Zakatistov. Supported by the Commission. This is a technical clarification.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-30-PT13-540-U92	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-30-PT13-540-U93	15............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - A proposal from the Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Finance, Ata Zakatistov. Supported by the Commission. The norm is aligned with the Law on the Prevention of Money Laundering and Financing of Terrorism.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-30-PT13-540-U94	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-30-PT13-540-U95	16. - A proposal from the Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Finance, Ata Zakatistov. Partially supported, included 17. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-30-PT13-540-U96	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-30-PT13-540-U97	17. - a proposal from the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission. Supported by the Commission. It specifies the process and procedures for the development and approval of a methodology for the enforcement of anti-money laundering and counter-terrorism and proliferative financing requirements applicable to insolvency proceedings.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-30-PT13-540-U98	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-30-PT13-540-U99	18. - A proposal from the Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Finance, Ata Zakatistov. Partially supported, included 19. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-30-PT13-540-U100	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-30-PT13-540-U101	19. - a proposal from the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission. Supported. Provision is made for the mandate of the Financial and Capital Market Commission to lay down requirements for the methodology for the enforcement of anti-money laundering and counter-terrorism and proliferative financing requirements of a credit institution in the course of its insolvency proceedings, in line with the risk of money laundering and terrorist and proliferative financing inherent in the activities of the credit institution.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-30-PT13-540-U102	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-30-PT13-540-U103	20............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - the proposal by Member Lubova Svekov. Not supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-30-PT13-540-U104	Let us start a debate. The name of the Member, Lubov Svekov.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-30-PT13-540-U105	Where legal proceedings have been initiated against credit institutions operating in Latvia, as well as credit institutions established in Latvia with whom persons are involved in cases of money laundering and terrorist financing, at instances of the Republic of Latvia, the European Union or international courts and a conviction against such persons has entered into force, there shall be grounds for the revocation of the licence issued to such credit institutions. Such rights and obligations must be granted to the FCTC in order to prevent any possibility to continue the criminal offences already committed in the money laundering and terrorist financing and to prevent any suspicion, as well as to restore the reputation of the entire Latvian financial and banking sector... and suspect. It should be noted that the scope of the proposal is broader. It is not related only to the territory of the Republic of Latvia. Latvian credit institutions do not have their own branches abroad, but are only representatives of registered agencies or natural persons - whose activities are aimed at offering credit institutions established in Latvia to foreign customers, however, the nature of the services contains features of a criminal offence. It is the activities of these legal and natural persons that have promoted the entry of deposits and transactions into such Latvian credit institutions that deserve special attention and pose a high risk in terms of money laundering and terrorist financing. The activities of these legal and natural persons can create and create a false perception of the Latvian financial sector, as a result of which these persons have come to the attention of foreign responsible services, as well as procedural actions have been initiated against them. However, the current regulatory framework does not provide for adequate consequences for Latvian credit institutions for the implementation of such practices, although it actually poses greater risks and is a reasonable threat to Latvia's reputation both at the European Union and international level. The proposed proposal addresses this shortcoming and sets out the immediate foreseeable consequences for the credit institution and imposes an appropriate direct obligation on the Financial and Capital Market Commission if such circumstances occur. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-30-PT13-540-U106	I closed the debate. In the name of the commission, what is to be explained?
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-30-PT13-540-U107	Thank you, Member, for your proposal. Proposal 20 The Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission has not been supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-30-PT13-540-U108	Please call me! Let us vote in favour of 20. - the proposal tabled by Member Svekova! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 21, for - 55, for - 1. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-30-PT13-540-U109	21............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - A proposal from the Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Finance, Ata Zakatistov. The Commission is supported. The proposal concerns the right of the FCMC to apply to the European Central Bank, which is the competent authority within the Banking Union for the withdrawal of a credit institution's licence in cases where, when assessing the seriousness, duration, systemicity and other relevant circumstances of infringements of the Law on the Prevention of Money Laundering and Terrorism and Proliferisation Financing, the FCMC submits a draft decision on the withdrawal of the licence issued to the credit institution. Such a condition is essential in order to ensure that there will be no tolerance of the infringement and the national authorities make it clear that in such cases the withdrawal of a credit institution's licence will be dealt with. So the 21st proposal is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-30-PT13-540-U110	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-30-PT13-540-U111	22. - A proposal from the Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Finance, Ata Zakatistov. Partially supported, included 23. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-30-PT13-540-U112	Proposal 24. So... Proposal 24. Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-30-PT13-540-U113	23............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - a proposal from the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-30-PT13-540-U114	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-30-PT13-540-U115	24. - A proposal from the Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Finance, Ata Zakatistov. Supported by the Commission. It provides that the new framework does not apply to the insolvency and liquidation of a credit institution as well as to the self-liquidation process initiated before the entry into force of the relevant amendments.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-30-PT13-540-U116	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-30-PT13-540-U117	25. - A proposal from the Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Finance, Ata Zakatistov. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-30-PT13-540-U118	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-30-PT13-540-U119	Request, colleagues, to support the draft law on Amendments to the Law on Credit Institutions at second reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-30-PT13-540-U120	Please call me! We will vote for the second reading of the draft law on Amendments to the Law on Credit Institutions! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 66, for - 1, for - 19. The draft law at second reading has been supported. Please set a deadline for the submission of proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-30-PT13-540-U121	The deadline for submitting proposals is 4 June this year.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-30-PT13-540-U122	Thank you. The deadline for submitting proposals is 4 June this year. Dear colleagues, The Budget and Finance (tax) Commission asks for changes to the agenda of the sitting and to include in it the draft decision “On Change of the Responsible Commission to the Draft Law “Amendments to Law “On Assistance in Addressing the Issues of the Apartment” (No. 263/Lp13).’ Are Members opposed to such an amendment to the agenda? There is no objection. The order of business has been amended. Members Dzintars, Strīķe, Pavļuts, Latkovskis and Zakaistovs are asking for an amendment to the agenda of the sitting and to transfer point 47 of the agenda (draft decision on the extension of the deadline for submitting proposals to the draft law on the rental of residential premises (No. 144/Lp13) for the second reading until 10 June 2019) before point 16 (draft ‘Amendments to the Law on airbones’). Are Members opposed to such an amendment to the agenda? There is no objection. The order of business has been amended. On the agenda - draft law “Amendments to the Law on the Financial and Capital Markets”, second reading. Member of the Commission for Budget and Finance (Tax) Mārtiņš Bondars.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-30-PT13-540-U123	The Budget and Finance (Tax) Commission has examined the draft law "Amendments to the Finance and Capital Markets Act" and received 36 proposals for second reading. 1. - A proposal from the Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Finance, Ata Zakatistov. Supported by the Commission. It effectively clarifies the terminology in the title of the Law on the Prevention of Money Laundering and Financing of Terrorism, which was approved by the Saeima at second reading on 23 May.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-30-PT13-540-U124	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-30-PT13-540-U125	2. - a proposal from Mr Kirštein and Ms Indrickson. Supported by changing the numbering of the following articles accordingly.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-30-PT13-540-U126	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-30-PT13-540-U127	3. - The proposal from Member Vjačeslav Dombrovskis. There is no support in the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-30-PT13-540-U128	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-30-PT13-540-U129	4. - a proposal from the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission. Supported by the Commission. It shall determine the number of members of the Board of the FCMC, the arrangements for the separation of the Board from the operational management, the appointment of the Chairperson and members of the Board, the composition of the selection panel and the requirements for applicants, the term of office and the fact that the term of office may not exceed two consecutive terms.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-30-PT13-540-U130	Let us start a debate. Name to Member Vjačeslav Dombrovskis.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-30-PT13-540-U131	Dear President of the Saeima. Dear colleagues, I will take the opportunity to repeat what I said already when this draft law was proposed for first reading. We now have a system whereby there is one person who is responsible for what is happening in the financial market, the head of the FCTC. We have a system that also includes a very clear responsibility for what leads this man. That is, the Minister of Finance, together with the President of the Bank of Latvia. We also have a system that ensures maximum independence - this process of promotion, because the President of the Bank of Latvia is essentially the most independent person in our country from the political process (due to all legal protection related to the Bank of Latvia). So, if something is happening in the financial sector, it is clear to everyone at once who is responsible for directing this man, who also has political responsibility. With the amendments proposed by the Ministry of Finance, this system has been disrupted. In fact, there is a system in which there is no longer political responsibility, because when the Cabinet of Ministers moves, it means that there is no one individually responsible. When there are several members of the board, it also means that one is clearly not responsible. A majority is responsible. Therefore, colleagues, there will be consequences for the activities of the FCMC and the financial sector, and you will have to take political responsibility for these consequences. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-30-PT13-540-U132	I closed the debate. Is there anything to be explained in the name of the commission?
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-30-PT13-540-U133	Thank you to Mr Dombrovskis for his vision. The proposal has been supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-30-PT13-540-U134	Please call me! Let us vote in favour of 4. - The proposal submitted by the Budget and Finance (Tax) Commission! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 82, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The proposal is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-30-PT13-540-U135	5. - Member Maris Kučinski's proposal. There is no support in the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-30-PT13-540-U136	Let us start a debate. Name to Member Maris Kučinskis.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-30-PT13-540-U137	Dear President, Honourable Members! First of all, I would like to thank the Commission on Budgets and Finance (Tax) and also the Ministry of Finance for a very reasonable and good debate, which the Commission ensured by examining all the proposals and looking for the optimal... how to improve this situation in Latvia. Second. I will not explain in every detail why I have tabled this proposal that the Commission and the Government put forward one... but the rest of the existing arrangements are maintained. First of all, there were concerns (I thought... I am convinced - even a reasonable concern!) for politically placed people instead of the desired professionals. Secondly, also on the opportunity to work together. The debate resulted in the previous... which was also supported by the majority of the Saeima. We have reached the end of three members of the Board of the Financial and Capital Markets Commission, none of whom is working on another core job... but there already has more opportunities to get professionals. However, I believe that the situation should first be modelled on paper, on the table, so that then it does not come to an experiment that is being carried out in life. So for the second reading... for the third reading, however, I will table a new proposal that the President will indeed be elected in accordance with the law, and the President shall then direct two of his assistants to the Saeima for approval. And now I'm just saying why. A positive example of the Bank of Latvia (not to mention the negative events we all know) appeared during the debate, because there are professional members of the board and there is no internal dispute. There is a division of work that everyone is doing, and the work, as we know, is enough both in the Bank of Latvia and after the previous law is passed at the Financial and Capital Market Commission; there will be a lot, a lot to do. But what a threat... the risks, if all three members are nominated in the manner prescribed by law? We risk getting three ambitious people, each of their own skies, sitting together and... Well, they have to build a team. How can they set up that team? Who will then really answer for the Financial and Capital Market Commission? Everyone or nobody? It will be like an election: who... Who was to be sent? At the end, it will not be exactly the way it should have been. Therefore, I think it is better to simplify this process and allow... of course, then the Saeima's assessment... allow the Chair to also find his team. That is why I am making this proposal... I withdrawn this proposal. And I'll be happy if we can take part in this third reading... in one debate only on the work of the other two, because there is not yet an answer to the question of what they will do, how the functions that will be answered and who will be responsible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-30-PT13-540-U138	Thank you. Therefore, Proposal No 5 has been withdrawn.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-30-PT13-540-U139	Thank you to my colleague Kučinskis for his good words and, of course, also for his active participation in the Committee on Budgets and Finance (Tax) when examining this draft law before the second reading. 6. - A proposal from the Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Finance, Ata Zakatistov. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-30-PT13-540-U140	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-30-PT13-540-U141	7. - a proposal from Members Aleksandr Kirštein and Ilze Indrickson. Partially supported, included 10. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-30-PT13-540-U142	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-30-PT13-540-U143	8 / 8 - A proposal from the Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Finance, Ata Zakatistov. Partially supported, included 10. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-30-PT13-540-U144	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-30-PT13-540-U145	9. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Supported by 10. - the Commission proposal and proposal 11.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-30-PT13-540-U146	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-30-PT13-540-U147	10............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - a proposal from the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission. The Commission is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-30-PT13-540-U148	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-30-PT13-540-U149	11. - A proposal from the Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Finance, Ata Zakatistov. The Commission is supported. It's actually... it is by nature a technical proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-30-PT13-540-U150	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-30-PT13-540-U151	12. - a proposal from Mr Kirštein and Ms Indrickson. Supported by 15. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-30-PT13-540-U152	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-30-PT13-540-U153	13. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Supported by 15. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-30-PT13-540-U154	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-30-PT13-540-U155	14............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - A proposal from the Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Finance, Ata Zakatistov. Partially supported, included 15. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-30-PT13-540-U156	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-30-PT13-540-U157	15............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - a proposal from the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission. The Commission is supported. In fact, the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission slightly clarifies the demands supported at first reading by the applicant for the position of chairman of the Council and member of the Council, by requiring the candidate to manage Latvian and English as well as by requiring the candidate to have at least five years of experience not only in the field of the financial and capital market or its supervision, but also in the area of prevention of money laundering and financing of terrorism and proliferation.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-30-PT13-540-U158	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-30-PT13-540-U159	16. - a proposal from the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission. Supported. This, in turn, provides for the exclusion of the regulation on the election of the Vice-President, given that the proposal for the Council to be composed of the Chair and two members of the Board were previously supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-30-PT13-540-U160	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-30-PT13-540-U161	17. - The proposal from Member Vjačeslav Dombrovskis. The Commission was not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-30-PT13-540-U162	Let us start a debate. Name to Member Vjačeslav Dombrovskis.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-30-PT13-540-U163	Dear colleagues, First of all, I would like to introduce clarity. There is a minor editorial error in this proposal: it should not have been written 'per political group delegated', but 'per political group driven'. To avoid any misunderstanding, let me explain: this is not about political groups, politicians, but rather group-led professional board members. As far as I am concerned, however, there is a desire to completely dismantle the existing system and instead introduce a political market in which all the members of the Council (which was initially five... in the original version) would actually be politically driven. This, of course, opens the political market. There is no doubt about this, I think. I understand that the situation in the coalition has changed. In the past it was: five coalition parties - five members of the KGB. Now what's happening to you there? I, I must say, have some planning capabilities... After the elections to the European Parliament, it is indeed clear that, yes... that there are only three council seats. Yeah, there... two lots more... ensures majority vote in the Saeima, yes... You see, it's not the real players... I have a proposal - colleagues, let us say that, honestly! If we are already building such a model of political supervision, then we are doing it fairly. Each political party shall have the right to direct its representative. Of course, as I said, not the Member, but the professional. And then, after every election, whatever the number of parties to be elected to the Saeima - five, seven, 10, or so - each party will have the right to direct its representative to this political monitoring board. That's fair, colleagues! I think that even for you, coalition parties, it is much fairer than three... You realize that there will be no room for two parties. We all know what those parties are! I think at least two could be supported. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-30-PT13-540-U164	I closed the debate. After the debate is due to be added?
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-30-PT13-540-U165	Thank you, my colleague Dombrovskis, you really have an excellent political situational response and you are also able to respond at this moment, so you really respect everything, but your proposal is not supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-30-PT13-540-U166	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 17. - Member Dombrovskis's proposal! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 22, for - 62, for - 1. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-30-PT13-540-U167	18. There is a motion from Member Maris Kučinskis, and this is not supported by the Commission either. It planned that only a member of the Board was appointed, it was also dismissed by the Chairman and not by the Saeima, and it was not supported by maintaining the previously supported concept that all members of the Board were approved by the Saeima.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-30-PT13-540-U168	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-30-PT13-540-U169	19. - Member Maris Kučinski's proposal. Partially supported, included 24. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-30-PT13-540-U170	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-30-PT13-540-U171	20............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - Member Maris Kučinski's proposal. There is no support in the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-30-PT13-540-U172	Let us start a debate. Name to Member Maris Kučinskis.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-30-PT13-540-U173	With this proposal, I expressed my concern about the option that appeared before the Ministry of Finance - that 10 Members will be able to stand on the vote as the Head of the Financial and Capital Market Commission if he does not, in his view, meet the required level of reputation. What is the required level of reputation? As defined on paper, in life, as we see and see it in every step, interpretations can be in the range “give such a man, let’s find what he is guilty of!” . That is why I really think that this is a very dangerous proposal. So I didn't find where it was growing, but thank you to the commission. I understand it was a long discussion, which resulted in a compromise of 34. And, of course, the President of Latvia... It's a little... which is also retractable, by the way, but it needs 50 vices and three quarters to vote, but we probably cannot go to analogy - 34 plus 51... After much thought, I therefore believe that this is a proportionate proposal, because those people who are becoming completely independent in the hierarchy of administration fly off some of their orbit in 80 percent of cases, so there is still a need in some place. ... about you, maybe more... Therefore, a security is also required. I withdraw this proposal and, if I am not mistaken, also 22. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-30-PT13-540-U174	Thank you. Consequently, proposals 20 and 22 have been withdrawn.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-30-PT13-540-U175	Thank you to my colleague, Kučinskis. 21............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - the proposal from Members Kirštein and Indrickson. The Commission was not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-30-PT13-540-U176	Let us start a debate. Name to Member Alexander Kirštein.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-30-PT13-540-U177	Dear President, Honourable Members! How is it not supported? If the number 10 had already been left, as was the case here, it would not have been supported, but, as I can see, there is no more the number 10. There is now 34, so that we can no longer vote for it at all. In principle, this is supported. Then perhaps it should be written that it has been partly supported by changing the figure to “34”. So we can no longer vote for this, because the number 10 is no longer here. But I think for the next reading here is one problem: that the old version, which was before the first reading, was much better. There was a precise statement: ‘if a joint application by the President of Latvia and the Minister of Finance for the early release of the President or his deputy has been received’. If we had left this option, then we would have no problem at all with either this point or with transitional provisions. Fear is that we do not have the President of the Bank of Latvia... But to this law, let's say, such a real functioning... When we elect a new Council, we will also have a new President of the Bank of Latvia. There was no point in changing. Obviously, the next reading should resume this option. Now the number ‘34’. What makes it better? The activities of the FCMC are, in fact, similar to those of the Bank of Latvia. Often this institution... in some countries... It is like a division at the Bank of Latvia. The Law “On the Bank of Latvia” does not provide for the following possibility – to withdraw, say, the political... that members of the Saeima, for example, the President of the Bank of Latvia, with some 10 or 34 votes. Here it is. But the reason, I repeat, is ridiculous. The reason is - reputation. Perfect reputation. If we're appointed, then... Now Members will decide (and there is no big difference whether 10 or 34 will decide)... So what's a reputation? Is it a matter of multiverbiality, of drinking? Is that something else's reputation? Is it, for example, going too close to the victory monument on 9 May or going by the Freedom Monument on 16 March? Well, you understand! Therefore, I think there is no point in this vote, because here the number 10 is no longer there, because we recommended deleting it. The number has been changed - and the number "34". I do not request a vote, but I believe that the old version, which was before the first reading, - that two people - the President of the Bank of Latvia and the Minister of Finance - are submitting... And they can submit everything. They can write about reputation, they can write about speeding, and then the Saeima will evaluate. And it's much simpler than doing this kind of thing politically. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-30-PT13-540-U178	Thank you. I understand that no vote is required. ( Internouncing call.) I closed the debate.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-30-PT13-540-U179	22. Member of the proposal Kučinskis has a reference, I understand if?
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-30-PT13-540-U180	The proposal has been withdrawn.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-30-PT13-540-U181	Yeah. 23............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - A proposal from the Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Finance, Ata Zakatistov. Supported, included 24. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-30-PT13-540-U182	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-30-PT13-540-U183	24. - a proposal from the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-30-PT13-540-U184	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-30-PT13-540-U185	25. - a proposal from the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission. Supported by changing the numbering of the following articles accordingly, and...
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-30-PT13-540-U186	Members...
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-30-PT13-540-U187	... and supplemented with the condition... So, proposal 25. The draft law has been supplemented, provided that in cases where the Saeima dismisses the chairman or council member from office at its own request or the term of office of the chairman or council member expires, a lump sum compensation of 80 per cent of the annual salary shall be paid to this person.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-30-PT13-540-U188	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-30-PT13-540-U189	26. - a proposal from the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission. Supported by changing the numbering of the following articles accordingly.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-30-PT13-540-U190	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-30-PT13-540-U191	27. - a proposal from the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission. Supported by changing the numbering of the following articles accordingly. This provides for the exclusion of an addition to the responsibility of the FCMC officials and staff, given that work on this issue will continue and we will be able to return to this issue in the autumn following the evaluation of the OECD recommendation.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-30-PT13-540-U192	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-30-PT13-540-U193	28. - A proposal from the Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Finance, Ata Zakatistov. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-30-PT13-540-U194	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-30-PT13-540-U195	29. - a proposal from Mr Kirštein and Ms Indrickson. There is no support in the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-30-PT13-540-U196	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-30-PT13-540-U197	30. - A proposal from the Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Finance, Ata Zakatistov. The Commission is supported. The time limit by which the Cabinet of Ministers must issue regulations of the Cabinet of Ministers on the conditions of application of the chairperson of the council and member of the council and on the procedure for setting up, acting and taking a decision on the selection of applicants and conformity assessment committee shall be specified. In particular, 1 June of this year is replaced by 1 August.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-30-PT13-540-U198	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-30-PT13-540-U199	31. - a proposal from Members Aleksandr Kirštein and Ilze Indrickson. There is no support in the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-30-PT13-540-U200	Members want to have a debate. Name to Member Alexander Kirštein.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-30-PT13-540-U201	Dear President, Honourable Members! I would like to point out that obviously next reading of the bill will still have to be incorporated... and, as I also understood, there will be another proposal, because the Legal Bureau has pointed out two judgments of the Constitutional Court that in these cases the so-called principle of legitimate expectations must be respected. In other words, if an official agrees to, for example, six years, to work in a certain position and the law states that he is leaving the job two years after he leaves, whether he goes on a voluntary basis or on application, or is in any way reshaping... this officer can't work for two years afterwards... so the members of the board - the President and his deputy - cannot work in any institution that has been connected, say, with loans, finances or loans. If a person agrees to such a work, he is apparently planning to work until some time. If he's suddenly laid off from work when he changes the law, then... In two cases referred to by our Legal Bureau, the Constitutional Court has renewed these people on the basis of the so-called principle of legitimate expectations, because they have relied on the fact that laws are not changed retroactively, say, their time limits are not changed. So this means that we need to make some sort of change for the next reading. We incorporated the principle of voluntary resignation and recorded 80 percent. Well, that's it... Think of the next reading - it may be that all 100 percent should be put there. Because if a person has the opportunity to go to court and get all 100 percent, as has happened in all cases in Latvia... that the court has decided so (and in that case can’t be lost) then why are we writing 80? I therefore think that this may not be voted on, but in any case there will be a new proposal for next reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-30-PT13-540-U202	I closed the debate. Consequently, no vote is requested.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-30-PT13-540-U203	32. - The proposal from Member Vjačeslav Dombrovskis. There is no support in the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-30-PT13-540-U204	Let us start a debate. Name to Member Vjačeslav Dombrovskis.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-30-PT13-540-U205	Dear colleagues, According to the information provided to us by the Ministry of Finance, this draft law, amendments to this law, the main aim is in some way to fulfil FATF's wishes, recommendations, to avoid the risk that we will get into the so-called grey list. However, absolutely nothing has been said about the need to change the current governance of the FCMC. We asked the Commission a question: is this trying to remove the current FCTC leader Putnins? The answerer - no, no, absolutely no. This has absolutely nothing to do with the current management of the FCMC. So the essence of this proposal, if you have not read it, is to separate the stems from the flies. There, what is proposed with regard to the management of the FCMC, however silly, is separate, but the issue of replacing the management of the existing FCMC is separate. Okay. We are changing this governance model and everything else, but the management of the existing FCMC will continue to work until the end of its mandate. This proposal, colleagues, is a litmus test for what the real purpose of this amendment to the law is. If you reject this proposal, you will say with this vote that the real purpose of this amendment is to remove the current head of the FCMC, in general, the entire management, without explaining the reasons why it is being done. What's their fault? What have they done? Because they have done something! If this is justified, then there should be some explanation from the Prime Minister, from the Minister of Finance, from... I don't know... Mārtiņš Bondara. If someone else wants to explain, please go to the platform. Explain what they have done (Interface: “... hasn't done... “) whether you did not act or have failed to act! Otherwise, it is only up to us to explain why this is being done. I mentioned last time: what has Mr. Putniņš done? Did he fight the so-called non-resident banks? He fought. The volume of non-resident investment decreased by 75 per cent in a very short period. The entire sector is practically destroyed. He fought, didn't he? Has any Latvian Prime Minister - this Prime Minister or previous Prime Minister - made any public accusation to him? No, no. Finance ministers - previous ministers or this minister? No, no. Nobody has said anything. Then it turns out that the only one... The controversial, serious decision taken by this person is to prevent ABLV Bank from going into the hands of insolvency administrators. We have a party sitting here, which is known, as the city speaks, as these mafia, so to say, perhaps the main representative in the Saeima. ( Insight: “It has not been a long time in the city! ” ) So, colleagues, it looks like political revenge. Well, I can understand these lords, all logically: so to speak, disintegrating a good business, we need a man to avenge. But I'm sorry, ask yourself a question: why are you doing this? Would you like to help the insolvency administrator mafia to revenge the head of the FCMC? The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. Feldmans: “There’s a ZZs!” ) What is it? Well, what's the ZZS... Is that so?Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. People next to you are sitting here, talking to them, they will explain everything to you. ( Internouncing call.) You have ZZS or Riga City Council everywhere, huh? As I said, think about what you will do without supporting this proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-30-PT13-540-U206	I closed the debate. What is to be added or explained on behalf of the Commission? The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. Mr Urbanovich: "On behalf of the Commission, keep silent!" ) Council Regulation (EC) No 1257/96 of 20 June 1996 concerning humanitarian aid (OJ L 163, 2.7.1996, p. 1).
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-30-PT13-540-U207	Mr Dombrovskis, I will answer you to what you said.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-30-PT13-540-U208	On behalf of the Commission, please.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-30-PT13-540-U209	For the Commission (Laughter) You know I know you know. (Laughter)
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-30-PT13-540-U210	And it was debated by the Commission, huh? (Laughter)
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-30-PT13-540-U211	Yeah. And in the Commission 32. - Vyacheslav Dombrovsky's proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-30-PT13-540-U212	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 32. - Member Dombrovskis's proposal! Please vote mode! ( From the Group's point of view: "Uncompromising justice with a bumerang effect!" ) Please see the result. It's not about - 24, it's against - 60, it's not. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-30-PT13-540-U213	33. - a proposal from Members Aleksandr Kirštein and Ilze Indrickson. There is no support in the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-30-PT13-540-U214	Let us start a debate. Name to Member Alexander Kirštein. ( The drug is noise. (Laughter)
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-30-PT13-540-U215	Dear President, Honourable Members! The proposal is very simple: to maintain existing powers... And again... I wrote the judgment of the Constitutional Court of 12 May 2016 in the case No. 14-0103 (if someone is interested, I can give it) and it says that by reinstatement of the fired person... it states that it is necessary to assess, in relation to the establishment of a limit on the fundamental rights of a person, whether a provision of law... whether the restriction in question has a legitimate aim and whether the restriction complies with the principle of proportionality and whether the chosen means are proportionate to the legitimate aim of the restriction and whether to achieve that objective... whether the benefit to the company of the restriction is greater than the loss suffered by the individual. In my judgment, the Constitutional Court restored the person to work. On the other hand, we have a reason here, in fact, that someone has said in an international organisation or something else, that the leadership of the FCMC should be changed. The FCTC Act explicitly states that the panel is an independent body. ( Internouncing call.) What does that mean - an independent institution? The same norm is in the law “On the Bank of Latvia”. I'll read it to you. You know, there is an extremely interesting case here: “The Bank of Latvia, its President, Vice-President and members of the Board do not request or accept instructions from governments of Latvia and other Member States of the European Union, institutions and other national, foreign or international institutions and their bodies, and... governments, institutions and their bodies are not entitled to give instructions to the President of the Bank of Latvia, the Vice-President and members of the Board, or otherwise try to influence them in the performance of their duties...”. The law prohibits even trying to indicate in some way which person in Latvia should hold a post. If we do not respect this principle, we are grossly violating the principle of independence. So we have to either throw it out that the commission is an independent institution or remove it from the Bank of Latvia... General principle: The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. J. Urbanovich: “Right!” ) Should both of these things, as I said, be arranged for the next reading. So - if we have 34 Members here who can be withdrawn, the same thing must be incorporated into the law “On the Bank of Latvia”, because there are no differences - the institutions work in parallel and cooperate. In this case, I think... as I said first, both the principle of legitimate expectations and the fact that no international body should interfere and indicate what we have to do here with these institutions... That is why this proposal... I am asking for this support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-30-PT13-540-U216	The vote is therefore being requested on this proposal. I closed the debate. Before the vote, is there any explanation of debate in the Commission?
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-30-PT13-540-U217	Yeah. Colleagues, this proposal is not supported by the Commission. Not supported!
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-30-PT13-540-U218	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 33. - the proposal tabled by Members Kirštein and Indricksones! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 24, for - 60, for - 1. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-30-PT13-540-U219	34. - a proposal from the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-30-PT13-540-U220	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-30-PT13-540-U221	35. - a proposal from the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission. The Commission is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-30-PT13-540-U222	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-30-PT13-540-U223	And 36. - A proposal from the Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Finance, Ata Zakatistov. It is supported by the Commission and concerns the time when the law enters into force.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-30-PT13-540-U224	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-30-PT13-540-U225	Colleagues, I call on you to support the draft law on the second reading of the Finance and Capital Markets Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-30-PT13-540-U226	Please call me! We will vote in favour of the second reading of the draft law “Amendments to the Law of the Financial and Capital Markets Commission”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 68, for - no, for - 19. The draft law at second reading has been supported. Please set a deadline for the submission of proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-30-PT13-540-U227	We would be grateful if it were 4 June this year. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A. Neighbours: How grateful? ) Council Regulation (EC) No 1257/96 of 20 June 1996 concerning humanitarian aid (OJ L 163, 2.7.1996, p. 1).
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-30-PT13-540-U228	The deadline for submitting proposals is 4 June this year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-30-PT13-540-U229	Thank you, colleagues.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-30-PT13-540-U230	Dear colleagues, Members, Mr Zakaistov, Mr Pavļuts, Mr Latkovskis, Mr Strike and Mr Dzintars, ask for an amendment to the agenda of the sitting and for the most recent item to be moved (from the Group to tomorrow!) ) - draft decision “On the change of the commission responsible for the draft law “Amendments to the Law “On Assistance in Addressing the Issues of the Apartment”” (No. 263/Lp13)’, preceded by item 15 of the agenda. Are Members opposed to this amendment of the agenda? There is no objection. The order of business is changed. On the agenda - consideration of draft decisions. Draft decision “On Change of the Responsible Commission to the Draft Law “Amendments to the Law “On Assistance in Addressing the Issues of the Apartment”” (No. 263/Lp13).’ Please call me! We will vote for the draft decision “On the change of the commission responsible for the draft law “Amendments to the Law “On Assistance in Addressing the Issues of the Apartment”” (No. 263/Lp13)’. Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 89, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. Decision adopted. We are continuing with the examination of the draft laws. Draft law “Amendment to the Law on Cooperatives”, second reading. The draft law has been declared urgent. On behalf of the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy, Member Ivars Zarins.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-30-PT13-540-U231	Hello, colleagues! We work with the draft law “Amendment to the Law on Cooperative Society” at second reading. As you know, this is an urgent bill. We have received four proposals. 1. - the proposal of the Minister of Justice, which is more technical in order to align the requirements of different legal provisions. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-30-PT13-540-U232	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-30-PT13-540-U233	2. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Proposal of an editorial nature to align the amendments already made at the previous reading and to make it sound logical. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-30-PT13-540-U234	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-30-PT13-540-U235	3. - a proposal from the Legal Bureau, which provides that the Ministry of Agriculture will also be able to delegate to a private person, under a delegation agreement, the right to assess this compliance status, its award or cancellation. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-30-PT13-540-U236	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-30-PT13-540-U237	Proposal No 4. Changes of time limits, because the term provided for in the current version of the law in relation to the regulations of the Cabinet of Ministers, which are currently in force, expires on 30 June. We're extending until July 31st. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-30-PT13-540-U238	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-30-PT13-540-U239	Thank you, colleagues. I call for support to be given to the draft law at second, final, reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-30-PT13-540-U240	Please call me! We will vote in favour of the draft law "Amendment to the Law on Cooperative Society" at second, final, final reading! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 87, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The law is passed. On the agenda - consideration of the draft decision. Draft decision on the extension of the deadline for the submission of proposals for the draft law on the rental of residential premises (No. This Decision shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. Mr. Valaiņš, do you want to debate the draft decision? Let us start a debate. Name to Member Viktor Valain.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-30-PT13-540-U241	Hello, colleagues! In essence, I would like to ask and ask the applicant to justify this extension. This is far from the simplest draft law, it has a very wide history, and proposals have already been submitted to the Commission in a very broad context. Maybe you can justify that, even... whether we open this debate even more broadly, let us take into account the types of rental such as RB&B and these here... Well, modern rentals and we work with them in this bill? Or keep as denationalized... construction of new rental houses or this context? Because it also depends, I think, on the fact that other colleagues could come forward with proposals. And I would like to thank the Commission. Today, I think it was a very good meeting of the Commission, where we discussed issues of a similar nature across the Commission by agreeing on further action... on how we deal with draft laws.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-30-PT13-540-U242	Name to Member Raiv Dzintar.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-30-PT13-540-U243	Good afternoon, dear colleagues! Representatives of the owners of denationalised apartments have expressed their wish to meet groups and make their proposals. They have also met the Group of the National Alliance. Consequently, we considered that there were no obstacles that made it impossible for us to extend the deadline and to continue to work with the draft law after this discussion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-30-PT13-540-U244	I closed the debate. Please call me! We will vote on the draft decision on the extension of the deadline for the submission of proposals to the draft law on the rental of residential premises (No. 144/Lp13) for the second reading until 10 June 2019.’ Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about - 86, it's against and refrains from - it's not. Decision adopted. We are continuing with the examination of the draft laws. Draft law on ‘Amendments to the Law on airbones’, third reading. On behalf of the Legal Commission, Member Jānis Iesalnieks.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-30-PT13-540-U245	The Commission received three proposals for a third reading of the draft law. 1. - a proposal from the Legal Office specifying the title of Article 8 according to the contents of the article. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-30-PT13-540-U246	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-30-PT13-540-U247	2. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. This will also clarify the title of the article. And since the law no longer provides for an obligation... Distribution or use of unapproved attribute with the state coat of arms in accordance with the procedure laid down by law... There's no such ban... Consequently, this article, which lays down a sanction for those offences, excludes those words. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-30-PT13-540-U248	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-30-PT13-540-U249	And 3. - The legal commission's proposal. The title of Article 12 shall be specified. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-30-PT13-540-U250	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-30-PT13-540-U251	Please confirm this draft law at third reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-30-PT13-540-U252	Please call me! We will vote in favour of the draft law "Amendments to the Law on Ģerbonis" in the third, final reading! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. The law is passed. On the agenda - draft law “Amendments to the Law “On the State of Latvia””, third reading. Member of the Legal Commission, Ritvars Jansons.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-30-PT13-540-U253	Dear colleagues, The Legal Commission has examined for the third reading the draft law “Amendments to the law “On the Latvian State coat of arms””. 1. - a proposal from the Legal Bureau, drawn up in response to the changes which Members supported at second reading, conferring rights on the National Heraldic Commission, and in order to avoid any legally incorrect wording. The proposal consists of two parts. First, the National Heraldic Commission is granted the right to give opinions as to whether the image of the national coat of arms complies with the statutory description of the state coat of arms, as well as the right to reconcile derogations from the requirements of that law as regards the description of the coat of arms and the attached images, provided that respect for the national coat of arms is guaranteed. Secondly, the proposal makes it legally clear that the Cabinet does not harmonise them with other institutions when drawing up regulations. The Cabinet of Ministers shall have the right to base its regulations on opinions of institutions. The proposal is supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-30-PT13-540-U254	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-30-PT13-540-U255	2. - the proposal of the Minister of Justice, Mr. Janis Bordan, related to judicial reform. As a result of the reform, the judges of the Land Book Divisions will be included in district (city) courts, therefore the proposal calls for the words “ Land Register Division” to be excluded from the law “On the State Land Registers of Latvia”. The proposal is supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-30-PT13-540-U256	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-30-PT13-540-U257	3. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. The fifth paragraph of Article 8.2 provides that the words ‘in agreement with the National Heraldic Commission’ are to be excluded because, as has already been stated. - In the proposal of the Legal Bureau, the Cabinet of Ministers shall not coordinate with other institutions when drafting regulations. It was concluded in the Commission that the Cabinet of Ministers is able to consult and, on the basis of the rules, take into account views rather than harmonise the rules. When using legally correct concepts, the paragraph of the said Article clarifies that when establishing a uniform visual identity and graphic standard for the institutions subordinate to it, the Cabinet shall take into account the opinion of the National Heraldic Commission. The proposal has been supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-30-PT13-540-U258	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-30-PT13-540-U259	4. - a proposal from the Legal Bureau to exclude the provision on administrative liability adopted at second reading. The legal office justified the proposal on the grounds that the reference to administrative liability for the production, distribution or use of non-approved attributes with the state coat of arms in accordance with the procedure laid down by law is in another law - the Law on General Members - and removed from the common system. Therefore, a reservation should also be made on other aspects. The Commission did not object. The proposal has been supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-30-PT13-540-U260	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-30-PT13-540-U261	5. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. The second paragraph of Section 16 is added, stating that a violation of the regulations on the use of the state coat of arms does not constitute a derogation from the description of the state coat of arms of Latvia established by regulatory enactments and inconsistency with the images of annexes to the law, if such derogations are agreed with the State Heraldic Commission. The Commission has concluded that it has already been established in advance that the derogations are being harmonised with the National Heraldic Commission and that it is only logical that the Commission should: - in the proposal of the Legal Office, there will be no infringement. The proposal has been supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-30-PT13-540-U262	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-30-PT13-540-U263	6. - a proposal from the Legal Bureau providing for the exclusion of the words "the second sentence of the second paragraph of Article 10" from point 9 of the transitional provisions. This sentence was previously excluded by Members in proposal 4, which is why it is also excluded from the transitional provisions. Proposal No 6 has been approved by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-30-PT13-540-U264	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-30-PT13-540-U265	On behalf of the Commission, please support the draft law at third, final, reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-30-PT13-540-U266	Please call me! We will vote in favour of the draft law “Amendments to the Law “On the State of Latvia”” in the third, final reading! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 84, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The law is passed. Draft law “Amendments to Vidzeme, Latgale, Kurzeme and Zemgale Landings Law”, third reading. On behalf of the Legal Commission, Mr Ritvars Jansons.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-30-PT13-540-U267	For the third reading, the Legal Commission has examined the draft law “Amendments to Vidzeme, Latgale, Kurzeme and Zemgale German Law”. No proposals were received. On behalf of the Commission, please support the adoption of the draft law at third, final, reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-30-PT13-540-U268	Please call me! We will vote for the draft law “Amendments to Vidzeme, Latgale, Kurzeme and Zemgale German Law” in the third, final reading! Please vote mode! Please get the result! Not by - 82, not by - and refrains. The law is passed. On the agenda - draft law “Amendments to the law “On the Latvian National Anthem”, third reading. On behalf of the Legal Commission, Member Jānis Iesalnieks.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-30-PT13-540-U269	No proposals were received for the third reading of the draft law. On behalf of the Commission, please support the draft law at third reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-30-PT13-540-U270	Please call me! We will vote for the draft law “Amendments to the law “On the Latvian National Anthem”” in the third, final reading! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 84, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The law is passed. On the agenda - draft law “Amendments to the Law on Value Added Tax”, third reading. On behalf of the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission, Member Janina Jalinska.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-30-PT13-540-U271	Hello, dear colleagues! The Budget and Finance (Tax) Commission has examined and prepared for the third reading the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Value Added Tax”. The Commission has received 10 proposals. These are mainly the following: transactions using vouchers, tax-free services provided by an independent group of persons, special tax treatment for black and non-ferrous metals... delivery of semi-finished products. They also address other issues. 1. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-30-PT13-540-U272	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-30-PT13-540-U273	2. is a proposal submitted by Prime Minister Arturs Krišjānis Kariņš in place of the Minister of Finance. The proposal is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-30-PT13-540-U274	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-30-PT13-540-U275	3. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-30-PT13-540-U276	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-30-PT13-540-U277	4. is a proposal submitted by Prime Minister Arturs Krišjānis Kariņš in place of the Minister of Finance. The proposal is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-30-PT13-540-U278	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-30-PT13-540-U279	5. There is a proposal from Prime Minister Arturs Krišjānis Kariņš to replace the Minister of Finance. The proposal is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-30-PT13-540-U280	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-30-PT13-540-U281	6. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-30-PT13-540-U282	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-30-PT13-540-U283	7. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Supported by proposal 9.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-30-PT13-540-U284	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-30-PT13-540-U285	8 / 8 - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Supported by proposal 9.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-30-PT13-540-U286	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-30-PT13-540-U287	9. There is a proposal from Prime Minister Arturs Krišjānis Kariņš to replace the Minister of Finance. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-30-PT13-540-U288	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-30-PT13-540-U289	And 10. It is also a proposal submitted by Prime Minister Arturs Krišjānis Kariņš in place of the Minister of Finance. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-30-PT13-540-U290	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-30-PT13-540-U291	I call for support to be given to the draft law at third, final, reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-30-PT13-540-U292	Please call me! We will vote in favour of the draft law on "Amendments to the Law on Value Added Tax" in the third, final, final reading! Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about - 86, it's against and refrains from - it's not. The law is passed. Draft law “Amendments to the Law on Taxes and Fees”, third reading. Member of the Commission for Budget and Finance (Tax) Mārtiņš Steins.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-30-PT13-540-U293	Hello, honourable Speaker of the Saeima! Colleagues! In the Budget and Finance (Tax) Commission we have examined the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Taxes and Fees” and we have prepared it for third reading. Nine proposals have been received. Most of them are technical proposals. 1. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-30-PT13-540-U294	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-30-PT13-540-U295	2. - the proposal of Minister of Finance Reira, which provides for a delegation to the Cabinet of Ministers to lay down detailed requirements for the electronic time accounting system for the production, storage and issuance of audit records. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-30-PT13-540-U296	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-30-PT13-540-U297	3. - the proposal by Minister of Finance Reira, which provides for a change in the title of the article. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-30-PT13-540-U298	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-30-PT13-540-U299	4. - a proposal of a technical nature by Minister of Finance Reira. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-30-PT13-540-U300	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-30-PT13-540-U301	5. - The proposal by Miezaiņš, Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Economics. Supported, included 9. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-30-PT13-540-U302	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-30-PT13-540-U303	Proposal 6 also includes 9. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-30-PT13-540-U304	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-30-PT13-540-U305	7. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Supported, included 9. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-30-PT13-540-U306	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-30-PT13-540-U307	8 / 8 - the proposal of Finance Minister Reira. Supported, included 9. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-30-PT13-540-U308	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-30-PT13-540-U309	9. - Commission proposal. These are transitional provisions for the entry into force of the law provision. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-30-PT13-540-U310	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-30-PT13-540-U311	I call for the third, final, reading draft law to be voted on.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-30-PT13-540-U312	Please call me! We will vote for the draft law “Amendments to the Law “On Taxes and Fees” in the third, final, reading! Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about - 83, it's against and refrains from - it's not. The law is passed. Draft law ‘Amendments to the Law on the National Armed Forces’, third reading. On behalf of the Commission on Defence, Home Affairs and Anti-Corruption - Member Raimonds Bergmanis.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-30-PT13-540-U313	Hello, dear colleagues! On 22 May this year, the Commission for Defence, Home Affairs and the Prevention of Corruption examined the draft law “Amendments to the Law on the National Armed Forces” for the third reading. Two proposals were submitted. 1 is the proposal of Mārtiņš Staķis, Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Defence, which is based on the fact that, as of 1 January 2019, the Security Police has a new name - the State Security Service, therefore it is necessary to clarify the text of the Law on the National Armed Forces to reflect the current name. This proposal was supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-30-PT13-540-U314	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-30-PT13-540-U315	2. There is also a proposal by Mārtiņš Staķis, Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Defence, which is in part similar to the previous one and linked to the change of name. In the past there was the Jaunsardze and Information Centre, now the Jaunsardze Centre, and in order to be able to amend the law, this proposal was supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-30-PT13-540-U316	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-30-PT13-540-U317	Request to support the draft law at third, final, reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-30-PT13-540-U318	Please call me! We will vote in favour of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on the National Armed Forces” in the third, final reading! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 87, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The law is passed. Draft law ‘Amendments to the Education Act’, third reading. On behalf of the Commission for Education, Culture and Science - Member Anita Muižniece.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-30-PT13-540-U319	Hello, honourable Speaker of the Saeima! Dear colleagues, In the Commission for Education, Culture and Science we have worked on the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Education” (No. 121/Lp13) related to the implementation of the codification of administrative offences and related changes in the Education Law. We received six proposals for the third reading. 1. is the proposal of the Legal Office, which has been partly supported and included in the proposal 2. - the Commission's proposal. ( Internouncing call.)
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-30-PT13-540-U320	Let us start a debate. Name to Member Edgar Kucin.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-30-PT13-540-U321	Hello, colleagues! The proposed amendments to the Education Law impose new duties on heads of educational institutions. Colleagues, do you really think that at a time when there is chaos in the education system, educators are at risk of strike, the municipalities desperately seek solutions to arrange educational institutions, the public expects this decision from us? I don't think so. In this situation, acting on the part of the public seems to be a simulation of active activity. Perhaps one of you will be surprised that the school leaders mentioned in the amendments have been carrying out their duties for many years. When recruiting educators, they shall be checked that they have not been punished for committing an intentional criminal offence, or that they have no restricted capacity or deprived of the right of custody. It is also checked whether they have a document issued in accordance with the procedure established by the Cabinet of Ministers, certifying the state language skills at the highest level. All this is already being done, because it is governed by law. What do the drafters and supporters of the amendments to the law to be discussed really want? There is a constant need to hear that there is a shortage of teachers in schools, that young people do not choose a teaching profession and do not want to work in schools. The average age of educators is increasing. These are the problems that the public expects of Members to solve. But you're here just an empty straw-smooth! In my opinion, it is high time that we fulfilled our promises and took serious action to bring the education system into line, giving clear and unambiguous answers to teachers, heads of educational institutions, how they will live and work in the future. Colleagues, I call on you not to support proposals 1, 2 and 3. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-30-PT13-540-U322	Name to Member Nikolai Cabanov.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-30-PT13-540-U323	Madam President, Dear Members, It coincides that amendments to the Law on Education are discussed at final reading on the days when the school year ends and the last calls are being made at Latvian schools. Thousands of high school graduates think about joining higher education institutions. Perhaps many of them are prepared to choose a teaching profession. But there are many obstacles for those who want to become educators. Because of their large and excess paper work, they sometimes fail to develop and grow professionally as individuals corresponding to the teacher’s high name. In today’s society, people of these specialities are sometimes subjected to psychological tests on the part of students in their work. The learners sometimes come from a limited family, from an uneven social environment, they are involved in different types of subcultures. Traditional respect for the elderly is undermined. Two weeks ago, two students in Tukums were found to be drunk (the head of the sitting knocked with a hammer.) , but six more were taken to the test because they were suspected of having used drugs. I told you only because you have to understand that Latvian teachers from the state need to be supported, not make unnecessary additional checks. The Latvian Education and Science Workers' Union recently announced that there are no at least 500 teachers in Latvia. ‘ A possible mission is to recruit young professionals, but only students who teach pupils four days a week, but two days learn themselves, acquiring a teacher’s qualification. Teachers are also not satisfied with pay. The nearest step in raising teachers' pay is 1 September of this year – the minimum salary at the rate will be only 40 euros and will reach 750 euros on paper. Please, my fellow Members, do you agree with this: to work full time on paper for EUR 750? Educators are at risk of strike if there is no bonus. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A. Muižniece: “What is the connection between the premium and the proposal?” ) The disproportionate requirements of this draft law have already led to a negative reaction from the educational community and parents. ( Interface: “There is no proposal! ” ) If we look at teachers as a group of potential offenders, then let us be self - critical and start with ourselves! My proposal is not to support this proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-30-PT13-540-U324	The name of Member Iveta Benhen-Beeken.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-30-PT13-540-U325	I am very happy with courageous and intelligent people who can understand the nature of the matter. However, in this case... these proposals mean that, for the sake of our children, the teacher or director will make sure that the teacher is not punished, and this is the primary meaning of these proposals. So tell me how incoherent... how teachers are tortured, what is the additional administrative burden... First of all, it is really the teachers and school directors who do. It is laid down in the Labour Act and must be verified. Because - which may be more important than our children and their safety, that schools do not work on pedophiles, but really qualified teachers who take care of our children, rather than trying to do things that... I can't even and I don't want to imagine. I would therefore ask you to look into the proposals and talk about their substance. Thank you. (Applause)
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-30-PT13-540-U326	Name to Member Raiv Dzintar.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-30-PT13-540-U327	Dear Chairman of the Saeima. Dear colleagues, I feel a little embarrassed because some of the speakers are talking about everything, but not the substance of the matter, as the previous speaker rightly pointed out. The nature of the matter is quite different. If anyone is talking about increasing bureaucracy and burdening school leaders... In fact, in the Commission, these arguments were considered and the representatives of the Ministry were also asked to work on the system, so that school leaders should not regularly check and ask for information about each teacher, which would really be burdensome, but only if there is any non-compliance with these statutory requirements; so that school leaders would receive information in an automated way, as if one of the Members had been administratively punished - then the Saeima receives information about it and not every month turn to such a knowledge. So it's meant. In this case, of course, the request for a vote is in line with the committee's decision. I recall that proposal 1 has been partly supported and included in the next proposal. I call for further proposals to be supported - as in the Commission. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-30-PT13-540-U328	I closed the debate. In the name of the commission, what is to be explained?
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-30-PT13-540-U329	On behalf of the Commission, I would also like to say that the debater, Mr Kucin, has probably not added any words... and it would be very good to discuss further concerns within the Commission. But thank you Mr Dzintara, who explained what we have been talking about. There will be no need to complement this. And I call this... if there is a vote, then do not support it, because this proposal is included in 2. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-30-PT13-540-U330	The vote was requested. Please call me! We will vote in favour of 1. - The legal office's proposal! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For -1, for -68, for -21. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-30-PT13-540-U331	2. - the proposal of the Commission for Education, Culture and Science, which partly incorporates proposal 1. 2. The proposal delegates to the Cabinet of Ministers the procedure for the head of an educational institution to verify whether a person working in a school is not subject to restrictions on taking up this post. ( Insight, ‘ Vote! ’)
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-30-PT13-540-U332	The vote on this proposal was requested. Please call me! We will vote in favour of 2. - The proposal submitted by the Commission for Education, Culture and Science! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For -69, against -no, abstain -19. The proposal is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-30-PT13-540-U333	3. is a proposal from the Legal Office. Clarifying - simply supplements the procedure established by the Cabinet of Ministers in which the head of the institution ascertains whether there are restrictions on a person to work as a teacher. Appendix to the sentence. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-30-PT13-540-U334	But the vote was also requested. Please call me! We will vote in favour of 3. - The legal office's proposal! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 74, for - 15, for - 1. The proposal is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-30-PT13-540-U335	4 and 5 are of a technical nature. 4. is a proposal drawn up by the Legal Office to clarify the title of the chapter in question. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-30-PT13-540-U336	Members want to vote. Please call me! Let us vote in favour of 4. - The legal office's proposal! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 72, for - 1, for - 16. The proposal is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-30-PT13-540-U337	Five more. - The proposal by the Legal Office - is about clarifying the name. The Commission was supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-30-PT13-540-U338	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-30-PT13-540-U339	And finally 6. - a proposal by the Commission for Education, Culture and Science which determines the competence of the institutions to initiate administrative proceedings and to hear the case. The Commission was supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-30-PT13-540-U340	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-30-PT13-540-U341	Consequently, all six proposals have been examined. I call on Members to support the draft law at third, final, reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-30-PT13-540-U342	Please call me! We will vote in favour of the draft law “Amendments to the Education Act” in the third, final, reading! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The law is passed. Dear colleagues, Members Pavļuts, Zakaistovs, Adamovičs, Strike and Dzintars ask for a break by 9 a.m. on June 6, 2019. Do Members have objections? ( Internouncing call.) There is no objection. Until June 6th... Well, right, until June 6! Dear colleagues, So we have decided a break. I must inform you about the answers to Members' questions scheduled today. Member of the Minister for Welfare Ramonas Petravičs, Minister for Improvements in the Payment and Reporting of Assistant Service, Reizniece-Ozola, Augulis, Čakša, Kučinska and Dūklavs. The written responses received are not satisfactory, but they do not want to ask further oral questions. Member of the Minister of Justice of Reizniece-Ozola, Krauze, Valaiņa, Augulis, Kučinska, Čakšas and Dūklavs Janis Bordans “On political responsibility of the Minister of Justice for ignoring the will of more than 52 000 citizens”. The written replies received are not satisfactory, but Members do not wish to ask oral supplementary questions. On the question of Member Reizniece-Ozola, Krauze, Dauges, Vucana, Kučinska, Bergmanis and Yalinska, Prime Minister Arturs Krišjānis Kariņš, “Minister of Responsibility for the Improvement of Voluntary Labour Law”. The question was referred to the Minister for Welfare. The written responses received are not satisfactory, but they do not want to ask further oral questions. Member of the Minister of Environmental Protection and Regional Development of Reizniece-Ozola, Bergmanis, Kauges, Vucans, Kučinska and Jalinska “On the solution to the problem in order to reduce the “tyre mountains” in Latvia”. The written responses received are not satisfactory, but they do not want to ask further oral questions. So today's answers to Members' questions will not happen. Please call me! Please check-in mode for Members! Time for notifications. Name to Member Ilmar Duritis.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-30-PT13-540-U343	Highly respected colleagues! Today at 12.30, so right after the Saeima meeting, I invite the members of the Sub-Commission on Higher Education, Science and Innovation to the meeting in the Committee on Education, Culture and Science at Jēkaba Street 16. So, now!
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-30-PT13-540-U344	Name of the Saeima Secretary Maria Golubeva. The results of the registration.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-30-PT13-540-U345	Not registered: Uldis Augulis, Sergejs Dolgopolovs, Ainars Latkovskis, Vitalijs Orlovs and Inese Voika.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-05-30-PT13-540-U346	Thank you. Interruption until 6 June at 9 a.m.
