ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-18-PT13-2020-U1	Good morning, dear present! We launched the official sitting of the Saeima of 18 November 2019 dedicated to the 101st anniversary of the announcement of the Republic of Latvia.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-18-PT13-2020-U2	Name to the Speaker of the Saeima Ināra Mūrniece for the holiday speech.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-18-PT13-2020-U3	Mr. President-in-Office of the Republic. Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council of Ministers. Dear Members of the Saeima! Ministers! Excellency! Dear people! A hundred years ago, on November 18, during Bermontiad, the dramatic poem “Daugava” of Rainis appeared on the Latvian National Theatre scene for the first time. The book was published in September, and “Daugava” was handed to soldiers both in the front and in the back of the rest. They drew inspiration and strength into it. Some commanders have said that Raina “Daugava” weighed the fighting force of a whole crowd. ‘ We want our Latvian soul! We want our Latvian tongue! We want our own Latvian land! We want freedom! In freedom we want our lives! And we'll get it!” “Daugava” is one of the most striking poetic works, in which the Latvian nation’s goal is expressed – the state of Latvia. This goal inspired the War of Independence, and it always inspired us. The importance of Latvians in their newly established country was truly seen by the world in the struggles of Freedom, when they fought against the Red Army and the nobles, the Russian and German troops. The battle was fought by the Latvian army, which was founded in the middle of 1919. Students, pupils, urban residents and farmers applied for mobilisation. Latvians were caused by an unprecedented wave of patriotism. Everyone got up to protect Latvia! The victory won in the War of Independence strengthened the state of Latvia and demonstrated the power of the nation. In the war of independence, the soul of our people collapsed. People grew up with their country, and in the heart they knew the most important thing – Latvia is the most important. Just on November 11, on Lāčplēsis Day, we crossed the Daugava together, symbolically leaving the road that the soldiers had gone a hundred years ago. The release of Riga is a bright, heroic episode of Latvian military history, which is now also mastered by the Cadet of the National Defence Academy. But none of those who founded our country, defended it against the invaders, and gave it life, could imagine the future of history. Nobody could know that 22 years later, a European, prosperous country would be occupied. That's gonna have to fight again. That we will lose our freedom for 50 years, and there will be an inhuman and absurd Soviet occupation regime in Latvia. Until the end of the hunger for freedom, it broke and the people restored their country. Today, however, we know clearly that those who fought a hundred years ago would not have changed their choice. Today, too, we cannot know what will happen in a hundred years. But our soul knows that Latvia needs to be. You have to be the state of Latvia, the Latvian language and free your life. What the Latvian soul wants will remain and will remain – Latvia will remain. Ladies and gentlemen! We do not know what will happen in a hundred years' time, but think about who will inspire us and who will hold us in the future. The prerequisite for the existence of the Latvian people is a free, independent state. The statehood is what will keep Latvia. And we as a nation can only grow up with our country. That is why, after regaining independence, we clearly highlighted our geopolitical interests and the direction towards the European Union and NATO. Close integration of Latvia into NATO, the European Union, the OECD and other international organisations requires and brings great benefits. Participation in NATO is particularly important. This year, 15 years have passed since joining this political and military alliance, and this is one of our greatest foreign policy achievements since the restoration of independence. They are collective safeguards and a major contribution to strengthening defence capabilities. The expanded presence of NATO allies on Latvia's land increases our sense of security. NATO is an alliance that is not attacking anyone, but that is capable of protecting itself. This is fully in line with our mentality. And we must support in every way the unity and strong transatlantic link of this organisation. We thank the governments and the armed forces of Canada and Albania, the Czech Republic and Italy, Poland, Montenegro, Slovakia, Slovenia and Spain for their solidarity in strengthening security in our Baltic region. We value our strategic partnership with the United States, which is and will be our priority. However, we are at the heart of national defence. We have significantly strengthened and developed the combat capabilities of the National Armed Forces. The people trust our soldiers and the guards. They have gained respect and recognition in their own homes and have received praises from international partners. Our accession and integration into the European Union is important. It is precisely membership of the European Union that has allowed for a successful change of economic vector and a breakthrough in the country's development. EU membership protects us, enriches our country and helps us to be where we naturally belong – in the area of Western culture and democratic values. We value this very much and that is why we strongly stand up for Ukraine's sovereignty and territorial unity. We support its political and economic integration in the European Union. We do not have and will not accept the illegal annexation of Crimea by Russia, and Latvia has recognised the deportation of Crimean Tatars as a genocide. The Baltic States, on the other hand, help the European Union to increase its dynamism and to show that the "small is the new big one". We are like a living example of the fact that a little cinnamon can devastate a great deal of rain. With excellence in culture, sport, science, innovation. With your growth. In these years, our country has grown very much. And we've grown up with it. Ladies and gentlemen! What is the future – here in Latvia, Europe and elsewhere? The world is on the verge of a significant change. It was not so long ago that globalisation and its impact were often called upon. Now we are talking about the era of post-globalization. The name for this new age, which is approaching quite quickly, is still being sought, but most often it is called a multipolar world where three large regions are likely to dominate: America, the European Union and Asia and China. Each of these regions can take a different approach to politics, the economy, understanding freedom. Everyone can determine military doctrine differently, develop technology and public opinion. Medium-sized countries will also find their place. At the same time, economic analysts believe that new types of Hanseatic alliances may emerge in the future, with small, developed countries such as the Nordic and the Baltic countries. That is why seeking Nordic standards is right and far-sighted, and that is a feasible task. Unless we clearly formulate our own tasks and persevere in doing them. If we want to grow and develop, if we want to increase the welfare of society, we need to be able to see our best prospects. Dear people! The other thing that will hold us is language. One of the main foundations of Latvian self-determination is national culture and Latvian language. Says he who rules the language has his mind. The language is the one that governs a person’s thinking. In Latvia, the Latvian language is the language of all public communication – the state language. In our attitude to the use of language, we are still late in the past – with the influence of Russian. At the same time, we live with an increasing influence of English, and it is dominant on the global web. There are concerns about the everyday use of Latvian language and its future development prospects. Latvian language teachers are still lacking in minority schools. The media that are forced to compete for the speed of information creates a perverse language of news. Speakers begin to worry about the risk of losing Latvian as a language of science. These are serious signals! Good solutions must be found to ensure language development. We have already stated that our education system will move to the Latvian language of instruction at all levels. Quality education in the national language, from kindergarten to university, must be ensured. Strengthening the national language must continue. Experts are convinced that future opportunities will be for those languages whose development will be supported by new technologies. Work on artificial intelligence technologies that can support the survival of different languages in the digital age continues. This work involves talented scientists and information technology experts. At the time of the announcement of the state of Latvia, the Latvian language situation was much more difficult. At that time, political and public actors, although education was mostly obtained in Russian or German, devoted their work and life to giving Latvians freedom to live in their own country and speak their language. For Latvian to live in every field of life. We have to do the same. The Latvian language must show it the right place and honor. Let's talk in Latvian! The third thing is our soul. Should we talk about “the soul of Latvians”, Latvians, Latvians today as we look forward to the future? Are those words that should be avoided today? We are building a country together. Regardless of nationality. It is important that we all share common values. Therefore, on the national birthday we thank everyone who has invested his work in Latvia – to make it richer, fairer and stronger. Thank you to every citizen of Latvia who loves and strengthens Latvia. Who is ready to grow together with Latvia. In a discussion about Latvianism this year, a significant recognition was made: the state policy, which was deliberately developed before the war in Latvia, contributed to the nation's self-esteem. Mostly through education, culture, but also economically. Especially in the countryside or, as we would say today, in the regions. And all this produced fruit – the generation that lived before the war in Latvia had a strong self-pleasure and deep patriotism. This proved decisive in the future. It was national and national consciousness that allowed to survive the occupation of half-century Soviets here in Latvia. It helped to keep Latvians alive neither here nor in exile. It also provided an opportunity for Latvia to maintain its international legal status, which was crucial for restoring independence and building on the country's continuity doctrine. National identity, self-determination, self-pleasure makes every nation stronger. And it makes a stronger country in which all of us, Latvian patriots of different nationalities, live. During its existence, Latvia has always been based on the principles of human dignity and freedom, protected and respected by every minority. So it was pre-war in Latvia, so it is today. Honourable Members! Seven political parties have been elected to this Saeima. Parliamentary composition has changed significantly. Practical policies have become more fragmented, including emotional ones. This is of little concern, or even after long discussions we are always able to make qualitative and professional decisions. The debate on a draft law is often overshadowed by the speeches of who has submitted the draft, who benefits from it and who does not, precisely which party, industry or group of society obtains from it or loses it. What, though, does the state benefit? It's not air jogging that's important. We need professional action to create quality legislation. So that the legislative process is not over-politicised and subjectised. Consideration should perhaps be given to increasing the involvement of qualified experts in the development of legal standards. In the medium and longer term, our country has three main challenges – significantly improving the demographic situation, creating effective governance and an efficient economy, and creating products or services that can be sold successfully elsewhere in the world. Demography is the eternal task of every small country. It is through demographic and popular health that we must also plan reforms in the healthcare sector, address the issue of medical pay and ensure the provision of services. Care for doctors is a concern for society as a whole. I think we are on the right track to make governance and economic governance more effective. This is being pursued through an administrative territorial reform, which still needs to find the best possible implementation model and more support for society, but in general it is precisely such as more accessible services and the promotion of economic activities in all regions of the country. Innovation, a better scientific synonym with production, the creation of products with high added value – this is still an under-utilised source of public income. Have we really done our utmost to achieve a real breakthrough? Probably not yet. We underestimated the importance of agriculture in the development of our economy and the search for a niche market. Latvia has great potential for the future in organic production, especially at a time when the demand for natural and ecological food is growing in the world. Colleagues! Our common duty is to strengthen our country. Every Saeima, every government must remember that its main goal is the sustainability of Latvia's state. It's written in our Constitution. And that's our lead. Honourable countrymen! The restored Latvian state has gone a very important development path over the last 30 years. At this time, the awareness that our statehood is important to us, that we value our land, that only there can develop Latvian language and culture. This is exactly what has been the case when making the most decisive political decisions. To a large extent, we have restored the good that was lost or delayed during the Soviet occupation. We have bundled many broken and expensive threads that link us with the beginnings of our country and the pre-war stage. As we wait and spend the centenary of our country, we have very good national self-esteem. We have acquired a new generation, which was born after the restoration of Latvia's independence – they are open, bright, patriotic and knowledgeable young people. Young specialists with excellent education, foreign experience and willingness to work have entered the public administration. 30 years ago, we could not imagine how we would live today. Today, on the threshold of the second centenary of Latvia, we are already aware that the future will bring much unknown changes. But we are very sure about some things – our land, our people, our values that we will always protect. We have today what we own. And tomorrow, which is the task of all of us. What we always have is our roots on which to build. Our will is that the soul should always remain here – in Latvia. The life of the sun for Latvia! God bless, Latvia! (Applause) ( The national anthem of Latvia is being played.)
ParlaMint-LV_2019-11-18-PT13-2020-U4	The official sitting of the Saeima of 18 November 2019 dedicated to the 101st anniversary of the announcement of the Republic of Latvia shall be declared closed. I invite you to celebrate the celebration together! Voting
