ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-21-PT13-520-U1	Good morning, dear colleagues! Please take your seats! Dear colleagues, please have a seat. Let us begin the sitting of the Saeima on 21 February 2019. First of all, we will consider the amendments tabled to the agenda of the sitting approved by the Saeima Bureau. The Foreign Affairs Commission requests that amendments be made to the agenda of the Saeima meeting on 21 February this year and that the draft law on the application of the legal framework following the withdrawal of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland from the European Union and the draft alternative law on legal cooperation and the protection of the rights of individuals during the transitional period following the withdrawal of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland from the European Union at first reading be included. Are Members opposed to this amendment of the agenda? ( Interface: “No! ”) ) There are no objections. The order of business has been amended. We are starting to look at the amended agenda. Let us consider reports from the Saeima Bureau on draft laws submitted. The Saeima Presidium proposes that the draft law presented by the Cabinet of Ministers “Amendment to the Law on the Conduct of Service of the Institutions of the Ministry of the Interior System and Officers of Prisons Administration with Special Degrees of Service” be referred to the Commission for Defence, Home Affairs and Prevention of Corruption, stating that it is the committee responsible. Do Members have objections? There is no objection. Draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Saeima Presidium proposes that the draft law “Amendments to the Law of the National Armed Forces” presented by the Cabinet of Ministers be referred to the Commission for Defence, Home Affairs and Prevention of Corruption, stating that it is the committee responsible. Do Members have objections? There is no objection. Draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The next item is the report by the Saeima Bureau on the own-initiative proposal submitted. Members of the Saeima Aldis Gobzems, Didzis Šmits, Uldis Augulis, Linda Liepiņa, Karina Sprūde and others submitted their own proposal – draft decision on the reduction of the current number of ministries and consolidation of government functions. Do Members object to the inclusion of this own-initiative proposal on the agenda of today's sitting? Members have reservations. We must therefore decide on the inclusion of an own-initiative proposal on the agenda of the next sitting. Please... Aldis Gobzems, who has applied for this. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-21-PT13-520-U2	Good morning, people's servants! Yesterday the Prime Minister of the Republic of Latvia Krišjānis Kariņš publicly announced that there were too few taxpayers in Latvia to maintain the health care system. Unfortunately, Krišjānis Kariņš did not say that we have too much state apparatus and too few taxpayers who could support this state apparatus. Continuing with what I have already said on this issue last week, I would still like to turn to those parties whose pre-elections in the spirit of promises were promised a reduction in the number of ministers, a reduction in the number of ministries and a 30% reduction in the state apparatus. The party “KPV LV” and the BIP, you have forgotten your promises. Today we are only talking about conceptual discussion of this issue, not about reducing the specific number of ministers and ministries. Even today, you are not ready to discuss this matter for one reason, and that is a very simple reason: you are afraid of your posts. What I want to say, in particular with regard to my former party - why are you afraid? Why do you fear these posts if you also have a golden voice in the government? Try to be brave once. Before the elections, you promised to take radical action. You have promised to do something that you should not be afraid of losing positions. You promised to act on behalf of the idea, on behalf of the people. Where is this action? Is your presence in ministerial posts or as parliamentary secretaries, or your positions under the leadership of parliamentary committees... Is this the main emphasis on how to forget the promises made to voters? Does the EBP, which promised not only 3 × 500 but also 30 per cent cuts in public administration before the elections, think that all voters are completely dull that they do not see it, that they do not understand it? Reducing the number of ministries and the public sector is essential for our society because our taxpayers are not only unable to maintain the health system, but... above all, the health system cannot be maintained precisely because we have an enlarged public sector. That is why this issue is crucial. You will say that this is not a constructive proposal. Today I call on you to put this issue on the agenda of the next Saeima sitting to discuss... Just to discuss how to deal with this issue by 2020. It is clear from these circumstances that you will reject it next Thursday as well. And given that you will reject it, it is quite clear that the new policy has failed. Given that the new policy has failed, it is quite clear that I must call on the public - that part of society that has an officer's mind and holds its promises - to unite in a new political organisation so that this new political organisation can fulfil those promises that neither the JIP nor the JPV LV can fulfil. I call on this matter to be put on the agenda of the next sitting of the Saeima and to remember what you promised the voters before the elections. Did you promise a new policy or that you would be subject to the Old Unity, fearing to lose your office? Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-21-PT13-520-U3	Please call me! We will vote for the inclusion of the draft decision “On the reduction of the existing number of ministries and consolidation of government functions” on the agenda of the next sitting of the Saeima! Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about - 34, it's against - 49, it's not. The draft decision is not on the agenda of the next sitting. Do Members have proposals to hand over this own-initiative proposal to one of the commissions? No proposals. Consequently, the own-initiative proposal has been rejected. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. V. Valainis: “National Administration... “) Is there a proposal? ( Interface: “Enable the Valainim microphone! ” ) Please, please, a microphone.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-21-PT13-520-U4	... Transfer this draft decision to the Commission of the State Administration and Local Government.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-21-PT13-520-U5	There is a proposal to refer the matter to the Commission of Public Administration and Local Government. Please call me! We will vote for handing over the independent proposal to the Commission of the State Administration and Local Government! Please get the result! It's not about - 34, it's against - 50, it's not. The own-initiative proposal has been rejected. The next item is the agenda. For unpaid leave granted to the Member, Dana Reizniece-Ozola, on 15 February this year. The Saeima Bureau informed that she had received a request from a Member, Dana Reizniece-Ozola, to grant her unpaid leave on 15 February of this year. The Bureau granted this leave and informed the Saeima about it. The next item is the agenda. For granting unpaid leave to Member Nikolai Cabanov on 28 February this year. The Saeima Bureau shall inform that it has received a request from a Member, Nikolaj Kabanov, to grant him unpaid leave on 28 February of this year. Please call me! We will be voting to give Member Nikolai Kabanov unpaid leave on 28 February this year! Please get the result! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. Decision adopted. The next item is the draft decision on the approval of Inese Bērzinz as a district (city) court judge. On behalf of the Legal Commission, Mr Valery Agešin, Member.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-21-PT13-520-U6	Good morning, dear colleagues! At the meeting of the Legal Commission on 13 February this year, the draft decision “On the approval of Inese Bērzins as a district (city) court judge” was examined. The members of the Commission unanimously supported the draft decision. On behalf of the Legal Commission, I call on Inese Berzins to confirm the judge of Riga city Latgale suburb court without any limitation of his term of office. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-21-PT13-520-U7	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote for the draft decision on the approval of Inese Bērzins as a district (city) court judge! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 81, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. Decision adopted. Thank you. Let us consider the next item on the agenda. Members Juta Striķe, Krišjānis Feldmans, Daniels Pavļuts, Rihards Kols, Ainars Latkovskis and others submitted a draft decision “On approval of the members of the Latvian delegation of the Baltic Assembly and the deputy head of the delegation”. Please call me! We will vote on the draft decision on the approval of the members of the Latvian delegation of the Baltic Assembly and the deputy head of the delegation! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 81, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. Decision adopted. Thank you. Let us consider the next item on the agenda. Members Jānis Vucāns, Juta Strīķe, Krišjānis Feldmans, Daniels Pavļuts, Rihards Kols and others submitted a draft decision “On the approval of Jānis Butāns as a member of the Latvian delegation for the Baltic Sea parliamentary conference”. Please call me! We will vote on the draft decision on the approval of Jānis Butāns as a member of the Latvian delegation of the Baltic Sea Parliamentary Conference! Please vote mode! Please get the result! Not by - 82, not by - and refrains. Decision adopted. Thank you. Consider the section on the agenda for the examination of Members' requests. On the agenda - request from Member Ulda Augulis, Gundars Dauges, Jānis Vacāns, Anda Čakša, Raimonds Bergmanis, Viktors Valaiņš and others to the Minister of Justice Janis Bordans, about the letter sent about foreign embassies, questioning the competence and independence of the Latvian judicial system. On behalf of the Commission - Member Linda Liepiņa. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-21-PT13-520-U8	Good morning, colleagues! On 13 February, the Panel examined the request made by Members Ulda Augulis, Gundars Dauges, Jānis Vucanas, Anda Čakšas, Raimonds Bergmanis, Viktors Valaiņa, Jānis Dūklavs, Armands Krauze, Janina Jalinska and Dana Reizniece-Ozola to the Minister of Justice Janis Bordans about the letter sent to foreign embassies, questioning the competence and independence of the Latvian judicial system. The Minister of Justice Jānis Bordāns and representatives of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs were invited to the meeting of the commission. Although the content of the letter and the specific addressees to which it was sent were not known at the time of the presentation of the information on the letter sent by Mr Bordans to foreign embassies, the content of the letter has now been available for some time. And although there are different versions of the specific date on which the letter was drawn up, and also of the form on which it was originally written - whether on the form of the New Conservative Party or on some other - it is quite clear that Mr Bordan has sent 30 foreign embassies to address the alarm. Mr Bordan's letter, as you know, has gained quite a lot of public resonance, including criticism. And it was important that during the meeting of the Commission, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs acknowledged that it did not see any problems in sending out such a letter and that the letter should be seen as the Chairman of the Board of the New Conservative Party Jānis Bordāns (Interface: “He was the Minister at that time!” ), not a letter from the Minister of Justice Mr. Janis Bordens. At the Commission's meeting, there was also an opinion on the various roles that we have - Mom, Dad, husband, wife, colleague, party leader or minister - and on the role of... the way we are perceived by society. And with regard to this particular case, Mr. Bordan apparently wanted him to be perceived as the leader of the party (Interface: "Dual of identity!" ), as he himself expressed during the commission meeting. However, the part of society apparently mistakenly perceived Mr. Bordan as a minister for justice. We will probably have to face a certain role in this Parliament more often, because it is also the role of cardboard Jurash, and it is also a kind of role that he has been given here. Returning to the committee's vote, three members voted in favour of the request and three voted against. The Commission acknowledged that the request made by Members was to be rejected and that there was no reason to accept it as a request by the Saeima. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-21-PT13-520-U9	Thank you. Let us start a debate. Name to Member Maris Kučinskis.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-21-PT13-520-U10	Dear Bureau! Dear Members, If I now declare that I'm here in the troupe, come to say my speech as a private person, Maris Kučinskis, not as a Member, then I think I'd see a number of smiles... and I can see it now. People can't double! That is what I said to Minister Bordan at the Commission of Petitions. It's not that one day you're party chairman, one day you're a man in your family, one day you're a private person. From the moment each of the ministers obtains a ministerial mandate, he is a minister. And so he is perceived both in Latvia and in society as a whole, not to mention how our allies, our friends and unfriendly people outside Latvia are looking at Latvia. If someone receives a letter calling into question the existing legal power and its competence and the allocation of functions... from Mr. Bordan... then it is also perceived as being complained of by Minister Bordan. I am very sorry that he does not keep his promise. Maybe... probably there is a reason, the ministry is very busy. Because he promised to be here today. That he will be and that he will tell everyone... It is extremely important why demand is here today in the hall. Because I hope that we... and I am also looking forward to your debate. I hope we're out here... that you will explain and say that it was not really meant by the Minister. It was not really about the Minister questioning everything he has to answer for now and what he has to do. Because this is very important. It is very important, not to mention, that both I and we remain convinced that it is a little impact from... to say so, to Latvia's reputation, once again telling... and telling the officer that there is nothing good. But there's another aspect that I'm really asking in the Commission... We didn't talk about it. If in one of the cases where Latvia is inevitably involved, it has been and will be involved in complaints, they will be used as arguments against the state of Latvia, then Minister Bordāns will answer, the state of Latvia in general, and it is not irresponsible... it is not a responsible act. We have no idea at any time of turning this request into a request for resignation to the Minister, because otherwise we will find out whether you are going to do it or what you have promised, how you bought the praise of the voters. Because for now, of course... time is very little... So far, there are only emotions, and we can call it shouting, but sometime there must also be works that we will be able to evaluate and analyse. Because the fact that the New Conservative Party, I understand, has carried out a very large reform and now it will be possible to drive without a right... or the Minister goes to Valmiera by train... it is such a short-term project. I wouldn't call these reforms. We're waiting for work. And what I'd like to do today, too... of course, by saying that we are not satisfied with the answers he gives. Because he said in his reply, everything's bad, I'm right, and here's the man of this cardboard. Okay, but we're not discussing it today. I'm waiting for your answer... and at least reaffirm... because Saeima’s stenograms are very, very important... that it was indeed not Minister Bordan who allowed such a precedent. And as I told him in the commission, Mr. Bordan, never do that again! Thank you. ( GREENS AND ZZS are alluding.)
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-21-PT13-520-U11	Member Linda Ozola.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-21-PT13-520-U12	Dear Bureau! Dear colleagues, I would like to start my speech with a few quotes from the latest publication “Latvian foreign and security policy. Yearbook 2019, which was published in January of this year and where the theme of the image of Latvia was dedicated to one of the articles entitled “Latvian public diplomacy: the best “self-image” for the next centenary”. So what do our academics say about image making? Three little quotations. ‘ ... if the praised image of the state, expressed by statemen and statemen, regularly contradicts what foreigners learn from the state’s citizens individually, Latvian partners can question trust in the state representatives, the link between the government and society, as well as internal unity and future stability of the state. ... to manage and care for the image of the State... its content must be strictly based on the public image.’ Second quote: ‘... all public authorities in different formats, both knowingly and unconsciously, produce the image of the State, which they must recall from time to time’. And the third quote: “The volume of foreign investment in 2018 has decreased compared to the previous one. Here, neither banking scandals nor tax policy reforms help the image of Latvia.” The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. R. Lochmele-Lunova’s intermediate call. These were quotes written by a representative of the academic community, not my texts. We believe that this is a crisis situation, and as one of the parties in power and therefore responsible, we also turn to our partners and inform them of the real situation. You are concerned that the New Conservative Party is doing so, but I can assure you that the leaders of the New Conservative Party on the forms of the New Conservative Party are informing and will continue to inform our partners about how we see the situation in our country, because we consider it to be our responsibility. We will not hide from the public the true situation of corruption in the country behind the beautiful words about independent law enforcement bodies, because only if we call it - on behalf of this problem - can we actually remedy the situation. While we don't name it, let's continue to vegan... And in this case, I believe that reservations about the image of Latvia are, to a certain extent, regrettable, because the fine exterior that we will take care of, but absolutely unsubstantiated inside - it will in no way help us to improve the image of Latvia. And here we... many of you are in contact with businessmen in Latvia and also with the Council of Foreign Investors in Latvia or other foreign trade chambers. You can ask them how they look at this situation in the country. Because our image will be mostly improved by the courage to arrange our homes. But, of course, you can do different things. Var (intermediately from the fraction: “3×500!” )... can do nothing. You can expect someone to tell you something from the outside that really needs to be done. And I have two excellent examples. One of them is the financial sector, for which the party whose Members signed this application has, as we know, been responsible for many years. We've heard for years that everything's okay, it's okay. Then, suddenly, we get the Moneyval report from the Council of Europe and it turns out that everything is so bad that one of the central tasks of the new government is to put the financial sector right in order to prevent money laundering. ( Internouncing call.) You can also do as it happens in Riga, of course. We all know the company “Riga traffic”, for which the party is responsible. You can tell the public how great this company is for years. But then KNAB comes from the outside and it turns out that the company's managers and the parties involved have reason to refrain from corruption. And then the State Audit Office comes and tells the public that the management of the company is completely irresponsible from a financial point of view. And today morning, for example, I read news that “DELNA” calls for the presentation of Ernst & Young’s report on “Riga’s traffic”, which is supported by taxpayers’ money (interfaces of Fraction’s SAS). , so also from the money you paid in taxes. Chairman of the temporary board of the company... Officer Anrijs Matīss admits that this report is very critical, and it is from the secret so that it is not available to the public. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. L. Schvelova’s intermediate call.) Colleagues! Both of these examples relate to ensuring and strengthening the rule of law. I have no doubt that this will be a priority for the Minister of Justice and also for the entire government. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. E. Papule: “Teachers' salaries are a priority!” ) I am sure that concrete steps in this direction will actually improve the image of Latvia not only in the eyes of our partners and other countries, but also primarily in the eyes of our own society. Because there is an objective that the message should be the same both when public officials are speaking and when individual citizens are speaking about our country. The academician also pointed out this in his article on the image of the Latvian state “Latvian foreign and security policy. Yearly 2019’. And finally, I'm just really on the Minister of Justice - this time the Minister of Justice! - John Bordan's words and recognition: the state image is destroyed if he tries to pretend better than he does, and then he doesn't really do anything. We'll do it! (Applause)
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-21-PT13-520-U13	Member Uldis Augulis.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-21-PT13-520-U14	Highly honored Presidium! Dear colleagues, What is the reality at the moment? The Minister of Justice of the Republic of Latvia has expressed his subjective and unsubstantiated opinion, informed foreign embassies that the Latvian judicial system is useless and does not work... and pursuit of human persecution on the grounds of their political views. It is interesting that Mr Bordan has been in the position of Minister of Justice for the second time, and in his first step he has not expressed such conclusions. Perhaps because there was no vital need to lobbying one's interests at that time. At present, the circumstances have obviously changed. But now, about the facts. According to point 4 of the Statute of the Ministry of Justice, ‘the functions of the Ministry are to develop, organise and coordinate policies in the following areas: the legal system, including national law, administrative law, civil law, commercial law, criminal law and religious law, as well as procedural law...’. In view of the above and the fact that Mr. Bordāns is fulfilling his duties as Minister of Justice, it is unacceptable that he is not trying to promote the development of the sector, but rather to influence the progress of criminal proceedings in favour of his party, devoting to the principles of fairness, equality and impartiality, explicitly ignoring existing laws and regulations, creating the impression that Latvia is not a reliable and secure partner for foreign representatives, thus undermining Latvia's image and rule of law in general. In a word, if the Minister of Justice believes that no law has been written to him and his party, why would the people respect them? Moreover, Mr Bordan is consciously continuing to forget his slogan of an uncompromising rule of law and is continuing to operate on the basis of half-truth. Mr Bordan has informed that he is prepared to present the text of the letter to any interested party. It should be noted that the text of the letter published in the mass media cannot be considered as a direct action by Mr. Bordāns with the aim of introducing the public, as well as to explain the motives of his actions and their impact on Latvia, which is in conflict with Section 10, fifth paragraph of the Law on State Administration, which states: “The State administration shall respect the principle of good governance in its activities. This includes disclosure to private individuals and to the public.’ The fact that Mr Bordan had already been asked to publish the text of the letter to the embassies on 30 January or, if that was not possible, to answer questions explaining the motives for his action and referring to the text of the letter sent is also an open doubt. Taking into account what Mr. Bordāns pointed out as a reference in his reply letter, the website Puaro.lv published the text of the letter on 05.02.2019, but it was not the blessing of Mr. Bordāns. Mr Bordan's statement of his readiness to present his letter to any interested party is considered to be inconsistent with his actions and actual situation. Taking into account that the actions of Mr. Bordans directly affect the part of society with contractual obligations, cooperation with the states and their residents, whose embassies he has sent a letter, it is considered that the actions of the Minister of Justice may result in losses for this group of persons, including the doubts expressed by him about the judicial system and activities of cognitive institutions, the situation may arise that foreign cooperation partners will not perceive Latvian citizens and companies as honest cooperation partners, as well as may raise concerns for investors about possibilities to protect their investments in Latvia. Thus, Mr Bordan’s actions are manifestly contrary to the interests of the State and society and to the seventh paragraph of Article 10 of the Law on State Administration, which states: ‘The State administration is obliged to inform the public of its activities. This shall apply, in particular, to the part of the company and to those individuals whose rights or legal interests are or may be affected by the action taken or planned.’ It follows from the above that Mr. Bordan has deliberately avoided his obligation to inform the public. Mr. Bordāns talked about corruption risks in a long and wide-ranging way in his reply, he referred to his research, although he did not inform foreign embassies about corruption risks in his letter, but talked about the initiation of a specific criminal case against his party member, further questioning the work of the law enforcement authorities and the Prosecutor General's Office of the Republic of Latvia. The letter contains only information relating to the impact of criminal proceedings on the status of a particular person, as well as efforts to influence the provision of such information... protect the interests of a particular person. This is contrary to the fourth paragraph of Article 10 of the Law on State Administration, which states that ‘[t]he public administration, an individual institution or an official shall not have any interest in the exercise of the functions of public administration’. In the present case, it is considered that the Minister of Justice has exercised its status in order to protect the interests of a particular individual and not of the State. In addition, according to the information available at the moment, there is no document that illegal acts concerning initiation of criminal proceedings against Juris Jušas were found in the activities of the law enforcement authorities or the Prosecutor General's Office, and no procedural violations were found. Nor has the violation of the human rights of Juris Jušaks, as well as the rights enshrined in the European Convention on Human Rights, been established. Court judgments in respect of Juri Jušas have not entered into force. It can therefore be concluded that the statements made in the letter to foreign embassies regarding the fact that a criminal case is unfounded should be classified as providing false information to foreign embassies. In addition, it should be assessed whether Mr. Bordan's letter contains an attempt to influence the functioning of the prosecutor's office. Article 1 of the Satversme provides: “Latvia is an independent democratic republic.” It follows from this Article a number of principles of the rule of law, including the principle of the separation of powers of the State. The purpose of the division of power is to preserve guarantees of personal freedom in order to prevent the replacement of a democratic, legal state model by an authoritarian regime or a one-person self-government. Consequently, the principle of separation of powers is based on ensuring that the political influence on the life of the State and society is shared and that the methods of exercising power are balanced. This principle is reflected in the division of state powers between the legislative, executive and judicial bodies exercised by independent and autonomous bodies. This guarantees balance and mutual control between them and promotes the moderateness of power. The recommendation “The role of the Public Prosecutor’s Office in the criminal justice system” adopted by the Committee of Ministers of the Council of Europe on 6 October 2000 allows for the creation in the country of a prosecutor’s office subordinate to the government and independent of the government. Paragraph 14 of this Recommendation states that those countries in which the public prosecutor's office is independent of the government must take effective measures to ensure that the independence of the public prosecutor's office and its degree is established by law. On the other hand, paragraph 13 lays down a series of requirements for ensuring the independence of prosecutors in cases where the prosecutor's office is subject to the government. In addition, it should be noted that ensuring the independence of the judiciary and the cognitive institutions, just as the right to a reasonable procedural term, is one of the fundamental principles of a democratic state. Article 3 of the Public Prosecutor’s Office Law provides: “The legal basis for the activities of the Prosecutor is the Constitution, this Law and other laws, as well as laws.” The first part of Section 6 of this Law, however, states: “The prosecutor in his activities is independent of the influence of other institutions or officials exercising state authority and administration and is subject only to the law.” The second part of this article provides: “The Saeima, the Cabinet of Ministers, state and municipal institutions, state and municipal officials, all types of enterprises and organisations as well as persons shall be prohibited from intervening in the work of the prosecutor’s office during investigation of cases or other functions of the prosecutor’s office.” The seventh paragraph of the same article states: “The attempt to influence the prosecutor illegally or to intervene in the activities of the public prosecutor’s office shall be made to render the person liable by law.” It should be noted here that the official press release... as reported by the party... The Minister of Justice Jānis Bordāns has sent a letter to the embassies of other countries to draw attention to the unfair use of legal instruments in order to influence the political situation in Latvia. In view of the above, as well as the fact that the letter to the foreign embassies contains only information on criminal proceedings, the General Prosecutor's Office and the law enforcement authorities, such conduct by Mr Bordans should be assessed from three points of view. The attempt, using its status, to influence the activities of the Prosecutor General's Office, call on other countries to intervene in the legal system of the Republic of Latvia, thus threatening the democracy and independence of the Republic of Latvia. In view of the fact that the legal basis for the activities of the prosecutor is also the Constitution of the Republic of Latvia, Mr. Bordan's letter to foreign embassies should be regarded as a public call to address the state independence, sovereignty, territorial unity, state power or state system of the Republic of Latvia... In the manner prescribed by the Constitution of the Republic of Latvia... and the distribution of such material containing the call... which is also actually provided for in Article 81 of the Criminal Law. Dear colleagues, As the Prime Minister has already said, there is no intention to call right now (Sir laughter.) to the depression, the aim is to understand that in the future such actions may have sufficiently great consequences for the country of Latvia, including the Latvian budget and Latvian taxpayers' money. Thank you. I call for support. (Applause)
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-21-PT13-520-U15	Member Edgar Kucin.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-21-PT13-520-U16	Good morning, colleagues! When reading the answers to the request from Mr. Bordan, it can be concluded that his main objective (I quote) is not to hide the real causes of the problems, waiting for them to happen by themselves, but to work quickly, convincingly and decisively to solve these problems in substance, and that justice issues are one of the most important problems of Latvia. Undoubtedly. It can also be concluded from the answer that Mr. Bordan is positioning himself with the main alarm. Undoubtedly, this is welcome. But the rule of law looks so one-sided when he looks at Mr. Bordan's actions. Why did Mr. Bordan not raise the alarm or report to the public, including foreign embassies, about the OIC area? Do you think that this is not a corruption that has been under the auspices of the Ministry of Economics for years? Isn't it a crime without victims? Doesn't it scare investors? Among other things, Mr. Bordana voted in favour of the decision, which pointed out that the Saeima called on the Ministry of Economics to respect the principles of the rule of law and to put an end to an unfair and individualised regime of support for the people of Latvia. He kept it down. What is it? One-sided justice? According to the reply, one of the tasks of the Minister of Justice is to ensure that the public is informed. But why was it decided to inform only a small part of the public - embassies? And not all, but only 30 out of 35. In what principle did Mr. Bordan sort the embassies? One-sided rule of law again. In his reply to Mr Bordan, I found one noteworthy sentence: "The duty of the Minister of Justice is to promote the development of public opinion and knowledge in accordance with the principles of a democratic state." Perhaps it is worth reminding some Members whether they should be introduced to the concept of democracy? Democracy is the form of public administration in which the people or their elected representatives exercise authority. In a democratic country, every citizen has the right to participate in the administration of his or her state, and this can be done by giving his or her vote in the elections. What kind of democracy is this when you ignore the rights of more than 30 per cent of voters when drawing up the government and signing the government declaration? And why don't you, young preservatives, report it to the embassies? I would now like to ask all the Members present a question. Was the vote here in the Saeima Chamber on the extradition of Jušas legal? Most of you will agree with me: yes, it was. Question two: What does it mean here, in the hall, to the portrait of Jurash? It's probably a protest. ( From the U.S.P.A.) Opposition against what? Against the fact that the majority of the Saeima acted legally by issuing Jurash? The opposition to the fact that Members of the Saeima voted legally in their vote? The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. L. Ozola: “This is your interpretation!” ) I understand that young preservatives have to be warned (Laughter). Substitution: ‘Conservatives!’ )... must insist on the opposition's view. But this time you also hit your coalition partners. So what exactly does Mr. Bordan hide under the beautiful word “justice”? And what is the true face of Mr. Bordan? Thank you, colleagues. (Applause)
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-21-PT13-520-U17	Member Alexander Kirstein. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-21-PT13-520-U18	Thank you. Dear President, Honourable Members! However, I call for this request to be rejected, because writing letters is an ancient and inalienable tradition for our people. (Laughter) In the past, Vidzeme Swedish... In Vidzeme, Manor Patkul wrote a letter to Peter I and complained about the terrible king of Sweden, who had ordered him to check documents of manor belonging to the manor. It happened, you know, very rapid reduction of manors, which led to the transfer of most of the manors owned by the Germans into state ownership. Patculus could not tolerate it, and he urged Peter I to free himself from such ailous circumstances. These traditions continued in the Republic of Latvia. You know, there was the USSR and Latvia... various cultural associations. And the progressive intelligence ran to the Russian Embassy, to various receptions in the 1930s, and also complained about the arbitrariness that some Latvian State leaders permitted. We know how it ended. In the late 1950s, too, during the FTA... Remember, there was such an interesting period when Jurmala was a territorial unit combined with Riga. The Chairman of the Council of Ministers had issued an order that Russian officers, or officers of the Soviet Armed Forces, should not be given summerhouses in Jurmala. The cottages were confiscated, owned by the state, and many wanted to rent them. In fact, the lease took place as a private property. And, as we know, Eduard Berklav protested most. Then the officers of the Baltic War Region wrote a letter to Hruschov and condemned it. Berclav... we know what it ended with, with cleaning... And these people were released... So, you see, all the letters have had some effect. ‘ New time’s tradition was once raised to unprecedented heights. The Minister of the Interior, Maris Gulbis, wrote a letter to the Roman pope about the fact that there is such a piglets in Latvia as Ainārs Šleser, which does not allow him to breathe or live. Sadly, though, the pope did not respond. But we know (Interior call.) that abroad everything is better. There are better banks, there are things going better in sport, politics, culture... We don't even know how to arrange like abroad... And that is why we should continue this tradition. Ushakov writes a letter to Putin... I checked that the letters had not yet been received by Dalai Lama, NATO Secretary-General, UN Secretary-General, TV show star Kim Kardašjana (Laughter) ... on pigs in the public media council... I therefore call for this request to be rejected and for this tradition to continue. Thank you for your attention. (Laughter) Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-21-PT13-520-U19	Member Aldis Gobzems. You cancel... Is that so? Member Juta Strike. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-21-PT13-520-U20	Mr Kučinska, before asking for explanations from the leadership of another party for legal, open and legal action, come here and tell us how you, as Prime Minister, used your service position, called on you to speak to the head of the KNAB, James Straumi, then in the interests of the party, told you what you learned from the interests of the Jekab Stream Party (Interface: “Ley!” ; “Nemelo!” ) and asked Askolads Kļavins not to be included in the party list because he will be searched. You used your Prime Minister's position in the interests of the party. ( The box “Lies! ”) ) Come and explain how this has contributed to KNAB’s investigation. How it helped the rule of law, how it helped KNAB’s work! ( Internouncing call.) Tell me everything, please. That is what the people really want to hear. Mr. Gobzem, you're here for me... come and tell me, please, you have already admitted to Delfi TV with Janis Domburs that at the time of the vote on Juris Jušas, you contacted Kalnmeier and asked for something. Come on, tell me how often you communicate with the Kalnmeier, how it contributes to openness! You have also said that you also called James Streams to ask for something or answer... Let us promote the rule of law and openness. Tell me! Provide explanations to the Members of the Saeima for all of their own (Intellect.) underground negotiations and influence attempts in one direction or another! The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. L. Švecova: “ Martinson will help you!” ) Come, tell me, write, explain. I mean, I mean, I mean, I mean, I mean, I Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-21-PT13-520-U21	Member Aldis Gobzems.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-21-PT13-520-U22	Alvis Hermanis said several years ago that “only preserved vegetables do not change”. Today, when my colleague used the words 'new Conservatives', I want to say that the New Conservative Party has preserved itself in old politics. Why do I say that? I say this for the reason that the New Conservative Party is completely indifferent to their promises to the voters, and absolutely no matter how the New Conservative Party... will judge their constituents, but they speak out loud about the uncompromising rule of law. The rule of law, which is uncompromising, must be said more. I really regret that there is no cardboard bordane in the Chamber today, or the whole UK group has not turned into cardboard dolls. (Applause) But it is important to say one thing: in no democratic, legal and developed country anywhere in the world - in Germany, in France or in America - the second highest political official of the Ministry of Justice is not a criminalised person for the disclosure of state secrets. It is not an uncompromising rule of law. That example you show to society does not conform to any of the highest ethical standards (Insight). In democracy. More! We have a Minister for Justice who, one month after the government's approval, has no admission to the country's secret. We have the alarm, who seems to report corruption, but it is very likely that he did not report corruption, but reported that his friends were not detained by this corruption, because where are those bribers? Where are the names - these bribers who have been detained? Because Juris Jušaks was a man with the right to arrest all bribers during his operating life, including those who offer bribes to him, but he did not do it somehow! And this is not about Jušas, it is about one of the state's senior officials - the Minister of Justice. When sending any documents and any letters to foreign embassies, the Minister of Justice should remember that this is also the foreign policy of Latvia. Was such action consistent with our foreign reserve? Was such a move consistent with our Prime Minister? No, it wasn't. And then we are surprised that our Minister of Justice, without permission to the state's secret, as known, and with the parliamentary secretary, who has been criminally persecuted for a serious criminal offence, states that there is an unlawful situation in Latvia! In these circumstances, we lose international court proceedings, because we give information to our opponents in public space, internationally, that there is an injustice in Latvia. ( Internouncing call.) The only one! - With whom our Justice Minister has boasted is that he has achievements in the area of insolvency. He's proud of Dzintaris Rasnačs' job duties, because... I don't remember that in the last month, the government would have accepted just one question... including, in the area of insolvency, where, as we know very well, last year, these 'achievements' were marked by the murder of 200 metres from the main police administration... ( Internouncing call.) This Saeima... This coalition, which defends the bordane of cardboard that is not present here, is not, in fact, a coalition of "uncompromising justice", but a coalition that sees its constituents as foolish. If we are talking about the rule of law, I have to go back to the ancient times when I went to the Anti-Corruption Office to report on corruption in my duties and as an sworn lawyer. I went with my clients. I did it, Jutta Strike! We met, but it turned out that these cases of corruption... They did not refer to your political opponents. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. J. Strike talks to the depot. A. Latkovski. Depp. R. Lochmele-Lunova: “Sure, listen to what you are told!” ) These cases of corruption that we went to you ( Dep. R. Lochmele-Lunova: “Juta!” ), has touched your political allies from Unity, from “New Time” and, of course, they have not been investigated. It is the “uncompromising justice” that I have experienced in my lawyer’s practice from Juta Strike! You, Juta Strike, tell me I've called Eric Kalnmeier. I have called not only him, but also the Head of Emergency Medical Service to find out about the problems in this service. I have called to Latvenergo and met with its management to deal with the abolition of the OIC. But are you... Is that so? You turn to foreign embassies, shameful of the Republic of Latvia and say that in the Republic of Latvia absolutely everyone except you... that everything is unlawful, but you are the same examples of the rule of law. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. Mr Strike: "What are you talking about again?" ) Did you turn to the Prime Minister or to foreign embassies, reporting that law firm Romualds Vonsovičs, who is not the adviser to the Minister of Justice, is currently free to attend the Ministry of Justice, as we know, but whose birthday member is Juris Jušaks? Is that the rule of law? Is this the new policy that you are talking about? The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. J. Strikķe: “What are you talking about with Kalnmeier? How often did you call him?” ) What I want to say is clear that this request will be rejected. But at the same time... People who are imploring the concept of the rule of law, without taking it into account, people who are imploring the concept of people's defenders, by transferring all their promises that have been made before the elections, are not those who will implement a new policy, are not those who will build a better Latvia, are not those who will build the rule of law, and are not those who will make our country rich and secure. Thank you. (Applause)
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-21-PT13-520-U23	Member Viktor Valainis. No, no? Member Boris Cilevič. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-21-PT13-520-U24	Dear colleagues, That's the strange feeling of listening to this discussion. Colleagues from the UK! You should, however, decide once again whether you are still fighting for seats in the Saeima, whether you are dealing with a pre-election campaign, or whether you are a coalition party, which takes full responsibility for all the decisions of the government. Because it's pretty weird. Here you are, on the one hand, a coalition, here you are a government, but here on the other, the minister comes home, removes one hat, puts another hat, and then he is a completely independent person, party leader and so on. You can't sit on two chairs forever! Because there's such a paron, either take a cross or put on your pants. And I think you should definitely make a difference. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-21-PT13-520-U25	Member Sandy Riekstins.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-21-PT13-520-U26	Hello, colleagues! We've all gone completely away from the subject. This request was - and I will try to explain slowly to those who do not yet understand - that the head of the organisation has written a letter on behalf of one organisation. And we don't have to manipulate the facts. This is not, first of all, a letter from the Minister of Justice. Secondly. Those who say here now that one day he is a minister, the other day he is a member of the Saeima and more and more... I could ask the same question to your party's former minister. You were a minister or a shahist while playing chess? Because, as we're saying here, you're still seen as ministers. That's it! That is why we could talk about it for a long, much and dictated time. We learned to separate these things from others. I very, very much hope, colleagues, that at home with your families, children, wives and men you are still people. Let us, however, make a distinction between what we're talking about here! It is even more strange to listen to the fact that the request has been written to see if Bordan will fulfill his promises. Well, that's an interesting formulation... I mean, he came here, talked, and you have now understood whether Mr. Bordan will make any promises that are not at all relevant to this matter. Okay, let's take it. The next statement is that this has led to a wide-ranging resonance in society, media and articles. I will remind you of the medium on which you based your request. They were, apologies, pages Puaro.lv and “Independent Morning Newspaper”. Well, it's clear who's a medium... I don't see them as media. And so I could go on and on. There's something strange about what we're doing here now. Once again, I can express my conviction that if this is a way of ensuring the existence of one, apologies, a pointless commission, then we can continue to do so. What does that say about us? To a colleague who claims here that Mr. Bordan has no tolerance... We won't lie! Mr. Bordan's been in a position for a long time. That colleague who is telling us all the time about defaulting here... if you did, you wouldn't sit here now. You would have gone, as you promised all your constituents. And I could remind and remind you. I'm very sorry to all those voters watching every Thursday show. I'm ashamed to take part in it. Thank you. (Applause)
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-21-PT13-520-U27	Member Viktor Valainis.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-21-PT13-520-U28	Hello, colleagues! I have written this request because, in my opinion, it is quite normal that various letters are sent. There are a number of politicians who have done it on an individual basis and there is nothing wrong with it. But if a party leader sends such a letter as a coalition partner, being in power, it will also render certain responsibility when signing such a letter. What is the content of this letter, all the more so? The fact that there is no rule of law in this country is that there is corruption. Well, I'd ask you a little bit to justify all this. But at the same time, I look at this case as follows: What could all of this have consequences? Look who that letter was sent to? It was sent to foreign embassies. However, we are looking at this issue from an international point of view. And then all those foreign investors who have a dispute in the Latvian judicial system and who see that these disputes cannot be resolved here in Latvia on the spot, go to international settlements in the United States and in various other international arbitration courts, there they are already trying to court with the country. But if one of the top officials of the country says that the judicial system in this country is completely wrong, it is, in my opinion, unacceptable. If something like this is said, then there must be a very important basis on which such a statement is based. That is why I also made this request. And I believe that on the Minister's side, or on the party leader's side, when preparing the letter, with such loud statements... Well, I would ask at least respectfully also to justify a little more why he says that. I understand that money has now been found to make an assessment of the justice system. Indeed, with great interest, I will look at what will be in this assessment... The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. J. Adamson: “Who will do this? ” ) and whether the following conclusions can be reached: Mr Kirštein talked very well about the history of writing, so I would also call for this tradition not to stop, but rather to continue. And I wish the new Conservative Party to write to everyone - everyone! - foreign embassies - the sooner, the better - a letter with explanations why you voted against your own pre-election promises three times. Thank you. I call for this request to be supported. ( The head of the sitting was knocked down with a hammer.)
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-21-PT13-520-U29	I closed the debate. Please call me! We will vote for a request from Members to the Minister of Justice Janis Bordans “A letter on foreign embassies, calling into question the competence and independence of the Latvian judicial system”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 34, for - 45, for - 5. The request is rejected. Dear colleagues, The Bureau of the Saeima has received a request from Member Ivars Zariņa, Ivana Klementyeva, Jānis Vucana, Valeria Agešina, Vitaly Orlova and other Members “On avoidance of the essence of the economic minister’s replies to questions from Members regarding the information report “On the regulation, monitoring and action of electricity mandatory procurement and guaranteed charges for installed capacity following the decision of the Saeima of 10 January 2019” at the meeting of the Cabinet of Ministers of 29 January 2019. The request shall be open to all Members. The applicants have asked for a statement of reasons. Member Ivars Zarins has applied for a statement of reasons on behalf of the applicants. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-21-PT13-520-U30	Hello, colleagues! As you remember when we debated the new government here, I promised that I would help the Minister for Economic Affairs to deal with the OIC's sphere if he wanted to. And I promised I would help with the OIC even if he did not want to. Then I perform my duty, my promise, which I have given to you. And I have given to the whole nation of Latvia. Specifically. As you know, the next steps have begun in relation to the OIC. A legal opinion has been commissioned. I think many of you have already been in the course, as the legal opinion has been commissioned. Firstly, what were the demands for this opinion on performers? So with regard to competence - no one with regard to independence - it has been said that this businessman... that performer, that evaluator may not, until the time of that assessment, be in contractual relations with economic operators which subsequently benefit from the OIC. In other words, he was able to serve so far these businessmen who are interested in benefiting from the OIC, and he will continue to be able to serve them. Just for as long as he makes an opinion, which will cost seven thousand, he can't have that relationship. Then he can be in this relationship again. Then the question is motivated: what is in the interest of this assessment? Secondly. If we still look at what's on the job, it's... I mean, there's a question... either those who have prepared the task have not taken any sense of the matter at all, or have deliberately created the task of the task in such a way that it can be manipulated as they wish. I will read to you one of the task points in the precise letter, as it is said. I cannot say from my head - it is simply impossible to remember, because it contains, in principle, either a logical or a grammatical contradiction, in other words, a meaningless one. ‘ Is the granting of aid to electricity producers for the production of renewable energy and cogeneration compatible with the requirements of the European Union regulatory acts, taking into account the coordination with the European Commission on 24 April 2017?’ So what is... Is that right? Is the aid compatible with the scheme or is the scheme compatible with the decision? It is not clear from this at all what is being said. All the more! I will not even talk about that absurdity that there is no such cogeneration production. It is the type of production in which energy is produced. But if we are talking about legal nuance, then the question is whether it meets the requirements of European Union legislation, given the coordination with the European Commission? Well, colleagues! Then I have to ask: how is competence there? Because this harmonisation specifically states black to white that "the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union has been violated". The European Commission has said so, and it needs a legal opinion on seven thousand euros to tell you that it has been violated?
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-21-PT13-520-U31	Member of the Council, Mr. Zaryn, it's over!
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-21-PT13-520-U32	Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-21-PT13-520-U33	Thank you. In accordance with the law, the request is to be submitted to the Request Commission. Thank you. Dear colleagues, There are changes to the agenda. Members Dana Reizniece-Ozola, Viktors Valainis, Uldis Augulis, Maris Kučinskis, Gundars Dauge and others have submitted a draft decision on the extension of the deadline for submitting proposals to the draft law “Amendments to the law “ On the regulated professions... “ It’s not that! ” — The utterance: “It’s not that! ” ) No? Yeah. I'm sorry. Draft law “Amendments to the law “On Personal Income Tax””. On behalf of the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission (interim.) - Member Dana Reizniece-Ozola.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-21-PT13-520-U34	Hello, honorable Presidium! Colleagues! Let me explain. Ten Members have prepared a new draft law amending the law on personal income tax, and I will briefly explain the meaning of this draft law. Many of us met with our compatriots abroad during the pre-elections, and it is particularly important for them to have such a problem - when they have earned money and want to transfer it to close relatives, family members, but this, of course, does not apply only to persons living abroad... when this amount reaches four thousand euros, the transaction must be declared to the State Revenue Service. They do not have to be taxed, but there is an administrative burden - the declaration of this transaction, which is often violated because it is not known, or because its amount is, in fact, very low compared to the transfers made to family members. The purpose of this draft law is to reduce this administrative burden in cases where transfers are made to close family members. It should not then be declared until it reaches nine thousand euros, which is just over 20 minimum monthly salaries. Well, a similar volume... officials must also declare their transactions if they meet the 20 minimum monthly salaries. This proposal, colleagues, does not have a negative fiscal impact, but is positive, as it will reduce the administrative burden. I tried to explain to you that the tax would not have to be paid either, not already at the moment... This proposal has been discussed with the social partners, trade unions, with the LDDK, LTRK. And at the time when we discussed this proposal, there was also a debate about other similar solutions - an extension of the degree of relatives to which transfers without tax would be applied, or an increase in the amount of gifts without tax. They are not yet included in the draft law, because I think that they are still subject to discussion, and they may also have a negative fiscal impact. I call for this draft law to be placed on the agenda of today's sittings, to be referred to the commission responsible and to work. Given that at the moment it is not known whether the budget package includes the law on personal income tax, it should be done separately and we can already start to do so. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-21-PT13-520-U35	Thank you. Are Members opposed to this amendment of the agenda? There is no objection by Members. The order of business has been amended. Members Jūlija Stepanenko, Aldis Gobzems, Linda Liepiņa, Karina Sprūde, Ivars Puga and others ask for the draft decision on the withdrawal of Member Jūlija Stepanenko from the Commission of European Affairs to be on the agenda. Do Members have objections? And the objections? ( Milestones.) Please call me! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 30, for - 48, for - 1. The draft decision is not on the agenda. Members Jūlija Stepanenko, Aldis Gobzems, Linda Liepiņa, Karina Sprūde, Ivars Puga and others ask for the draft decision on the election of Member Jūlija Stepanenko to be on the agenda. Do Members have objections? ( Milestones.) And the objections. Please call me! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 31, for - 45, for - 1. The draft decision is not on the agenda. Members Linda Liepiņa, Iveta Benhen-Beeken, Ramona Petraviča, Ivars Puga, Aivars Geidāns and others ask for the draft decision on the withdrawal of Member Alda Blumbergs from the Commission on European Affairs to be on the agenda. Do Members have objections? ( Internouncing call.) And the objections? I mean, I mean, I mean, I mean, I mean, I Noise in the hall.) Please call me! Please vote mode! ( The Room Noise) Please get the result! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The draft decision is on the agenda. Members Atis Zakaistovs, Aldis Blumbergs, Aivars Geidāns, Ēriks Pucens and Jānis Vitenbergs... I'm sorry if I misread the surname... has requested that the draft decision on the withdrawal of Member Ramona Petraviča from the Commission for Mandates, Ethics and Applications be placed on the agenda. Member Ivars Zarins has applied to speak. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-21-PT13-520-U36	Me? You made up your own. Colleagues, I call on you to consider what is happening at the moment, what precedent you are creating at all. If, in essence, we accept that our country is a truly democratic republic... where the leaders of the people have gathered with equal right to decide, to take care of their country, for their people... What are you doing at the moment? You allow some Members to change the commission, you think you will not allow others to change, even though they have applied for it themselves and are calling for it to be done. Tell me, what about the principle of equality, the principle of the rule of law, the principles of democracy at this point? What absurdity do you currently create? The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. S. Riekstins: “I ask how the commissions can be changed at the Riga Council!” ) Of course, we can look at it from the side... My call would be to stop this precedent.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-21-PT13-520-U37	Thank you. Please call me! Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about - 52, it's against - 18, it's not. The draft decision is on the agenda. Thank you. We are continuing our work and moving on to the examination of draft laws. Draft law “Amendments to the law “On People’s Votes, Legislative Proposals and the European Citizens’ Initiative””, third reading. On behalf of the Legal Commission - Member Vita Anda Steel.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-21-PT13-520-U38	Good morning for colleagues. The Legal Commission proposes for third reading the draft law “Amendments to the law “On People’s Votes, Legislative Proposals and the European Citizens’ Initiative”. I would remind you that the purpose of the draft law is to harmonise regulation of promotion in these cases with the regulation that is in the Law on Election Aggregation. No proposals have been received for the third reading. The Legal Commission has supported the draft law.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-21-PT13-520-U39	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote in favour of the draft law "Amendments to the law "On People's Votes, Legislative Proposals and the European Citizens' Initiative" in the third, final reading! Please vote mode! Please get the result! Not by - 82, not by - and refrains. The law is passed. Thank you. We examine the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Public Private Partnership”, third reading. On behalf of the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy, Member Ivars Zarins.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-21-PT13-520-U40	Hello, colleagues! We are working on the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Public Private Partnership”. This is one of the draft laws that were in the so-called Privatisation Agency package. We have received four proposals. 1. - the proposal by the Minister for Finance, Dana Reizniece-Ozola. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-21-PT13-520-U41	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-21-PT13-520-U42	2. - the proposal by the Minister for Finance, Dana Reizniece-Ozola. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-21-PT13-520-U43	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-21-PT13-520-U44	3. - the proposal by the Minister for Finance, Dana Reizniece-Ozola. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-21-PT13-520-U45	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-21-PT13-520-U46	4. - a proposal from the committee responsible. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-21-PT13-520-U47	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-21-PT13-520-U48	I call for support for the draft law at third reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-21-PT13-520-U49	Thank you. Please call me! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 81, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. The law is passed. Thank you. Draft law “Amendments to the Public Service Providers’ Procurement Act”, third reading. On behalf of the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy, Member Ivars Zarins.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-21-PT13-520-U50	The draft law “Amendments to the Public Service Providers Procurement Act” is next in this package. Two proposals have been received. 1. - the proposal by Minister of Finance John Reir. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-21-PT13-520-U51	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-21-PT13-520-U52	2. - a proposal from the committee responsible. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-21-PT13-520-U53	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-21-PT13-520-U54	I call for support for the draft law at third reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-21-PT13-520-U55	Thank you. Please call me! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 81, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. The law is passed. Draft law “Amendments to the Law on Defence and Security Procurement”, third reading. On behalf of the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy, Member Ivars Zarins.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-21-PT13-520-U56	Colleagues! This draft law is also part of this package on the Privatisation Agency. One was received - the proposal of the Minister of Finance, Dana Reizniece-Ozola. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-21-PT13-520-U57	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-21-PT13-520-U58	I call for support at third reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-21-PT13-520-U59	Thank you. Please call me! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 81, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. The law is passed. Draft law “Amendments to the Law on Public Procurement”, third reading. On behalf of the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy, Member Ivars Zarins.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-21-PT13-520-U60	This draft law is also part of the above-mentioned legislative package. One has also received a proposal from the Minister of Finance, Dana Reizniece-Ozola, for this draft law. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-21-PT13-520-U61	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-21-PT13-520-U62	I call for support at third reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-21-PT13-520-U63	Thank you. Please call me! Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about - 83, it's against and refrains from - it's not. Thank you. The law is passed. Draft law ‘Amendment to the Law on the Election of the President’, second reading. On behalf of the Legal Commission, Mr Ritvars Jansons.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-21-PT13-520-U64	Dear colleagues, The Legal Commission has examined and prepared for second reading the draft law “Amendment to the Law on Election of the President of Latvia”. One was received - the proposal of the Saeima Legal Bureau. As the Constitution establishes an open procedure for the election of the President of Latvia, the members of the Commission supported the proposal of the Bureau of Law that Members vote with ballot marks without using the sign in the envelope. So the only proposal - the Law Office proposal - was supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-21-PT13-520-U65	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-21-PT13-520-U66	On behalf of the Commission, please support the adoption of the draft law at second reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-21-PT13-520-U67	Please call me! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 81, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. Draft law adopted. Please specify the date of submission of the proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-21-PT13-520-U68	Proposals for third reading shall be submitted by 26 February this year.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-21-PT13-520-U69	Until February 26th... And consideration of the Saeima sitting?
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-21-PT13-520-U70	The next Saeima sitting.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-21-PT13-520-U71	Thank you. Draft law “Amendment to the Law “On the Time of Introduction of the Renewed Civil Law of the Republic of Latvia, the Entry into Force and Application of Part of the Law on the Rights of Heritage and the Rights of Cases”, first reading. On behalf of the Legal Commission, Mr Aldis Gobzems. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. J. Strike: “Mr Gobzem! The only question, and you're not ready! Nothing can be entrusted to you!” ) Council Regulation (EC) No 1257/96 of 20 June 1996 concerning humanitarian aid (OJ L 163, 2.7.1996, p. 1).
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-21-PT13-520-U72	It's hard for me to talk when Mrs. Strique screams all the time from the grass, but... Well, okay. So that's... The main essence of the need for a draft legislative act is that, in the case of private wills... so you understand... The problem is that there is a great potential for counterfeiting. In other words, when a person leaves the world, there is a possibility that two persons agree and show that there has been such a private will when making, for example, one fake signature. This is the main point why such a draft law is necessary at all. Actually... in order to minimise potential criminal offences by falsifying wills. Well, the main thing. All the annotation, I think you don't have to read it, do you? ( Independence: “For first reading! ” ; dep. A. Neighbours: “Do you request permission?” ) I invite you to refer to the first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-21-PT13-520-U73	Thank you. Please call me! Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about - 83, it's against and refrains from - it's not. The draft law was adopted at first reading. Please set a deadline for the next reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-21-PT13-520-U74	Okay. Deadline for the submission of proposals... ( Interface: “It is not written! ” ) Council Regulation (EC) No 1257/96 of 20 June 1996 concerning humanitarian aid (OJ L 163, 2.7.1996, p. 1).
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-21-PT13-520-U75	What is the deadline for the submission of a panel? ( Internouncing call.)
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-21-PT13-520-U76	I think five days is enough... I mean, I mean, I mean, I mean, I mean, I Thank you. Noise in the hall.)
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-21-PT13-520-U77	26? No, no? ( The Room Noise)
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-21-PT13-520-U78	No, no.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-21-PT13-520-U79	Please, please, one of the commissions! The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. J. Strike: “As usual – two weeks!” ) Two weeks.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-21-PT13-520-U80	But in principle there is nothing difficult.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-21-PT13-520-U81	Deadline for the submission of proposals - 5 March? ( The Room Noise. Substitution: “7 March!” ) Council Regulation (EC) No 1257/96 of 20 June 1996 concerning humanitarian aid (OJ L 163, 2.7.1996, p. 1).
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-21-PT13-520-U82	March 7th.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-21-PT13-520-U83	March 7th. Deadline for the submission of proposals - 7 March. Thank you. Dear colleagues, It's time for a break. See you at 11.00... (Interface: “Registration!”) ) Please call us! Please vote mode! Please register! Thank you. Name of the Saeima Presidium to Marija Golubeva. ( The box “Member of the Registrar! ”) ) Or, forgiveness!
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-21-PT13-520-U84	Not registered: Mārtiņš Bondars, Anda Čakša, Vjačeslavs Dombrovskis, Inese Ikstena, Andrejs Judins, Andrejs Klementjevs... yes, Rihards Kols, Ieva Krapāne, Armands Krauze, Linda Liepiņa, Inese Lībiņa-Egnere... No, Anita Muižniece, Ināra Mūrniece, Karina Sprūde... Is that so? It's July, isn't it? Julia Stepanenko... Is that so? ( Insight: “There was! ” ), Didzis Šmits, Jānis Vucāns, Evita Zālīte-Gross.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-21-PT13-520-U85	Interruption until 11 a.m. ( Interruption) ( Interruption)
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-21-PT13-520-U86	Dear colleagues, Please take your seats! It's over. Please take your seats! We're going on. We shall continue to examine draft laws. On the agenda - draft law “Amendments to the Road Traffic Law”, second reading. ( The head of the sitting was knocked down with a hammer.) On behalf of the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy – Member Jānis Vitenbergs. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-21-PT13-520-U87	Hello, dear colleagues! The Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy has examined and prepared for second reading the draft law “Amendments to the Road Traffic Law”. The Commission received 11 proposals. 1. - the proposal of the Minister for the Interior, Sanda Girgen. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-21-PT13-520-U88	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-21-PT13-520-U89	2. - the proposal of the Minister of Transport, Telelys Linkait. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-21-PT13-520-U90	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-21-PT13-520-U91	3. - the proposal of the Minister of Transport, Telelys Linkait. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-21-PT13-520-U92	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-21-PT13-520-U93	4. - the proposal of the Minister of Transport, Telelys Linkait. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-21-PT13-520-U94	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-21-PT13-520-U95	5. - the proposal of the Minister of Defence Art Pabriks. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-21-PT13-520-U96	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-21-PT13-520-U97	6. - the proposal of the Minister of Transport, Telelys Linkait. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-21-PT13-520-U98	Members want to speak. Name to Member Ivars Zarins.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-21-PT13-520-U99	Hello, colleagues! This is a proposal to which I would like to draw your attention, especially the attention of the Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Transport. The substance of the proposal is very simple. Given that we are living in the digital age, the proposal is indeed welcome, as it provides that paper documents, such as driving licences and technical passports, should not always be accompanied. It would be sufficient to have an identity document with you so that a road police representative can verify in the database that the driver is entitled to drive and that he or she is in possession of the vehicle at all. The principle is very correct, and we have supported it in the Commission, but the problem is that, as in any case, there are nuances. And that is what I would ask you to think about the Ministry of Transport for the third reading, because you know best about the situation with databases, with these relevant IT systems. How we can prevent it, let's say, a case like this... when a road traffic accident occurs and there are two drivers, who have only personal identification documents, how can a protocol be drawn up, in this case this agreed protocol, if the necessary data are missing? Consequently, the regulation we are doing should also be considered. Or maybe it is necessary to create IT systems so that it can be addressed in some way... to have access to the necessary data to enable them to resolve it. Consider, too, the question of theft of a vehicle. Because now it comes out, if I'm sitting there, I'm going there... These amendments make it possible for anyone to drive the vehicle and, from the point of view of ownership, everything will be fine. These are the two nuances that I would like to ask the Ministry of Transport to think about and come to the third reading with clarification. I appeal to the Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Transport: can we count on the Commission to receive such proposals? Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-21-PT13-520-U100	Member, are you asking for a vote on this proposal?
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-21-PT13-520-U101	I also support it, and if no one requests it, then we can just go further. Just support and go on.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-21-PT13-520-U102	Thank you. We support it. Please keep going.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-21-PT13-520-U103	Answer to Ivar. In the Commission, we also asked the Ministry of Transport to assess all possible risks and to find answers by the third reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-21-PT13-520-U104	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-21-PT13-520-U105	Therefore, Proposal No 6 has been supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-21-PT13-520-U106	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-21-PT13-520-U107	7. - a proposal from the committee responsible. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-21-PT13-520-U108	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-21-PT13-520-U109	8 / 8 - a proposal from the committee responsible. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-21-PT13-520-U110	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-21-PT13-520-U111	9. - the proposal of the Minister for the Interior, Sanda Girgen. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-21-PT13-520-U112	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-21-PT13-520-U113	10............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - Mr Feldman's proposal. Partially supported, included 11. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-21-PT13-520-U114	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-21-PT13-520-U115	11. - a proposal from the committee responsible. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-21-PT13-520-U116	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-21-PT13-520-U117	I urge you to support the draft law at second reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-21-PT13-520-U118	Thank you to the rapporteur. Please call me! Let us vote on the draft law at second reading! Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about - 75, it's against and it's abstaining. The draft law was approved at second reading. Please set a deadline for the third reading of the proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-21-PT13-520-U119	The deadline for the submission of proposals for third reading is 7 March.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-21-PT13-520-U120	March 7th. The deadline for the submission of proposals for third reading is 7 March. Thank you. No other proposals? The proposal has been submitted. Thank you. We examine the draft law “Amendment to the Law on Administrative Territories and Residents”, second reading. On behalf of the National Administration and Municipal Commission – Member Inga Goldberga.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-21-PT13-520-U121	Dear colleagues, The Commission of the State Administration and Local Government has examined and asked the Saeima to see the draft law “Amendment to the Law on Administrative Territory and Residents” at second reading. I would just remind my colleagues that this draft law concerns the preservation of historical village names and the organisation of the National Address Register. The Commission received 11 proposals for a second reading. 1. - a proposal from the committee responsible. The Commission is in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-21-PT13-520-U122	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-21-PT13-520-U123	2. - That's Mr Dombrava's proposal. The Commission does not support this.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-21-PT13-520-U124	Member Dombrava has applied to speak. John Dombrava. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-21-PT13-520-U125	Dear Saeima! When barricades had to be raised in 1991, all people, regardless of the region, went to Riga as capital of Latvia to protect it in order to fight for freedom and independence. However, despite these facts, as well as many regulatory regulations that state that Riga is the capital of Latvia - the capital of all, not just of some Latvian citizens - have created a discriminatory system for many Latvian citizens. If a Latvian citizen comes from another municipality to Riga and wants to receive the services provided by the state or visit a cultural institution of the country, he must assume that, unlike a citizen of Russia or another country who lives permanently in Riga, he will have to pay more for the use of public transport, he will have to pay much more for the use of the parking lot. And even so absurd that for residents of other municipalities the services of Riga Birth House are more expensive than for residents of Riga. Despite the fact that the State also provides funds for the maintenance of these facilities! These funds are granted from the residents of Zilupe municipality, from the residents of Rēzekne municipality and from the residents of Jelgava, while Riga is a voluntarily acting - various exceptions and discounts for certain categories depending on their place of residence. I call on Members of the Saeima to support this proposal. Of course, there should be talk about how to ensure a level playing field for citizens and to which types of services it should apply. All of this we can do at third reading - to add, to amend this provision. If the commission considers it necessary to guide this idea in another law, it can also be done when examining the draft law at third reading. But I think it is very important politically that we are now putting our feet into doors and saying that we want to put an end to this discriminatory treatment of Latvian citizens, regardless of their place of residence. We have to do this, and I think this Saeima could do it. I call for support for the proposal in question.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-21-PT13-520-U126	Thank you. You have applied to speak to Member Sergey Dolgopolov. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-21-PT13-520-U127	Dear colleagues, An interesting proposal. Undoubtedly, this is the subject of discussion. But I call on my colleagues today not to support this proposal for three reasons. First. The public sector in Latvia provides about a fifth service to the population. Five thousand! Is this about the provision of all or only part of the services? That is one big question. Would it be technically feasible or not? That is another question. Second recital. Well, unfortunately, it happens that any service pays something. The existing system, established by law, provides that the State, by transferring the relevant function to any entity - whether it is a municipality or a free port or something else - shall also provide for the provision of funding for this function to be performed. Here in the proposal, there is no word about sources of funding, opportunities and everything else. Third recital: You see, nowhere in the world, the territory as such, does not ensure the provision of services. This is provided by public sector bodies. So that's the law that we're here today... The amendment we are discussing today only determines how the Latvian administrative division looks and how the Latvian administrative map looks. The proposal that has been tabled concerns other laws. This is not the task of the Commission - to try to adapt this proposal and find a suitable place in the legislation. Because it is an initiative that Members should think about and justify more seriously. I therefore call for this proposal not to be supported this time, but to come back to it perhaps when we talk about amendments to the Law on Municipalities, which determines the autonomous functions which determine what municipalities, including the municipality of the capital, are dealing with. I think it would be the right place there. I call for this time to vote against. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-21-PT13-520-U128	Thank you. The Member Jānis Iesalnieks will also express his opinion. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-21-PT13-520-U129	Dear colleagues, No one in this hall is secret that the Kremlin SAVE (Interface from the group SAVE: “Oi, Oi, Oi!” ), and especially the Mayor of Riga, Nils Ushakov, creates a separate foreign policy (Internext.) - some of Latvia's official foreign policy. Trying to create a separate identity - Rigans, Latvian Red and Red flags are being massively replaced by blue and white flags. And this question about what the rights of Latvian citizens are in Riga as the capital of Latvia is also related to it. It is therefore not normal that citizens of other countries who are residents of Riga, Riga, the capital of Latvia, are in a more privileged position than the citizens of Latvia who live in other places in Latvia. I call for this Member's proposal to be supported by Dombrava. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-21-PT13-520-U130	Thank you. Applying to speak... I'm sorry, too, Member Ivars Zarins.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-21-PT13-520-U131	Colleagues! I think it is well known to everyone that the main implementing officer of the Kremlin's policy in the Saeima is the National Alliance, which is constantly involved in the division of the nation, so that, by creating fragmentation, it is possible to increase the base of its supporters in this way. The more radical the society is, the greater the crowd of supporters will be. And that's what they're doing here purposefully. But if we are talking about this proposal, then, the National Union, how many years have you led the VARAM? Your competence was to draft the relevant law on the capital of the country. I have a question: do you have any legal adviser at all, who advises you about what competence local authorities have, what competence for the state and how do we have the functions that you are talking about? Otherwise, what you are doing - you are simply incompetently trying now, I am sorry to "extort" the legal framework applicable to municipalities and the state. I don't know what you're doing there, maybe it's special, like your next Kremlin's move, how you want to put tension here and in society again... because in essence, if you want to sort out this case, please make a law on the capital, where all this can be said. Otherwise, what is the reason why one municipality will suddenly have to do something that does not need to be done by other municipalities? The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. J. Iesalnieks: “It is the capital of Latvia!” ) In turn, if we give them this status... that indeed this is a capital, by law further specifying what functions result from it, then all this is workable. Why have you not done this all these years? ( Internouncing call.) You need these proposals... It was necessary for you to continue to divide society, tell us that there is something there, that Latvians in your country are under threat, abject, they have to walk naive, fearful and hope that there will be defenders like you. This is all you have managed to do in this time. (Applause)
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-21-PT13-520-U132	I closed the debate. On behalf of the Commission, Ms Inga Goldberga.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-21-PT13-520-U133	Dear colleagues, Once again, I would like to draw attention to the fact that these issues were discussed very carefully within the Commission. The members of the Commission acknowledged that this issue should be addressed and discussed, but not in this specific draft law, which defines the structure of administrative territories and settlements in Latvia, but does not talk about functions. Therefore, having heard the Opinion of the Legal Bureau and the Opinion of the VARAM, it was decided that this issue will be discussed within the framework of the administrative territorial reform and that it will be addressed in regional... within the framework of the municipal law. I would also like to remind my fellow Members that the government declaration says that a new law for local authorities will be created, which will be the very platform where these issues need to be addressed. Once again, I call for this draft law not to support this proposal by Mr Dombrava, as the members of the Commission have not unanimously supported it.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-21-PT13-520-U134	This paragraph is referred to as ‘on’ and ‘on’. In line with the Rules of Procedure, we must vote. ( Interface: “We must vote in any case! ” ) Please call us! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 46, against - 28, refrains - 1. So the amendment has been accepted.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-21-PT13-520-U135	3. - That's Mr Dombrava's proposal. The Commission does not support this.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-21-PT13-520-U136	Name to Member Janis Dombrava. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-21-PT13-520-U137	Dear Members of the Saeima! This is a very technical proposal, which requires that those settlements with a population of over two thousand and which have fulfilled a number of other conditions relating to infrastructure... that these settlements would become cities if these criteria were met. Don't be what it is now. A situation has arisen that the municipality can decide to become a city or remain a village. And mostly it would apply to such huge villages as Mārupe, Ķekava, Carnikava, Ādaži, where the population is much larger than most of Latvia's municipalities. However, these municipalities still retain the status of village, which means that they have fewer responsibilities towards their inhabitants. In this case, a positive opinion has been received from the Minister of Environmental Protection and Regional Development that this norm should be incorporated into the law already now. I therefore call for - contrary to the Commission's decision - to support this proposal at second reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-21-PT13-520-U138	Thank you. Victor Valainis spoke in the debate. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-21-PT13-520-U139	Colleagues! What was really very interesting was the previous vote, as well as possible future votes. In order for Members to have a full picture, which was actually voted on a moment ago, I would call for the draft law to be returned to the Commission for recycling after the vote on the next proposal, because this simply cannot be adopted at second reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-21-PT13-520-U140	Thank you. Since two opposing opinions have been expressed on this text, we need to vote. Please call me! But on behalf of the commission... On behalf of the Commission, do you want to talk about this issue? No, no. Then let's vote. Please call me! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 47, no, 30, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Therefore, the revision has been accepted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-21-PT13-520-U141	4. - That's Mr Dombrava's proposal. ( Internouncing call.) The Member has referred to his proposal. ( Internouncing call.)
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-21-PT13-520-U142	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-21-PT13-520-U143	5. - a proposal from the committee responsible. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-21-PT13-520-U144	Members call for a vote.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-21-PT13-520-U145	Proposal No 6...
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-21-PT13-520-U146	Members call for a vote. ( Insight: “I asked for 5 votes, I apologize! ” ) Unsupported........................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ Supported... We are talking about proposal 5 and Members are asking for a vote. Please call me! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 75, for - 1, for - 1. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-21-PT13-520-U147	6. - a proposal from the committee responsible. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-21-PT13-520-U148	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-21-PT13-520-U149	7. - a proposal from the committee responsible. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-21-PT13-520-U150	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-21-PT13-520-U151	8 / 8 - a proposal from the committee responsible. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-21-PT13-520-U152	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-21-PT13-520-U153	9. - a proposal from the committee responsible. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-21-PT13-520-U154	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-21-PT13-520-U155	10............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - a proposal from the committee responsible. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-21-PT13-520-U156	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-21-PT13-520-U157	And 11. - a proposal from the committee responsible. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-21-PT13-520-U158	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-21-PT13-520-U159	Please support the draft law at second reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-21-PT13-520-U160	Please call me! We will vote for the second reading of the draft law “Amendment to the Law on Administrative Territories and Residents”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 49, no, 30, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Thank you. The draft law was adopted at second reading. Specify, please, the date of submission of the proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-21-PT13-520-U161	Deadline for the submission of proposals for third reading: 28 February 2019.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-21-PT13-520-U162	Deadline for the submission of proposals - 28 February. Thank you. On the next agenda, draft law “Amendments to the Law on the Movement of Tobacco Products, Plant Smoking Products, Electronic Smoking Devices and Their Liquids”, second reading. On behalf of the Commission for Social and Labour Affairs - Member Vitaly Orlovs.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-21-PT13-520-U163	Thank you, Presidium. Dear Members, We work with the draft law “Amendments to the Law on the Movement of Tobacco Products, Plant Smoking Products, Electronic Smoking Devices and Their Liquids” (No. 125/Lp13). Four proposals have been tabled for second reading. 1. - the proposal from the Minister for Health, Ilze Viņķelis. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-21-PT13-520-U164	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-21-PT13-520-U165	2. - a proposal from the Legal Office. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-21-PT13-520-U166	Let's start a debate. Name to Member Alexander Kirštein.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-21-PT13-520-U167	Dear President, Honourable Members! I am extremely sceptical about this final version of Article 9, which now remains in the wording of the Legal Bureau. It says... added: ‘It shall be prohibited to place tobacco products at retail outlets,... electronic smoking devices...’, and so on. and ‘attractive objects that visually resemble cigarettes’. Banana, for example. But the question is: is there an analysis of how it will affect trade in legal cigarettes in general? This is obviously the case for the next reading. However, the Commission should list some figures. And I'll give you a few examples right now... whether it promotes smuggling or does not contribute to trafficking. We have tax-free shops where cigarettes could be located, we have supermarkets where in special places the law allows them to be located. So, what will this law cover? Most of this will apply to either popular outlets or, for example, the Central Market, where you see in kiosk that you can choose cigarettes when you enter. Now it won't be there. You'll have to ask the seller for some list that he has under the counter or in some boxes... the make he has placed. Will everyone ask? I think it will not be necessary, because there will be 10 suppliers who will offer Belarusian or Russian cigarettes much cheaper next door. And I have a lot of suspicions: do we not do so rather, if we want to do well? For nothing is prohibited, there is no data on how it affects smuggling; in any case, it will only increase the sales of illegal cigarettes. In general also advertising restrictions.... Well, I don't know if today's young people who are extortioning, let's say, different smart... I mean, smart devices... whether they are very interested in some advertising magazines or television, where pensioners watch serials... They don't even read the press. I think there should be precise figures, how much of these advertisements will lose the media and how the losses will be compensated... which will not be taken from them. I am all the more concerned that we will not be able to put these ads in the news media - magazines, newspapers, newspapers - but now we will not be able to put them in place. In general, this law does not give the impression that something can be achieved. The law leaves no impression... to second reading... that smuggling is being restricted, does not leave the impression that we are somehow compensating for the loss of advertising, say, revenue. And the most funny - “products that visually resemble cigarettes”. There's a pencil! Pupils suck a pencil. You can imagine - growing up, going to be oligarch, sucking cigar. Can the signs be placed in a visible position? I also remember the times of the USSR when he said: “The young man is listening to jazz today, and tomorrow he will betray his homeland. Today sucks a pencil or what's there... Look at the lighters... and so on. So maybe for the third reading, however, we should consult the staff of the Ministry of the Interior, like trade in smuggling goods... somehow this is not the case in Riga. I went three days ago... You know, there were seven or eight offers for both the purchase of alcohol and the purchase of cigarettes. Maybe we should deal with these things and then come up with how to match legal trade. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-21-PT13-520-U168	Does the commission representative want to object? We have to vote.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-21-PT13-520-U169	Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-21-PT13-520-U170	We have to vote. Please call me! ( Milestones.) Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about - 71, it's against and refrains from - it's not. Supported. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-21-PT13-520-U171	Thank you to Member Kirštein for his opinion. This bill is an inheritance from the previous Saeima. A working group was set up to which the representatives you mentioned were invited, Member Kirštein. You had the opportunity to participate in the drafting of the law both in the previous parliamentary term and now. Proposal No 3. It was prepared by the Legal Bureau of the Saeima. This is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-21-PT13-520-U172	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-21-PT13-520-U173	Proposal No 4 was tabled by the Minister for Health, Mrs Viņķele. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-21-PT13-520-U174	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-21-PT13-520-U175	On behalf of the Commission, please support the draft law at second reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-21-PT13-520-U176	Please call me! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 76, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The draft law was adopted at second reading. Thank you. Please set a deadline for the third reading of the proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-21-PT13-520-U177	We expect proposals by 8 March.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-21-PT13-520-U178	Consequently, the deadline for the submission of proposals is 8 March. Thank you. Draft law “Amendments to the Law on Legalization of Documents”, first reading. Member Ojārs Ēriks Kalniņš on behalf of the Commission on Foreign Affairs. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-21-PT13-520-U179	Thank you, Presidium. Dear colleagues, We work with document number 507. Draft law “Amendments to the Law on Legalisation of Documents” is related to Brexit. This law is one of the three laws that influence this process. In view of the withdrawal of Great Britain from the European Union on 29 March this year, the purpose of the draft law is to clarify the legal framework regarding the legalisation requirements of public documents issued in Great Britain. With the withdrawal of Great Britain, the current legal framework, which exempts persons from the legalization requirements of public documents issued by Great Britain, will be maintained so that they can be used in Latvia. The maintenance of such arrangements is essential not only for the successful continuation of economic relations between Great Britain and Latvia, but also to facilitate the maintenance of family ties, the acquisition of education, as well as the resolution of issues important to the community. The requirement for legalisation of documents will continue to apply to the overseas territory of Great Britain, which is not part of the European Union. The Foreign Affairs Commission examined the draft law before its first reading and supported it. I call on my colleagues to support this now.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-21-PT13-520-U180	Yeah. Thank you. The Commission is asking for the draft law to be declared urgent. Please call me! We will vote for the recognition of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Legalisation of Documents” as urgent! Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about - 75, it's against and it's abstaining. Draft law has been declared urgent.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-21-PT13-520-U181	And the deadline for submitting proposals is 22. ... First of all, however, I call for the adoption of the first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-21-PT13-520-U182	Thank you, Mr. Kalnins. First, we will vote in favour of adoption at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-21-PT13-520-U183	Yeah.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-21-PT13-520-U184	Please call me! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 75, for - no, for - 1. Draft legislation supported at first reading. Please set a deadline for the second reading of the proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-21-PT13-520-U185	The time limit for submitting tenders may be 10 a.m. on 22 February.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-21-PT13-520-U186	Thank you. And the date for the examination of the bill in the second... Is that so?
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-21-PT13-520-U187	And the second reading would be on 21 March.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-21-PT13-520-U188	Yeah, thank you. Draft law “Amendment to the Law on the Movement of Goods of Strategic Interest”, first reading. Member Oyars Eriks Kalniņš on behalf of the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-21-PT13-520-U189	We work with document number 508 The European Commission will amend that Regulation so that the United Kingdom, together with the United States, Canada, Switzerland, Norway, Japan, Australia and New Zealand, is included in the list of countries for which an export licence for the export of goods of strategic importance is not required. Article 4 of the Law on the Movement of Goods of Strategic Interest provides that no licence is required for imports of the goods in question from the abovementioned countries. In order to facilitate the transit of dual-use items to and from Great Britain, an appropriate amendment should be made and Article 4 of the law added. The Foreign Affairs Commission has examined and supported this draft law at first reading. I call on colleagues to do so, too.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-21-PT13-520-U190	Thank you. The Commission is asking for the draft law to be declared urgent. Please call me! We will be voting in favour of declaring this draft law urgent. Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. Draft law has been declared urgent.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-21-PT13-520-U191	I call for support now at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-21-PT13-520-U192	Please vote in favour of the adoption of the draft law at first reading. Please call me! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 78, for - no, for - 1. So the draft law at first reading was supported. Please set a deadline for the submission of proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-21-PT13-520-U193	The deadline for submitting proposals could be 10 a.m. on February 22, second reading on March 21.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-21-PT13-520-U194	21 March. Yeah, thank you. The next item is the bill "Amendments to the Corporate Income Tax Act", first reading. Member Oyars Eriks Kalniņš on behalf of the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-21-PT13-520-U195	This is the third draft Brexit package, document No. 509. The draft law contains only technical amendments, excluding the reference to Great Britain in the first and second annexes to this law. The Foreign Affairs Commission has examined this and supported it at first reading. Urgent procedure is also required.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-21-PT13-520-U196	Yeah, thank you. We are also voting on this bill twice. First of all, urgency, please! Please call me! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 78, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The draft law has been declared urgent. And now let us vote in favour of the first reading of this draft law. Please call me! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 76, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Thank you. The draft law was adopted at first reading. Please indicate the deadline for the submission of the proposals for second reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-21-PT13-520-U197	The deadline for submitting proposals would also be 10 a.m. on February 22, second reading – 21 March.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-21-PT13-520-U198	Thank you. So, at 10 a.m. on February 22, the session of the Saeima was held on 21 March this year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-21-PT13-520-U199	Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-21-PT13-520-U200	The next item is the first reading of the draft law on the application of the legal framework following the withdrawal from the European Union of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland. Presented by the Cabinet of Ministers. On behalf of the Commission for Foreign Affairs, Member Inese Voika. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-21-PT13-520-U201	Hello, colleagues! We will continue to wait for Brexit, who, by the way, will join Latvia not on 29 March, but on 30 March one night. Thank you, colleagues. You have just supported three draft laws relating to Brexit. At the moment, on behalf of the Foreign Affairs Commission, I am putting two draft laws in front of you. One is the draft law prepared by the Cabinet of Ministers, the other is the alternative law prepared by the Foreign Affairs Commission. I call on you to reject the draft law submitted by the Cabinet of Ministers and to support the draft law prepared by the Alternative Foreign Affairs Commission, because within a week we and colleagues from the ministries have significantly improved the original law prepared by the Cabinet of Ministers. Briefly, major changes and improvements. We have clarified, as you see, the title of the draft law in order to reflect more precisely the objective of the law, which is, firstly, the protection of the rights of individuals and, secondly, legal cooperation during the transitional period following the withdrawal of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland from the European Union. In the alternative draft law drawn up by the Commission, we have also dealt with the procedure for the entry into force of the law, because, despite the inevitable date - 29 or 30 March - laid down by the Treaty on European Union, there is a possibility that the United Kingdom may ask to postpone the entry into force of the law... The entry into force of Brexit. And there are several other options that are not too possible, but there are. We have therefore supplemented the text of Article 1, with the second paragraph, which provides that the application of the law will only start on the date on which the United Kingdom withdraws from the European Union (it will be 29 March or later). From the point of view of the content of the draft law, it is based on the declaration adopted by the Saeima on 31 January, which provides as favourable living and working conditions as possible for citizens of the United Kingdom who are legally residing in Latvia, even if the United Kingdom withdraws from the European Union without agreement. And I would remind you that the United Kingdom has already announced at the end of last year that it will ensure similar rights for all citizens of the European Union residing in the United Kingdom. Similar laws, which we are currently adopting, have been adopted by France, Spain, Portugal, where there are a significant number of UK citizens. Overall, the Commission has, in particular, focused on points relating to the social security of UK citizens, which were not fully resolved in the original draft law. And we are also asking for this draft law to be declared urgent, because every day is important, especially in the area of judicial cooperation in civil and criminal matters. It is very important that no day passes... not to cover the days and have any vacuum, and we could not provide cooperation to help citizens from the United Kingdom who are based in Latvia. So I repeat: please reject the draft law submitted by the Cabinet of Ministers and support the alternative law prepared by the Foreign Affairs Commission. I look forward to the support of the entire Saeima, because we, 94 Members, voted on the declaration and only two did not vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-21-PT13-520-U202	Thanks to Innes Voika. Colleagues! I will draw your attention to the fact that the Foreign Affairs Commission is calling... We shall immediately take two votes. On behalf of the Foreign Affairs Commission, Member Inese Voika calls on the draft law proposed by the Cabinet of Ministers “Law on the Application of the Legal Framework following the withdrawal of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland from the European Union” to be rejected. We are voting for the bill! Please call me! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, I don't, I don't, I don't, I don't, I don't, I don't, I don't, I don't, I don't, I don't, I ( Intercretion: “A Basic Man! Vote in principle!’ ) Thus, the draft law proposed by the Cabinet of Ministers has been rejected. And now, my fellow Members, we will be voting in favour of the urgent recognition of the alternative draft law - the Foreign Affairs Commission proposed. Please call me! Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about - 80, it's against and refrains from - it's not. Thus, the draft law has been declared urgent. Let us now vote on the adoption of the alternative draft law on legal cooperation and the protection of the rights of individuals during the transitional period following the withdrawal of the United Kingdom from the European Union from Great Britain and Northern Ireland at first reading! Please call me! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 81, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. The draft law was adopted at first reading. Please set a deadline for the second reading and a date for the second reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-21-PT13-520-U203	Deadline for the submission of proposals - 1 March at 10 a.m., second reading - 21 March.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-21-PT13-520-U204	Consequently, the deadline for submitting proposals - at 10 a.m. on 1 March this year, consideration at the sitting of the Saeima - on 21 March this year. Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, there are changes to the agenda. Members Jūlija Stepanenko, Janīna Jalinska, Ivars Zariņš, Dana Reizniece-Ozola, Inga Goldberga and others ask for the draft decision on the withdrawal of Member Jūlija Stepanenko from the Committee on European Affairs to be included on the agenda of today's sitting. And the objections? ‘ Jūlija Stepanenko, Member, has applied to speak about” Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-21-PT13-520-U205	Dear colleagues, I really hoped that you were wrong in the previous vote, not allowing me to change the commissions, not allowing me to exercise the rights granted by both the Constitutional and Saeima's roll of order. In fact, it is very sad to see today's precedent, because the next time a Member of the opposition is in office, you will vote against the authorisation. You can also vote against the authorisation of leave for Members and take as destructive action as you wish in the future. I would really very much like to hear Mr Latkovsky's motivation: he has applied to say what he has probably figured out. But in fact, I think the real reason why you don't want me to work for the Request Commission is that you probably don't like the Request Commission's management. And such speeches have been heard in the Old Town that it is planned to change the management of the commission, just as the management of the Legal Commission has been changed. Or are you afraid that there is a voice left behind that would support the maintenance of the Commission's management, and that your ministers might be somewhat disturbed? Today, we have seen the vote on the request to Mr Bordan take place. It's okay. What are you worried about? Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-21-PT13-520-U206	Mr. Ainars Latkovskis has applied to speak.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-21-PT13-520-U207	Colleagues! Of course, as Mrs Stepanenko also said, our activities are regulated by the Rules of Procedure. But our activities here and, in particular, the allocation of Members to committees are governed by a decision on which we all voted when starting the work of this Saeima. This is a decision on the work of the commissions. There's a clear statement (interface.) The principle of proportionality. Principle of proportionality! Well, imagine this: my good colleague, Jānis Urbanovič, decides that three Members of his group could become independent Members. And then they present a draft decision that they all want to work for the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission, because they are, by their very nature, financiers, but the principle of proportionality has prevented them from working for the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission. Because the principle of proportionality, you know, is one by one, one by one... If there's more, then there's another... by second and third... It violates this decision. It is not an appeal to Members Stepanenko, who is a very smart and active lawyer in the Saeima. This is the decision that you can say Members and in some way influence this proportionality, for which we ourselves... We all voted. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. R. Lochmele-Lunova: “After that it was changed several times!” ) Vote against! (Applause)
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-21-PT13-520-U208	Thank you. Two different opinions have been expressed on this issue. Please call me! Let's vote! ( Milestones.) Please vote mode! Please get the result! On - 34, against - 48, refraining from - 1. The draft decision submitted by Members is therefore rejected. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. S. Riekstins: “Regina, don’t be surprised, you’re not in the Riga City Council!” ) Members Jūlija Stepanenko, Edgars Kucins, Janīna Jalinska, Ivars Zarins, Dana Reizniece-Ozola and others ask for the draft decision on the election of Member Jūlija Stepanenko to be on the agenda of today's meeting to be included in the Panel on Petitions. Are there any objections? ( Internouncing call.) And the objections. Please! The name of Member Julia Stepanenko.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-21-PT13-520-U209	Dear colleagues, Why should I complain now? ( Intersades: “The Prosecutor! ” ; “For the Embassy!” ( ) To whom do I write letters? Because you are really violating my rights at the moment - and not only my rights, but also those of all my constituents who have entrusted me with this work. Different versions were heard why you do not want me to come to the Request Commission. And among the versions that I may have told you before, there was also one that Mr. Riekstin mentioned. Are you going to remove the Request Commission? ( Interface: “Stops without meaning... “ A pointless commission?Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Come and tell me! ( Internouncing call.) Tell me why you think the only commission that is going on to question the responsible ministers... it does not happen as an inquiry takes place in the European Commission of Affairs, but... really high quality, with all the arguments... Why is the only commission that really has started working very well 13? In the family, do you think it's useless now? ( Internouncing call.) Please come and tell me!
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-21-PT13-520-U210	Thank you. Please! ‘ Aldis Gobzems, the Member against’, has applied to speak. ( Insight: ‘ Against ’?)Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, “) Yes. ‘ Against’ applied, yes.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-21-PT13-520-U211	This parliament, or parliament, is a parliament that has promised an uncompromising rule of law. Without compromise, the rule of law means respect for the Constitution, the rights of Members of the Parliament guaranteed by the Constitution. I call on you to vote 'no' - as you, the coalition, have done to show that you have been warned against the uncompromising rule of law, the Constitution of the Republic of Latvia, the rights of Members. I call for the vote to be "no" because it will be a reason for Member Julija Stepanenko to refer the matter to the court, because it is not the first time that a Member has done so in similar circumstances, having regard to the previous decision of the Constitutional Court. Show by voting 'no' that the rule of law is uncompromising only to those voters you consider foolish! Thank you. (Applause)
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-21-PT13-520-U212	Thank you. Dear colleagues, There has been talk of "for" and "for". We will vote. Please call me! Please vote mode! Please get the result! There's no one for - 33, no one for - 47, no one for - 47. The draft decision was rejected. We're going on. The next item is the examination of the draft decision. The Commission of Social and Labour Affairs has submitted draft decision on the extension of the deadline for the submission of proposals in the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Regulated Professions and Recognition of Professional Qualifications” (No. (29/Lp13) for second reading until 28 February 2019.’ Let's vote. Please call me! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 79, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Decision adopted. Thank you. Reports by the Bureau on draft legislative acts submitted. The Presidium of the Saeima proposes that the Member Reizniece-Ozola, Valaiņa, Augulija, Kučinska, Many and other submitted draft law “Amendments to the Law on Personal Income Tax” be referred to the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission, stating that it is the committee responsible. Do Members have objections? There is no objection. The draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The next item on the agenda of today's meeting is "Conclusion of the election, approval, appointment, dismissal or dismissal of officials, of trust or distrust". Members Ēriks Pucens, Linda Liepiņa, Iveta Benhen-Beken, Ramona Petraviča, Ivars Puga and others have submitted a draft decision on the withdrawal of Member Alda Blumbergs from the Commission of European Affairs. Please call me! ( The Room Noise. Depp. J. Urbanovich: “What is it about walking?Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, ”) Please vote! Please get the result! For - 57, for - 2 and for - 1. Decision adopted. Members Atis Zakaistovs, Aldis Blumbergs, Aivars Geidāns, Ēriks Pucens, Jānis Vitenbergs and others submitted a draft decision “On the withdrawal of Member Ramonas Petravičs from the Commission for Mandates, Ethics and Applications”. Please call me! ( Insight: ‘ Against! ’) ) “ Against”. Oh, he's applied to speak to Andrey Klementyev. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-21-PT13-520-U213	Good morning, honourable Members! I'm talking about the Rally of Order. The Commission for Mandates, Ethics and Applications should have two representatives from each political group. If we withdraw one today, it will be a violation. We need to look at two documents - the withdrawal and the new candidate... The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A. Zakatistov’s intermediate call.) Yeah, yeah, we're talking about the fact that we can't... The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. Zakaitistov: “There’s another two weeks’ time!” ) No, no, wait, we are talking today about the fact that we cannot withdraw one Member from the Commission for Mandates, Ethics and Applications... The rule of law is regulated by the Rules of Procedure. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A. Zakaistov: “Since when have we been talking about the Rules of Procedure?” ) If we withdraw one, we should be the second candidate from your group at the moment, so that he takes part in the work and we do not break the Rules of Procedure. Either two documents on the same agenda or nobody. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A. Neighbours: “Where is it written?” ) In order not to violate the Rules of Procedure, we cannot deal with this document. ( The box “Yes! ”) ; “No!” “Andrey, you don’t understand anything about the uncompromising rule of law!” ) Council Regulation (EC) No 1257/96 of 20 June 1996 concerning humanitarian aid (OJ L 163, 2.7.1996, p. 1).
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-21-PT13-520-U214	Opinions are divided. Please call me! Let's vote. Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 48, for - 2 and for - 1. Decision adopted. Colleagues! The agenda has been examined on big lines today. But please, please, pay attention! I would like to inform you of the answers to Members' questions scheduled today. The question to Minister of Economics Ralf Nemiro “On replies from the Minister of Economics to questions from Members regarding the information report “On the regulation, monitoring and action of mandatory procurement of electricity and guaranteed charges for installed capacity following the decision of the Saeima of 10 January 2019” discussed at the Cabinet meeting of Ministers of 29 January 2019. The written replies received shall not be satisfied. The Minister informs that due to the schedule of work planned in advance, no oral answer can be given. The question of Members Klementyeva, Orlova, Ribakova, Krišana and Agešina to the Minister for Welfare Ramonas Petraviča “On legislative initiatives to improve the standard of living of pensioners”. The written replies received shall not be satisfied. The Minister informs that due to the schedule of work planned, no oral answer can be given. ( Milestones.) It's five times to reply... The question of MEPs Krauze, Lauges, Augūlis, Vucanas and Valaiņš to the Minister of Justice Janis Bordans “On the provision of the services of a sworn lawyer within the framework of business”. The written replies received shall not be satisfied. The Minister informs that due to the schedule of work planned in advance, no oral answer can be given. So today's answers to Members' questions will not happen. Questions have been received. Members Andrejs Klementyevs, Jānis Krišāns, Edgars Kucins, Evija Papaule and Ivars Zarins submitted a question to welfare minister Ramonas Petravičs “On the renewal of pension benefits for pensioners who retired after 1 January 2012”. Let's ask the Minister a question for a reply. Members Ivars Zariņš, Regīna Ločmele-Lunova, Jānis Krišāns, Valerijs Agešins and Vitalijs Orlovs submitted a question to Minister of Economics Ralf Nemiro “On the avoidance of the Minister of Economics to provide answers on the substance of the questions asked by the Minister of Economics regarding the information report “On the regulation, monitoring and action of mandatory procurement of electricity and guaranteed charges for installed capacity, as discussed at the meeting of the Cabinet of Ministers of 29 January 2019 following the decision of the Saeima of 10 January 2019”. The question of urgency was accepted by the applicants. Let's ask the Minister a question for a reply. Members Viktors Valainis, Uldis Augulis, Gundars Dauge, Maris Kučinskis and Janīna Jalinska submitted a question to the Minister of Environmental Protection and Regional Development Juris Pucem “On the funding needed to prepare administrative territorial reform – about EUR 800 000”. Let's ask the Minister a question for a reply. Motivation name to Member Viktor Valainis.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-21-PT13-520-U215	Hello, colleagues! I'm not gonna be late for a long time. More recently, the finance minister, John Reir, said that we should not lose any children. On this background, the municipality still bears the costs of maintaining the boarding school in Kandava. Decisions have been taken to give up the holidays for pre-school and primary school children. This does not necessarily mean that we should take care of our children, especially those who live in regions. At the same time, the Ministry has found 500 thousand this year, 300 thousand next year for research on how to spend another 300 million... And that's why the question of the nature of the Minister for Environmental Protection and Regional Development about what exactly and exactly he is going to study and what exactly... Isn’t it that it has been studied several times before? And will we not use this money for free? Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-21-PT13-520-U216	Thank you for your motivation speech. Your questions will be referred to the Minister for a reply. Members Ivars Zariņš, Jānis Krišāns, Ivans Klementjevs, Nikolajs Kabanovs and Vitalijs Orlovs submitted a question to the Minister of Justice Janis Bordans “On the “independent legal opinion” implemented by the Ministry of Economics in connection with the information report “On the regulation, monitoring and action of electricity mandatory procurement and guaranteed charges for installed capacities, as discussed at the Cabinet of Ministers meeting on 29 January 2019””. Member Ivars Zarins has the floor to motivate the question.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-21-PT13-520-U217	Colleagues! These questions are for the Minister of Justice on the legendary independent legal assessment, which is, by nature, very strange, as well as on the conditions for independence, on the competence of legal offices. We know that legal offices that have provided services to OIC recipients have applied for. How they will now give an opinion to the Ministry of Economics, how to put an end to this system - this is our question to the Minister for Justice. We want him to assess the terms of this competition, how objective they are, how competent they are, how legal they can be made for seven thousand euros, if we know that the Ministry of Justice will make a similar assessment for the justice system for half a million euros. Something doesn't come together in these numbers. Who hasn't understood here to the end of what he has to do? We therefore ask the Ministry of Justice to give its assessment of such an independent legal assessment. Is this task actually carried out in the public interest or in order to actually cover this area for the benefit of small groups of interests? Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-21-PT13-520-U218	Thank you. Let's ask the Minister a question for a reply. And now, colleagues, let us register. Please check-in mode! Let's hear the announcements. The name is Igor Pimenov and Inese Voika.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-21-PT13-520-U219	Dear Members, I call upon you to the Yellow House to set up together a group of Members to facilitate cooperation with the Portuguese Parliament. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-21-PT13-520-U220	In my turn, 10 minutes after the Saeima sitting, I call on you to set up a group of Members to facilitate cooperation with the Armenian Parliament.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-21-PT13-520-U221	Another statement. The name of the Member, Andrejs Clementyev.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-21-PT13-520-U222	The political group meets in the Red Hall in five minutes. A very short question that needs to be resolved. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-21-PT13-520-U223	Name of Member Maria Golubeva to read the results of the registration.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-21-PT13-520-U224	Not registered: Mārtiņš Bondars, Anda Čakša, Vjačeslavs Dombrovskis, Inese Ikstena, Andrejs Judins, Rihards Kols, Ieva Krapāne, Armands Krauze, Inese Lībiņa-Egnere, Anita Muižniece, Ināra Mūrniece, Didzis Šmits, Mārtiņš Šteins, Jānis Vucāns and Evita Zālīte-Grosa.
ParlaMint-LV_2019-02-21-PT13-520-U225	Thank you. I'm closing the sitting.
