ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-13-senat-32-1.u1	I open the second session of the Senate of the Republic of Poland IX term of office. [[Marshal hits Marshal's staff three times.]] I appoint Senator Rafał Ambrozik and Senator Robert Dowhan to be the secretaries of the sitting. The list of speakers will be led by Senator Rafał Ambrozik. Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! On 7 December 2016, Jan Mincewicz, PhD of theological sciences, well-known Polish politician in Lithuania, social activist, cultural animator, founder and long-time head of folklore group of songs and dances For his activities Jan Mincewicz was honoured, among others, with the Medal of the National Education Commission, the Commander's Cross of the Order of Merit of the Republic of Poland, the title of "Deserved for Polish Culture." In July of this year he was awarded the medal of Pro Patria. Please rise and celebrate with a minute of silence Jan Mincewicz's memory. [[Give him eternal rest, Lord.]] [[The gathered answer, "Let eternal light shine upon him."]] [[May he rest in eternal peace.]] [[The assembled answer: Amen.]] Thank you very much. I would like to inform you that on 7 October 2016, the President of the Council of Ministers forwarded to the Senate a document on the implementation of the Act of 4 February 2011 on the care of children under the age of three in 2015. This document is contained in print No 300. On 13 October 2016, the Senate Marshal sent a report to the Committee on Local Government and State Administration and to the Committee on Family, Senior and Social Policy. The Committee on Family, Senior and Social Policy took note of the document at its meeting on 2 November 2016 and the Committee on Local Government and State Administration at its meeting on 6 December 2016. The committees have informed the Senate marshal. I would like to inform you that the Sejm, at its thirty-first meeting on 29 and 2 December 2016, adopted all the amendments of the Senate to the Act amending the Act on Income Tax on Individuals, the Act on Corporate Income Tax and the Act amending the Act on Tax Law and certain other laws, to the Act on the Status of Judges of the Constitutional Tribunal, to the Act amending the Act on Taxation on Goods and Services and certain other laws, to the Act on Specific Solutions for the Implementation of the Budget Act for 2017 and to part of the amendments notified by the Senate to the Act amending the Act on Payment Services and certain other laws. In the absence of objections to the minutes of the twenty-seven and twenty-eighth meetings, I state that the minutes to these meetings have been adopted. I would like to inform you that the minutes of the twenty-nineth Senate meeting in accordance with the Senate Rules of Procedure are prepared to be made available to the senators. If no one of your senators raises objections to it, it will be adopted at the next sitting. Mr and Mrs Senators, the draft agenda has been placed on senators' benches. I propose that points one, two, three, five, six, seven, eight and nine of the draft agenda be examined, even though the committee's reports on these laws have been submitted at a later date than those laid down in Article. Article 34 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 2 Senate Rules of Procedure. If I do not hear the opposition, I will find that the High House has accepted the proposal. In the absence of any votes against, I find that the Senate has accepted the proposal. States of Senators, I propose to supplement the agenda with points: second reading of the draft resolution on the 25th anniversary of the end of the National Council of the Republic of Poland in exile and consider it as item 16 of the agenda; second reading of the draft resolution on the 35th anniversary of the tragic events on the 17th agenda; second reading of the draft resolution on the 46th anniversary of the blood massacre of workers in Szczecin and the Coast and consider it as item 18 of the agenda. If I do not hear the opposition, I will find that the High House has accepted the proposal. In the absence of any votes against, I find that the Senate has accepted the proposal. I propose a joint examination of paragraph 10: the Act on the ratification of the Protocol amending the multilateral settlement agreement in transfer rubles and the setting up of the International Bank for Economic Cooperation of 22 October 1963, as amended by the Protocols of 18 December 1970 and 23 November 1977, as amended by the Protocols of 18 December 1970 and 23 November 1977, drawn up in Moscow on 18 December 1990; and the Act on the ratification of the Protocol amending the Agreement on the establishment and operation of the International Bank for Economic Cooperation of 22 October 1963, as amended by the Protocols of 18 December 1970, 23 November 1977 and 18 December 1990, and the Statute of the International Bank for Economic Cooperation, as amended by the Protocols of 18 December 1970, 23 November 1977 and 18 December 1990, drawn up in Warsaw on 25 November 2014. If I do not hear the opposition, I will find that the High House has accepted the proposal. In the absence of any votes against, I find that the Senate has accepted the proposal. Would any of your senators like to speak on the agenda? I don't see any volunteers. I state that the Senate approved the order of the 30th second Senate meeting of the Republic of Poland IX term. I would like to inform you that we will proceed with the examination of the ninth, tenth and eleventh points on December 15th. I would like to remind the senators that on the agenda you have been informed of any additions to the current agenda. I would also like to inform you that the agenda may be supplemented by other laws adopted by the Sejm at its current meeting. Today at 4:15 p.m., a break will be announced by 7:30 p.m. In the evening, we will vote on the laws that are being discussed today. We'll resume tomorrow at 1:30. 17 December, i.e. On Thursday, at 10.45, we will announce a recess until 12.30 for the parliamentary fee. Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators, the present sitting has been extended by 2 additional days, i.e. 20 and 21 December of this year. We proceed with the examination of the first item of the agenda: the Act amending the Social Assistance Act. The text of the Act is contained in print No 357 and the report of the Commission In print No 357 A. I would very much like to ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Family, Senior and Social Policy, Senator Richard Majer, to present a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-13-senat-32-1.u2	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I have the honour to present a report by the Committee on Family, Senior and Social Policy on the law adopted by the Sejm on 2 December 2016 amending the Law on Social Assistance. Ladies and gentlemen, the amendment of this law includes an article. 106 in the provisions governing the procedure for social assistance benefits in which, among other things, social assistance benefits are applicable. the principle of granting and paying the cash benefit from the month in which the application was lodged together with the required documentation. Amendment of Article 106 is bound by the judgment of the Constitutional Tribunal of 6 October 2015, in which the Court held that that Article, in so far as it provides that, in the case of an application for a permanent allowance, a person who is wholly unable to work with a disability decision and who does not have other means of subsistence, the right to the benefit shall be determined as from the month in which the application is submitted, is incompatible with Article. Article 67 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 2 in conjunction with Article. 2 constitutions. The provision to the extent specified by the Court shall expire on 31 December 2016. Ladies and gentlemen, new wording of the article. 106 did not raise any controversy at the committee meeting. In short, the point is that the person who's turning to the social services system... [[The meeting is chaired by Vice-Marshal Maria Koc]] [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[Excuse me, Mr. Senator. Quiet, please. Ladies and gentlemen, please be quiet in the Chamber because you can't hear the rapporteur's senator. There you go.]] A person who, in relation to disability, asks the social assistance system for assistance has so far only been able to do so when he has received a disability decision. At the moment, she will submit the documents simultaneously with the application... she will be able to submit the documents at the same time as she submits the application to the judicial system and will be covered by the periodic allowance until the decision is obtained. At the time of delivery of the relevant document to the social assistance centre, the relevant disability decision will be covered by a permanent allowance. This is a solution that benefits users who are unable to work because of disability, because it allows them to acquire the right to benefit directly at a time when the cause of disability actually happens, they do not have to wait, as it has been so far. The bill at the committee meeting did not raise much controversy. The Commission recommends that the High Senate adopt this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-13-senat-32-1.u3	Thank you very much, Senator. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the rapporteur's senator. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? Senator Mieczysław Augustyn. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-13-senat-32-1.u4	Mr. Senator, what groups of people might possibly be affected by this change, and what may be the potential cost of introducing it?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-13-senat-32-1.u5	There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-13-senat-32-1.u6	In the case of permanent benefit, it is difficult to clearly estimate costs, perhaps the Minister in her speech will be able to specify this in more detail. Because we are actually dealing with a group of people who are in such a situation that they are, as it were, affected by their disability. At the committee meeting, we did not talk about the costs in relation to this point, so that we can redirect this question to the Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-13-senat-32-1.u7	Thank you. Are there any more questions? Please, Mr. Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-13-senat-32-1.u8	Senator, I'd like to ask you a question. According to the provisions of the Act, it is said that this amount of permanent allowance may not be lower than PLN 30 per month. Did we talk about why it's that kind of money? I'm asking 'cause I missed it somewhere, I don't remember it. Can you explain that?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-13-senat-32-1.u9	Thank you. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-13-senat-32-1.u10	We didn't talk about it, I don't recall talking about it, but I can say it's the amount resulting from the laws. [[And how is it calculated?]] It's for the Minister. [[It's for the Minister. Good. Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-13-senat-32-1.u11	Thank you. Are there any more questions? I don't see any volunteers. Thank you, Senator. [[Thank you.]] The bill was filed by the government. The Minister for Family, Labour and Social Policy was authorised to present the government's position during parliamentary work. Today we have Minister Elżbieta Bojanowska, Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Family, Labour and Social Policy. Would the Minister like to speak on the bill under consideration? You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-13-senat-32-1.u12	Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! I would just like to remind you that the purpose of the draft law amending the Social Assistance Act is to implement the judgment of the Constitutional Tribunal of 6 October 2015, in which the Court of Justice ruled on the non-compliance with the Constitution of the Article. Article 106 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013 shall apply. 3 The Social Assistance Act to the extent that it provides that, in the case of an application for a permanent benefit to a person who is completely unfit for work, legitimizing a judgment of significant disability and not having other means of subsistence, the right to permanent allowance shall be determined from the month in which the application was submitted. The draft law was presented by the rapporteur, and I will not repeat this information, but I will refer to these two questions. I'm addressing Senator Augustine. We estimate that it will be about 2 000 900 people, exactly 2 000 860, and the cost of the OSR is about PLN 6 million 200 thousand. As far as 30 PLN is concerned, this law does not change anything in the previous regulations in the Social Assistance Act, i.e. these rules remain. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-13-senat-32-1.u13	Thank you very much, Minister. There are questions. Yes? [[I'd just like to ask you to clarify.]] Senator Jarosław Duda. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-13-senat-32-1.u14	Thank you very much, Marshal. I would like to ask you to clarify whether, at this stage in the implementation of the judgment The Court could discuss an increase in this minimum amount, these 30 PLN, whether it...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-13-senat-32-1.u15	No, that would go beyond the scope of the Court's ruling. This was not at all part of the Court's ruling. [[So today is the minimum amount of 30 PLN and that's how she was...]] Yes. This was not covered by the Court's ruling. It was about the moment when a person can apply for social assistance. Earlier it was that she could at the time she had the ruling, and today we say that maybe at the time she applied for the ruling... [[Mrs. Marshal, may I ask you another question?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-13-senat-32-1.u16	Yes, of course. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-13-senat-32-1.u17	Do you remember when this amount of PLN 30 was determined when it was decided that it would be at this level?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-13-senat-32-1.u18	No, I don't remember, Senator, but of course we serve in writing. [[Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-13-senat-32-1.u19	Thank you very much. Is there anyone else? You're welcome, Senator Richard Majer.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-13-senat-32-1.u20	I have a question for you. Maybe the Minister can tell me if I understand correctly. He asks this question, among other things. Mr. Senator Duda This minimum amount of PLN 30 on a fixed allowance is, in fact, the amount which results from the difference between income and income and, for example, if. The difference between income and income is 20 PLN, then the resort... [[Voice from the room: Then it must be...]] ...must pay at least 30 PLN. He can't pay less.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-13-senat-32-1.u21	Yes, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-13-senat-32-1.u22	Good. Are there any more questions for the Minister? Mr Mieczysław Augustyn.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-13-senat-32-1.u23	Minister, remind us all what is the income criterion for people who receive benefits at the moment.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-13-senat-32-1.u24	The fixed allowance amounts to PLN 604; the adjusted allowance in 2015 is PLN 634 for the solo manager and PLN 514 per person in the family.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-13-senat-32-1.u25	Thank you. Are there any more questions? I don't see any calls. Thank you very much, Minister. [[Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Family, Labour and Social Policy Elżbieta Bojanowska: Thank you very much.]] I would like to inform you that a representative of the government has undertaken to give a written answer to the question asked by Senator Jarosław Duda. I'm opening a discussion. I would like to inform you that none of your senators have signed up. The discussion is closed. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held in the voting block. Thank you very much. We're coming... Thank you, Minister. We proceed with the review of item two of the agenda: the Act amending the Act on Pensions and Pensions from the Social Insurance Fund and some other laws. The text of the Act is contained in print No 358 and the report of the Commission in print No 358 A. I ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Family, Senior and Social Policy, Senator Richard Majer, to submit a report to the committee. You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-13-senat-32-1.u26	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Dear guests! I have the honour to present a report to the Committee on Family, Senior and Social Policy on the Law adopted by the Sejm on 2 December 2016 amending the Act on Pensions from the Social Insurance Fund and certain other laws. Ladies and gentlemen, this law, adopted by the Sejm on 2 December 2016, increases to PLN 1 000 per month the amount of the lowest pension for total incapacity for work, the lowest pension and the amount of PLN 750 per month the amount of the lowest pension for partial incapacity for work. In addition, it provides for derogations in 2017 from the percentage rule for the valorisation of pensions laid down in the Act of 17 December 1998. Instead of an increase in benefits by the same percentage for all recipients, in 2017 benefits of the amount available on 28 February 2017 will be increased by the valorisation rate established in accordance with Article. 89 Act amended by no less than PLN 10. This is not the first valorisation of benefits that deviates from the 1998 rules. Similar advantages were realized earlier. The family committee leaned over a change of law. The Commission welcomed the increase of the lowest pension and pension to PLN 1 000. This is an important tribute to those who receive these benefits. Thus up to PLN 1 thousand for people who are completely unfit for work, up to PLN 750 for people who are partially unfit for work, up to PLN 1 thousand for people who receive the lowest pensions and family pensions. During the meeting of our committee there were questions about the costs of this project. As we were informed by the representatives of the Ministry, in the case of pensions it will be the amount of PLN 250 million, and in total, i.e. with pensions, that is the amount estimated at PLN 2.5 billion. Thank you very much. And, of course, I recommend adopting this law without amendment.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-13-senat-32-1.u27	Thank you, Senator. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the rapporteur's senator. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? Senator Jarosław Duda, and then Senator Mieczysław Augustyn.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-13-senat-32-1.u28	Thank you, Mrs. Marshal. Senator rapporteur, we talked, as I recall, about the logic of the investigation to this amount of PLN 1 000. Is it true, or have I read correctly, that this is related to the fact that from next year the minimum wage is to be 2 thousand PLN? Is that dictated? Could you explain that? If not, then of course I will ask the Minister, because I wonder why 1 thousand PLN, not 1 thousand 200 PLN or 900 PLN. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-13-senat-32-1.u29	Please, Mr. Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-13-senat-32-1.u30	I will say this: the philosophy of these benefits is related to the predicted rate of valorization and combines... The increase in the lowest benefits, i.e. pensions and survivor's pensions for total incapacity for work, which would have occurred at a level higher than that adopted in the Act of 2 December 2016 amending the Act on Pensions from the Social Insurance Fund and certain other laws... I think more details will be presented by representatives of the Ministry.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-13-senat-32-1.u31	Thank you very much. And Senator Mieczysław Augustyn.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-13-senat-32-1.u32	Why was the lowest amount of valorisation adopted at the level of 10 PLN and why this solution should apply only in 2017, while the Ministry's announcements made here in this Chamber indicated that the mechanism would be permanently changed in a situation where these valorizations would be very low? I will remind you that probably in 2015 the lowest valorisation was at a much higher level, and in 2016 also. So I'd like to know where the 10 zlotys come from.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-13-senat-32-1.u33	We take into account the budgetary possibilities of the Social Insurance Institution. However, I think that the mechanism will be addressed in detail by the Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-13-senat-32-1.u34	Thank you very much. Are there any more questions? No. Thank you, Senator. The bill was filed by the government. The Minister for Family, Labour and Social Policy was authorised to present the government's position during parliamentary work. Mr Marcin Zielenecki, Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Family, Labour and Social Policy, is at the meeting today. Are you the Minister of... Please, the Minister wishes to take the floor and present the position of the Government. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-13-senat-32-1.u35	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I'm going to say two sentences about the substance of this bill. In fact, the need for a law amending the Social Insurance Fund's pension law results from certain deficits in the percentage valorisation mechanism, which is permanently introduced into the pension law. If 1 March 2017 were to be limited only to the implementation of the provisions of the Pension Act, pension benefits would only increase by 0,73%. The valorisation rate would be 100.73%. This would mean that the lowest pension benefits would increase in a very small way. It can be said that the application of the interest rate valorisation mechanism over many years results in the lowest benefits increasing in a less significant way than higher benefits. There is an increasing gap between the amount of the lowest pension benefit and the minimum wage, the amount of the minimum wage and the amount of the average salary. The government therefore considered that there was a need to value, strengthen those receiving the lowest pension benefits. I would like to say that the mechanism proposed by the Law amending the Social Insurance Fund's pension law involves two operations. The first is an operation to increase the amount of the lowest pension benefits in general to PLN 1 thousand in terms of pensions and pensions for total incapacity for work, and to increase the amount of social pensions from PLN 741 to PLN 840 and increase the amount of the lowest incapacity for work from PLN 676 to PLN 750. It is worth noting that the benefits, the positive effects of this operation will not only be felt by those who have received benefits at the level of the lowest pension benefit. It can be said that those who receive benefits in the range between the amount of the lowest pension benefit and the amount of the lowest benefit in the proposed new amount will benefit from these arrangements. The second amendment contained in the Act is the introduction of an element of quota valorisation into a systemically applied scheme in the pension law of the interest rate valorisation mechanism. This operation will also benefit those receiving benefits which are relatively higher than the lowest pension benefits in terms of the size of persons whose benefits will increase to a greater extent than the expected percentage of 100,73%. We assume that they will increase in a more favourable way for people receiving pensions of less than PLN 1 thousand 370. We have another element that justifies the appreciation of those receiving the lowest pension benefits. I am referring here to the formula used in the pension scheme for the defined contribution used to determine the amount of pension benefits. It can be said that our pension system, the new pension system that was introduced under the 1999 pension reform, is extremely individual. The amount of the pension in this defined premium scheme depends, in fact, on the individual insurance situation of each insured person, the situation that is actually dependent on three parameters, i.e. the amount of the remuneration achieved during the period of insurance, the duration of the premium payment period and the moment of retirement. It can therefore be said that this lowest pension or the construction of the lowest pension is in fact the only social component in this new pension scheme and it is therefore necessary to strengthen this social component in the pension system. It can be said that this is a solution which, in a sense, also has a disciplinary role for insured persons to pay contributions to pension insurance. We must bear in mind that the construction of the lowest pension benefit applies to persons who simply legitimize themselves with a minimum insurance period, a minimum premium period and a non-contributory period. Right? So that's why we have decided to increase the amount of the lowest pension benefits. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-13-senat-32-1.u36	Thank you very much. Are there any questions? Please, Senator Mieczysław Augustyn, and then Senator Duda.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-13-senat-32-1.u37	Minister, a few questions. Namely, I would like to know whether, after the increase in these lowest benefits, people receiving the lowest pension will exceed the amount that was supposed to be such a benefit in terms of the tax-free amount. 'Cause I think that's where it went out a month under 900 zlotys. So I understand that the lowest pensions will cross this threshold and these people will not have this deduction. I might ask you to confirm my doubts. Of course, I would also like to repeat the question of why, contrary to what you said, you are not introducing a permanent mechanism for regulating a situation where valorisation is so low. Another question. The lowest pension because of what the Minister was talking about, that is, the transition to a defined contribution, it kind of breaks off this bond and turns into a kind of social benefit that you get regardless of how much you get. In this regard, first of all, I have a question about what groups of people will be affected. We know what the cost is. But what group of pensioners and also agricultural pensioners will be covered by this change regarding the lowest pension? And why, then, do you not differentiate between this lowest benefit for farmers and workers? Because it is beginning to be absolutely social, and increasingly less and less insurance.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-13-senat-32-1.u38	You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-13-senat-32-1.u39	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! When preparing the bill of amendment, which I mentioned just now, we did not take into account the changes in the tax system. Right? This draft law was created earlier, even before the decisions on the tax-free amount. So that the amount of PLN 1 thousand, to which I would like to draw attention, concerning only the lowest pension benefits, as well as the lowest pension for total incapacity for work exceeds the tax-free amount. As regards issues relating to other benefits covered by the increase, i.e. social pensions, it will increase to PLN 840 and, so to speak, will be below the amount free. Right? In other words, it will be exempt in its entirety from the tax obligation in respect of personal income tax. The same will apply when it comes to a partial incapacity pension. I think that the tax arrangements apply to all taxpayers to the same extent. This element, which determines the level at which, you can say, the taxpayer benefits from a tax credit or a tax-free amount or a tax-free amount, is simply the amount of income achieved. And it can be said that this solution for the lowest pensions and pensions for total incapacity for work is in line with this philosophy. As regards the possible modification of the permanent mechanism for the valorisation of pensions that we have in the pension law, let us note that as regards the amount of the lowest pension benefit, we have not actually had a derogation from the principle so far... These benefits have increased to the extent that we have raised all pension benefits. In short, the amounts of the lowest benefits increased by the rate of valorisation. Right? So that this proposal, which is contained in today's legislation, implies a one-off detachment of the increase in the lowest pension benefits from the valorisation rate. As far as intentions are concerned, I've already presented them. In fact, it is a question of linking the rise in the lowest pension benefits with the increase in the lowest or minimum wage, which will increase from 1 January 2017 to 1 thousand PLN, and of linking the lowest pension benefits to the minimum wage, which slightly exceeds 1 thousand PLN. You could say that's where the idea came from. As regards possible changes to the permanent valorisation mechanism that we have in the law, this element is discussed, it is the subject of analysis. We are now finishing, finishing work on the pension review, and we are obliged to present the results of this review to the Sejm by the end of this year. This review also includes a mechanism for the valorisation of pension benefits. As regards the assessment of this mechanism, which we have in the act at the moment, I am not a clear critic of the mechanism of interest valorisation, although of course it has its shortcomings, it has its weaknesses. Such a weakness is, you might say, an insufficient increase in the lowest benefits. Right? But we have to remember what is the essence of valorization. Valorisation is an adjustment mechanism, an adaptation mechanism, a mechanism that involves adjusting pension benefits to changes in the economic environment. And these changes result from an increase in prices for consumer goods and services, i.e. inflation, as well as an increase in average monthly wages. And you could say that this valorization factor that we have today takes into account both parameters, so these are our benefits. We take into account the constant mechanism of valorization They increase according to the increase in prices of consumer goods and services and the increase in average wages. This mechanism This is the result of the Act we are discussing today, which will also apply on 1 March 2017 to all benefits. However, as I said, there is a need for additional support for those achieving the lowest pension benefits. And as I said, this bill, which we are discussing today, does not only apply to those who receive the lowest pension benefits, it also applies to those who receive benefits in the amount within the range between the lowest benefit and the amount of PLN 1 thousand, to say in some simplification. And this element of the value of the quota, which appears, concerns people who receive benefits below PLN 1 thousand 370. Thus, the scale, the subject-matter of the change is wider than if it only included those receiving the lowest pension benefits. I could say that in this respect However, it causes permanent changes. Because this increase to 1 thousand PLN results in, so to speak, a definitive increase in benefits. The same is true with the application of this amount of PLN 10. These benefits will increase permanently by more than the rate of valorisation. But, of course, as I mentioned, we are discussing systemic solutions limiting the shortcomings of percentage valorization, and we are analysing them in the context of the pension review. As far as the senator's question is concerned, as it were... The senator used this term: breaking the link between the pension contribution and the amount of the benefit. Of course, it's hard to talk about breaking a bond like that. This is, as I said, strengthening the social element in the new pension scheme. But this principle that the amount of the benefit, above all the amount of those benefits relatively higher, depends on the value of the pension contribution, is still maintained. But as I say... [[I was just talking about the lowest.]] But that is the assumption of the construction of the lowest benefit, mainly pension, because in the case of pension benefits this social element is in the form of a fixed component of each pension benefit: 24% of the basic amount. So here the situation is actually slightly different, here this relationship between the contribution and the amount of the benefit is not as exact as it is with pensions. In the case of pensions, this principle of contribution actually applies, and the only element as if it were social is the amount of the lowest pension benefit. The last question concerned differentiation of the principles of valorisation for farmers and persons covered by the general pension scheme. In fact, this bill is aimed at standardization. This is, you can say, a system solution. I think it is very good that we are bringing these two pension systems closer together: the universal system and the agricultural system. ♪ Bo ♪ I didn't mention this before. In fact, this law assumes, firstly, the introduction of the same mechanism for the valorisation of pension benefits in the agricultural system as in the common system and, secondly, the application of the same increase in the lowest pension benefits in the agricultural system as in the common system. So far, we have not used such a system mechanism in the agricultural system. So that if I were to personally assess this, I would say that I think very well that these systems are at least getting closer in this respect.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-13-senat-32-1.u40	Thank you, Minister. [[Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Family, Labour and Social Policy Marcin Zielenecki: Thank you.]] You're asking Senator Jarosław Duda.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-13-senat-32-1.u41	Thank you, Mrs. Marshal. Minister, you probably know this: how much is the minimum of existence calculated today, what is the amount? A person, of course. And the question is, you probably counted it, too. If 1 thousand zlotys is the lowest retirement today, how much is it? What is the amount to be paid or delivered to the recipient? That's the first question.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-13-senat-32-1.u42	There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-13-senat-32-1.u43	I don't have accurate data at the moment, but as far as the minimum of existence is concerned, this is the amount of more than 500 PLN. I'm not gonna tell you exactly what it is, but it's over 500 zlotys. So... one can say, in a simple way, that the amount of the lowest pension will twice as much as the minimum amount of existence. [[He can't do it twice, because if it's 500 and 1,000...]] But close, close. [[For 500 PLN there is calculated the amount of minimum existence... Excuse me, Mrs. Marshal. Can I...?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-13-senat-32-1.u44	Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-13-senat-32-1.u45	Net. It is calculated net. And since retirement is one thousand gross and we're gonna take away the consequences, tax, then it's not gonna be twice.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-13-senat-32-1.u46	We're, like, judging... As I say, also because the bill was created at a time when the changes in the tax system were not yet known In particular, the introduction of these new arrangements concerning the tax-free amount We just didn't make that kind of estimate. Yeah, well, I think in writing... I can commit to answering this question in this form.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-13-senat-32-1.u47	Good.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-13-senat-32-1.u48	Thank you very much, Minister. Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal, I'll ask you another question, if I may. That's the last question in this round. Okay? I've already asked your rapporteur about this, but... could you, Minister, present this philosophy or methodology of the investigation to this thousand PLN? Is this really about the fact that 2,000 is a minimum wage, that's why there's 1 000 here, or were there any other circumstances that you considered?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-13-senat-32-1.u49	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I'd list three elements here. In fact, three elements were important here. The first element is indeed the decision to increase the lowest wage. If we look at the justification of the bill, there is a table that shows how the relationship between the lowest pension and the minimum wage has deteriorated. Right? It can be said that in 2002 the lowest pension was about 70% minimum wage, this proportion has already fallen to 56,5% in 2008 , and in 2016 the lowest pension was only 47.71% that salary. This relationship has simply deteriorated as a result of the use of this percentage rate of valorisation. Thus, since it was decided to increase the minimum wage to PLN 2 000, it was necessary that at least to a limited extent this relationship between the minimum wage amount and the lowest pension should be maintained. And the amount of PLN 1 thousand gives, you can say, the possibility of keeping this dependency at 50%. This is one element. The second element, which was undoubtedly taken into account, is the relationship between the lowest pension and the minimum social amount. It can be said that this difference has also started to grow, so, as I said, increasing the amount of the lowest pension to PLN 1 thousand results in the fact that we are close to the social minimum. The third element is, of course, financial. We tried so hard to prepare a bill to fit into the budgetary realities. And it can be said that the total cost of this operation, these 2 main operations, falls under measures secured by the draft budget for 2017, that is about PLN 2 billion 500 million. So that these three factors as if they had decided that this is the shape of the proposals contained in this law.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-13-senat-32-1.u50	Another question? You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-13-senat-32-1.u51	Maybe... I'd like it to sound like it. Do you have a record of how many citizens of the Republic of Poland will receive this lowest pension of PLN 1 thousand? Do you have that calculated?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-13-senat-32-1.u52	Of course we do. With regard to this increase to PLN 1 000, it will apply to about 800,000 pensioners and FUS, i.e. those who are in the general system, in the Social Insurance Fund. With regard to people receiving social benefits, all of them will benefit from this. 285 000 people will benefit from it. As far as the agricultural system is concerned, this solution will apply to nearly 350 000 farmers collecting pensions and pensions from KRUS. So it can be said that in total nearly 1.5 million people will receive a benefit of PLN 1 thousand.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-13-senat-32-1.u53	Thank you, Minister. There are no more questions. Thank you very much. I would like to inform you that a government representative has undertaken to provide written answers to the questions asked by Senator Jarosław Duda. I'm opening a discussion. Please, Senator Mieczysław Augustyn.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-13-senat-32-1.u54	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! This is an interesting way to prevent the pauperisation of the retirement environment as a result of a still unfavorable, poor system of valorization. He worked for many years when inflation was high, but now that we were dealing with deflation, when inflation was very low, he didn't prevent... This system did not compensate at the level of the increase in actual costs. It is important to remember that very different components are inserted into the inflation basket. But he's different from the basket. . Ministry of Agriculture and Rural He knows it, and that's what he's researching. Retirement expenses. Unfortunately, expenses, fixed costs, which are more heavily burdened by pensioners, are often increased more strongly than the costs of other goods. That is why this proposal must be accepted, although it is indeed worth discussing. Because it doesn't seem like the best solution yet. First of all, the question is what to do with the growing number of people receiving the lowest benefits. This group will be growing due to the fact that very many people in the new system will not be able to earn a benefit above the minimum. In turn, as the Minister rightly pointed out here, even this increased benefit is minimally, slightly lower than the social minimum. Therefore, there is a problem, what we will do with those who have not worked for a long time, who have received very low benefits, who have remained in the grey zone for a long time. These people are in the labour market really much and they won't even be able to work out this minimum. Therefore, the lowest pension will become more and more And that's what I want to draw attention to. To remind you of social benefits in the case of this growing group, which we want to protect from extreme poverty. The link between this provision and the social minimum, with the minimum wage, seems to be a good solution, but it does not have a statutory representation. The Minister says so, but that's not in the bill, because if it were, we'd be sure that this might happen in the years to come. I'm looking at Senator Chróścikowski here because I asked about farmers, about agricultural pensions. In a situation where we associate benefits with indicators such as minimum social pay, we go from talking about pensions to talking about minimum functioning. And then it becomes less and less understandable why the minimum benefit for farmers is lower than the employee benefit. Is the social minimum smaller for them? Is there another minimum wage in the country for them? No. These are the same parameters, only that some will get more and others less. And it's getting less and less understandable why. Because, like I said, we're leaving the mechanism. Only for the lowest benefits, of course. That they are related to the amount of pension contributions paid. The second point I would like to point out is, of course, flattening pension benefits, the amount of these benefits. Please note that today the average of these benefits for women is about PLN 1 thousand 700, for men just under 2.5 thousand gross. And with faster, already for several years, the valorization of the lowest benefits, their benefits are closer to the benefits of those who have worked out in the new system not too high benefits, but have worked them out first and foremost with their own efforts. This raises doubts. It seems to me that the discrepancy at as high as you are now suggesting that there is 10 PLN as a minimum increase as a result of the percentage valorization and 1 thousand... and 170 PLN increase in the minimum benefit... Well, that's 17 times more. And if this pace were to be maintained, it would be those who are working out not too high, but with their own effort, hard work, putting aside their contributions, who would feel injured, and this would start to arouse probably also constitutional doubts. Therefore, Minister, we are waiting for the results of the pension review, this audit of the whole system, because it seems that it will continue to require ordering and lasting system solutions, in which many other factors will be taken into account, including those that I wanted to draw your attention to. Perhaps it will be bitter for many hundreds of thousands of pensioners to acknowledge that they will unfortunately not benefit from the benefits of increasing the tax-free amount as a result of the increase in their benefits. Yeah, but these guillotines at different amounts work that way, you give them one, and the other, unfortunately, is excluded. It only confirms what we talked about on the occasion of the tax-free amount, that in truth the intention was to gain the poorest, but it must be said that only the poorest of the poor will benefit, because the huge group receiving the lowest pension will no longer benefit from it.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-13-senat-32-1.u55	Thank you, Senator. Senator Jerzy Chróścikowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-13-senat-32-1.u56	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I wasn't supposed to speak, but I was provoked by the senator, my previous speaker. Here's what I'm gonna say. Farmers are very pleased that the government has taken this into account and that it wants to make up for pension benefits which are at a minimum level because there was no such equality before. Here's a bow, a thank you to the government, to the parliament, the Sejm who's making it. I think we're gonna pass on that, too. This is a step in the right direction, as the Minister mentioned. But as for the question you asked the senator, I'll say yes. These are 2 separate funds and there are separate rules. We know this very well, because we have repeatedly paid attention to this in this House. You have repeatedly proposed to bring the KRUS to an end as soon as possible and to introduce a uniform system for farmers. I just want to point out that this system operates in many countries, in France, and our law on the CRUS is modelled on the French system. Our system isn't exactly French, but he's the system... This is the great achievement of farmers who have won a system of separate functioning. On the one hand, some farmers complain that pensions are low, and for that reason, on the other hand, we look at the fact that there are large subsidies from the state budget, and we look at the other part of the contribution, the maternity and sickness fund, which is collected separately by farmers themselves. Many times, even in this room, there have been words that farmers themselves provide very low benefits, what they pay for one sick day... So it's like the will of the farmers themselves who prefer to pay less and take less. This is a deal, you can say, towards the action of the so-called. Council of farmers, which sets itself the amount of contributions and wants e.g. less pay and less charge for sick leave. You will remember that in this system there was a payment of maternity benefits in the previous term. It was in a certain amount, less than PLN 4,000, if I remember correctly, and the state introduced PLN 1 thousand for each woman for a year. That's more than it used to be, that's right, except it was taken from the farmers from the fund, from the funds they're putting in there. Of this fund about 40% was taken for this benefit and 60% added from the budget. In the case of benefits of this kind relating to other persons, I am talking about students, unemployed, etc., who previously received them. They can still get it, and here, unfortunately, it has been done so that 60% or up to 60%, if I remember correctly from the records, will, however, finance the state budget. This is the opposite, the woman who gives birth to a child has the same right as women who perform other professions, whether they are students or unemployed. They have the same rights. In this case, I am also glad that there has been a level playing field. As for what the senator mentioned in his speech, the fact that the benefits are unequal, I must say that the contributions are also unequal. When there are employee contributions, it counts on the amount of the fund to be put in, and there is no such proportion for farmers. Do you remember that in the previous term, if I remember correctly, we increased our farmers' contributions. Now there is a higher premium, it depends on the area, on the hectares and it gradually grows, has been raised 500 times. So we see here, too, that a farmer with fewer hectares pays a certain rate, and a farmer with a maximum of 500 hectares pays, let's say, 500 times, which is 5 times what the farmer who is a small farmer pays, and the benefit is exactly the same. Therefore, if we want to compare these systems... This cannot be compared, because we still pay, farmers who are big farmers today pay much more, and the benefits are the same. So the question is, are we going to change this model or are we going to drive... Farmers believe that the KRUS system is a solution for them today and do not want to over-modify it, but if necessary... Let's think, let's work out solutions to maintain this system and give it the opportunity to pay higher benefits to farmers who pay higher contributions. So that I thank the government once again for taking steps to align our minimum pension with that which is in the general system. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-13-senat-32-1.u57	Thank you very much, Senator. Senator Jan Rulewski. [[Voice from the room: There isn't.]] [[Voice from the room: It was just a moment ago.]] You're not here... You're a senator. Please, Mr. Senator. Senator Jan Rulewski. Mr. Senator, do you wish to speak in the discussion? [[Yes.]] There you go, because we're waiting for you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-13-senat-32-1.u58	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! My vote will actually be a continuation of the speeches of the previous debate, when we talked in the atmosphere, I would say, more tense about the bill brought to the Sejm marshal's staff by the President, adopted by the Sejm and then adopted without amendment also by the Senate. Today we are continuing to debate the pension system. I also remind you that at the time I requested that all Poles' pensions and pensions be around All those who work and serve and serve a reform coalition has been created which will ensure, first, stability, second, growth and thirdly, a sense of dignity for people who retire or benefit from pension rights or other forms of social security. Maybe in reverse. And these two laws, in a sense, convoy with each other, but convoy in spite of my proposal for a resolution in which I asked for such a coalition. Well, they clearly show that, depending on the outcome of the election and the established government, it gets mixed up, it goes through. That's not a harsh phrase. In pension schemes. This law raises the pension and at the same time introduces a small, actually mathematical or technical valorization. While the latter is obvious, because it means some rationality, this first issue raises doubts. It is nice that the government remembers the lowest pensions that it remembers the people affected by the lowest income, but it is very bad that the PiS government does not remember that everyone has signed up to the pension system and that everyone has signed up to its rules. Well, there's a few rules here. It is not only the principle of solidarity, but also the principle of insurance: as many benefits as contributions; as many benefits as the work and its derivative, or income. The PiS Government continues its policy on: The cashier will pay, this time reaching for the funds of other insured persons. And even if he's going to take it from the tax system, it's going to affect those who are going to get it, or it's going to be worth it. It's actually questioning this good for the second time. That's what I'm saying. The organisation of the State's efforts to ensure that social security mechanisms function in accordance with the Constitution. You change your proportions, you change your values, and the values of the insurance system are equality and mutual obligations. You're breaking out... you're creating a breach. You forget that the poor is also the one who worked for 40 years, made money on average, paid a contribution, and today must be composed of the whims of the PiS government. This is irresponsible. Yes, Mr. Senator, it's a whim, nowhere recorded, to take one in the insurance system and give the other, and say it's a blessing. This is a mess... please show me such an insurance company, anywhere in the world, in your friendly countries or not, where the company president, the board or the board of this company, if it's social, would announce: we'll take one and the other lady. The next day, there wouldn't be a company like that. And in my opinion, Minister, if you support this, you are destroying the solidarity of the insured. Of course, it is not that the current system is a coherent, good system. We know how much interference there was in him, also in the previous term. But even more so, the insurance system must be characterised, as I said, by one feature: stability. Because people at the age of 80, 75 are unable to come to the demonstration. Whether it's protest or support. You do not give them this opportunity, you violate the basic standards of social relations that were in force and apply in all countries independent of the regimes that prevail in them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-13-senat-32-1.u59	Thank you. The discussion is closed. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held in the voting block. Thank you very much. We proceed with the examination of the third item of the agenda: the law amending the Law on healthcare services financed by public funds. The text of the Act is contained in print No 364 and the Commission's reports In prints No 364 A and 364 B. I ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development, Senator Jerzy Chróścikowski, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-13-senat-32-1.u60	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour to submit, on behalf of the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development, a report on the law adopted by the Sejm on 2 December 2016 amending the Law on the provision of public-funded healthcare. No amendments were tabled during our meeting. The discussion, of course, took place. The Commission proposes that the law be adopted without amendment. Ladies and gentlemen, this law maintains the previous arrangements that have been introduced every year. The applicants considered that these rules, which were renewed every year, should already function permanently. The system was, as you remember, challenged by the Court, and therefore solutions were put in place so that there would be partial fees. Some farmers, on farms up to 6 ha, are exempt from the premium, over 6 ha are the fees of 1 PLN per hectare, which indicates that in this system, as in the previous one, they are charged per hectare, but there is no greater valorization of any benefit... Same here and here, it's also a deposit without any larger received... Besides, we all have the same thing, because when we pay our contributions, we don't have more benefits. So... But farmers, the larger ones, are often dissatisfied with the fact that in the employee system, I can say, the contribution is fired... , and 1,25% ... In the farmer's system, farmers pay full zloty, i.e. if, for example, 50 ha per two, and the second spouse... Together they pay $1,000. The result is that this contribution is many times higher than... If they were to pay 1,25%, and they had the option to write back, then... Unfortunately, there is no such possibility in this system, hence farmers, especially the larger ones, report such a problem that they are overcharged. They believe that this is an unfair system for them. Well, the decision was the same as it was in previous years, which is to adopt this system permanently, so we did not make any amendments. I'm also asking you to accept the bill without amendment.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-13-senat-32-1.u61	Thank you very much, Senator. I ask the rapporteur of the Health Committee, Senator Józef Łyczak, to submit a report to the committee. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-13-senat-32-1.u62	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I have the honour to present, on behalf of the Senate Health Commission, a report on the work of the Commission on the Law amending the Law on the provision of public-funded health care. Senator's print number 364. Since you have just presented the report to Senator Chróścikowski, I would just add that the proposed law introduces additional changes to improve the process of appointing members of the Council of Regional Branches of Funds. To this end, in the amended Article. Article 106 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013 shall apply. 2th Act proposes that the councils of the voivodship branches of the fund be appointed by the voivodships. The transfer by the Minister of Health of competence to appoint the competent voivodeship councils will contribute to faster recruitment of members or to faster changes in the membership of the voivodship board. The council of the voivodship branches of the fund consists of representatives of bodies operating in the voivodship and it is justified that the recruitment is carried out also by an authority from that voivodship. The Commission has adopted the draft law without amendment and I ask the High House to do so. Thank you very much, Mrs. Marshal.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-13-senat-32-1.u63	Thank you, Senator. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the senators of the rapporteurs. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? I don't see... [[I'm just showing you that...]] Please, Senator Rulewski.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-13-senat-32-1.u64	I'm so sorry I'm so invisible. That's what my mom gave me. But he's noisy. [[Mr. Senator, well, I didn't see...]] Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I would like to address Senator Chróścikowski. My question concerns the essence of this law, under which the system today considered to be debatable, a system criticized and regarded as creating favorable powers for... He is established, let's say, until further notice, i.e. for unlimited time. My question is this: were you discussing another timely operation in order to create a basis for reform of this system? What were the proposals? What did the government and experts say about this? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-13-senat-32-1.u65	Please, Mr. Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-13-senat-32-1.u66	Thank you, Mrs. Marshal. Mr Senator, there was no discussion on this issue either at my committee meeting or, I believe, at the Health Committee meeting, but I have pointed out in my speech that this system should be examined and that it should be checked how best it should be done so that it is fairer. Unfortunately, the government has decided that at this moment it is introducing a solution that PSL and the Civic Platform have developed; for the years to come, since 2012, it has been extending every year... The government felt that since the predecessors were unable to change this system for the better and, as you expect, the senator, more just... The principle was that this would continue to work in the same way. I'm not hiding that the work will probably continue. I myself can declare that we will want to improve this system, because I believe, as I said in my speech, that the system under which these larger farmers are burdened is not entirely fair. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-13-senat-32-1.u67	Thank you. Are there any more questions for the senator? I don't see anyone willing, which means the senators of the rapporteurs are no longer here. Thank you very much to the rapporteurs. The bill was filed by the government. The Minister for Health has been authorised to present the government's position during parliamentary work. Minister Piotr Gryza, Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Health, is with us today. Would the Minister like to speak on the bill under consideration and present the position of the government? [[Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Health Piotr Gryza: Mrs Marshal, I think there is no need.]] Good. But there'll probably be questions. I have to make this formula right now. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of questioning to a government representative related to this item on the agenda. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? Mr. Senator Rulewski. Minister, I'd like to invite you to the speaker, because there will be questions for the Minister. Please, Mr. Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-13-senat-32-1.u68	Thank you. Minister, you considered that there was no need to speak, but this issue concerns a fundamental thing, concerns at least 1.5 million farmers, but also observers, i.e. members of another insurance system, which consists of a social security system in Poland. The State departs from the temporary contribution paid by the budget for the purpose of a permanent That is, until further notice, i.e. for an unlimited period of time. The question I've already asked: have other options been considered? To what extent do you use the experience of the attempt to modernise this system for autonomous membership, i.e. farmers? And one more question: how do these solutions... sit on the map of European solutions in the European Union? [[Is that the end of the question?]] Yes.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-13-senat-32-1.u69	You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-13-senat-32-1.u70	Mr. Marshal! Mr. Senator! Ladies and gentlemen! The health insurance of farmers is a sensitive subject for social reasons. Before this regulation was introduced, of course, a public consultation took place. As a result of these consultations, no comments were submitted... The only comments which were made on the part of one of the social organisations concerned, moreover, an increase in the share of farmers in covering the costs of health benefits. Because the thing is delicate and we meet with different opinions, e.g. with the one you presented to Senator Chróścikowski, because it concerns a certain sphere which, so to speak, has been subject to social agreement, one might say, through sitting, over the years, to amendments, amendments and application of the provisions of the Farm Health Insurance Act... We felt that we should not hold a serious public debate on the health insurance of farmers at the moment, because the change of these provisions could cause a certain significant social dispute on this subject. Therefore, the legal situation which was adopted in 2012 seems to be acceptable to all parties. That is why this proposal has changed its status from temporary to target, although of course any solution can be amended. That's the answer. And that answer now assures you that, so to speak, a certain dimension of social peace. In addition, the Minister of Agriculture, as he informed at the meetings of the Sejm committees, in his talks with the agricultural, rural environment, at the beginning of his term of office, informed that he had not met with negative assessments of the functioning of this health insurance system. This results in the choice of such a way and such a solution.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-13-senat-32-1.u71	Thank you. Are there any more questions? Mr. Senator...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-13-senat-32-1.u72	I have this question, Mrs Marshal: how does this system stand against solutions in the countries of the European Union, especially with regard to agricultural participation?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-13-senat-32-1.u73	Does the Minister have anything else to add?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-13-senat-32-1.u74	Detailed information, if this matter is of interest to the senator, will, of course, be presented.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-13-senat-32-1.u75	In writing, right? Thank you very much. Are there any more questions? No. Thank you very much, Minister. I would like to inform you that a representative of the government has undertaken to provide a written answer to the question asked by Senator Jan Rulewski. Thank you very much. I'm opening a discussion. Senator Jan Rulewski will take the floor in the discussion. Please, Mr. Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-13-senat-32-1.u76	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! It's a continuation again. He thinks, as I say, before the previous Senate meeting, but also a few years ago, when I thought, in the wake of the public voices, the strong voices of the public, that leaving different niches, different degrees of responsibility for the system... for health, including health insurance, is old-fashioned, even from that era, when politicians ruled and did not always respond to this was a high health culture. The PiS government as if it continued this policy of irresponsibleness, separating the health care recipients from the duty system. The government agrees that the health contribution, which, as I say, is not a great effort on a global scale, is about PLN 1 billion, is entirely financed by the state budget. If someone spoke with such a simple voice, he might say: and why do you even have to pay for it when the budget is giving and the budget is taking away, but through the CRUS? Well, the system is far from how this bill works, how it... How many people from this title, from moving money from one pocket to another... But still a KRUS clerk costs... Certainly, when previous governments defined the scope of the Act as temporary, they did not want, as the Minister says, social peace, but had the courage to violate it so that it would not be a mess. 'Cause sometimes peace is a mess. At KRUS's cashier... The lack of a solution is for the Minister and for Senator Chróścikowski it may be peaceful, but for those millions of people who today, like farmers, are hosts in their craft workshops, small companies, self-employment, this means why this rate is being forced, almost like a tax levy, although this is not a tax charge. And for others, the budget is kind. Yeah, I do, and I know... And I am an ally and a sympathizer for further development and, as it were, support for agriculture. But the rules must be clear. It cannot be that the one who manufactures the products and the one who processes them So they both work in the same field. They pay different health contributions. Mr. Senator Chróścikowski, you're from Solidarity, from good rural solidarity. It's sick, isn't it? If the peasant does not actually produce potatoes, the one who produces meal or cereal from them will also have no income. So why are some fired and others sponsored? That's one thing. And two. Before this law entered into force, indeed the situation of Polish agriculture, peasants was different. The system of subsidies has worked, but the conditions of competition have also changed. Polish food obtained the rights of presence despite repression or oppression by the Soviet Union. It can be said that peasants are doing well, also thanks to the benefits of subsidies of various kinds, thanks to the policies of all governments. But the economy doesn't know the niche. Nor does he know them because these niches are used by those who are not peasants by various solutions. This is no longer a simple medieval or communist economy, in which all roles were counted and tested. This is a system of many complicated connections in which he hosts Glory to God. And she's doing other kinds of business. And now the question is what kind of insurance these people use. It's different, I repeat, in the so-called. non-agricultural activity, although this concept is already fading more and more in agriculture. So that's it. And I emphasize that is still ruining the system or keeping it in a state of disease. The Minister did not say how it works in other countries, and there is a system of subsidies, a system of sponsorship. But in the face of tax law, in the face of health funds, everyone is, and should be, equal. I've been putting together projects. Minister, you can resort to certain rudeties, speaking of social tranquillity. But you can also look at this problem as I looked at it 5 years ago, proposing, even contrary to my grouping, that every house, every peasant smoke, as it used to be called, would at least be covered by a premium worth 2, 3 beers: 10 zlotys per chimney, starting, say, from 2 ha of land. If the peasants use it, even in the name of consistency, in connection with this money, let them put this value of 2 and 3 beers in it. And I have to say And I've been checking, I don't know exactly how you checked these things, the Minister of Health, who should also take care of the money of people outside agriculture. The quality of medicine, services, accessibility, universality for villagers has improved significantly. There is no such differentiation, there are no longer these solutions from faraway times, when the peasant had to pay for hospital stays, even in the times of the commune. There has been a significant increase in these benefits, and there is no reason for the government to carry out gestures that remove responsibility for the functioning of these cashiers and this health system. You're talking about social peace. And I'm just expressing my concern on behalf of those other millions of people who line up because they don't have access to medical services, because at least, in my opinion, 1.5 million people don't participate in the system. And the other thing. They don't participate in the system... You could assume that the bill can always be changed, only that your shelf, Mr. Health Minister, is empty in this regard. You didn't give me an alternative, you have an empty shelf, an empty drawer when it comes to solutions. And for that, at least mine, consent can't be. Therefore, the amendment Mrs. Marshal, last sentence, thank you very much for listening. The aim is to keep this temporary, unpleasant, uneconomic, asocial state for at least two years so that government drawers are filled. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-13-senat-32-1.u77	Thank you very much. And you're Senator Jerzy Chróścikowski. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-13-senat-32-1.u78	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Senator Rulewski's colleague encouraged me to speak. I wasn't supposed to be present, but now that he has tabled an amendment, our committees will come together, we will lean on this amendment, we will make a decision, and in the vote we will see what the decision of the High House will be. But let me say this: I understand, Mr. Senator, that we have fought for farmers together and we are fighting together. You are also a veteran, and today you are entitled to your words of appreciation, especially on 13 December, because there are few people who have suffered from martial law. I must also say that many farmers have suffered. At my place, in Zamość, 35 farmers were interned, because on that day, 13 December, we were I didn't personally, but my colleagues were removed from the building where the strike lasted. There was also a strike in Siedlce on the 13th. Like you, so many others have been interned. We've been through a tragedy. But you've always been very kind to us farmers. I appreciate it because you're concerned. It's just that sometimes we're different because you want to level everyone up and say things like that here, that sometimes I disagree with them, and you don't agree with mine. But this is our kind of normality that we have the right to have different views on systemic legal solutions. And I want to say one thing: I actually heard the government announce that the government is trying to change the health insurance system, that it wants to introduce a different tax system and will operate other systems. It indicates that the government has plans and that it will sort things out. I hope that, since the government, as I hear in various speeches and debates, wants to make all the insured people, as the Minister of Health here has said, enjoy this right, this proves that the solution that will be proposed will be the same for the unemployed, the same for the homeless, the same for the farmer and others. The issue of burden is the second topic that will probably be considered. I hope that it will be included in this overall health system. And if it's in the details, we'll probably see. I'll say one thing, Mr. Senator. I signed an application to the Constitutional Tribunal for this bill, which you passed as a PSL and Platform. It's been three years, and I don't have an answer from the Constitutional Court about what's been done in this case. First of all, the spokesperson challenged it, secondly, we challenged it as a relationship between the Solvency Group because we did not agree with this system. And you guys have been holding this up for years and thought there's no... I am surprised that this Constitutional Tribunal can sometimes precede its sittings... By the time the Sejm and the Senate pass, he's the one who's already setting the sittings, and he's about to make his decision. And I can't wait to get the right answer to that complaint I filed. They rejected me once. I've completed it. 'Cause they're already trying to turn down my complaint. All data, once again confirming whether I have the right to submit or not... You can see that this Court works as it does. I've had negative opinions so far. On my proposal, which I have made on behalf of agricultural solidarity, there is no ruling by the Constitutional Tribunal. And I will say one thing: no farmer will complain when there is a penny per hectare. He won't complain. Let me get this straight. But it was you gentlemen who wanted to make the rule. PSL boasted that he would establish a zloty and that up to 6 zlotys would not be charged. And you fired all the farmers in this system, which is up to 6 ha. You're the ones who did this. You have to tell yourself the truth: no farmer would cry if he was to pay a zloty or 2 zlotys. This would be the right solution. And that's why I sued it as one of the farmers' representatives. But there is no answer, therefore the bill is constitutional. If there's no answer, she's constitutional. That's why the government thinks it's constitutional. You approved it, and you approved it. Therefore, I now only expect, as a representative of agricultural solidarity, that, since you will determine the health insurance system, you will establish it fairly. 'Cause nobody really regrets that gold if it's to be paid. But he who has 500 ha pays 500 PLN. And he doesn't have a 7.75 copy, just like an employee, but he's got all the gold, so that's 500, not 1.25. And that's not fair. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-13-senat-32-1.u79	Thank you. Please, Mr. Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-13-senat-32-1.u80	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Senator Chróścikowski, summoned to answer by me, you can even say that provoked... Yes, we are broadcasting on the same frequency, which is the concern for Polish agriculture to be a power in Europe. And we also agree that, for at least this term of office, through this European opening, it should enjoy the privileges. But you cannot accept the philosophy you have presented, that is evil, conquer evil. Even if reforms have been abandoned in the past, which I confirm, yes, I confirm it. This does not mean that we will fix this other evil and that we will fix it. That's why I'm appealing... Oh, and one more point. It is true that there is a zloty per hectare, which means that there is no refund at the write-off. Only that there are, as I recall, provisions concerning those large holdings which can be converted into a company or other activity and then in the insurance system, the amount of 7,75 may be deducted from the tax. So that solutions exist. But it's a good thing you're also expressing such a certain... presentation of the dialogue output and asking what the government doesn't agree with, which means, what's next? Should we maintain this condition with privileged ones who do not build social peace? What's more, some people abuse this peace so I can say 'Cause it's not peace. and do not participate in the negotiations. And one more question that you as a young senator, or at least a senator with a future, will have to ask yourself. Yeah, how long is this gonna last? When will there be any solutions so that there are no divisions? Because it creates a division. Maybe a small one. It's between the village and the city. Although today, fortunately, civilization is already blurring these boundaries. And I think you also express the faith that I have, and I do, that one day agriculture will beat industry and be more profitable.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-13-senat-32-1.u81	Thank you very much, Senator. The discussion is closed. Would a government representative like to comment on the proposals put forward? Would the Minister like to speak? You're welcome, Minister. [[Voice from the room: Was there a conclusion?]] Yes, Senator Rulewski has tabled legislative proposals. And I ask the Minister to respond to them.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-13-senat-32-1.u82	Mrs. Marshal! Mr. Senator! Ladies and gentlemen! In my opinion, the discussion that took place here In fact, it is very important because talking about certain imponderabilities as regards the burden on farmers related to health insurance shows the matter. Indeed, we are facing such problems, because on the one hand you were talking about those fees that farmers have over 6 ha, on the other hand there is a question of having less than 6 ha, in which cases you pay the state budget through the CRUs. And there is also a relationship between the costs incurred by farmers in the health insurance system and the financial contribution... to the financing of health care services. It should also be added that farmers with more than 6 hectares pay. Although this amount may not be that large, it still amounts to about PLN 100 million per year. So a certain fee is paid. But where am I going with this? To the fact that it is this discussion that shows what is the subject matter of the dispute, how difficult and delicate this matter is, how you can enter and... I think that as far as the issue raised by the senators is concerned, we really need to think about it and continue this process. But the government de facto knew that there were serious differences of opinion. And that, when a legislative consensus has been reached, it should be maintained. And that was the intention. [[The meeting is chaired by Vice-Marshal Adam Bielan]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-13-senat-32-1.u83	Thank you very much, Minister. As a legislative proposal has been tabled, I ask the Committee on Health and Agriculture and Rural Development to respond to the proposal presented and to prepare a joint report. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held in the voting block. We proceed with the examination of the fourth item of the agenda: the Maritime Equipment Act. The text of the Act is contained in print No 359 and the committee report In print No 359 A. I ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Infrastructure, Senator Tadeusz Kopcia, to submit a report to the committee. You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-13-senat-32-1.u84	Thank you. Dear Marshal, Minister! High Izbo! I was honoured to present the position of the Infrastructure Commission on the Law of 2 December 2016 on marine equipment. The Maritime Equipment Act aims to implement the provisions of the Directive of the European Parliament and of the Council of 23 July 2014 on marine equipment, while repealing Council Directive 96/98. This law contains a number of references to the Law of 13 April 2016 on conformity assessment and market surveillance systems, so its process could only start after the publication of that Law. In principle, the scope of the law contains the same elements as those laid down in the existing Maritime Equipment Act implementing the Council Directive of 20 December 1996 on marine equipment. The Act lays down the rules for carrying out the conformity assessment of marine equipment, the obligations of economic operators, the rules and procedures for the authorisation of conformity assessment bodies for marine equipment and the manner in which those bodies are notified and the functioning of the maritime equipment market surveillance system. The law provides for the means of marking equipment... The statutory means of marking marine equipment does not differ from the existing regulations. As regards the catalogue of sanctions for non-compliance with the law adopted by the Sejm, a significant change has been introduced, and I would like to say that. It's about responsibility... So far it has been a criminal responsibility. In order to strengthen the action of the Act and thus protect consumers and the environment, the Act proposes the introduction of administrative penalties imposed by decision. The system of penalties in the Act was based on the solutions adopted in the Law on conformity assessment and market surveillance systems. Penalties will be imposed on an economic operator and their amount has been fixed in quota terms. The Act is based on the act The maximum amount of the penalty is set at PLN 100 thousand. I would also like to add that the deadline for implementing this law, the deadline for implementing it expired on 18 September 2016, and the Committee on Infrastructure proposes that the High House adopt the law without amendments. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-13-senat-32-1.u85	Thank you very much, Senator. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the rapporteur's senator. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? I can't see. [[Thank you very much.]] Thank you very much, Senator. The bill was filed by the government. The Minister for Maritime Affairs and Inland Navigation has been authorised to present the government's position during parliamentary work. Does a government representative wish to speak on the bill under consideration and present the position of the government? No. Thank you. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of questioning to a government representative related to this item on the agenda. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? I can't see. I'm opening a discussion. I would like to inform you that none of your senators have signed up. The discussion is closed. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held in the voting block. We proceed with the examination of item 5 of the agenda: the law amending the law on the acquisition of real estate by foreigners and certain other laws. The text of the Act is contained in print No 360 and the committee's report in print No 360 A. I would like to ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Territorial Government and State Administration and the Committee on Human Rights, Rule of Law and Petitions, Senator Arkadiusz Grabowski, to present a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-13-senat-32-1.u86	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. High Izbo! It has been my honour to present a report to the Committee on Local Government and State Administration and the Committee on Human Rights, Laws and Petitions on the Act amending the law on the acquisition of real estate by foreigners and certain other laws. First of all, I would like to mention that this is a government project. During the work of the Sejm, at its meeting unanimously adopted this law, 435 Members voted in favour, no abstentions or no votes against. As far as the law is concerned, this is an amendment to the law on the acquisition of real estate by foreigners. It is a consequence of the audit recommendations of the Supreme Audit Chamber, addressed to the Minister responsible for Home Affairs, formulated in the information on the results of the control of the sale of agricultural property from the Agricultural Property Resources of the State Treasury and the field branches of the Agricultural Property Agency in Szczecin, Warsaw and Wrocław. The Supreme Audit Chamber pointed out the need for the Minister responsible for home affairs to take action to ensure that the acquisition of the shares or shares acquired and held by foreigners in companies owned or perpetually owned by agricultural property owners and to include in the kept register the real area of agricultural real estate owned or in the perpetual use of companies established in Poland in which foreign nationals acquired or acquired shares or held shares. As regards the content of the amendments, these registers of real estate and shares and shares acquired or covered by foreign nationals without authorisation and on the basis of the required authorisations are kept by the Minister responsible for Home Affairs on the basis of documents sent by notaries and courts. These documents are extracts from notarial acts under which the foreigner acquired the property or took part in shares or shares in a company owned or perpetually owned by the property, as well as final court decisions concerning the acquisition of the property and the order of the court to include the acquisition or take up of shares in the register of economic operators. As underlined in the explanatory memorandum of the bill, the accuracy and timeliness of the information provided depends on the compatibility of the data entered in the registers presented in the annual report by the Minister responsible for Home Affairs on the implementation of the law on the acquisition of real estate by foreigners with the real level of interest among foreigners in real estate located in Poland and their participation in the Polish capital market through the acquisition of shares or shares. The novel itself concerns basically 7 elements. The first element of the novel is the new wording of the article. 8a Act of 24 March 1920 on the acquisition of real estate by foreigners. In Article 2, paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: 8a an extension of the catalogue of documents and entities required to send the Minister responsible for the internal affairs of the documents indicated shall be made. In the proposed wording, notaries will be required to send an extract of the notarial act, an extract of the certificate of inheritance together with an extract of the inheritance protocol, contracts with notarially certified signatures and a copy of the European Certificate of Succession by virtue of which the foreigner purchased the property and under which the foreigner acquired or acquired shares, shares or general rights and obligations in a commercial company owned or perpetual user of the property located in Poland. The second element is the extension of the scope of information provided by registered courts. This element was correlated with the amendment of the Act on the National Court Register and the obligation on applicants to submit, together with applications for entry or amendment of the entry in the National Court Register, an appropriate statement or information on whether the acquiring persons are foreigners within the meaning of the Act on the acquisition of real estate. Another element is the modification of the Article. Paragraph 7 2 and Article 2 of Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 16 February 2011 laying down the rules and general principles concerning mechanisms for control by Member States of the Commission's exercise of implementing powers pursuant to Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the This is the result of changes in inheritance law which took place with the application on 17 August 2015 of Regulation No 650/2012 of the European Parliament and of the Council on jurisdiction of applicable law, recognition and enforcement of decisions, acceptance and enforcement of authentic instruments relating to succession and on the establishment of a European Certificate of Succession. Another element is the amendment to the Law on perpetual books and mortgage, supplementing the catalogue of entities that may apply to the Minister of Justice, if necessary for the performance of statutory tasks, for consent to multiple, unlimited searches of perpetual books in the central database of perpetual books. The Minister responsible for Home Affairs has been added here. Another amendment to this amendment is the amendment of the law on the notary prejudicing that the notary's failure to comply with the obligation referred to in Article. Article 8a (1) (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013 is replaced by the following: 1 Act on the acquisition of real estate by foreigners is a disciplinary measure. At the same time, the Act extends the limitation period for disciplinary delinquency from the currently foreseen 3 to 5 years. Another modification is the amendment of the law on the notary introducing an obligation to include in the notarial act additional information on the nationality of a natural person if he is a foreigner. This also applies to entities established in the territory of the Republic of Poland. Another last element of the amendment is the transitional provisions providing that the obligations introduced by the Act relate to events arising after the date of its entry into force, as well as those relating to professional offences of notaries made before the date of entry into force of the novels to which the existing provisions will apply. The date of entry into force was set for 1 January 2017 and the provisions concerning the National Court Register are to enter into force on 1 June 2017. As I mentioned at the beginning, the law was passed unanimously by the Sejm. The Commission also unanimously adopted the draft without amendment. The committee was attended by a representative of the National Notarial Council and a representative of the Polish Association of Developers. In the written opinion of the Polish Association of Developers, sent to the committee, it indicated the need to ensure the protection of relevant contractual data, in particular prices, transaction terms and payment conditions, while the representatives of the Ministry considered during the meeting of the committee that such changes were not necessary from the point of view of the validity of the law and that these data were not so sensitive. And, as I mentioned, the committee unanimously gave a positive opinion on the draft law submitted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-13-senat-32-1.u87	Thank you very much, Senator. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the rapporteur's senator. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? You're welcome, Senator Comfort.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-13-senat-32-1.u88	Mr. Senator, I have a question about extending the limitation period for disciplinary delinquency, possibly committed by notaries. Could you explain how the fact that this limitation is extended from 3 to 5 years was explained? [[May I, Mr. Marshal?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-13-senat-32-1.u89	You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-13-senat-32-1.u90	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Mr. Senator, the explanation was as follows: during disciplinary proceedings before notaries cases were often resolved due to their statute of limitations. This was the path taken by the Ministry, assuming that the extension of the limitation period would result in less cancellations. Well, I think it's pretty sure, but if it's gonna work, I can't confirm that. This concept was adopted by representatives of the Ministry in the government project. I think they'll be able to do it somehow, so to speak, explain if such questions are asked to the minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-13-senat-32-1.u91	Senator Comfort again, isn't it? [[No, thank you very much.]] Thank you very much. I don't see any more requests for questions. The bill was filed by the government. The Minister for Home Affairs and Administration has been authorised to present the government's position during parliamentary work. Does a government representative wish to speak on the bill under consideration and present the position of the government? You're welcome, Minister. Minister Zdzikot, Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Internal Affairs and Administration.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-13-senat-32-1.u92	Dear Marshal, High Senate! The Senator rapporteur has very carefully presented the scope of the draft amendment act, and I will not repeat everything that has already happened here. I would just like to address a few sentences on the ratio legis to the High House, because this is indeed extremely important. The first justification concerns what the rapporteur has already mentioned, i.e. the recommendations of the Supreme Audit Chamber. I would like to point out that they date back to January 2014. In this report, the Supreme Audit Office indicated that, despite the fact that the Minister of Home Affairs then, and now home affairs and administration, is legally obliged to keep a register of property purchased by foreigners, this register is not of a reference nature, i.e. it does not contain all the events that should be reflected in it, and it obliges us to prepare an appropriate amendment. So that's the first reason. The second justification already applies to the practice of applying this law. This practice is quite complicated and is not the best practice in many areas, which also justifies this amendment. This revision, which is worth noting, is in line with the expectations of parliamentarians of all options. I assume that's why she was unanimously adopted by the Sejm. In the previous years, I myself and the Home Affairs Department officials, during the presentation of a report every year to the High House on the implementation of this law, have received several very suggestive requests from Members regarding the urgent need to amend this law in order to ensure that the records kept by the Minister are referred to each year. This year, too, we presented a report to the Sejm and we had the opportunity to discuss this very substantively in committee. The law prepared by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs is also an answer to these demands. Now, back to practice, I'm going to allow myself to quote just a few statistics that illustrate the scale of the problem. As regards disciplinary proceedings relating to notaries That's what you asked the senator. This is so embarrassing that it already has, unfortunately, a very long history. Year after year there are many situations in which notaries do not perform this obligation, and it must be said frankly that at present the Polish state and the government do not have effective instruments to convince notaries to do this duty properly. Between 2011 and 2013, one thousand and 300 situations were identified where notaries did not send the relevant notarial acts to the Minister of Home Affairs. In 2014 there were 449 such cases, and in 2015 there were 318. This is a lot, especially since the register is currently created only on the basis of data sent by notaries, as well as by registered courts. It should be noted that attempts to enforce this obligation have failed. Let's be honest: it's about punishing these notaries in disciplinary proceedings. The procedure was that... two parliamentary committees, anyway. They asked very much for information which law firms behaved in such a way.The procedure was that the Minister of the Interior spoke to the Minister of Justice, the Minister of Justice spoke to the notary Chamber and the notary Chamber opened proceedings. The effect of these disciplinary proceedings was as follows. Well... It's in comparison with the cases I was just talking about. Thus, in 2012 there were 1 reprimand, 1 monetary penalty, 1 reprimand, 1 procedure was dismissed. In 2013, 12 notaries were heard, 6 notaries were sent supervisory letters and 6 notaries were asked by the Minister of Justice to initiate proceedings. In general, we had 1 reprimand, 3 disciplinary reminders, and 1 case was dropped. In 2014, there was 1 disciplinary action, 1 reprimand. In 2015, there was 1 reprimand, 1 reprimand and 2 acquitted notaries. In the judgment of disciplinary courts, the obligation for notaries to send the Home Minister required by the Act of Documents is purely reporting and therefore its infringement cannot be dealt with in terms of gross infringement. And here's the problem. On the one hand, there is a expectation from the Minister of Home Affairs that the obligation imposed by the law should be properly exercised by the Parliament and by the Supreme Audit Chamber and, on the other hand, there is an absolute lack of instruments to achieve this. This is where the amendment is headed. The amendment also contains a lot of solutions that are purely improving, moving us towards e-government. And so, for example, to allow direct electronic access to the eternal books. At the moment, we're sending thousands of questions. By letter of course, so we write, wrap, etc. In matters of perpetual books. Now the Minister of Home Affairs, the Ministry will have direct electronic access and will not have to create unnecessary correspondence. That's important, too. And the KRS issue. This is also an important issue, which is extremely improving work, including the courts. Right now. You have to be honest with yourself, though it may sound strange. The registry courts must in some way guess which documents should be sent to the Minister responsible for home affairs, which may be related to the performance of the obligations arising from this law, after foreign names, the names of the companies... I don't want to speculate here. The effect of this is that from the four thousand court orders received in 2013 contain the data to be received by the Minister and which should be subsequently reflected in the register. So this improvement, application of the declaration on the basis of a foreigner, or I'm not a foreigner, I have a real estate or I don't have a real estate... This will be clear and equivalent to the fact that such a document should be given to the Minister instead of these thousands, thousands of pages, often completely unnecessary. That's it, Mr. Marshal.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-13-senat-32-1.u93	Thank you very much, Minister. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of questioning to a government representative related to this item on the agenda. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? Minister, wait a second, or there will be a question. Senator Comfort, you're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-13-senat-32-1.u94	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Minister, you just said that so far the notaries had no obligation to fail, which would be at risk of disciplinary responsibility, within the professional framework, in connection with the transmission of these documents. [[Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Internal Affairs and Administration Tomasz Zdzikot: That's not what I said.]] Well, that's how I understood it. By the way, reading this... You even cited the grounds of disciplinary courts in which it was stated that, since there is no such statutory obligation, this is a statistical obligation. You can't punish a notary disciplinaryly. Besides, in the explanatory memorandum that we have here, it is said that it is only this law that determines that failure by a notary to do so will be a disciplinary measure. I'd like to ask you. 'Cause you presented how many disciplinary proceedings were brought against the notaries. Did those numbers you were talking about involve disciplinary proceedings at all... [[Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Internal Affairs and Administration Tomasz Zdzikot: No.]] ...or did you talk about disciplinary proceedings arising precisely from the failure to comply with this obligation, which is imposed by this law.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-13-senat-32-1.u95	Mr. Marshal! Mr. Senator! Mr. Counselor! I didn't exactly say what the senator said. That is, above all, yes: these very large numbers of 1 000 300 in the years 2011 and 2013, 449 in 2014 and 318 in 2015 concern cases of non-communication to the Minister for the Interior of notarial acts by law firms. This subsequent information relates to disciplinary proceedings initiated at the request of the Minister of Justice. These are the individual cases counted with single punishments of reminders. And at the moment, what I was talking about is that notaries have a duty, of course, under the law, to send documents, but the interpretation of the rule by the disciplinary authorities of the notary government is that this obligation is in fact reporting and therefore penalties are simply not imposed.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-13-senat-32-1.u96	Thank you. Are there any more questions? Senator Comfort again. Then Senator Florek and Senator Czerwinski.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-13-senat-32-1.u97	Minister, I understand that in this bill you solve this problem. Only this law gives the possibility of disciplinary punishment to notaries, which was not possible before. Then I'd like to ask. There were no indications that disciplinary delinquency was statute-barred before, so you're only now introducing a duty and a threat of disciplinary responsibility. But why would you say that right now, extend the statute of limitations from 3 to 5 years? And it's not just about this offense, but about everyone at all, because it's going to apply to all the notaries' disciplines resulting from all the other laws.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-13-senat-32-1.u98	Senator Florek's next question.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-13-senat-32-1.u99	Minister, you were talking about the 2013 NIK recommendations, about the need for full knowledge, full information, and that hence this increase here .. as regards these directories.. It's supposed to happen. But my question is what happened in the meantime after 2013. As I recall, we changed, among others. The law on the acquisition of agricultural property, we also dealt with the subject of these companies, the acquisition of shares, there were these loud cases in the West Pomeranian Voivodeship, etc. And my question is coming... Of course, I support everything. Right. You have to have more knowledge, full information. But I'd like to know from you whether, after the changes that have been made, the ministry has some data. I am referring to the last year, the year 2016 - when it comes to the acquisition of real estate by foreigners. Did it increase, or did it decrease? Could you give any data on, I don't know, the number of hectares acquired in 2016 compared to 2015? Has there been any change here?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-13-senat-32-1.u100	Thank you very much. And Mr. Senator Czerwinski.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-13-senat-32-1.u101	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! This question is actually a continuation or continuation of the question asked just now. Namely, the Act at the beginning of the year, which was intended to protect against speculative land trading, did not take into account the case that the foreigner acquires a company which does not directly own the land, but is the 100% owner of another company, which is only the owner of the land. I don't know if I'm making myself clear. So two-step... As far as reporting is concerned, because this law is actually talking about reporting, this case is not included either. Don't you think that such cases should also be taken into account in order to seal this system? So not the direct acquisition of a company that owns the land, but indirect, that's through another entity?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-13-senat-32-1.u102	Does anyone else want to ask a question? No. Please answer me, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-13-senat-32-1.u103	Mr. Marshal! Dear Senators! As regards the issue of disciplinary proceedings against notaries, one very important reservation must be made here. Given that the recommendations of the Supreme Audit Chamber are from January 2014, it must be said that, of course, the work on the revision in this area has also taken place earlier. And I would just like to stress that the original version of the Act, which was created before November 2015, assumed that notaries would be disciplined financially through mandates imposed by the government administration. We have deliberately withdrawn from this solution. It seems to us that this solution we are proposing is the solution for the time being. Of course, we will evaluate them, but it certainly meets the expectations of notaries, it is not overly annoying, but at the same time justifies the fact that the obligation of notaries is really important, because it is based on a register that the Minister then presents to the High House. And it's not good when you're in charge of running it and then you're reporting on the performance of your duty, but there's no way to do it. And the Minister knows that. supplies full information. Therefore, this solution, if assessed on a scale of 1 to 10, is at 5 in relation to what was designed. Of course, after a year of validity of this law, as I announced in the Seym, we will evaluate how these rules work. I hope that they will have a refreshing effect on notaries' colleagues, they will work very well and there will be no need to further tighten them up. As I say, we consciously withdrew from the most rigorous version that was prepared and was part of this project. This version is much, much milder, it leaves it on the notaries' side to conduct disciplinary proceedings, but it clearly states that it is an important duty. As far as the limitation period is concerned, it must be said that, unfortunately, this is also due to practice, i.e. These delays are just very, very big. If they're more than three years old, they're very, very, very big. And that's why there's an extension of this period, unfortunately. I regret this very much, but it is the truth, it is the reality, and it has been for many years, because for many years the Home Minister has been talking to parliamentarians about it every year when presenting a report. That's the first line. As regards data for 2016, they will be part of a report that will be prepared at the beginning of next year. Unfortunately, I cannot provide such aggregated data to the senator, and I will try to ensure that, at the beginning of next year, this information in writing is sent to you, and certainly along with the report that we will prepare. She'll be available to the public, but we'll also hand over to the senators, of course, the data you're asking for. When it comes to acquisitions, first of all, like I say... Of course, the law applies to the reporting obligation, of course it is a reporting obligation, but... the Home Minister is obliged to keep a register of all those properties that are purchased both on the basis of authorisation and without authorisation. So this information is to be complete, reliable and as comprehensive as possible. Today, the situation is that this information is not complete and cannot be complete, because there is also no complete catalogue of information, the minister does not receive information about administrative decisions by which ownership of the property was acquired. And like I said, the registry courts. Most often they rely on their own guesses. As far as indirect acquisitions are concerned, there is always a question of how far to reach. The data transmitted to the Minister by the registered orchards will allow I believe that. In order to determine the real state of affairs, well, certainly much more fully than has been the case for several years, as the Supreme Audit Chamber has pointed out.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-13-senat-32-1.u104	Thank you very much. I don't see any more requests for questioning. Thank you very much, Minister, for your answers. He informs that a government representative has undertaken to give a written answer to the question asked by Senator Flork. I'm opening a discussion. Please take the floor of Senator Pociej.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-13-senat-32-1.u105	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I'd like to be understood. Well, I do not speak of this law as a mandatory reporting obligation, because I have no doubt that it is needed. I have a reservation. on a legislative model, which I generally consider to be very dangerous. I'm explaining what the problem is, at least in my opinion, is. I have no doubt that the Ministry of the Interior under this law has absolutely the right and obligation to protect itself, to force notaries to do what is written in the Act. As far as the scope is concerned, when it comes to the disciplinary responsibility of notaries for the avoidance of this obligation, it is a full agreement, but I am absolutely against... This change in extending from 3 to 5 years of the liability of notaries at all, the limitation period for disciplinary delicacies should not be carried out on the occasion of this law, because this is the role of notaries at all. Not the Ministry of the Interior, but the Ministry of Justice. If the Ministry of Justice, which in some sense decides on the model of notariat, the barrister, would like to do so, it should, as part of the work on the functioning of the notariat, possibly propose such changes. Only in view of the fact that I consider the Ministry of Home Affairs to be an unauthorised model for such solutions, I make an amendment to delete an article that extends the limitation period in these disciplinary proceedings. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-13-senat-32-1.u106	Thank you very much, Senator. The list of speakers has been exhausted. Mr. Senator, right? There are no applications of character... [[Voice from the room: There is a conclusion.]] There's one conclusion. I would like to inform you that you have made a legislative proposal in writing, Senator Pociej. The discussion is closed. Would a government representative like to comment on the proposal? Yes? You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-13-senat-32-1.u107	Mr. Marshal! High Senate! It is one sentence from which Mr Marshal started today's debate on this point. Well, the project is a government project. This is very important, very important, because the Ministry of Internal Affairs and Administration absolutely does not usurp the right to regulate the way the notariat works. The government project also received acceptance, consent... He was agreed with the Minister of Justice. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-13-senat-32-1.u108	Thank you very much, Minister. As a legislative proposal has been made, I ask the Committee on Local Government and State Administration and the Committee on Human Rights, Rule of Law and Petitions to respond to the proposal presented and to prepare a joint report. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held in the voting block. We proceed with the examination of item six of the agenda: the Act amending certain laws in order to improve the legal environment of entrepreneurs. The text of the Act is contained in print No 361, and the report of the Commission In print No 361 A. I ask the rapporteur of the Committee on National Economy and Innovation, Senator Wojciech Piecha, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-13-senat-32-1.u109	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I present a report by the Committee on National Economy and Innovation on the Act adopted by the Sejm on 2 December 2016 amending certain laws in order to improve the legal environment of entrepreneurs. The aim of the novel is to improve the legal conditions for conducting business activity in Poland. The Act reduces certain administrative obligations, clarifies issues that raise interpretation doubts, makes changes to support the development of entrepreneurship and improves the efficiency of work, improves the investment process and reduces the nuisance of business control. The Act amends: the act. Civil Code, the Labour Code, the Law on Public Roads, the Act on an Factory Social Benefits Fund, the Act on Construction Law, the Act on Accounting, the Act on the Protection of Persons and Property, the Act on the Law on Social Security, the Law on flat-rate income tax on certain income generated by individuals, the Act on Commercial Companies, the Law on Technical Door, the Law on Environmental Protection, the Law on Social Insurance for Accidents at Work, the Law on the Freedom of Business, the Act on the Central Anti-corruption Office, on the system for greenhouse gas emissions and other substances, and on the management of packaging and packaging waste. In the novelty of the act, the Civil Code... This novel aims at comprehensive regulation of the representation of entrepreneurs by procurents in the mixed option, i.e. in cooperation with a member of the management body or a partner entitled to represent a personal trading company. In addition, the Article has been amended. 115 of the Civil Code and the solution was adopted, according to which, if the end of the deadline for the execution of the act falls on Saturday or the day of the law free of work, that period will expire on the next day, which is not a day free of work. The amendment of the Act "The Labour Code" aims to alleviate labour law requirements for small entrepreneurs employing no more than 50 employees. The legislator shall also amend the issue of a work certificate in the case of employment by the same employer on the basis of a subsequent contract. It also introduces a requirement of written form under the strict principle of nullity for the employee's co-liability agreement for the property entrusted and extends the time limits for the employee to bring an appeal to the labour court until 21 days. Revision of the article. 29 and Article 29 of Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 16 February 2011 laying down the rules and general principles concerning mechanisms for control by Member States of the Commission's exercise of implementing powers pursuant to Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council and repealing Council Regulation (EC, Euratom) No 1605/2002 (OJ L 298, 26.10.2012, p. 1). 29a of the Public Road Act follows the amendments made by the Law of 20 February 2015 amending the Construction Law and certain other laws in respect of the construction of exits from voivodship, district and communal roads and changes in this respect, which will be made by the Act of Opinion. The amendment removes interpretational doubts raised by both public road managers and citizens concerning the non-compliance of the provisions of the Public Roads Act and the Construction Law. The amendment to the Act on an occupational social benefit fund consists primarily of liberalising the rules on the establishment of an occupational social benefit fund by raising the threshold for the creation of such a fund from 20 to 50 employees. An employer with less than 50 employees will be able to create an optional fund. A trade union organisation may also apply to set up such a fund. Modifications in the scope of the law of the construction law are, among other things, a clear indication of the competent authority in matters carried out under that law and the exemption of certain construction works from a building permit or notification. The changes will concern, inter alia, the construction of ground-floor economic buildings with a construction area of up to 35 m2 with a construction width of not more than 4,8 m, construction of the world, etc. In addition, the legislator reduces the time taken to process the applications from 30 to 21 days, allows the issuing of certificates of non-objection to the notification before the expiry of the deadline, clarifies the provisions on the material withdrawal from the approved construction project or other conditions from the construction permit and repeals the requirement to initiate legalisation proceedings provided that the decision on the construction conditions is complied with. The current law raises EUR 2 million in gold to an equivalent value So far it has been EUR 1 million 200 000 The net revenue threshold for the previous financial year, from which the threshold of natural persons, civil companies of natural persons and public companies of natural persons and partner companies with revenues from the sale of goods, products and financial operations will be covered by the Accounting Act. In particular, the amendments to the Tax Order consist of the introduction of new institutions aimed at protecting taxpayers. Such institutions will be general explanations of the tax legislation on the application of these provisions and the established interpretation practice of the Minister responsible for public finances. These institutions will function independently of general and individual interpretations. Changes have also been made in the calculation of interest for delay should the decision be repealed and the case re-examined and the decision annulled. An important amendment to the Social Security Act is to create a legal basis for making available to the Minister responsible for the management of data collected by the Social Security Office in connection with the implementation of tasks relating to the operation of Central Register and Information on Economic Activity. The amendment of the Act on flat-rate income tax on certain income generated by individuals is a reduction in the tax threshold by flat-rate from the revenues recorded from business to the amount of EUR 250 000; it was increased from EUR 150 000. The Commercial Companies Code amends the provisions on procura, requires a member of the Management Board to disclose, within the Management Board, the conflicts of interests of the capital company with its interests or interests of its loved ones, facilitates minority shareholders of a limited liability company to exercise their powers to convene shareholders and supplement their agenda, abolishes the obligation to seal the Share Document with the Company. The amendments to the Technical Door Act are designed to simplify the rapid repair or modernisation of technical equipment; it may be carried out by an entity which does not have the power to manufacture, repair and modernise a technical appliance and materials and components for its manufacture, provided that repair or modernisation is carried out in accordance with the conditions laid down in the Act. The amendments are also intended to allow new entrants to enter into the rights and obligations of the previous operator, under the conditions laid down in the Act, and to sanction the possibility of remission, deferral, payment into instalments of duties due to the Technical Supervision Office or the Transport Technical Supervision Office. The legislator excludes an entity exempted from the environmental charges from the obligation to submit to the Marshal of the voivodship the lists of data and information referred to in Article. 286 of the Environmental Law, where the annual fee for each type of use of the environment does not exceed 100 PLN. The amendment of the Law of 30 October 2002 on social security in the event of accidents at work and occupational diseases modifies the rules for determining the rate of the contribution to accident insurance by the Social Insurance Institution. The amendments to the Business Freedom Act aim primarily at increasing legal certainty on the part of businesses. To this end, an institution of established interpretation practice is introduced to protect entrepreneurs from the effects of changes in interpretation. Changes are also being made with regard to control provisions. In this respect, the principle that checks will be carried out on the basis of the identification of the likelihood of a breach of law, i.e. the risk analysis. Following the bill, the provisions of the Act on the Central Anti-corruption Office and the Law on the freedom of economic activity in terms of the duration of checks will be correlated. In addition, the application of Article 3 was excluded with regard to the control of the economic activities of the trader carried out by the Central Anti-corruption Office. 78a added to the Law on the Freedom of Economic Activity. The amendment of the Law on the greenhouse gas and other substances emission management system consists in giving a new wording to the article. Article 56 (6), which shall be amended as from 1 January 2019. 285 and Article 2 (1) (b) of Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council 286 of the Environmental Law. Furthermore, as a result of the amendment, the principle that environmental charges are paid for annual periods is maintained. Not, as it was supposed to be, six months. and that the lists used to determine the amount of fees to the competent entities are transmitted by the Marshal of the voivodship and not by the beneficiary of the environment. The amendments to the Package Management and Packaging Waste Act are intended to facilitate business activities by traders who, in a given calendar year, have placed on the market products in packages with a total packaging weight not exceeding 1 t. The Act will enter into force on 1 January 2017, with the exception of changes concerning the determination by the Social Security Office of the rate of contribution to accident insurance, the inclusion in CEIDG of the data of the syndicate, supervisors and managers and the sharing of data from CEIDG which will enter into force on 1 April 2017, and the amendment of the Act on greenhouse gas and other substances emission management, together with the consequences that will enter into force on 1 January 2019. 14 amendments were tabled at the committee meeting; I will not quote them The amendments were adopted unanimously, with six votes in favour. The Committee on National Economy and Innovation requests the adoption of a law with amendments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-13-senat-32-1.u110	Thank you very much. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the rapporteur's senator. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? No. Thank you very much, Senator. The bill was filed by the government. The Minister for Development and Finance has been authorised to present the government's position during parliamentary work. Does a government representative wish to speak on the bill under consideration and present the position of the government? [[Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Development Mariusz Haladyj: No, thank you.]] Currently, senators can report from a place of no more than a minute of inquiry to a government representative related to this item on the agenda? Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? Senator Augustine, I see. Minister, why don't you come to the podium? You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-13-senat-32-1.u111	Minister, I would like to ask you two more questions, which I did not ask at the committee meeting, namely whether the amendment to the Act on an occupational social benefit fund means that now the employer will be obliged to pay a holiday allowance or under the terms of paragraph, if he does not notify in time that there is no employee benefit fund. 3 as amended by Article 3 of Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 16 February 2011 laying down the rules and general principles concerning mechanisms for control by Member States of the Commission's exercise of implementing powers (OJ L 347, 20.12.2013, p. 1). 3 laws... Does this mean that a holiday allowance can only be paid? That's the way it is: employers can pay their holiday benefits. As far as I am aware of the current legal situation, this means that if an employer does not notify before the beginning of the new year that an occupational social fund will not be activated, he must pay a leave of absence, and it says here that he may, which would mean that a serious group of employees would be deprived of any social benefit. That's the first question. Second question. When I asked about equality of entities when it came to accounting, I asked about equality between NGOs and small and medium-sized companies. We have introduced such a principle that the income threshold, from which there will be no obligation to keep accounts, is the same for both such entities. The Minister said that there was a change in the Accounting Act coming, so I would like to ask, does this change that is being carried out in the Seym, which is to come to us, maintain this principle? Will it increase this threshold for non-governmental organisations, as is being increased for businesses here, or will it vary? I would like to hear the answer to these two questions.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-13-senat-32-1.u112	Thank you very much. Are there any more questions for the Minister? No. You're welcome, Minister, to respond.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-13-senat-32-1.u113	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. The Senators state, as far as the occupational welfare fund is concerned, is the only intention to amend the provisions on the creation of the SFS is to raise this threshold. The intention is not to introduce any other regulations concerning, I do not know, rules of payment, non-payment, etc. What has so far been possible with a threshold of up to 20 employees, now should be possible with a threshold of up to 50 employees, i.e. de facto it will include 49 employees. Optionally introduced... With regard to the creation of a social benefit fund, labour rules and remuneration rules, it is clear that an employer who employs up to 50 employees can create a social benefit fund can create pay rules and labour regulations despite the fact that the labour code will not oblige him to do so. Today there are often disputes, even before the court, because it is very ambiguous, also in the doctrine of labour law, or employers who employ up to 20 employees can create funds, or the right to prohibit them from doing so. The only intention of the change is to raise this threshold and unambiguously conclude that employers with up to 50 employees can create an occupational fund, regulations, etc. As far as the rules of employment and remuneration are concerned, it will sometimes be easier for employers to create these regulations rather than to inform employees individually later. But it's up to the employer. As regards the Accounting Act, yesterday I was talking about a law which was adopted in July 2015 and which covered 80% of simplified accounting. the organisation. In fact, only the largest NGOs today do not benefit from the benefits of simplified accounting. So I was more concerned with this amendment, which was adopted more than a year ago, than with this amendment which is now in the Sejm. I admit that in the details of this amendment, which is now in the Seym, I do not know. More like this one, I'd say, the situation's gone through.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-13-senat-32-1.u114	Thank you very much. Senator Florek.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-13-senat-32-1.u115	Mr. Marshal! Minister! This is a law amending certain laws to improve the legal environment of entrepreneurs. I noticed that in the article. 5 there are a lot of changes to the Construction Law Act. As I see here, they concern among others. ground-floor buildings, gazebos with an area of up to 35 m2 etc. Many changes are made to this law. I have a question about that. We have an invitation. If I remember, I think it's Thursday or Friday. To the Minister for discussion on the very important building code that is being examined. I'm a little surprised that these changes, in my opinion not so important as to improve the legal environment of entrepreneurs... Well, the changes I see here aren't about business. Why were they introduced in this law and not discussed together with the amendments to this building code? This would give us a view of all issues related to changes in the construction law. If you could tell me what changed about this area of 35 m2... I don't have a bill in front of me and I can't check it. What has changed with regard to the gazebos as regards the economic buildings with an area of up to 35 m2? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-13-senat-32-1.u116	Mr Senator, these changes were proposed and presented in the legislative process when the architectural and construction code was not yet in consultation and agreement. At that time, together with the Ministry of Infrastructure and Construction, we considered that these changes, as more pointy, but at the same time relevant from the point of view of the practice and demands of entrepreneurs, could be carried out without prejudice to this really huge reform, which brings with it the new architectural and urban and construction code. So these changes can be made in order to improve the investment process, because... it's a question of shortening the deadline, allowing the old age to issue a permit earlier than after the expiry of the deadline for filing a possible objection. Because it makes things better. The same is true of the types of buildings you mentioned by the senator. These changes also seem to be going in such a direction that these are simple buildings, which after a few good years of application of building law... Ministry of Infrastructure and Construction, but also we, when we were in consultation within the joint government and local government committee... So that changes can be done calmly today. Because these changes kind of take into account the new code. Firstly, it will be like changing the whole system, so these changes will probably consummate a new code in the future. Secondly, let us also remember that working on the Code is certainly not going to be a matter of a month, because it is a huge project. The Minister for Construction has now conducted such a very broad, several months of consultations in individual regions, there will still be an agreement conference, so this work will take some time. And the changes that have been identified as possible before, in order to enable certain investment processes today, have primarily entrepreneurs... Because there are actually a few things about buildings that you mentioned to the senator, but I would say rather that this is a little bit of a consequence, because since we're already changing the rules on economic buildings or the world... that is, the economic buildings up to 35 m2, we're also making similar changes on buildings that are kind of related not only to entrepreneurs, but also to users, individuals. So it's like the analogy is also changed. Therefore, these changes, as precisely ones that can be made faster than the code itself, and which will facilitate investment decisions in companies... They can be done earlier.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-13-senat-32-1.u117	Thank you very much. Are there any more questions? I don't see any calls. Thank you very much, Minister. [[Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Development Mariusz Haladyj: Thank you.]] I'm opening a discussion. Senator Augustine. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-13-senat-32-1.u118	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! This law is largely expected by entrepreneurs, and there are very good records in it that remove some of the barriers that entrepreneurs have complained about. And this is undoubtedly a step in the right direction. However, there are two issues that I think are questionable and I would like to signal them after all. The first is to move away from the existing rules on the establishment of an occupational benefit fund. Perhaps, Minister, the intention was only to move the boundaries here, to liberalize, as the rapporteur said, the rules and to introduce this obligation as a firm obligation for companies or employers who employ more than 50 employees and, in relation to the range between 20 and 50, to create such a mechanism that if trade unions demand the establishment of an occupational benefit fund, it must be created. Yeah, but the question is, what happens when employees want a fund like this and relationships don't exist. And here the Supreme Court seems right to raise the issue of equality of workers. Those who have a union organization can take care of their interests, those who don't have them, they can't. My question is also what it looks like when the European Union ordered the creation of workers' councils where there are no trade unions. Well, in this presentation, there is no talk of employees' advice. And this is supposed to be an optional form of expressing the opinion of the crew towards the employer. This is the first case that seems questionable to me when it comes to the employee benefit fund. Moreover, this provision, which I quoted, seems to suggest that this is a rather serious change. Because it's... It reads something like this: employers employing less than 50 full-time employees as of 1 January of a given year may create a fund up to the amount and on the terms set out in Article. 5 or And here the phrase "may" is used to pay a holiday benefit. It is not clear whether it concerns only an alternative, that either a fund or a holiday benefit, or whether it is such a situation that they can pay a holiday fund, but do not have to. And that raises my doubts about the clarity of that phrase. May we by omission not lead us to the situation that, as I hear, contrary to the intentions of the ministry Where it is agreed that the benefits of a social fund can actually be paid in the form of a holiday benefit, this holiday benefit will not be granted. And the second point I would like to raise concerns construction law. Indeed, these changes do not concern e.g. The gazebos I asked you about, but they're about a situation where on the parcels that are... I'm looking for the right word... In any case, on some sites you will be able to have several freestanding farm buildings, garages, the world, porches, orangery, winter gardens, if their construction area does not exceed 35 m2 and their number is not more than two per 500 m2 plot. I think it's quite an opening, because in rural areas, where there are possibilities to build on these old garden sites, in the so-called. I still haven't remembered that professional term. You might say that a lot of such objects can be set without any permission. 500 m2 that's not much, the garden plots could have counted up to 30 a, so 3,000 m2, so how do I imagine what it would look like... You can put up a whole town of single-family houses, if this is an attractive location, without any notification that I'm not talking about building permits anymore. Until now, however, it was necessary to report... I already have that word. It was about the land plot. So on this kind of plot... They don't have to be small at all. As I say, they can have up to 30 ac and more. I'll tell myself, honestly, in a village where I have a cabin that, according to the regulations, I had to build up to 20 m2... I started to imagine what I could still do under these regulations. Lots of things. By not notifying anyone about anything, not even asking the neighbor's permission. I think it's a pretty risky record. As long as I read them right. Because if it were reserved that this was the case for buildings designed to carry out business activities, the case would be obvious and would clearly refer to the intention to submit which is intended to serve businesses in business. Meanwhile, I am the mentioned provision, amended paragraph. Article 2 29 construction laws, I read exactly that slow standing gazebos 'Cause there's still a paragraph here. The area of up to 35 m2 can also be placed. That's why I'm concerned about this recipe. It was not enough anxiety to vote against this law, because it contains a lot of good rules. However, I would like this to sound in our debate. Maybe I'm completely wrong. But I was asking this at the committee meeting, and there were some doubts left in me. I believe that, if I am not mistaken, in both cases the said provisions go too far.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-13-senat-32-1.u119	Thank you very much, Senator. I inform you that the list of speakers has been exhausted. The discussion is closed. I would like to inform you that the vote on the bill under consideration will be held in the voting block. We proceed with the examination of the seventh item of the agenda: the Act amending the Seed Act and the Plant Protection Act. The text of the Act is contained in print No 363 and the report of the Commission In print No 363 A. Senator Chróścikowski, I understand, with a formal request.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-13-senat-32-1.u120	I have a formal motion, Mr. Marshal. This is a request to postpone the consideration of this point to tomorrow.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-13-senat-32-1.u121	Is anyone against this motion? No. I believe the proposal has been accepted. We proceed with the examination of item 8 of the agenda: the Law amending the Law on Higher Education and certain other laws. The text of the Act is contained in print No 365 and the committee report In print No 365 A. [[Talking in the O.R.]] Calm down, please. I ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Science, Education and Sport, Senator Józef Zając, to submit a report to the committee. [[Talking in the O.R.]] Mr Senator, Minister, I ask you to remain calm and allow the senator to present his report. You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-13-senat-32-1.u122	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Senate! Today, the Senate Committee on Science, Education and Sport discussed the Law amending the Law on Higher Education and some other laws, the aim of which is to introduce a new stream of funding within the framework of a qualitative grant. This means abandoning the primary organizational units of universities and the centres and scientific consortia of the status of the National Scientific Leadership Centre. The Act also aims to improve the process of processing applications for redemption of part or all of student loans or loans. The Act allows the grant from the State budget of the subjective grant for the funding of quality tasks for public universities in which they started their first degree studies in a given academic year or uniform master's studies of students who obtained the best results in the year of starting their studies. The qualifications are further specified. The vote was clear in favour of the bill. Therefore, on behalf of the committee, I am asking the High Senate to adopt this law.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-13-senat-32-1.u123	Thank you very much, Senator. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the rapporteur's senator. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? Senator Florek.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-13-senat-32-1.u124	Mr. Marshal! Mr. Senator! I have a question because I see this bill has introduced... [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[Calm down, please.]] ... Quite a lot of important, important changes, whether she was consulted with university circles, or whether the rectors spoke about those changes that are foreseen in this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-13-senat-32-1.u125	I do not know the documents confirming the position of the rectors, but on the basis of conversations and meetings I am aware that they are in favour, because, first of all, so-called. The leading centres have failed to fulfil the tasks they once imposed on them, secondly, at the moment, in the demographic situation, the issue of gaining good students, and in fact many universities are about stopping the outlet of the best students, is very much at the heart of universities.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-13-senat-32-1.u126	Thank you very much. Mr. Senator Pup.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-13-senat-32-1.u127	I would like to ask the Senator rapporteur whether this law concerns the university's funding algorithm. Is this the bill? [[One more time, if you don't mind...]] Does this law also apply to the modification of the funding algorithm of universities?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-13-senat-32-1.u128	Yes, an algorithm is also provided. [[Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-13-senat-32-1.u129	Are there any more questions for the Senator rapporteur? There isn't. Well, in that case, it's very... [[Sorry, there's one more question.]] Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-13-senat-32-1.u130	As this law also applies to the funding algorithm, it's the environment... [[The Minister's no longer shaking his head.]] ...college... [[Voice from the room: This is not it. This is Minister...]] So the minister says it's not the bill, it doesn't apply. If it doesn't concern you, I'm not gonna ask you that.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-13-senat-32-1.u131	Thank you very much, Senator. The draft law was introduced by Members. Does a government representative wish to speak on the bill under consideration?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-13-senat-32-1.u132	All I can say is that we support this project.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-13-senat-32-1.u133	I see. Thank you. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of questioning to a government representative related to this item on the agenda. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? I don't see any volunteers. I'm opening a discussion. I would like to inform you that none of your senators have signed up. The discussion is closed. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held in the voting block. I would remind you that, according to the previous announcement, we will proceed on the ninth, tenth and eleventh agenda on 15 December, Thursday. We proceed with the examination of item 12 of the agenda: the second reading of the draft law amending the excise duty law. I would like to remind you that the draft law was introduced by the Infrastructure Commission and is included in print 107 and the committee's report in print 107 S. I would like to ask the rapporteur of the Legislative Commission, the Committee on Infrastructure and the Committee on Budget and Public Finance, Senator Grzegorz Pekkis, to present a joint report to the committee on the draft law. [[Now, wait a minute. Excuse me, can I have some water? I'm so upset about my breathing.]] Yes. Take a breath. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-13-senat-32-1.u134	Thank you. Dear Marshal, Ladies and gentlemen, senators! Ladies and gentlemen! [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[Quiet, please, and allow the senator to present his report.]] The proposed project is a senate initiative, an initiative to change the calculation of excise duties on motor vehicles, in particular from passenger cars to 3.5 t. Previously, this was the subject of the Committee on Infrastructure itself, and later it was discussed by the joint committees, which had reached a consensus at several meetings on the matter, agreements with ministries, which directly depended on whether this project would gain or not the approval of the government. In particular, it is the Ministry of Development and the Ministry of Finance. There is no doubt that the proposed scope of the change concerns this segment, the area of the economy in which there are very many irregularities. In the proposed project, we depart from the calculation of excise duty on the declared value of the vehicle in favour of calculating the value of the tax dependent on the tables. The value of the excise duty due would be calculated according to the model proposed by the Ministry of Finance including capacity, Euro emission standard and so-called. depreciation factor, i.e. the impact of aging of the car on the value of the tax charged. This is quite difficult in terms of the field, the problem, because the current situation, the situation in terms of this tax, is causing this complication. In the current situation, as I have already said, it is very often that the tax is being avoided or paid improperly, most often it is understated. Hence the proposed form, which takes account of the agreement with government representatives, the Ministry of Finance and others. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-13-senat-32-1.u135	Thank you very much, Senator. At present, senators may submit a maximum of one minute's query to the rapporteur of the committee and to the authorised representative of the applicants. I would remind you that the applicants also authorized Senator Grzegorz Pekkis to represent them. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? I don't see any volunteers. Thank you very much, Senator. Does a government representative wish to speak on the bill presented? No. Right now, senators can... [[Voice from the room: There was a question.]] [[I have a question for the government representative.]] At present, senators may submit no longer than a minute of question to the representative of the government present at the meeting on this item on the agenda. [[Voice from the room: A moment's break, please.]] We need a break. How long? [[Voice from the hall: One that the government should come.]] Well, we have to wait for the government representative. [[I'm dropping the question.]] [[He's quitting, sure.]] Mr. Senator dropped the question. I'm opening a discussion. I would like to inform you that none of you have signed up. The discussion is closed. Now the Senate could proceed with the third reading of the bill. This third reading would only cover the vote. It shall be held together with other votes. Thank you very much, Senator Augustine, for your cooperation. We proceed with the examination of item 13 of the agenda: the second reading of the draft resolution on the revision of the Senate Rules of Procedure. I remind you... [[Talking in the O.R.]] Quiet, please. Especially Senator Rooster, please be quiet because he has a loud voice, probably the most vocal of all of us. Let me remind you that... now we have a second reading of the draft resolution on the revision of the Senate Rules of Procedure. I would like to remind you that this project was introduced by the Rules of Procedure, Ethics and Senators Committee and is included in print No 339 and the report "Print No 339 S." I ask the rapporteur of the Legislative Commission and the Rules of Procedure Committee, Ethics and Senators' Affairs, Senator Krzysztof Słoń, to present a joint report of the committee on the draft resolution.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-13-senat-32-1.u136	Mr. Marshal! High Senate! I have the honour to present a report by the Legislative Committee and the Rules of Procedure, Ethics and Senators' Affairs on the draft resolution on the revision of the Senate Rules of Procedure. On 16 November this year, the Senate Marshal sent a draft resolution to the Legislative Committee and to the Rules of Procedure, Ethics and Senators' Affairs to amend the Senate's Rules of Procedure for its first reading. The Commissions began its examination at first reading on 1 December 2016 and request that this draft resolution be adopted without amendments. The main objective of the project is to introduce into the Senate's Rules of Procedure amendments to the Act of 3 October 2008 on the provision of environmental information and its protection. To put it simply, in our Rules of Procedure, we must include the Senate as an authority responsible for providing such information. The second amendment in our Rules of Procedure is related to the fact that a National Media Council has been established, which so far has not been established in our Rules of Procedure. This Council will report annually, also to the Senate, together with the National Radio and Television Council. These amendments to the Rules of Procedure determine the procedure for examining this information. The amendments made by the Legislative Commission and the Rules of Procedure, Ethics and Senators' Affairs will bring the provisions of the Rules of Procedure in line with the current legal situation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-13-senat-32-1.u137	Thank you very much, Senator. At present, senators may submit no more than one minute's query to the rapporteur of the committee and to the authorised representative of the applicants. The applicants also authorised Senator Krzysztof Słoń to represent them. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? I don't see any calls. [[Thank you.]] Thank you very much, Senator. I'm opening a discussion. I would like to inform you that none of your senators have signed up. The discussion is closed. Now the Senate could proceed with the third reading of the draft resolution. This third reading would only cover the vote. It shall be held together with other votes. [[Voice from the Chamber: There is no Senator rapporteur until the next point. He'll be here in 15 minutes.]] I'm calling a 15-minute break by 2.30 p.m. [[Adjournment from 14 minutes 16 to 14 minutes 34]] I'm reopening the session. I would like to inform you that for the consideration of item 14 of the agenda, the second reading of the draft resolution on the celebration of the 100th anniversary of the death of St. Brother Albert Chmielowski, and item 15 of the agenda, the second reading of the draft resolution on the 110th anniversary of the establishment of the Polish School Mothers, will begin on 20 December. We begin to consider item 16 of the agenda: the second reading of the draft resolution on the 25th anniversary of the end of the activities of the National Council of the Republic of Poland in exile. I would remind you that this project was introduced by Senator Jan Żaryn and is included in print No 370 and the report in print No 370 S. I ask the rapporteur of the Legislative Commission, Senator Jan Żaryn, to present the report of the draft resolution to the committee. [[Talking in the O.R.]] And Senator Fedorovich, I ask you to close the conversation. Thank you. You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-13-senat-32-1.u138	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, on 8 December 1991, and therefore 25 years ago, the last meeting of the National Council of the Republic of Poland in exile took place, which closed the history of the Council. Its beginning dates back to the autumn of 1939, when the President of the Republic of Poland in exile, Władysław Raczkiewicz, once Marshal of the Senate of the Second Republic, called it to life as a kind of substitute for parliament, so that all constitutional authorities of pre-war Poland, i.e. executive, legislative and judicial power, could continue under these conditions of war on emigration. Under the legislative authority, the National Council played a leading role during both the war and the war until 1991. The first presidents of this council were outstanding Poles: Ignacy Jan Paderewski and Stanisław Grabski. Undoubtedly, their immigration activities, and later their successive successors, up to Mr Zygmunt Szatkowski, including the last President of the National Council of the Republic of Poland, deserve recognition by the Senate of the Republic of Poland. Therefore, on the 25th anniversary of the end of the work of the Council, I bring to the High House a draft resolution commemorating its existence and activities. If you don't mind, I'll read this project. It sounds like this. Resolution of the Senate of the Republic of Poland on the 25th anniversary of the end of the activities of the National Council of the Republic of Poland in exile. The aggression of Germany and the Soviet Union against Poland in September 1939... I am very sorry, Mr Marshal, but I have a very good text here, but it is not valid because we have tabled amendments during the meeting of the Legislative Commission, and it makes very sense. Turns out I don't have the right option. Mr. Senator, maybe he's got... [[Yeah, yeah, I got it. That's the line.]] I'd like that very much... [[Reliable Senator Fedorowicz is a help.]] [[As always. There you go.]] Thank you very much. [[Thank you for your cooperation. That's what we expect from the opposition.]] [[I like this Bielan...]] [[Joy in the Chamber]] [[Say it in the microphone, Mr. Senator. Maybe it'll stick.]] [[I told you on Facebook once...]] But there's another side to the coin. Mr. Fedorovich doesn't have to be in opposition. [[Yeah, that's right.]] Good. But back to the case... [[Dreams.]] [[Joy in the Chamber]] ...which brought me to this speaker, I would like to say that the Legislative Committee met on 12 December, which is yesterday, made the most appropriate amendments to the draft and asked for this resolution to be adopted in the form that I am about to present. Resolution on the 25th anniversary of the end of the National Council of the Republic of Poland in exile. The aggression of Germany and the Soviet Union on Poland in September 1939 did not cause the liquidation of the Polish State, although it led to the occupation of the entire territory of the Republic. In accordance with the provisions of the Constitution, the authorities of the Republic of Poland undertook an emigration mission to fight for Poland's independence. First in France and then in the UK, he served as President of the Republic of Poland, as well as the Council of Ministers appointed by him. The care of Polish authorities in exile was to preserve all attributes of a sovereign and democratic state. In carrying out this mission, the President of the Republic of Poland Władysław Raczkiewicz appointed by decree of 9 December 1939 for the duration of exceptional circumstances caused by war, the National Council, as an advisory body of the President of the Republic and the Government. In this way, the executive authority implemented by the President of the Republic and the Council of Ministers gained support in the form of a representative body, which is to replace the parliament of free Poland in difficult conditions. The National Council in various formulas and compositions worked throughout the functioning of the Polish authorities in exile. Her mission was not completed by the transfer of President Ryszard Kaczorowski's presidential insignia to the country on 22 December 1990. She was faithful to her appointment only after the full free and democratic elections were held in Poland, i.e. with the beginning of the first term of office of the Senate and the second term of the Senate in November 1991. Her last session on 8 December 1991 was a symbolic closure of the post-war independence emigration. The Senate of the Republic of Poland wishes to commemorate the 25th anniversary of the end of the mission of the National Council. For 52 years of emigration, the National Council has been the depositary of our independence. More than half a century of selfless and sacrificial work of members of the National Council for the Homeland under difficult conditions of emigration of a wanderer is a model and commitment for present and future generations of Poles. The resolution is published in the Official Journal of the Republic of Poland. I am pleased to say that we unanimously adopted this resolution at the meeting of the Legislative Commission after very pleasant and substantive work. I therefore request and ask you to accept it also at the Senate meeting, the Higher Chamber of the Sovereign Parliament of the Republic of Poland.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-13-senat-32-1.u139	Thank you very much, Senator. At present, senators may submit a maximum of one minute's query to the rapporteur of the committee and to the applicant. May I remind you that the applicant is Senator Jan Żaryn. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? I don't see any volunteers. Thank you very much, Senator. I'm opening a discussion. I would like to inform you that none of your senators have signed up. The discussion is closed. Now the Senate could proceed to the third reading of the draft resolution, which would only cover the vote. It shall be held together with other votes. We proceed with the examination of item 17 of the agenda: the second reading of the draft resolution on the 35th anniversary of the tragic events on the Uncle. Let me remind you that this project was introduced by a group of senators. The project is included in print No 368 and the report is published in print No 368 S. I ask the rapporteur of the Legislative Commission, Senator Barbara Zdrojewska, to submit a report to the committee on the draft resolution. You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-13-senat-32-1.u140	Thank you. Dear Marshal, Dear Senators! I have the honour to present to you a report from yesterday's meeting of the Legislative Commission on the resolution on the 35th anniversary of the tragic events in the mine On 8 December 2016, the Senate Marshal sent a draft resolution to the Legislative Commission for consideration at first reading. At its meeting on 12 December 2016, the Commission examined, at first reading, the draft resolution submitted by the applicants, amended it and requested that the Senate adopt the uniform draft resolution annexed to it on the 35th anniversary of the tragic events in the mine Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you that the author of the draft resolution, which I have the honour of presenting today, is an outstanding Senator from Silesia, Maria Paniczyk-Podziej. Yesterday we had a discussion, we tabled amendments and all the senators agreed on the text of the resolution which I have the honour to present to you. The resolution of the Senate of the Republic of Poland on the 35th anniversary of the tragic events on the Uncle. On 13 December 1981, the communist authority led by General Wojciech Jaruzelski introduced martial law in Poland. The army took control of Poland and Poles. Radio and television broadcast only one message in the execution of a man who enslaved the Homeland for many years. Arrested, interned, imprisoned thousands of activists, artists, intellectuals, as well as ordinary workers... I'm really sorry. I took the text from the office, too. He's undecided. [[Reliable Senator Fedorovich again.]] [[He's already here.]] I'm sorry, we should have an up-to-date text, I think. This morning, I asked for... [[There's an up-to-date text on the yellow cards.]] But I've got a yellow card... [[It's a white card, if I'm not mistaken, but I might be wrong.]] [[Joy in the Chamber]] [[I think it's actually white.]] Okay, thank you very much. [[Thank you again, Senator Fedorovich.]] Thank you very much, Senator... [[And they say it's women who know color better.]] Thanks to the senator's consciousness, we're saved today. [[Talking in the O.R.]] Ladies and gentlemen, seriously. The resolution of the Senate of the Republic of Poland on the 35th anniversary of the tragic events in the mine. On 13 December 1981, the communist authority led by General Wojciech Jaruzelski introduced martial law in Poland. The army took control of Poland and Poles. Radio and television broadcast only one message The man who enslaved the Homeland for many years. Thousands of activists, artists, intellectuals, workers and students who dreamed of living in a free and independent country were arrested, imprisoned, imprisoned, and imprisoned. Militarized workplaces were managed by military commissioners, and people were blackmailed to sign statements of loyalty to self-proclaimed power. The strikers against the war facility were brutally pacified by the ZOMO troops assisted by tanks. On 16 December 1981, after a three-day strike and information about the pacification of other mines in Silesia in Katowice, the decision was made to defend the plant. Around 11 o'clock, tanks entered the mine, along with militia troops. Across the street were 600 miners in helmets armed only with chains, shovels, picks and rods. They began to sing the national anthem and the song of God, something of Poland. The main impact was followed by 5 companies of the ZOMO, 2 companies of ORMO, 3 companies of armored transporters and tanks. 9 miners were murdered in brutal pacification: Jan Stawisiński, Joachim Gnida, Józef Czekalski, Krzysztof Giza, Ryszard Gzik, Bogusław Kopczak, Andrzej Pelka, Zbigniew Wilk, Zenon Zając. On January 20, 1982, the Garrison Public Prosecutor's Office in Gliwice discontinued the investigation into the death of miners from the mine, Wujek. On 9 February 1982, the court of the Silesian Military District announced a verdict in the process of mining leaders strike in KWK Stanisław Plakek was sentenced to 4 years, Jerzy Wartak to 3.5 years, Adam Skirz and Marian Głuch to 3 years in prison. The Senate of the Republic of Poland recognises that the perpetrators of martial law and those responsible for the pacification of the mine, the Uncle, have become an eternal disgrace. At the same time, the Senate of the Republic of Poland honors the murdered in the mine and pays homage to all the steadfast who carried out opposition activities, organized aid for the victims and to this day honors the memory of heroic miners who shed blood for free Poland and democratic order. The resolution is published in the Official Journal of the Republic of Poland. On behalf of the Legislative Commission, I would like to ask the High Senate to adopt this resolution.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-13-senat-32-1.u141	Thank you very much, Senator. At present, senators may submit a maximum of one minute's query to the rapporteur of the committee and to the authorised representative of the applicants. I remind you that the applicants have authorized Senator Maria Panczyk-Podziej to represent them, and I inform you that the Senator is absent from the hospital because of her illness. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? Senator Rooster, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-13-senat-32-1.u142	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! I have a quick question. Don't you, Senator rapporteur, add years? Because they were boys who were 19 or 20 years old. So that today's young people know that at such a young age the boys gave their lives for free, independent Poland. It's just a request to add these years. Because it's history. The resolution will go into the history of this Senate. I'm so excited today. Congratulations to Minister Macierewicz. Once young people in Grybów in high school asked me a question: and when will General Jaruzelski, General Kiszczak lose his grades in general? Today it came to my attention that such a request was made by the Minister of National Defence. I really congratulate him on his attitude. And the question is, isn't it possible to add years? Thank you. [[So there would have to be an amendment.]] [[What's the amendment, Jurek?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-13-senat-32-1.u143	Thank you very much. Senator, you're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-13-senat-32-1.u144	Dear Senator, I wouldn't mind such an amendment, even though I think you're right to ask. It's no problem to add to that... I mean, there's no reason not to. But I don't know if you should formally make an amendment. So if you can put this in writing, because at this stage... I have the honour of being the committee's rapporteur. So that I would ask the senator to report an amendment in writing. I think you'll be able to accept it as an autocorrection. In this way, we will not have to hold an additional committee meeting later. You can't. Yes? [[An amendment must be tabled during the discussion.]] [[Voice from the room: Yes. And the committee needs to meet.]] Okay, then make an amendment. If you fold, the committee will gather. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-13-senat-32-1.u145	Thank you very much. Are there any more questions? No questions. I'm opening a discussion. Senator Fedorovich was the first to speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-13-senat-32-1.u146	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I was thinking about that day on December 13th, when the martial law broke out, and the moment we commemorate today. It's a good thing there's young people at the Senate meeting. That's how I look at you, and I know you didn't survive something like this, which my sons survived, who were boys when the information about the death of the miners in the mine came. I don't want to mention those moments because they're already described. I would just like to add one thing to this historical information, not to the resolution. That our senator and vice-marshal of the Senate, Mr Kazimierz Kutz, a great Polish director and singer of Silesia, filmed the film Death like a slice of bread. I've been in this movie and many of my colleagues from the Old Theatre and my theater. It was a great honor for us to be in this film, also because it was a kind of joint work, because there was also no special money to produce this film. And it was also a great experience, that we talked to the participants of this strike and this tragic event. They were with us on that movie set. And from their mouths there in that chain bath... I don't know if you know what a chain bath is, boys and girls. It's just that miners drop their clothes, hang them on hangers like this, and then chain them. They're going up as you can see in the movies. And that's when we were talking about maybe never again. And fortunately, that's what happens. In the history of Poles will not stand against Poles, because nothing more tragic can happen. And I want us all to remember that on this day. Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-13-senat-32-1.u147	Thank you very much. Senator Rooster.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-13-senat-32-1.u148	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! The Way of Youth! I really am grateful to all the initiators today, 13 December, for taking this wonderful initiative. Dear Lords, we all remember this time and this moment when the Coast said no to the totalitarian system, when actually And today we must give the truth, the Way of Youth The organizer of the strike was the present Senator, Marshal of the Republic of Poland, Mr Bogdan Borusewicz. [[Applause]] [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[Quiet, please.]] The story was played and lied that someone else was the organizer of the strike. For me, on 13 December, the Youth Way was the darkest day in my life and in the Republic of Poland, because it is a shame and disgrace that the then leaders of the nation carried out tanks, led the ZOMO to workers in Gdańsk, Katowice or Lublin. Death, as I said, was carried by very young people. They were really young people in the prime of the century, 19-year-olds, 20-year-olds, your peers. Today, when I hear lying statements from some people who are walking the streets and say that December 13 is similar to today, I would really send them to doctors of the right specialty to see if they were taken by random amnesia. Because if they were oppositionists on 13 December, if they had gone out for a demonstration, they would have met with powerful militia troops and ZOMO troops, they would have met with water cannons, they would have met with the nineties' batons, and they would have met with great criticism. If someone says that there is no democracy today, and then there was democracy, it's really just lying. As I said, I bow to all heroes, boys who gave their lives for free and independent Poland. Because there wouldn't be any change in Europe if there wasn't a beloved Solidarity. The solidarity that has overthrown the totalitarian system, the inhuman system. And what St.John Paul II said on the 15th anniversary of Solidarity on the tomb of St. Peter to the people of Solidarity, and to them I, too, fall into it when he thanked us all that we were a personalist relationship, not a left-wing relationship, that we were defending the subjectivity of the family and the subjectivity of man... If it weren't for this solidarity, there would really be no free Germany, there would be no free Czech Republic, there wouldn't be free Hungary and many, many other countries. They screamed that the Berlin Wall had been overthrown in 30 days. Yes, they were overthrown in 30 days, and let them remember how many years our beloved homeland fought, right-wing people to make Poland independent. Because it is necessary to remember and 1956 in Poznań, and this young boy, Romk, who, when the flag of the Republic was thrown, raised this flag, and then militia troops brutally killed this sixteen-year-old boy. We must also remember the year 1970, and the year 1980. Therefore, in order to respect these young people, I propose an amendment in order to include in this resolution the age of these young boys, so that they stay in history, and on the hands of the marshal I make this amendment. And in the end, I'm gonna say yes. Truly glory and glory to all those who were not afraid to stand up for their beloved homeland, which is called Rzeczpospolita. Because today there are thousands of heroes. Today, there are thousands of heroes because they don't threaten anybody in prison, they don't threaten anybody with batons, they don't threaten anybody with armored cars and they don't threaten anybody with water. Let us really bow down to all these heroes of Solidarity. With great satisfaction I will vote in favour of this resolution commemorating the guys from the mine. There will also be a second resolution about the people of the Coast and the people of Szczecin. Thank you, and I'm making this amendment. I'm signing now. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-13-senat-32-1.u149	Thank you very much, Senator. Are there any more calls? No. I inform you that the list of speakers has been exhausted. For the record, Senator Rooster has filed his... I'm sorry that Senator Rooster has submitted a legislative proposal in writing. The discussion is closed. [[Talking in the O.R.]] You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-13-senat-32-1.u150	Mr Marshal, on behalf of the applicants and the Legislative Commission, I would like to ask the Marshal to convene a committee meeting on this matter at the nearest convenient moment, given the nature of this resolution.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-13-senat-32-1.u151	Thank you very much. Senator Zdrojewska has requested that the committee set a deadline for preparing an additional report in order to carry out a third reading of the draft resolution still at this Senate meeting. If I do not hear the votes of objection, I will find that the Senate has accepted the motion. I don't hear any objections. We'll proceed with the review of the point... [[Talking in the O.R.]] Since a legislative proposal has been submitted, the Senate is sending a draft resolution to the Legislative Commission. We proceed with the examination of item 18 of the agenda: the second reading of the draft resolution on the 46th anniversary of the bloody massacre of workers in Szczecin and the Coast. I would like to remind you that this project was introduced by a group of senators and is included in print No 367 and the report "Print No 367 S." I ask the rapporteur of the Legislative Commission, Senator Barbara Zdrojewska, to submit a report to the committee on the draft resolution.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-13-senat-32-1.u152	Dear Marshal, High Senate! I have the honour to present to you, on behalf of the Legislative Commission, a report on the meeting of the Legislative Commission held yesterday on the draft resolution on the 46th anniversary of the blood massacre of workers in Szczecin and the Coast. Ladies and gentlemen, the author of this resolution is Senator Prof. Tomasz Grodzki, who is with us today in the Chamber. Ladies and gentlemen, the Speaker of the Senate on 8 December 2016 sent a draft resolution to the Legislative Commission for consideration at first reading. At its meeting on 12 December 2016, the Commission examined, at first reading, the draft resolution submitted by the applicants, amended it and requested that the Senate adopt a uniform draft resolution on the 46th anniversary of the tragic events of December on the coast. Both the previous resolution and this resolution were adopted by the members of the committee, following the amendments, unanimously. Let me read the full text of the resolution of the Senate of the Republic of Poland on the 46th anniversary of the tragic events of December on the Coast. On 15 and 17 December 1970 in Szczecin, Gdansk, Gdynia and Elbląg, power came against workers fighting for a decent life, freedom and bread, sending on defenseless protesters tanks and men with rifles. Police and military officers massacred the population in the streets of the cities of the coast, bloody suppressing the right protest. 42 demonstrators were killed, and more than 1,000 were injured. To this day, not all perpetrators of this crime have been punished. The Senate of the Republic of Poland pays tribute to the heroes and victims of those events, which became the inspiration and foundation of the signing of August agreements in 1980 and the creation of an Independent Self-Governmental Trade Union (Solidarity). The resolution is published in the Official Journal of the Republic of Poland. I move that the honourable states adopt a resolution. [[The meeting is chaired by Deputy Marshal Grzegorz Czelej]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-13-senat-32-1.u153	Thank you very much. At present, senators may submit a maximum of one minute's query to the rapporteur of the committee and to the authorised representative of the applicants. I would remind you that the applicants have authorized them to represent Senator Thomas Grodzki. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-13-senat-32-1.u154	Mr. Marshal! High Senate! Thank you for the opportunity to speak. I am extremely proud that I, as the son of Szczecin, one of the cities of Poland, in which the spirit of freedom is particularly strongly present, was to submit a draft of this resolution. At the same time, I would like to apologize for not being able to attend the meeting of the Legislative Commission yesterday. I was finishing an international course of toracosurgical workshops and could not reach the Senate at 6:00 p.m. The massacre of workers on the Coast was one of the beginnings that Senator Rooster spoke so beautifully about, the beginnings of the later breeze of freedom, which finally led us to free, independent Poland. And that's why it's important to celebrate all the dead, and in those tragic days 42 people died. I say this on the basis of the IPN data, about my own memories of a 12-year-old boy living in the back of the PZPR Voivodeship Committee, as well as about my dead body. A father who, as a surgeon, treated the wounded and found the deaths of those who were shot. These were dramatic days in the cities of the coast: Szczecin, Gdansk, Gdynia and Elbląg. They remain in our memory as a tragedy, but at the same time as the core, from which later free Poland came out. Nevertheless, the data that I introduced into the draft of this resolution, data about when workers died in these cities... According to the IPN and according to the doctor's report, this happened about 15 and 17 December. At the time, the deaths of the shots were recorded, but after consulting Marshal Borusewicz and Senator Rybicki, I ask you to accept the self-correction, because the surviving adults at that time believe that it would be better if instead of the dates 15 and 17 we entered dates 14 and 18 December. This is a matter of extremely important account of the living witnesses of those events. And I'd like to report it as an autocorrection. Therefore, I ask the High House to keep the entire draft resolution unchanged. 'Cause I think there's no doubt in this House that it's worth it. But to change the dates to 14 and 18 December. I'm asking you to.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-13-senat-32-1.u155	Of course, Mr. Senator. I'm just reminding you that I've read what stage we're at, I mean. we are here with questions for the rapporteur. But of course I didn't dare interrupt the senator. Do any of you have any questions for the rapporteurs? I don't see any calls. What about the applicant's representative? I don't see any calls either. I'm opening a discussion. And please take the floor of Senator Fedorovich. [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[Voice from the Chamber: We must assume that this was a discussion.]] We accept, of course, the Senator's amendment. This is... [[Voice in the Chamber: There must be a committee meeting.]] Of course, yes, yes. [[Talking in the O.R.]] And we take that as a discussion. [[I've already filed...]] I'm sorry. You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-13-senat-32-1.u156	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I witnessed these events. I was then an actor who came to Szczecin for a year to study at the theatre there. And I want what I'm about to say to you to be written in the senate protocol because it was one of the hardest memories of my life. Namely, we had a rehearsal. The performance of Hamlet, in which I played Laertes, was taken down by censorship, but there was some rehearsal at the theater. And suddenly we saw, we heard that the shipbuilders had left the shipyard. They held their shoulders, walked about ten, twelve. In front of him, the police threw smoke grenades or smoke candles, and children, such as 12 years old or 14 years old, rejected it towards the militia. And then this unfortunate series of events began when the shots started to fall. I must say that this painting will remain in my mind for the rest of my life, of course. But I also remember the moment that took place after these events, namely we were already allowed to play a performance of Hamlet. And it was announced in Szczecin that there were 16 people killed on this list. Of course, the name of Dr Stanisław Grodzki we knew well at the time, because the intelligence community in Szczecin knew perfectly well who was helping, who was healing, who was stitching up these wounds. But I also want you to know how art can affect an audience that is in such emotions. Namely, the scene, when Laertes carries the dead Ofelia, has the corpse of Ofelia on his hands, people do not think that it is Shakespeare's work and only such a picture. That's what people used to think of as a boy. 'Cause I was 20 years old then 'who was terribly hurt 'cause they killed his sister. And then I realized what the power and expression of the truth that the theatre is touching could be. But this is such a strange day for me, Mr. Marshal... Namely, I was just talking about December 13th and the boys, the miners from the mine, and now about those helpless people who died in the name of freedom. And it's obvious that we all worship them. This silence, this silence in this Chamber, is a clear sign. Thank you for that. And I would like to thank Senator Tomasz Grodzki very much for the draft resolution and for his memory. This will be important to all of us. Thank you very much, Senator Barbara Zdrojewska.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-13-senat-32-1.u157	Thank you very much, Senator. Would any of you like to take the floor in the discussion? No. I inform you that the list of speakers has been exhausted. I would like to inform you that you have submitted legislative proposals in writing to Senator Tomasz Grodzki. [[He's still checking in...]] Senator, you're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-13-senat-32-1.u158	Dear Marshal, as an amendment has been tabled, I would like to ask that the next reading and, first, the meeting of the Legislative Committee... [[To set a deadline for the committee.]] ...was still in this meeting. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-13-senat-32-1.u159	Thank you very much. The discussion is closed. As legislative proposals have been submitted, the Senate is directing the draft resolution to the Legislative Commission. The senator has requested that a committee meeting be scheduled for the preparation of an additional report in order to carry out a third reading of the draft resolution at this Senate meeting. If I do not hear the votes of objection, I will find that the Senate has accepted the motion. There are no voices like that. I therefore believe that the Senate has accepted my request to convene an additional committee meeting. Please read the messages.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-13-senat-32-1.u160	Message number one. A joint meeting of the Committee on Local Government and State Administration and the Committee on Human Rights, Rule of Law and Petitions to examine the requests submitted to the Act amending the law on the acquisition of immovable property by foreigners and certain other laws will take place today, 13 December, immediately after the announcement of a break in room 179. Message number two. The joint meeting of the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development and the Committee on Health will take place today, 13 December, at 15.30 in room 182, to examine the proposals submitted to the Act amending the Law on the provision of public health services.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-13-senat-32-1.u161	Thank you very much. I'm declaring a recess until 7:30 p.m.... [[Voice from the Chamber: Votes.]] At 7:30 p.m., there will be a vote on those points that have been considered today. Thank you very much. [[Adjournment from 15 minutes 17 to 20 minutes 15]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-13-senat-32-1.u162	I'm reopening the session. Dear Senators, I would like to inform you that the advent retreats for parliamentarians will take place on 14th, 15th and 16th December. All retreat meetings will be held in the Seym Chapel in the House of Posel, and not, as so far, in the church of St. St. Alexandra on the square of the Three Crosses. We are returning to the examination of the first item of the agenda: the Law on the amendment of the Social Assistance Act. The Committee on Family, Senior and Social Policy presented a draft resolution in which it requested the adoption of this law without amendments, Senate printing No 357 A. We proceed to the vote on the draft resolution submitted by the committee. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? We'll wait a little longer. Please report the results. 82 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 1]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the Act amending the Social Assistance Act. We return to the second agenda: the Act amending the Act on Pensions from the Social Insurance Fund and certain other laws. The Committee on Family, Senior and Social Policy presented a draft resolution in which it requested the adoption of this law without amendments, Senate printing No 358 A. We proceed to the vote on the draft resolution submitted by the committee. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 84 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 2]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the Act amending the Act on Pensions and Pensions from the Social Insurance Fund and certain other laws. We return to the examination of the third item of the agenda: the law amending the Law on the provision of health care financed by public funds. The meeting of the Health Committee and the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development took place at the end of the meeting, which responded to the proposals put forward during the debate and prepared a joint report on the subject. It is in print No 364 Z. I would ask the rapporteur, Senator Józef Łyczak, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-13-senat-32-1.u163	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! At the end of the joint meeting, the Health Committee and the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development met to consider the amendments tabled to the Law amending the Law on the provision of public-funded healthcare. In the first place, the chairman of the committee decided to vote on the proposal for a law without amendments, in which the ratio of votes was 8:2. Therefore, further voting was without object. The Commission proposes that the law be adopted without amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-13-senat-32-1.u164	Does Senator Jan Rulewski still want to speak? [[Voice from the room: You're not here...]] Excuse me? Oh, there isn't. We'll proceed with the vote. First, a vote will be taken on the proposal to adopt the law without amendments and then, if this proposal is rejected, on the amendments tabled. We are voting on a proposal from the Health Committee and the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development supported by the joint committees to adopt the law without amendment. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 85 senators voted, 59 votes against, no one opposed, 26 abstentions. [[Voting No 3]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the Law amending the Law on the provision of public-funded healthcare. We are returning to the examination of the fourth item of the agenda: the Maritime Equipment Act. The Infrastructure Commission presented a draft resolution in which it requested the adoption of this law without amendment. It is contained in Senate print No 359 A. We proceed to the vote on the draft resolution submitted by the committee. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 85 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 4]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the Law on Marine Equipment. We return to the examination of item five of the agenda: the law amending the law on the acquisition of real estate by foreigners and some other laws. The meeting of the Committee on Local Government and State Administration and the Committee on Human Rights, Rule of Law and Petitions took place during the debate and prepared a joint report on the subject. It is available in print No 360 Z. I would ask the rapporteur, Senator Arkadiusz Grabowski, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-13-senat-32-1.u165	Thank you, Mr. Marshal! Today, the Joint Committee on Local Government and State Administration and the Committee on Human Rights, Rule of Law and Petitions have examined the proposals made during the debate. In the first place, a proposal was voted as far as possible, a proposal to adopt a law without amendments. In view of the outcome of the vote, 10 votes in favour, 3 votes against The further processing was no longer carried out. The committee therefore requests that the law be adopted without amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-13-senat-32-1.u166	Thank you very much, Senator. Does Senator Aleksander Pociej still want to speak? Thank you. We'll proceed with the vote. First of all, a vote will be taken on the proposal to adopt the law without amendments and then, if this proposal is rejected, on the amendment tabled. We are voting on a proposal from the Committee on Local Government and State Administration and the Committee on Human Rights, Rule of Law and Petitions, supported by joint committees, to adopt a law without amendments. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? You're welcome... Just a little bit longer, huh? Now I'm asking you to give me the results. 85 senators voted, 77 were in favour, eight senators abstained. [[Voting No 5]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the law amending the law on the acquisition of real estate by foreigners and certain other laws. We are returning to the examination of item six of the agenda: the Act amending certain laws in order to improve the legal environment of entrepreneurs. The Committee on National Economy and Innovation has presented a draft resolution in which it proposes amendments to the Act. It is contained in senate print No 361 A. In the first place, the amendments will be voted on, followed by a resolution on the adoption of the law in its entirety, as amended by the amendments adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Amendment 1 deletes unnecessary reference. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 86 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 6]] Amendment 1 accepted. Amendment 2 adapts the terminology of the law to the vocabulary of the law. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 84 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 7]] Amendment 2 was accepted. Amendment 3 sets out what is to be understood for the period of settlement in the case of taxes not settled periodically. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 86 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 8]] Amendment 3 accepted. Amendment 4 takes into account that not only the shareholders representing at least one tenth of the share capital but also the shareholders representing the share capital indicated may request that an extraordinary meeting of shareholders be held and that specific items of the agenda may be placed. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 86 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 9]] Amendment 4 was accepted. Amendment 5 takes into account that the identifier of taxable persons who are not engaged in business activities or who are not registered taxable persons in VAT is the PESEL number and not the NIP. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 86 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 10]] Amendment 6 is editorial. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 84 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 11]] Amendment 5 specifies that the data referred to in the provision... [[Voices from the room: Amendment 7.]] Amendment 7 specifies that the data referred to in the provision are included in the information. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Some senators vote very slowly, delay the vote. Please report the results. 85 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 12]] The amendment was accepted. Amendment 8 takes into account that a State organisational unit will also be required to include an interpretation in the Public Information Bulletin and to make clear the obligation to publish a revised interpretation. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 86 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 13]] Amendment 9 harmonises the terminology of the law and corrects the incorrect reference. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 85 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 14]] Amendment 10 seeks to apply in a provision amending the appropriate legislative technique and to eliminate the unintentional repeal of the Article. 285a of the Environmental Law. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. The votes were 86 senators, 85 in favour, 1 against. [[Voting No 15]] Amendment 10 was accepted. Amendment 11 is editorial. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 84 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 16]] The amendment was accepted. [[Talking in the O.R.]] Amendments 12 and 14 should be voted on together. Amendment 12 aligns with the Act on National Tax Administration and the Law on National Tax Administration. Amendment 14 is the consequence of this amendment. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 86 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 17]] Amendments 12 and 14 were accepted. Amendment 13 harmonises the date of entry into force of the amendments to the Freedom of Business Act related to the absence of data on the residence address of the trader in the Central Register and Information on Economic Activity. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 86 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 18]] The amendment was accepted. All the amendments were voted out. We are voting on the adoption of a resolution on the adoption of the law in its entirety, with amendments resulting from the amendments adopted. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 85 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 19]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the Act amending certain laws in order to improve the legal environment of entrepreneurs. We return to the examination of item 8 of the agenda: the Law amending the Law on Higher Education and certain other laws. The Scientific, Education and Sports Committee presented a draft resolution in which it requested the adoption of this law without amendments; Senate print No 365 A. We proceed to the vote on the draft resolution submitted by the committee. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 86 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 20]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the Law amending the Law on Higher Education and certain other laws. We return to the examination of item 12 of the agenda: the second reading of the draft law amending the excise duty law. I would like to remind you that today a report has been presented to the committee on the draft law and a discussion has been held. We proceed to the third reading. I would like to inform you that the third reading only includes voting. I would like to remind you that the committees are requesting the Senate to adopt a uniform bill in print 107 S. The committees also propose that the Senate authorise Senator Grzegorz Pekkis to represent the Senate's position in further work on this project. We proceed to the vote on the draft bill submitted by the committees and the draft resolution on the submission of this draft law to the Sejm. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 86 senators voted, 81 were in favour, 1 against, 4 abstentions. [[Voting No 21]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a draft law amending the excise duty law and the law on road traffic and has adopted a resolution on the introduction of this draft law to the Sejm. At the same time, I inform you that the Senate has authorized Senator Grzegorz Pekkis to represent the Senate's position in further work on this project. We return to the examination of item 13 of the agenda: the second reading of the draft resolution on amending the Senate Rules of Procedure. I would like to remind you that today the committee's report on the draft resolution has been presented and a discussion has been held. We proceed to the third reading. I would like to inform you that the third reading only includes voting. I would remind you that the committees request the Senate to adopt a uniform draft resolution in print no. 339 S. We proceed to the vote on the draft resolution tabled by the committees on the revision of the Senate Rules of Procedure. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 86 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 22]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on amending the Senate's Rules of Procedure. We return to the examination of item 16 of the agenda: the second reading of the draft resolution on the 25th anniversary of the end of the activities of the National Council of the Republic of Poland in exile. I would like to remind you that today the committee's report on the draft resolution has been presented and a discussion has been held. We proceed to the third reading. I would like to inform you that the third reading only includes voting. I would remind you that the committee requests the Senate to adopt a single draft resolution in print No 370 S. We'll proceed with the vote. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 82 senators voted, 81 were in favour, one abstention. [[Voting No 23]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate adopted a resolution on the 25th anniversary of the end of the activities of the National Council of the Republic of Poland in exile. I'm declaring a recess... [[Voice from the room: 1:30 p.m.]] [[Voice from the room: See you tomorrow.]] ...until 1:30 tomorrow. [[Adjournment at the meeting at 20 minutes 33]]
