ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-07-senat-14-2.u1	Resume session. Senators of the secretary's office, please take your seats at the president's table. We proceed with the examination of item 10 of the agenda: information from the Minister of Foreign Affairs on a new agreement for the United Kingdom within the European Union, adopted at the European Council meeting on 18 and 19 February 2016, with particular regard to the consequences for Polish citizens of the provisions on social benefits and free movement. I would like to welcome the Secretary of State for European Affairs present at the Senate meeting at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, Minister Konrad Szymański. Hello, Minister, very cordially and I ask you to take the floor and present the information.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-07-senat-14-2.u2	The conclusions and annexes to the conclusions of 18 and 19 February were the culmination of the multi-month negotiations that took place between the Member States with an important participation of the European Council, the President of the European Council, the secretariat of the European Commission, with the aim of laying down new rules, the new rules for membership for the United Kingdom in view of the request for a referendum to refer to the membership of the United Kingdom... [[Talking in the O.R.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-07-senat-14-2.u3	Excuse me, Minister. Ladies and gentlemen, please be quiet. I ask you to take your seats so that we can listen to the Minister's speech in peace and with great care. Just a second, please. [[Talking in the O.R.]] Mr. and Mrs. Senators, please take your seats! Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-07-senat-14-2.u4	The agreement negotiated is essentially intended to address doubts and criticisms on the part of some of the British public. However, some elements of this agreement will affect the architecture as a whole, shape the new architecture of the European Union and will certainly draw a chapter in the development of the architecture of the European Union in the future with consequences not only for the United Kingdom but also for all other countries of the European Union. The negotiations took place within 4 baskets, 4 chapters, which were raised several months earlier by Prime Minister David Cameron. These were chapters relating to economic governance, competitiveness, sovereignty and the new formulation of rules on the free movement of persons. Let's start with economic governance. The main problem that emerged during the negotiations was the proper balance of guarantees for countries which do not belong to the euro area on a permanent or temporary basis, do not use the euro currency. This is of course a key issue for countries such as the United Kingdom and Denmark, which are permanently and treatyally excluded from Economic and Monetary Union. But it is also important in the context of post-crisis changes in the architecture of the euro area for countries that, de facto, like Poland, remain today. In the long run, they will probably remain. outside the Economic and Monetary Union. The essence of the provisions in this area is to introduce a principle of non-discrimination between Member States on the basis of the use of a currency other than the euro. This is expressed in a request that any changes that occur mainly in the context of the euro area crisis be implemented in compliance with the principle of the integrity of the common market so that they do not cause, would not imply, as a side effect, unnecessary division into the common market. On the other hand, non-euro area countries should enjoy an adequate separation of financial supervision in the event that financial supervision in the euro area evolves towards much more intensive institutions, stronger institutions dedicated specifically to the euro area. This is accompanied by a mechanism which is to guarantee the institutional implementation of these 2 directional requests. A reasoned reservation may be invoked at the request of one Member State where the changes in the integrity of the common market or other changes proposed in relation to the evolution of the euro area are a reduction in the rights or a reduction in the essential economic interests of non-euro area countries. It is very easy to note here that this British problem will initially affect all countries that do not use the euro. These are solutions which certainly raise the status and guarantee for countries such as Poland, which can rightly fear that the evolution of the euro area may be aimed at overmining the integrity of the common market. The second aspect is competitiveness. This is a postulate that has long joined Great Britain, the northern countries The European Union and Central Europe. The Contracting Parties agreed that a very important emphasis should be placed on strengthening the internal market, improving the quality of regulation and on ambitious trade policy in the near future. It was agreed that the European Commission, under the new Interinstitutional Agreement on Better Regulation, would be guided by the objective of reducing regulatory burdens. It was also agreed that, on an annual basis, the regulatory burdens imposed by Brussels would be examined to justify them and to achieve the essential objective of reducing burdens. In this respect, the important responsibility of the European Commission as the institution responsible for initiating the legislative processes and the Member States has been highlighted. This is another chapter, which is not only non-controversial, not only acceptable from the outset from the point of view of the countries of Central Europe, including Poland, but also simply beneficial from the point of view of the future architecture of the European Union, which should pay more attention to how it contributes itself to overregulation of the European economy. The third chapter is "Suverality," so it's titled. In this chapter we agreed on a new understanding or perhaps a closer understanding of the principle of ever closer union, which at least in relation to the UK But it must be understood that, as a general rule, It should not imply the obligation of the Member States to proceed unconditionally towards political integration. In order to strengthen, better guarantees to recognise the proper proportion of the role of sovereignty in the integration process have been committed to introducing the principle not only of the yellow card that we are dealing with today since the implementation of the Treaty of Lisbon, but also of the red card. I think this is particularly important for this House because the principle of red card If the agreement were to enter into force, and this is, of course, conditioned by the result of the referendum Not only will it allow Member States, or actually national parliaments, to draw the European Commission's attention to one or another disproportionate or breaching the subsidiarity principle, but it will also allow the legislative initiative to be simply rejected. This is an important strengthening of the role of national parliaments, so far negative. I repeat: this is a significant strengthening of the control role of national Parliaments in relation to the Treaty principle of subsidiarity. Time has also been extended, a deadline allowing national parliaments to reach 55% points... You probably remember this system. Each national Parliament, if single-roomed, has 2 points in the European Union and if two-roomed, each chamber has 1 point. And the time during which national parliaments will be able to take this position has been extended from 8 to 12 weeks. This certainly also has an important impact on the enforcement of this law. In the opinion of many parliamentarians, and this matter has been addressed by many national Parliaments, a short, eight-week time to object or doubt to a legislative proposal has often been too short for national Parliaments to make effective use of their average level of power so far. And soon, if the agreement enters into force, it will be a power which will already be quite clear. This chapter clearly confirms the state of the UK's specific exemptions in the Schengen area and in the area of justice and home affairs. It's more rhetorical. This doesn't create new legal states. This is just a note confirming the UK's special status so far in the area of justice and home affairs. The most difficult element of the agreement, which caused the summit to extend clearly and the negotiations in this area proved to be much longer, so that they went to the night part of the summit, of course, was the issue of the free movement of people. Here the original British expectations went very far. From the outset, we have drawn attention, together with other Member States, and with the European Commission, to the fact that their simple application is in open conflict with the Treaty rules. And in this area, the most profound changes have been made with regard to the original proposals made by the United Kingdom. With regard to the free movement of persons, there are two independent instruments. The first one is so-called. a security mechanism which, as a result of Central Europe's demands, has been shaped so as not to be applied by any other Member State. Such an exemption for treaty reasons cannot be applied, but as a result of a very strict definition of the party concerned, i.e. what the mechanism may involve. It may apply only to benefits which are non-contributory and at the same time assigned to the employment relationship, and such benefits are present only and exclusively in the UK system. Therefore, as a result of the clear definition narrowing down, the application of this mechanism today can be absolutely certain that the mechanism will be used only by the United Kingdom. Its possible duration has also been reduced from 13 to 7 years. An open case, which must be defined in secondary law, is such a mechanism that those who appear on the labour market in the United Kingdom at the end of this 7-year period, in turn, have a reduced period of their subjective limitation, in short, that the subjective limitation is expressed by a term of 4 years, rather than by a term of 4 years. Otherwise, we would be faced with a situation where, at the end of the period covered by the security mechanism, persons appearing at the end of this process could, after its duration, continue to have limited rights in respect of selected social benefits for workers on the UK market. As I said, this limitation does not, of course, apply to all benefits, only to specific benefits which are non-contributory. All benefits arising from the fact of paying taxes and the fact of paying individual contributions which are linked to the employment relationship in the UK remain valid. The second mechanism, which is horizontal in nature and concerns the whole of European Union law, concerns the payment of benefits in a very specific situation where the person entitled, in fact, operates on the British labour market, but the indirect recipient of these benefits, i.e. the child, does not reside within the same jurisdiction, is the so-called one. export of benefits. Here, contrary to the British position in which it was originally proposed simply to prohibit the export of benefits which are not present within the UK jurisdiction, we considered that we could agree on the principle of indexing these benefits. Originally indexing This was already the second phase of the negotiations, to refer to something that was defined as living conditions in the Member State within which the child is present. At the request of purely Polish, because this is precisely the Polish situation related to the 500+ programme, the European Commission has made a special declaration, which is an annex to the conclusions and an integral part of this agreement. This declaration indicates that future changes in secondary law, because this case requires a revision of secondary law, requires a revision of the Social Benefits Coordination Regulation, will form an indexing mechanism not only based on the amount or living conditions of the country concerned, which may relate to the purchasing power of money, to GDP, to other macroeconomic indicators, but also on the level of similar benefits in the country within which the child is present. This is a solution specific to the Polish need, because only Poland is in a situation where on the one hand we have a very large outflow of workers, migrants on the British market, on the other hand we have a very high level of child benefits in this area, I would say, Western European level of benefits for children. If this mechanism is drawn up in accordance with the European Commission's declaration, it will mean that Polish workers will pay the least in proportion for the very fact that an indexing mechanism is in place, which may mean that the indexing mechanism itself will no longer be profitable. If not in the UK, where this case is highly symbolic... She has no significant budget expression, but she has a very explosive, I would say, character from the point of view of public debate. If it is not in the UK itself that this will prevent administration from introducing this somewhat complicated and difficult mechanism, then we hope that in other Member States, where the difference between the 500+ programme and child benefits may be even smaller, and the cost of introducing such indexation may be relatively large, then the administration will be involved in a very difficult process of determining where and in which time the child is staying. This will not be a simple process. In short, it is not only about defending the maximum number of rights to the social benefits of Polish citizens, but also about making this mechanism unattractive from the point of view of possible defence of budgetary interests in the Member State concerned. Our assessment shows that if this problem were to arise in the Member States at all, it would at least be seen as controversial precisely because of the potential costs of introducing this mechanism and the potentially limited savings it can bring. Regardless of how it looks from the point of view of an accurate calculation of the budgetary impact assessment of such mechanisms, we know well that this matter is purely political. It is simply that, in a large part of the Member States, there is a situation where the very sense of paying certain benefits to persons who no longer reside in the Member State concerned is undermined. That's the point. rather than really defending the budgetary interests, which, even in the case of the UK, where this process is intensified, is very, I would say symbolic. To sum up, I'd like to say that this agreement took us a few months. It could be considered that there is nothing to worry about and that there is no reason to get involved as intensively as it was with Poland in negotiating the individual elements of this agreement, but I would like to draw attention to the political rate that we are talking about. This agreement is the maximum of what the European Union could offer in accordance with the Treaties so that the British Government could have a pretext, could have an argument that today, with a great deal of dedication and with a very strong faith, it would be able to engage on the side of staying Britain in the European Union. This issue is not neutral from the Polish point of view not only because of the high policy, because of the political balance in the European Union, because of security, because of the unity of the West. This is also important because of the purely social nature of the whole process. The exit of the UK from the European Union means that all EU Treaty guarantees of Poles' workers' rights are being questioned. The Treaty guarantees of Poles' rights when Britain leaves the European Union will be equal to zero. That obviously doesn't mean I wouldn't want it to sound like that. That the rights of Poles in the UK, which will be outside the European Union, will not be respected. The United Kingdom is a civilised country, which certainly appreciates the contribution of migrant workers to the development of its economy, and is a country which certainly, regardless of its membership of the Union, has very high standards of labour protection and protection of social rights, but the status of migrant workers where the United Kingdom is outside the European Union will depend solely on the goodwill of the British Parliament. This means a very serious question mark in the case of the protection of existing, existing, but also those protected for the future labour and social rights of a group of 800 000 Poles who are legally working abroad. This was the real rate of these negotiations and this was the reason why the Polish government was convinced that this agreement, important for the UK, important for the European Union, is also very important for Poland. Thank you very much. [[The meeting is chaired by Deputy Marshal Bogdan Borusewicz]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-07-senat-14-2.u5	Thank you, Minister. Would any of you senators like to ask the Minister's questions? Senator Rulewski, you're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-07-senat-14-2.u6	Thank you. Minister, I share the need to compromise in the interests of Poland, but it seemed to me, in the context of the operation of the PiS government, that the government is supporting the selfish processes of the United Kingdom, which you have said about and which in at least four points can be presented. First of all, this is a disagreement. for the further development of the European Union; secondly, these social benefits are already mentioned; thirdly, the operation of the red card by parliaments, in this case the UK parliament is spoken of directly in connection with the elections; fourthly, blocking what all countries of the European Union have signed, including Poland, namely the pursuit of a single currency for the euro area. Do you not think, therefore, that Poland participated in the process in which it supported Great Britain in terms of disintegration activities, that it strengthened its position? It's one question. And second question. And what did Poland receive in return? If she's lost, what do you stress, or there's a risk of loss by operating on that red card, what's she gained? Did she gain e.g. on the fact that the United Kingdom is constantly reducing the budget of the European Union, from which we draw 40% Measures? Did Poland gain support for increased subsidies, compensation for peasants? We know that it is the other way around, the UK is changing its proportion of reducing peasants' subsidies. And in historical matters, for example, has Britain revised its attitude towards the Katyn case?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-07-senat-14-2.u7	You're welcome, Minister. [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs Konrad Szymański: Reply one to one, right?]] Yes, please, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-07-senat-14-2.u8	I do not share the belief that the Government of Law and Justice supports selfish or disintegration processes. He certainly doesn't have that intention. If you notice such side effects, of course everyone has the right to be evaluated, but it is certainly not the intention of the Government of Law and Justice to support disintegration processes. Today, the sources of disintegration of the European Union are hitting in completely different capitals, not in Warsaw. I think it's especially easy for us to see it today. The European Union will be able to retain its scale, it will be able to retain the Member States, including the United Kingdom, which is of great importance if it is able to adapt to the new conditions. And it actually gets to us, we recognize that fact. We can take this with bitterness or satisfaction, it depends on what aspect we are talking about, but we certainly need adaptation. If the European Union gets firm with Member States that today have very different expectations, other in the north, other in the south, budgetary expectations regarding the shape of policies, then there are very different expectations and these discrepancies are growing... Therefore, if someone wants the European Union to survive on this scale, he must agree to adapt the European Union wisely to the new conditions. The red card is not an instrument addressed to the UK, it is an instrument addressed to all national parliaments and can only be used by most national parliaments. I think there's a good proportion in this mechanism. It is certainly not about blocking the legislative process in the European Union in a chaotic and irresponsible way, but I think that every national parliament in the European Union has had in its history a moment when it did not fully believe that the European Commission's legislative initiative is absolutely necessary to bring added value. Today we are in the process of examining the newly announced proposal for a directive on the posting of workers. This is a very good example of an unnecessary, disproportionate and really disruptive single market initiative. Here, the voice of national parliaments is simply needed. Reinforcing them so that they can really make a mark on the legislative process is the right direction, not only to defend themselves passively, somehow defensively approach the legislative process, but also so that citizens, the electoral states have the feeling that the countries here are present and that watching over the process of European integration has consequences, that it is not a completely artificial process, that it is not a painted process. And this was the case with the institutions of the yellow card, which allowed national parliaments to deal extremely intensively with the legislative process for 8 weeks, to try to reach 55% points and for the European Commission to say at the end of this process that it takes into account the concerns of national Parliaments, but will still submit an initiative. This is an artificial process, this is a painted process. If you don't have an instrument that can make a mark, you'll stop believing in it. The yellow card process is now dying because it does not produce the expected results. The red card process is an opportunity for the European integration process and the European Union itself to be better rooted in citizens' awareness of voters. That is why I see this as an opportunity for the Union rather than a problem. David Cameron's government is a huge paradox of the whole story. It is the only government that is able to retain the United Kingdom in the European Union. As I said, this is important from a Polish, central European point of view. I believe that this is also important for the European Union itself. It would be better if we did not open the door, show no precedent that our method of solving problems is to reduce this organism; that the only way we can deal with the problems we have in the European Union is simply to leave this institution. That would be a bad idea. So the paradox of this whole situation is that only the conservative government of Britain is in a position to be credible today. Or, because the results of the referendum are not yet known, convince the citizens of Great Britain that it is worth to be in the reformed European Union. I'll admit, I'm seconds away from this operation. I would like to put my hand very much, for example, in this agreement, to make this operation work, because the UK's exit from the European Union will have effects not only directly but also indirectly. An increasing group of countries will think that this is the right way to deal with problems. And problems are felt everywhere, not just in the UK. We can judge them differently. We can say that these are little problems, that these are disproportionate responses to things in fact. And maybe it is. But what does that mean? People have the right to assess the problems they have. They may disagree with politicians who assure them that the problem is not worth the problem that the problem is too small to leave the Union. That's probably true. But that doesn't change anything about social and political dynamics. We see it well today after the Dutch referendum. The purpose of these negotiations from a Polish point of view was to reduce the risk of Britain leaving the European Union not only because of these strategic threads, but also because of the very specific, very specific issue of better protection of the social rights of Poles in the Islands - 800 000 Poles whose rights are protected today. If the United Kingdom leaves the European Union, the EU guarantees will simply cease. Like I said, it doesn't mean jungle, it doesn't mean disaster, but it certainly means that the risk of further restricting these rights will simply be much, much greater. With regard to the role of the United Kingdom within the Union, it is clear that not all interests bring us closer together. The interests related to the regulatory shape of the Union, with a view to shaping the common market, are bringing us closer to the integrity of the Union. We're out of budget business. But please bear in mind that the recent budget negotiations have ended with a compromise that was attended by the United Kingdom. In the final phase of these negotiations, the United Kingdom played a very important role, and this is a constructive role. Please also bear in mind that Britain is not the only country that expects a radical reduction in funding for traditional policies. At that time... And I expect that soon this group of countries will be much larger and will be much clearer about what it is about. Already at that time, a group of countries that demanded a reduction in financing traditional policies were a group of 6 countries, 6 countries of the North. It is therefore inappropriate to reduce this only to the British problem. This is a false analysis. I think that's all the elements you've touched. [[The meeting is chaired by Vice-Marshal Adam Bielan]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-07-senat-14-2.u9	Thank you very much, Minister. Senator Sagatovska, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-07-senat-14-2.u10	Mr. Marshal! Minister! The Senate is particularly interested in the fate of Poles in the world, wherever they are, whether in the East or in the West, of course also in the United Kingdom. And I'd like to... While you have already highlighted in your final statement the issue of safeguarding the rights of Poles in the United Kingdom, I would also like to see that the Minister strongly assures the High House that the rights of Poles as a minority in the United Kingdom are about social matters, work and education; that Poles may feel secure in the near future in the European Union that they will be protected. I'd like to ask you that. Was this problem particularly visible and emphasized in conversations? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-07-senat-14-2.u11	This was, as I mentioned, the key and only reason why the summit went through and why these negotiations proved to be very difficult at the very end. In the end, that happens sometimes. If the interests of the parties involved are very diverse, those whose interests are the most difficult to address properly in the final text are at the end. At the very end of the discussion, the United Kingdom and Poland remained. Security of rights, the fullest protection of the rights of Poles in the UK is closely linked to the membership of the UK in the European Union. If the Treaty principles of freedom of movement, freedom to provide work, services are not in force in the UK, all these rights will depend solely on the will of Parliament. I stress: I do not expect the British Parliament to want and be willing to revolutionize in this area, because the UK, regardless of membership, will remain a country of high standards. However, it is a fact that dependence only on Parliament's will, without any treaty obligations, means less, narrower guarantees of all the rights you have mentioned. The rights of Poles who already work in the Islands are fully secured. Indexing specific, very narrow benefits that are actually addressed to children living outside the country can touch them after 2020. As far as incoming workers are concerned, if a security mechanism is put in place, it will only apply to benefits which are non-contributory and work-related. All other benefits, other benefits, a few benefits addressed to migrant workers, will remain intact. Let us also remember that this mechanism will be applied if the United Kingdom remains in the Union and is of a temporary nature.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-07-senat-14-2.u12	Thank you. Mr. Marshal Borusewicz.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-07-senat-14-2.u13	Minister, I agree with you on this point that Britain's departure from the Union would be a serious problem. Therefore, not only would we lose our strategic position, but we would certainly lose specific money because the United Kingdom is the third largest contributor to the Union budget. We use this budget. So tell me: if the United Kingdom were to leave the Union, would this mean reconstructing the Union budget? Would the UK stop paying to the Union budget at such a time, but would it have to fulfil the commitments it has made? That's the first question. Second question. I would ask the Minister to mention the benefits that the agreement has mentioned, but this new situation will be affected. Are these family allowances? I know there's a hundred-pound supplement to the lowest wage, etc. What changes will be made here? However, we agreed that our countrymen should be treated differently from the citizens of the United Kingdom. It's clear to me. So we agreed to move away from the principle of equal treatment for workers in the European Union. And I'm asking you what elements will be subject to revision here. And one last thing. Will what we have negotiated with Great Britain, namely the reduction of benefits, also apply to other European countries, namely Germany or Ireland? Because in the UK, there are about 22,000 people who may be subject to these restrictions. There are twice as many in Germany. It's over 40 grand. And in Ireland It's about 17,000. Is there a danger that other countries of the European Union will go this way? Especially Germany.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-07-senat-14-2.u14	Minister?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-07-senat-14-2.u15	Yeah, that's another paradox. This is rarely pointed out in Poland, but the UK, apart from being a supporter of savings in the budget, is also one of the biggest contributors due to the scale of its economy. It is true that the overall balance of the Brexit operation from a budgetary point of view would, of course, be negative, because not so much would we have had a discussion about the design of the budget as 100% We would be rid of a very important contribution from the UK to the European Union budget. This budget would simply be objectively smaller because there would be no UK contribution. At which point she'll be missing, that depends on the agreement. This agreement, even if the outcome of the referendum on 23 June was clear, will not be negotiated quickly. And it will not enter into force very quickly, because Britain will certainly not want to turn away from the European market for a day or two. In fact, it will require a very long process to establish new, non-membered rules for the functioning of the United Kingdom in the common market. This means that the colloquially speaking, getting out of the UK's financial commitments will not be very fast and can also be up-to-date in the new financial perspective. It depends on what this process will look like after 23 June if it turns out that the British want to leave the Union. Anyway, it's not gonna be a quick process. It will be a process calculated over the years, not for months. I'm sure that's all you can say today. As regards the reduction of benefits, the indexing mechanism should be included in the Regulation This requires a revision of secondary legislation, i.e. the whole legislative process, i.e. it will not be implemented very quickly. It can be used by anyone who would like to decide to index benefits if they are exported, not in the case of benefits paid to the family, in this case with children living on the spot. So it is only a very specific, very special situation, on such a massive scale that occurs only in Poland, which is interesting. Other countries, which are a source of very mass emigration, do not have significant, statistically important values in terms of this specific situation. The development of this mechanism also based on the amount of on-the-spot benefits is particularly beneficial for Poland due to the adoption of the 500+ programme, because the 500+ programme places us approximately at the western level in terms of the level of similar benefits. Given that this is not the only equivalent provision from the point of view of British child benefits, it is the cost-effectiveness of this operation. It's about the reference vector to the amount of similar benefits, I would say. Radical cut, 100% maybe it would bring something else, otherwise it would be simple from an administrative point of view. And the introduction of indexing is just an operation of the road itself. She's gonna charge the balance sheet for this whole operation, so I don't think it's being used... to make it attractive to many European countries that might possibly think about it. Now, I'm going to refer to a case that's less said and which is very important. This is the point of view of people who work in Germany and their families partially or entirely, in different configurations, in particular children They remain in Poland. So we put in place a record that I didn't mention, saying that the indexation mechanism wouldn't be applied to people who travel to work. This is a very important part of the workers from the western wall who work in Germany, but whose children remain in the Polish system from the point of view of residence or from a tax point of view. It's a problem that's marked on the Austrian border, Luxembourg. In several places there is an increase in cross-border work, but this does not mean migration, does not mean moving to another place. The agreement makes it very clear that there is no indexation mechanism in such cases. As far as I am concerned, the second leg, or safety mechanism, refers only to those benefits which are non-contributory, but are linked to the employment relationship. I didn't bring the table with me. I used to have it in this dossier. In which several different benefits are calculated and shows how this may affect you, I will answer you in writing. It's been a long time, so I don't want to relive how it's gonna work right now. In any case, it is a narrow range of benefits, certainly not all benefits. It is a narrow range of benefits, specific, allocated for a limited period, concerning persons who will come to the Islands. Let us also remember that this mechanism will not apply to people who are already on the Islands. And given the migration statistics that fall happily In the case of Poland, at least It can be concluded that this mechanism will not be able to apply to a large group of Poles, and let us remember that it will, of course, apply equally to every migrant worker, because this mechanism is not specifically addressed to Poles. Poles are the biggest group there today, although perhaps not the most spectacular group, because after reading the popular press I feel that Poles have stopped being the leading hero of reports by journalists there, which is good news. In any case, as far as issues are concerned, which benefits fall within the scope of these specific benefits, non-contributory, peri-workers, I will answer you in writing in the near future. [[Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-07-senat-14-2.u16	And now I'm giving my own voice. Minister, I have a question about more kitchen negotiations, because this information may be important to our colleagues from the Civic Platform. I would like to ask about the role in the negotiation process of the former Polish Prime Minister, President of the European Council Donald Tusk. What proposals were made from President Tusk's office, especially in the context of this most sensitive issue, i.e. the question of indexation? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-07-senat-14-2.u17	I am not sure that all the elements I should give very carefully, I am sure that I can say one thing: the EU institutions, like Central Europe, and in particular Poland, were interested in the success of this agreement. I think that they could have been even more interested than Central Europe, because they did not bear any costs of any agreement, and therefore openness to such formulation of mechanisms on the part of the EU institutions It is not necessarily just the secretariat of President Tusk, subject to only one criterion, to the Treaty criterion. And this was of course helpful from our point of view, because the treaty criteria are in principle helpful from the point of view of Poland in this area, in particular as regards the free movement of persons. This clearly narrowed the scope for manoeuvre with regard to the original British proposal. But in this last phase, we had to, of course, as Central Europe... It is worth noting that despite the very different scale of the problem among the countries of Central Europe, Poland is, due to its scale, a more disproportionately involved country. Our interests are disproportionately more strongly represented in this agreement. To the end, Poland could enjoy the joint mandate of the Visegrad Group and, in principle, the countries of Central Europe, which was also helpful. Of course, in the final stage of negotiations, the weight is already 100% rested on our shoulders when it comes to shaping, in particular, the indexing mechanism, so that it would be beneficial in this particular case. Only from a Polish point of view, because all Central European countries could treat similar benefits as irrelevant or even harmful, because in fact in many Central European countries child benefits hardly exist, so it was already a specifically Polish problem, which I believe has been addressed well in the final text. [[It was a rather rhetorical question. I understand that Mr Tusk fully accepted this agreement.]] Yes, of course, at every stage. As I say, the EU institutions were interested in the success of this agreement. For various reasons, I think that partly for the reasons I have said, but also because of the state of the institution. Well, no institution wants to narrow down their... This, of course, implied the need to address the issues of Central Europe properly in this agreement. Without Central Europe, this agreement would simply not exist. The scenario in which we put it into Schroeder because we no longer want to negotiate, was within our grasp, only that it would be an absolutely stupid scenario, because it would mean making it difficult for Britain to remain in the European Union, and that is what we wanted to avoid.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-07-senat-14-2.u18	Thank you very much. Senator Augustine.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-07-senat-14-2.u19	Mr. Minister, two points. First of all, this agreement has two faces. On the one hand, it may contribute to keeping the UK in the European Union, which we all welcome. But on the other hand, the way to resolve serious conflicts in the European Union seems to be a bad example and can, unfortunately, be replicated and used. Even in the Polish political debate, this has already come up. For the specific blackmailing of members of the European Union by leaving the Community. That's why I look at it with very ambivalent feelings. Second line. I know that you are doing what you can to avoid this coming out, but it must be said that this agreement is not beneficial for Poles living and working longer abroad in other countries of the European Union. Of course, the 500+ programme reduces these costs, of course you can and you need to talk about what a bad thing it would be to get out of the UK Union also for the Poles who work there. But it seems like it's gonna have to come out, and I'd ask you to make it clear that we're gonna... Poles working there also pay a certain cost. Let's hope it's like the Minister said some of the mechanisms aren't going to work. Maybe it will, maybe it won't. In any case, it is clear that after this agreement Poles are better than they are today or will not even have the same. And that's the cost we're paying.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-07-senat-14-2.u20	Agreements that I would find unfavorable from a Polish point of view, so that we would not simply sign. I have drawn your attention to the fact that increasing the risk of Britain leaving the European Union means zeroing out the Treaty's protection of the rights of Poles working in the Islands. And that's the real stakes, that's the real problem. 800 000 people, migrant workers without a British passport Although their growing British passport group is beginning to hold, we assume that a significant part of them does not have a British passport It would remain without Treaty guarantees. That's the real stakes. Poland from the point of view of these mechanisms that we were talking about, if we looked at this objectively, i.e. in terms of percentage... Because when we look at absolute numbers, it turns out that a country that has 36 million is obviously more exposed to migration problems than a country that has 5 million, so these comparisons make no sense. The objective measure of the degree of burden on the costs of this agreement is the percentages. From a percentage point of view, Polish citizens will pay for this agreement least precisely because possible indexation of export benefits It's really a very narrow range of benefits, let's remember that it's not a very large scale. It will refer to... that the benefits exported will obviously refer to the level of similar benefits in the country. As for the more general argument that this is a bad example, I could agree that it is not upbuilding that today in the European Union we need to re-answer on very many fronts to the question whether we want to be in it at all. This does not only concern Poland, but it affects many countries, and we see it in principle throughout the Union, especially in this founding Union, where questions arise. And they are not at the margins of the debate, they are at the centre of the debate. There are various motivational questions about whether this mechanism makes sense at all. It is not upbuilding, it is true, but that is the reality and it is necessary to stand up and somehow respond to the problems that citizens of the Member States of the European Union have. If we don't answer these questions any further As we have not answered in the last 15 years, when we thought that any doubt about the European Union was certainly a misunderstanding that someone was wrong, that someone certainly did not understand If we continue to have such an attitude that anyone who disagrees with Brussels is certainly someone who did not understand, or, moreover, a political extremist, we will get into a situation where this organization will simply fall apart, and it will fall apart in an uncontrollable, chaotic way, with large by-the-side costs. We have to bring back... If the Union is to continue in the future, it must be restored to its citizens. Sometimes these doubts I agree that they are disproportionate, sometimes they are formulated so that it is difficult for me to agree with them, to say the least, but I do not want to go further. But this is a political reality and they must be disarmed, we must find an answer to all these doubts. And perhaps this example of tension is not an upbuilding example, but others we do not have, other solutions we do not have. That's a solution. We're trying to swim through these difficult, quite turbulent waters. And I am very pleased that Poland could play a very constructive role in this matter, to show that it is possible at this very moment, against this background, to submit the matter again and perhaps to open the way to such an adaptation, which will cause anger, irritation towards the European Union in some corner of the Union to be reduced. Which is in line with our expectations. We would prefer that this anger or irritability towards the Union should be reduced, but we also say that if such anger is to decrease, then the Union must be more responsive, it must respond more to human doubts, especially as they are already up to 5% in many Member States. or 10% , but 30%. Well, then you really can't hit your head against the wall and say that nothing happened, that it was a misunderstanding. No. What's 30%? Resistance, doubt, it is necessary to lean forward and well, to answer the question in substance why it is so. There's no other way out. And it may require solutions that are not clean, which are unusual, controversial. Maybe. But I don't see an alternative.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-07-senat-14-2.u21	Thank you very much. Senator Żaryn.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-07-senat-14-2.u22	In fact, the Minister has answered in the meantime, in particular by answering the question of Marshal Borusewicz, but I would like to draw your attention through my question, which, of course, you do not yet know... Namely, I would like to draw attention to a paradox; and the word "paradox" on several occasions in your speech fell. Well, in a situation where we are in the Union today, indeed, the Union must be re-written about its objectives, and among these objectives, it turns out, however, that it is necessary to listen as you have called it, to the voice of the citizens, or perhaps especially to the voice of nations and their representation, especially such as parliaments. We're here in Parliament, in the Senate. And the paradox is that every country, every nation, of course, has its strategic goals. The 500+ programme was part of this strategic goal of Poland, an internal goal, and at the same time having consequences for this agreement also in external negotiations. And my question behind this is whether we have now contributed to the fact that Poles living in Great Britain, these young people who are there The children there are bigger than in Poland They're going back to the country, aren't they? Or rather, Is that the paradox of staying in the UK?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-07-senat-14-2.u23	This goes far beyond this debate. Because people make life's decisions about migration and, moreover, about starting a family abroad probably for very serious reasons. And I'm sure one instrument isn't in a position to suddenly invalidate and question these reasons. However, it is certainly the case that only the Polish state depends on whether young people will see the sense of staying in Poland and stabilizing their lives in Poland. It's a responsibility. Only ours. Looking for negative stimuli beyond borders makes no sense It's true, isn't it? It's not fair to make a case. People have the right to leave, no one should take that right away from them. I repeat, they have the right to leave. But politicians in the country should ask themselves why people do it, why they recognize... After all, such a step is never completely neutral. I don't think everyone sees all the advantages, all the benefits of leaving. Such a step is associated with the damage to family, social relations, the same cultural, social infrastructure, and it all changes, and it does not always have to be seen as just an adventure. This is the responsibility of the Polish state. And the debate on it tells us something, but it's just part of it.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-07-senat-14-2.u24	Thank you. Senator Blackbay.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-07-senat-14-2.u25	Mr. Marshal, Minister, if you'll excuse me... The Minister said during his speech that as Poland, we were opposed to stronger supervisory elements, if they were introduced, over the euro area. So I understand that the euro area can have stronger supervisory elements, especially, as I understand, financial and legal, but we would like some elements, in the sense of supervision, not to have such sharpness. Could you mention 1, 2, 3 examples? That's the first question. And question two. Minister, it is very good that what you are presenting today is what you are presenting, namely an agreement, of course, with any loss, because each party must suffer a loss, but in general it is certainly the success of the European Union, including Poland. However, please tell me if it can be disclosed whether we as the Polish government have made estimates that the outcome of these negotiations and this compromise will result in such and such losses for Polish citizens in terms of benefits, especially those exported. Were there any estimates made like that? If the Minister can't present them now, I'd ask you in writing... It can be attached to this letter with the information you requested from Marshal Borusewicz. It could be in one letter, that's enough. And the third question, Minister. I read an interview with Minister Waszczykowski and Minister Waszczykowski said in him that we should agree to some, let's call it concessions in exchange for what is involved in increasing our security in the European Union. We're talking military security here. You haven't stressed the Minister's statement as to whether it's a subject, too. whether it was the subject of analysis. If two words could be asked about this... And two more questions, maybe one more, more political. Marshal Bielan asked about something that is important, as he pointed out, from the point of view of the Civic Platform. I would like to ask you something that is important for my colleagues in Law and Justice. As I understand it, Minister, Mr Donald Tusk represented the European Council and not Poland in these negotiations. It's obvious. I would like to ask what was the initial Polish proposal. As you know, at the beginning of the negotiations a lot more is marked so that you can get off something later. What was our offer? What we've achieved is what we know. And how much, you might say, have we given up as part of the negotiations? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-07-senat-14-2.u26	I have no enthusiasm for presenting too many details of the negotiations which by their very nature were closed. I think it would be disloyal to the parties involved in these negotiations to discuss these negotiations with excessive details, but I can say yes. We obviously wanted the potential costs of changes in secondary law in the coordination of social benefits to be as small as possible. Thus, one of the key demands in the final stage of the negotiations was the inclusion in the mechanism of indexing the level of similar benefits in the child's country of residence. Unfortunately, it leaked too fast. I don't know how, but that's what happened. And it became a public fact at the summit. It was a key... At the very beginning This can easily be declared because it was the subject of public deliberation We have clearly put a very clear red line on any instrument that would call into question the Treaty principle of freedom of movement of persons. So any extraordinary measures that could be adopted and called a security mechanism would have to stick to the treaty as it is understood This principle often goes to the Court of Justice of the European Union In the case-law of the Court of Justice of the EU. This principle of freedom is, of course, not a universal principle, which concludes the discussion on every subject related to the movement of citizens, migrant workers. It is shaped very detailfully, also in correlation to the situation on the labour market, displacement of social benefits, etc. It takes precision. The records relating to the judicial line of the Court of Justice are contained in this agreement, which is rooted in some more permanent legal basis, not only in political expectation, in such a rather than different understanding of the general principle of the Treaty. As far as estimates are concerned, they are not available today for one reason The implementation of the agreement requires changes in secondary law, e.g. shaping the benefit indexing algorithm, and we do not know what this mechanism will look like. We will try to ensure that he takes into account the element of the same benefits as far as possible. This will decide on the level of changes if this mechanism is applied. The estimates we used are detailed, as detailed as possible, statistics on how large groups of people are beneficiaries of individual benefits. These estimates from the point of view of the public debate in the UK have shown that the problem is much more political than budgetary. Exporting benefits, so-called The export of child benefits is really a very small fraction of the budget for social benefits in the UK, but for perceptive reasons, because of its perception of how it is perceived from the point of view of the fairness of the system, it is still a relatively explosive element of the public debate in the UK. With regard to financial supervision in the euro area, perhaps I did not express myself strictly. The agreement provides for the possibility of varying financial supervision. In the first phase of building the Banking Union, the United Kingdom was in office This was immediately after the crisis or during the crisis That its expectations of financial supervision are higher than that of the Union. This is a question of interpretation, it is a highly technical legislation, and it was about recognising the law of other currency zones, jurisdictions which use another currency, so that in another way, in a different way, they can shape financial supervision precisely because they do not operate the same currency. Poland in this context can take decisions as it considers appropriate from the point of view of its own banking system, its own financial institutions and its own currency. This is a sufficient room for manoeuvre, an appropriate room for manoeuvre, which safeguards the rights of non-euro area countries to shape their financial supervision system in a proportionate manner. [[Mr. Marshal, I'm sorry... Minister, if I may remind you, I've asked for a comment on the compromise relationship.]] Oh, yeah. This case was repeatedly straightened out by Minister Waszczykowski. This type of negotiating act was not there. Of course, we live in a world of dependency, and each of these countries continues in a specific, much broader, political reality than this agreement, which is clear. But there was no direct incti between issues strictly belonging to this agreement and any other aspects of our relationship with Great Britain, with the European Union or NATO. It was some kind of misheard.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-07-senat-14-2.u27	Thank you very much. Minister Anders, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-07-senat-14-2.u28	I'm sorry I'm in a hurry, but I have to go... Minister! Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! I have a question about passports. Those Poles who are there are already there, but those... If Britain leaves the Union, for those Poles who would like to go there and work, the road will be closed. Passports will change for all of us; this will no longer be a passport of the European Union.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-07-senat-14-2.u29	I am convinced that if Britain leaves the European Union, it will treat EU passports and non-EU passports in the same way as a country outside the Schengen area, a country which respects documents issued within the Union or outside the European Union. I don't think it's gonna happen... [[The papers may be, but...]] ...in this respect, to some kind of bluntness.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-07-senat-14-2.u30	I understand, but if anyone who's gonna... I don't think England's gonna get out of the Union at all, but if she left and someone wanted to go there, live and work, it's gonna be very difficult for him. Britain is already making great difficulties for everyone who wants to go there. So that it won't be particularly beneficial for us if she leaves the Union.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-07-senat-14-2.u31	As far as traveling is concerned, not necessarily providing work, because here conditions can change, I think the conditions will not change. The United Kingdom is as open a country to the countries of the European Union as to countries outside the European Union. In the same relative.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-07-senat-14-2.u32	Thank you very much. Mr. Senator Jackowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-07-senat-14-2.u33	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. Minister, I have a question for you. In your assessment of these February 2016 negotiations and this debate On the occasion of Brexit, other aspects of the way the EU institutions operate, the democratic deficit in the European Union and other such phenomena have certainly been discussed. This is a breakthrough, a departure from the concept of more Union? This concept is promoted by some of the officials of the European Union, above all by German policy. It is believed that the solution to all the problems of the European Union is the idea of more of the Union, that is, going in a stronger direction towards federalization, and creating one country, that is, as it is said in public, of the United States of Europe. In your opinion, have these negotiations and this discussion stopped this process, or are they just such a stop to stop this process? How would you assess the dispute over the concept of the future of the European Union? What exactly would the European Union be? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-07-senat-14-2.u34	I think the groundbreaking of the process can be seen better in the long term, when you can see it on a really big historical plan. Perhaps these negotiations will be seen as something that changed the vector of the procedure. There's one thing you can say for sure. This is a very custom solution. This is the solution that it imposes, it tries to impose on the treaty order such an overlay that there is room for different expectations, different expectations of the integration process. It even directly concerns a principle that has so far been such a primal paradigm, i.e. ever closer union, interprets it in a restrictive way and, say, on request. You might think there's some kind of reunion, some kind of crossover, but if it's gonna be very groundbreaking, it's hard to judge today. I think we are at all in the process of adapting changes, which for various reasons will be expected in different countries, and this matter of nothing, I think, will not close once and for all. This is a route to custom solutions, unusual, nonorthodox solutions. What this will lead us to is very difficult to say today. This may be an adaptation that we will like, because it may be a Union in which it is easier to find a place for itself and to operate freely, but it may also be an adaptation that we do not like, it may be a Union completely shredded, with a common market which is completely scattered, de facto divided. It's very hard to predict. This is the reason why Poland should be very intensively involved in such debates, even if they are directly, sometimes seemingly and sometimes actually not relevant to us. The future architecture of the Union, dynamics, in which direction this organism will go, is quite important for how the Union will affect our development conditions, our security. Not every change scenario... I am in favour of change, I am in favour of adaptation, but not every adaptation scenario and not every change scenario will be good.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-07-senat-14-2.u35	Thank you very much. Senator Major.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-07-senat-14-2.u36	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Thank you for preparing this agreement and negotiating it, because it is important that it sounds that Polish diplomacy secures the interest of the largest group of migrants, which was found outside our country, under conditions that were possible at the negotiating table. I would also like to ask the Minister whether the scope of the negotiations was the margin of this group, which was found in the UK, or whether, to some extent, these talks also concerned homeless people. I ask, because there are also an unsavory number of homeless people in addition to 800,000 Poles who are currently in the UK, and they are homeless outside our country. A few years ago, the UK government transferred considerable resources to projects that countered this homelessness, but over the years these projects have crumbled. Right now, our homeless people are enjoying general rights, just like other nations that are outside the country and are on British soil. I would like to know whether this subject at the negotiating table in any way has come up, whether it has been discussed, whether it has been considered, in what form it is possible to support this social group. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-07-senat-14-2.u37	This case was not a key element, although it appeared somewhere in context. Of course, as a civilised country, the British state will not take action that would go beyond humanitarian expectations. And what is in the interest of homeless migrants is a very open question, because really in such a situation, maintaining homelessness or not responding to the problem of homelessness can be a factor that will only broaden this homelessness. Here is the question of the responsibility of the country from which this migration takes place, and of the host country, the answer to the question of how to really deal with it. The passive expectation, the belief that somehow it would be, the passive view that this group is growing It doesn't happen today, but there was a time when this group was growing. It's not a solution. The shared responsibility of the host country and the country from which this migration originates is important, except that it is outside this discussion. Either way, this must be resolved, but the agreement itself does not affect it in any way.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-07-senat-14-2.u38	Thank you very much. Mr. Senator Jackowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-07-senat-14-2.u39	Thank you very much. Minister, I wouldn't have picked up on what I was asking, even though you might have already talked about it, but somehow I didn't get it. Namely, I mean whether the reform of the EU institutions, i.e. the institutions that manage the European Union, has been mentioned during these negotiations. In Prime Minister Cameron's statements at all before the start of these negotiations and the whole thing, let's call it a political offensive in the UK regarding the status of the United Kingdom within the European Union, this recital was quite strongly stressed by him. In the information that appeared in Poland, the focus was And you're right. On the question of the position of Poles who are temporarily or longer in the UK, and these aspects seem to have escaped a bit. Was there a negotiating element here and some binding provisions or an indication that there might be some review, some screening, some kind of debate postponed in time? I would ask the Minister to answer that question. And my second question, which may go a little beyond the matter of this point, where the Minister appears in front of the High House, but it's hard. I would nevertheless like to ask you to comment on the referendum in the Netherlands, because at the moment the public on this subject is quite widely informed, there is a wave of comments. What the position of the Polish Government could be or how does the Polish government perceive this issue? I will just remind you that this is probably the second referendum in the Netherlands, because the first one concerned the European Constitution when the Dutch said no. That's not enough. And this is interesting, because in Poland some mainstream media shows that one who has doubts is a stunner, and in the countries of the old Union there are such real Europeans, and it turns out that the so-called. true Europeans, that is, living in the countries of the old Union, have a rather sceptical attitude towards the integration of our continent, and not individually, but, I would say, in cases of acts such as referendums, because in France there was also a rejected issue of the European Constitution, which is already forgotten today. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-07-senat-14-2.u40	The Dutch referendum shows well that doubts about the future of the Union or doubts about the extent of the Union's responsibility for the eastern neighbourhood in this case may turn into an opportunity to express doubts about the Union as a whole. That's how I feel about the outcome of this referendum. I don't think that was the case. only for an association agreement, which was presented by supporters of rejection as a step towards membership. I think this is an expression of distrust towards the EU institutions. And that is bad news because blocking the ratification process of the Association Agreement with Ukraine is not good news. Poland will be waiting for solutions, how the results of this referendum will be taken away primarily by the Dutch Government, because today it is primarily the responsibility of the Dutch administration. And this is what Mrs Szydło and Prime Minister Rutte were talking about on Monday. We expected it to be similar, but we didn't expect it to be exactly like this. Some thought the referendum might be non-binding, but this is an internal matter for the Netherlands. Today, the Dutch Government must find a solution to address the doubts in a good way, in a good way, to respond to the doubts expressed in this referendum, and these are the various doubts. I think the Dutch Government just needs time to propose a way out of this situation. That means we probably need weeks, not days, to find a solution, but it's a matter of responsibility for the Dutch government. Poland is open to any solution which would, however, provide an opportunity to complete this process in such a way that it would satisfy Dutch voters and at the same time allow the association process to continue. As far as the institutions are concerned, the institutions were not directly discussed on this occasion, because this would imply a discussion on a treaty change, and that is what we are all afraid of today. We are not prepared to talk directly about changing the treaty. I think that neither of the parties, for various very reasons, is prepared for this and is not interested in talking about amending the treaty to accelerate. So the institutions were not directly discussed. However, many provisions of the agreement imply institutional changes within the Union, the role of national Parliaments is the most evident manifestation of this, but also an interpretative element concerning ever closer union. This is an indirect impact on institutional order, an obligation for the European Commission and the Member States to do more to improve the quality of regulation, and in fact to reduce regulation, because it is clearly indicated in this direction. This also affects institutional order and this will be implemented. The Interinstitutional Agreement on Better Regulation has already been adopted and thus indirectly affects institutional order. But talking directly about the institutions on this occasion was not because everyone felt that these negotiations were already quite complicated, so adding such an element would make it impossible to end it quickly. And time also played a part in it. - Nobody. He wasn't interested in dragging the case too far either.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-07-senat-14-2.u41	Thank you very much. Mr. Senator Czerwinski.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-07-senat-14-2.u42	Minister, I understand that these negotiations were not conducted between the United Kingdom and the rest of the European Union or between the United Kingdom and Poland, but each country could, as if, articulate its interests. I'd like to ask you here. If, of course, you can tell us what the role of Germany was in these negotiations. What did they focus on from the four areas that you mentioned, how intense and to what extent did their position coincide with the position of Poland?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-07-senat-14-2.u43	The positions of Germany and Poland were very convergent in one matter, namely the belief that this agreement should come to an end, that we should have a quick meaningful agreement to make it easier for Britain to remain in the European Union. In this case, we had a very good understanding and, I think, a good understanding of what the nature of this process is. Besides these elements that we are talking about as part of the negotiation process. As far as the scale of interest is concerned, in this case the scales were probably the opposite, because from a German point of view the problems of free movement of people did not play such a key role, while quite retail changes in the architecture of the euro area are of course of absolute importance from a German point of view, so I think that the focus in the German case was much more shifted towards it. And, of course, to a much greater extent than in the Polish case, Germany paid attention to how metaarchitecture will be shaped, i.e. ever closer union, i.e. as if the future of the Union. Germany did not belong to those countries which, in some very nervous way, reacted to this matter. They were primarily interested in the compromise, but understood the rations of these countries. For example: like Belgium That were definitely and clearly skeptical. for calibration of this architectural element. But, as I say, the fundamental coherent goal of Poland and Germany in these negotiations was to believe that this agreement must be good, balanced and must be adopted in order to give the British government a chance to make a credible effort to remain UK in the Union.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-07-senat-14-2.u44	Thank you very much. I don't see any more... [[What do you mean?]] [[Come on.]] You're welcome, Senator Rulewski. [[I think we've reached a compromise...]] But I don't... There you go, Mr. Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-07-senat-14-2.u45	Minister, the UK supports the construction of Nord Stream II, and even seems to be involved in this construction. On the one hand, we are saying here that we are opposed to political functionality, and on the other hand we are demanding that the United Kingdom, at the expense of economic interest, depart from it. What is the UK's position on this matter? And can we count on an ally?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-07-senat-14-2.u46	In the case of a consortium Nord Stream II is a UK-Dutch company, but this does not imply any action with regard to the UK Government that would oppose the study of this project and the assessment of this project from the point of view of European law. We've brought it in twice. . with British support To the conclusions of the next summits, the records that were moving towards project evaluation Nord Stream II for European law. Great Britain, just because one of the British-Dutch companies was involved, did not oppose it. However, it is not a government which, like the Polish, Slovak, Lithuanian, Estonian or Romanian government, is very active in this matter. It is rather a lack of opposition, the belief that this issue should not be treated in any extraordinary way and that the European Union should play its own role here. This is not a controversy. The United Kingdom does not object to the development of energy law in an area which could involve such instruments. In principle, the United Kingdom supports the Polish objectives of diversification as regards the shape of the market. Here, despite very frequent doubts as to whether scepticism about the development of Brussels or the Community aspect of one or the other policy, we do not encounter such problems in the case of energy policy.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-07-senat-14-2.u47	Thank you very much. There are no more calls. I would like to inform you that the Secretary of State in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, Mr Konrad Szymański, has undertaken to give a written answer to a question asked by Mr Marshal Borusewicz. Thank you very much, Minister. [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs Konrad Szymański: Thank you.]] I'm opening a discussion. Senator Rulewski was the first to speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-07-senat-14-2.u48	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I must express some appreciation to the Minister for his flexibility, his expertise in expressing his opinion on the processes involved in the negotiations with Great Britain, so-called. Brexit. However, apart from this correctness, there is no specific position of Poland in this matter. You often camouflage it with benefits, it covers it with a concept of compromise. These are different concepts that are correct and acceptable in politics. However, not anyone else, only the Government of Law and Justice decided to emphasize or even emphasize the Polish element, the interests of Poland as part of a good change. And there are a lot of defined concepts behind this term, which I would even call reactionary in relation to the activities of previous government teams in Poland. Everyone, not just the Civic Platform. These issues can be brought to... I'll tell you the most important thing. The Government of Law and Justice, among others. He agreed with Great Britain that integration processes should be hindered, or at least, as signed here in Warsaw, when Prime Minister Szydło... should not develop. This general formula... It's not like you think, Senator Jackowski, that this was meant to be a development towards re-federalization. The point is, for example. in matters that are quite mundane, regulation... so that the labour market, the services market, the capital market can be more efficient. However, this does not imply the need to sharpen integration processes towards politics. Here, however, Cameron's government was dealt with, bearing in mind money, first of all money, and not ideas that these processes are to be slowed down. The second dimension of the PiS policy is not the use of the euro for Polish interests, but the doctrinal dislike for the euro which it already has today, it turns, and I am convinced, even individually I have found out about it. 300 million or 400 million people. Currencies, which are an important element of the financial market, notabene stabilising the situation in the world. But the voices that flowed from Torun said otherwise. Not Polish business, but habit, some bad tradition As if it were no longer so in Poland that we were trading different coins, not only of the conquerors, but also of the coins beaten outside the borders of our country or put into circulation from outside them. The government of Beata Szydło shouted at the whole world that Poland is conquered by highly developed countries or capital and consortia, and therefore it is necessary to close boundaries a little or very strong, e.g. on the occasion of another reconstruction of the shipbuilding industry, the maritime industry, and at the same time agreed to one of, say, the economic powers, including the financial powers, of the UK, to promote competitiveness. Supporting competitiveness is a very positive slogan, but it is also a threat to the interests of Poland, especially in financial transactions. In conjunction with the lack of the euro and the existence of a weak zloty, this means that the Polish government gives strong support to the pound, demoting, of course, the euro, which is a currency without its national name. I don't think the Polish government has noticed that the UK is constantly in opposition to the largest recipient of the budget in terms of maintaining this budget. I don't say it anymore: it's increasing. The budget that Poland uses, which it takes 40% from. And this is in Poland for many towns, for many larger cities, but also for various programs From education, through research, through industrial development, through building the right cohesion policy, to establishing competitiveness It's the only way out. It is the only salvation for Poland. The United Kingdom, which has multiplied its strength, is consistently pursuing a reduction in its budget. I didn't have time to ask the Minister's question. He may answer, but it's my fault. In the context of these negotiations, the question of the next UK correction did not arise. As you know, Britain already benefits from a discount at a level, if I remember correctly, a billion pounds, even though it is a highly developed country and far from the crisis. Meanwhile, in these negotiations, somewhere in the corridors, there is the slogan of another UK discount. The question, therefore, must be whether the methodology for these negotiations, as I say, is correct about the need for compromise... Yes, compromises can and must be made, but compromises must not be made at the expense of value. You can invite Great Britain to dinner, but do not cross the need for a restaurant. And it seems that the Polish government, despite such good knowledge among others. The facts presented by the Minister, in fact, have gone too far in these negotiations. He's already revealed that he's willing. not only to set up a dinner for Britain, but also to bring to ruin the restaurant, the European Union. This is, I believe, a violation of the vital interests of Poland. How much more time do I have, Mr. Marshal? [[Two minutes.]] [[That's it.]] It is worth to say that in a few days we are going to worship one of the biggest political contracts which the sovereign Poland has concluded by adopting European baptism, by joining the civilization cycle of Christian states, countries which soon imposed human rights, parliamentarianism, social justice. I am saying that the contract with the European Union started before 2004 is the same. Who knows if it's bigger. Moreover, it has been going on for 12 years now, with evident results not only for the state, as was the case during the baptism, but for every citizen. Poland, as a result of this contract, has not only become richer, has avoided the ruins which we encounter just beyond our eastern borders, but, moreover, has also become a genuine participant in processes, and it is shaping Europe not only through functions, but through entering into the decision-making system, into a system of financial participation which is generally beneficial for Poland. Playing with this treaty through a presentation of individual, selfish, political, and fortunately seasonal, expectations is harmful to Poland. I would like the Law and Justice to continue the policy of good change by further integrating us with the European Union, rather than putting us on selfish processes, in this case island, or the processes of disintegration of this most successful economic and social project in the world, a project that hundreds of millions of refugees are dreaming of today and to which they are heading. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-07-senat-14-2.u49	Thank you, Senator. Mr. Senator Jackowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-07-senat-14-2.u50	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! First of all, I would like to thank the Minister for giving such a competent presentation of the results of the negotiations that took place in February 2016, which concerned a fundamental problem from the point of view of Poland, namely the shape and functioning of the European Union. In addition, I would like to thank the Polish Government for having shown in these negotiations that it can effectively balance national interests and national interests, but understood more widely, in the context of our membership of the European Union. This is the play to learn. In a moment we will celebrate the twelfth anniversary of Poland's accession to the European Union; this is almost half a generation. And already certain patterns of behaviour, the way the Union operates, the way it fights for its interests within the European Union... Well, this is the area where Polish political elites gain more and more experience. This is important for the future of the European Union and for the future of Poland. I would like to look at the negotiations that have taken place, in terms of the effects that they can bring. It must be said that Prime Minister David Cameron was able to make extremely skilful use of the political economy that existed in the European Union, of some hesitation that we are currently seeing within the EU institutions, and of the crises that are taking root of the European Union, including the migration crisis, the crisis of the EU institutions, the crisis of democracy within the European Union institutions, the economic crisis, the crisis of values which I believe is of fundamental importance, and a certain departure from the original vision of the European Union. Because we remember that the great founding fathers of the unifying Europe, namely De Gasperi, Schuman, Adenauer... The idea behind their joint actions was simply to rule out in the future such tragic, unprecedented conflicts in the history of Europe as World War II or World War I and to bring about the Europeanization of Germany. Unfortunately, since the 1990s there has been an effective promotional integration policy, i.e. the tendency to build elements of a European superstate, to certain federalisation processes. And the next treaties, including the Treaty of Lisbon, were intended to serve this purpose. However, what was supposed to be a policy of Europeanising Germany, in practice, looked a little bit like this, in line with the German tactics of such a document, which the important politicians of Chadition at the beginning of the 1990s announced that it was about building a federal state, and within this country there would be a phenomenon that could be defined, so publicistically, as the Germanization of Europe. I mean, the European Union with its structures, with its potential, was in fact intended to leverage Germany's position both in Europe and in global agreements. The negotiations of February were in some sense a cold shower for these political concepts. And here David Cameron turned out to be a skilled tactician. It is not enough that Germany pursues its long-term foreign policy, and the UK does the same. The United Kingdom, I am addressing Senator Rulewski here, had one idea for European policy or was pursuing one way of conducting European policy. Namely, she has always fought the strongest country on the continent for several centuries. As Germany grew too much, Britain began to interfere in this process in a very thoughtful way, on the pretext of discussing the future of the European Union. High Izbo, I do not believe that the Age of Britain in a referendum has said no to the European Union. This is due to the many reasons that have already been mentioned here. However, we also need to understand what the essence of Great Britain is, in other words, the United Kingdom, which, as a state entity, relies on a certain human union of Scotland, Wales, England, and Northern Ireland. As far as the British may be concerned, Eurosceptic sentiments are quite high, but the opinion among Welsh or Scots is more diverse, as there are also internal tensions within the United Kingdom. Therefore, it would translate whether it would also translate into the results of the referendum, which is supposed to be scheduled on 25 June, if my memory is correct. So this factor needs to be remembered. And there are also economic issues, because the economy of the UK... Of course, the United Kingdom has a Commonwealth and it has, so to speak, opportunities and traditions coming from before and in a certain economic zone can function freely. Nevertheless, the European Union as a single market is 500 million consumers. In fact, it can be said that this is an economic area that has the largest gross domestic product in today's world, so it is actually a very attractive market. And the presence on this market on a privileged basis and such gives membership to the European Union is a very important element in building the country's well-being. I don't think so. I don't think so, I stress that the British say no in the EU referendum. But David Cameron turned out to be a very skilled negotiator. He's won something for Britain that could be termed And that's what we're talking about here. The second UK discount. The first one, as you know, is still from the last century. The United Kingdom is a member of the European Union a bit on special rights, and at the moment it has yet to obtain additional elements. Does that mean And that's what I asked Minister Szymanski. That we are on the eve of some revision of the way the European Union operates, a serious discussion about the European institutions? In my deepest conviction, yes. And here I would agree with Minister Szymański's thesis that perhaps in the future someone who will write the history of this project will pay attention to these negotiations not only in the individual aspect of the UK's obtaining additional bonuses for negotiations and a certain departure from such, I would say, a comprehensive social and economic concept guiding the European Union. Perhaps this will be a crucial moment in the debate on reform of the EU institutions. We haven't been here since the debate. I am talking about the European Union. I am talking about the European Union. We're absolutely not leaving. If we hear that the European Parliament is to adopt a resolution against Poland next week, we can ask a very specific question: where is the democratic deficit In the European Union or in Poland? It is clear that the democratic deficit in the European Union is one of the fundamental weaknesses for which the EU institutions are criticised. Well, it's obvious that this deficit is. It is not only spoken of by Eurosceptics or eurorealists, but also by Euro-enthusiasts. They themselves admit that the democratic deficit is one of the biggest problems of the European Union. It is not enough, after those referendums that were, on issues of European integration In the countries of the old European Union, and not in those countries that joined the Union, like Poland, in 2004, i.e. in the countries of Central Europe. It's best to see how it's felt... It's obvious that something has to be done about it. It is difficult at the moment to predict what the future of the European Union will be, but it is important that the Polish government welcomes this declaration by Minister Szymański and participates in all forms of discussion about the future of the European Union, so that it does not adopt the attitude of isolationism on the basis that we do not directly involve ourselves, so let the major countries of the European Union put these issues together. No, right now we're witnessing... [[Mr. Senator...]] I'm almost done. ...The changes in architecture within the European Union. We can see that the role of the Central European countries is clearly increasing and that the weakening of Germany's position following mistakes, following the emergence of this immigration crisis, indicates that the existing existing agreements within the Union are being reconfigured. Thank you very much to the Minister and the Government for keeping their hands on the table. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-07-senat-14-2.u51	Thank you very much, Senator. Mr. Senator Borowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-07-senat-14-2.u52	Mr. Marshal! High Senate! First of all, with regard to the agreement concluded with the United Kingdom, I would like to say that there are no fundamental objections to this agreement. I think this discussion has been very difficult. Of course, there is always something more to be achieved, but we are well aware that these were multilateral negotiations and that the interests of individual countries, as the Minister said here, were different. Therefore, I think that this activity of Polish diplomacy on this forum and the result achieved here needs to be assessed positively. And on the basis of that, because this discussion we're discussing is a little broader... In his statement, Senator Rulewski drew attention to the further aspects of the situation that is currently on the European stage. I want to say that the lessons we should learn from this And that's ahead of us. They're extremely important. And here was the difference between the kind of conclusions and the way Senator Rulewski and Senator Jackowski dealt with this problem. Take a look at David Cameron's M.O. Senator Jackowski was basically pleased to mention the Prime Minister of Cameron that he had acted skillfully, negotiated concessions for the United Kingdom. Then I have to ask the question: Okay, but why? What happened in the UK that David Cameron abandoned the idea of a referendum, a great discussion with the European Union, blackmailing the European Union? What was going on in Britain? Apart from the fact that there was an economic crisis that affected all European countries. Is there a crowd of refugees out there? No, the UK is isolated by the Channel. and proper tunnel control, so he doesn't know this phenomenon. After all, the whole campaign was typically nationalistic, Mr Nigel Farage formed his party based on nationalistic and lying slogans, for example, that economic immigrants, among others. from Poland, harming the UK, harming the citizens of Great Britain, even though all the analyses that were carried out there by British economists showed that this immigration brings benefits to the UK, that much more gross domestic product is being produced and much more taxes go to the budget than those benefits that are paid there. So there was no reason. Well, in many countries you can always arouse nationalistic instincts, you can always say: our nation, our nation, we are threatened, because here are others, strangers taking away our achievements. This is very easy and we see it in many European countries. Unfortunately, this phenomenon occurs to some extent also in Poland during the refugee crisis. And the moment a political movement arises, which is a game that wants to take power in this way, it's the duty of every politician who calls himself a statesman. And even if he is not named, at least he would like to be a statesman, he is opposed to it, to speak the truth to the nation and to unite with others in this respect, even if he shares his views with them, e.g. for economic policy. Because nationalism, chauvinism is the biggest threat. He's the one who's always caused international feuds and wars. And Mr. David Cameron didn't turn out to be a statesman in this case. Mr. David Cameron turned out to be a small party, political player who, seeing the conflict in his party, accepted the tactics that some politicians accepted, namely he took over some of the passwords that are of course harmful, but he did it anyway, and then he said to the nation: "Listen, I appreciate... Vote for me, I'm not that radical. It is only that people who doubt who do not know who hesitate, who expect information from politicians, expect clarification of these matters, in such a situation they come to the conclusion that there must be some truth to this, since the leading party takes over some of the passwords. But is she believable? Isn't this just a political game? I think Mr. Nigel Farage is more reliable, because at least he's been talking about it all along. And these are the effects of political opportunism, such political opportunism Mr. David Cameron has unfortunately shown himself and has fallen into his own snares. I also hope that the outcome of this referendum will be positive for Europe and, as a result, for the UK, too, right? Except today's polls show very different things, very different things. Mr David Cameron, instead of saying from the beginning what are the benefits of Britain being in the European Union, what are the benefits of the fact that the UK has invested hundreds of thousands of European immigrants from the European Union, who are working there, you can say a large part of the work that the British have not been able to do at all, about these things, has started to put up an ultimatum and say: yes, yes, it needs to be changed, it needs to be blackmailed from the European Union. And what does it turn out to be today? It turns out that his friend, Mr. Boris Johnson, who is very popular in Britain, says: this laughter, it's not enough, it took more, it's just eye soaping. That's what it looks like. The lessons that I think must be learned from this, for Poland, because we will not teach others here, are such that in this kind of nationalistic or sometimes even chauvinist channel we will not be allowed to enter. And such trends in Poland are and can increase. I would call for the government, in such situations, all political forces that disagree with such an approach, to cooperate with each other and to oppose such tendencies. And finally, that's the case. As far as the European Union is concerned, she is in crisis, there is no doubt. It started with the economic crisis, the refugee crisis came, and of course Greece came to that. All of this together caused some kind of explosive mix. Just, ladies and gentlemen, what's next? Will there be a breakdown, or will there not be a breakdown of the entire European Union? I don't think so. The euro area is already so integrated that there is no possibility of breakdown. Eventually you can get rid of Greece, as a last resort, but that's all. And I think things are gonna go like this. If other countries, countries outside the euro area, are too exposed to their so-called. national interests I use words so called 'cause national interests are, but very often they are presented as our cottage from the country This will end with the euro area countries, and we have already seen these trends, becoming more integrated. After all, there have already been talks about a separate budget for these countries, about other bodies, so to speak, which would be specifically appointed for this zone. Then Poland will be completely on the side, completely, with even greater difficulty of entering. [[Mr. Senator...]] I'm almost done. Today, it is like in the family, the European family is in crisis, it is in trouble, so each member of this family should show empathy towards the others, not demand any benefits for himself, even if they are justified to some extent. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-07-senat-14-2.u53	Thank you very much. Senator Jackowski for the second time, five minutes.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-07-senat-14-2.u54	Following the conclusion of the negotiations in February 2016, at night, probably at 0.10 hours, David Cameron's conference began. I had a chance to watch it on TV. And David Cameron said, "I don't love Brussels, I love Great Britain." That's where he started his speech. I would like the Polish government, the Polish Prime Minister, the representatives of the authorities to have the optics that the Constitution imposes on us and the vows we make in this House. I'd like to say that I'm addressing Senator Borowski right now. The naive ideology of building such a European nation has led the EU institutions to a crisis in which we are now, at our own request, because Europe has left the values on which it was built. At the moment, we see that it is naive to believe that we will rid ourselves of national selfishness, because Germany is the biggest national egoist that is in the European Union. What are the Germans doing? Is Europe's solidarity on economic policy binding on Germany or not? These are stories for the poor people under the title: let us love each other, let us make the European nation, who has doubts, is xenophobic, is a nationalist. Yes, the nationalist is Cameron, the nationalist is Hollande, the nationalist is Angela Merkel, the nationalist is Prime Minister Lenzi in Italy, the nationalist is Prime Minister of Greece, the nationalist is Orban, all are nationalists, and Poland is Christ of the nations, it is to serve the European idea, it is to forget its own interests... [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] ...to lay this on the altar of the magnificent building of the European Union. Senator, you are a politician, be realistic and understand one fundamental thing: there would be no such problem in the European Union if the rules that have been adopted were to apply equally to everyone. Unfortunately, it's not. These are beautiful ideas, but as it turns out in practice... This has led to a crisis in the European Union. Now the Germans are blackmailing Brussels, Cameron is blackmailing Brussels, and Poland must find itself in all this. I agree with you on one thing, that diagnosis That's what Minister Szymanski said. The disintegration of the European Union, uncontrolled disintegration, and such a vision we cannot exclude at the moment in the coming years, could have unpredictable consequences for Polish security and the Polish future. And I agree with that, but within the framework of all this, we need to move in an appropriate way and we need to understand that there is a whole new architecture within the European Union at the moment. And as for the crises that we have right now, The migration crisis, the crisis of the European institutions, the demographic crisis, the economic crisis, the value crisis Unfortunately, I don't see any meaningful ideas for solving them. I might stress the situation: perhaps the situation will force us to have a serious discussion on this subject and to think about what will happen next with the European Union. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-07-senat-14-2.u55	Thank you very much. Senator Rulewski for the second time, you have five minutes.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-07-senat-14-2.u56	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Senator Jackowski wants to mess with everyone, not just Senator Borowski and me, because he's in good deals with me, but, I see, with all of Europe. You're proposing some unmarked vision of another Europe with other hegemons and other architectures, but you haven't defined what architecture this would be, the architecture of values or countries... I'm sure you said one thing that wasn't supposed to be a federation, but no one's talking about federalization today. And the second thing you've said is very clear to the reality that there is a great... that Europe is in a big crisis. I finished my previous speech with the words that hundreds of millions of people from all over the world are on their way to this cryptic boiler right now, and I don't think these people are stupid enough to go where they're going to be. They don't push into rich Asia, e.g. To Japan, they don't even push into America, which slammed a door in front of them, and they're going to let a couple of people in, of course, with a proper account, into their territory. Europe is therefore not a territory for revolution or for general strikes. In Europe, almost all of your pains, national selfishnesss, or actually national forces, have been silenced. Even such a hot area as the Balkans, thanks to European influence, has become, and has been, for years, a land of some peace. What's more, and I think it's the math that speaks, more and more countries want to join Europe, given what you're talking about, because in these countries such processes are being observed, given the prejudices... More even They are not only European countries. Turkey has been applying to Europe for a long time because it has long, but it has applied, far away Armenia and Azerbaijan sign cooperation, not using the military wing or political Europe, they use the parachute wing of value. And that is why Europe, whether Senator Jackowski wants or does not want, will be a force that will develop. It is important that Poland is in the core of Europe, and not that it is such a small customer who is playing, as you have said, at the launch of national forces, as a result of which, in fact, as Senator Borowski said, it will develop, because this is an economic process, a natural, strong nucleus so-called. The euro, the PiS will support the UK, perhaps Denmark, and the Community of Independent States with Russia will develop alongside it. Poland will again face the problem of choosing to play many fronts, not even on two fronts, but on many fronts to fight the threat that you also spoke about. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-07-senat-14-2.u57	Thank you very much, Senator. There are no more calls. The discussion is closed. Would Minister Konrad Szymanski like to take the floor and comment on the senators' speeches? [[Voice from the room: He's gone.]] The Minister's not here. Thank you, Minister, for providing the Senate with information. High Izbo, I propose to supplement the agenda with a point: the second reading of the draft resolution on the 1050th anniversary of the Polish Baptism and consider it as item 11 of the agenda. If I do not hear the opposition, I will find that the High House has accepted the proposal. I can't hear you objecting. We begin to consider item 11 of the agenda: the second reading of the draft resolution on the 1050th anniversary of the Polish Baptism. I would like to remind you that this project was introduced by a group of senators and is included in print No 134, and the report is published in print No 134 S. I ask the rapporteur of the Legislative Commission, Senator Jan Żaryn, to present a joint report to the committee on the draft resolution... [[Voices from the room: He's gone.]] Your senator isn't in the O.R. yet. [[Talking in the O.R.]] Okay, I'm announcing a three-minute break by the hour... [[Voice from the room: No, no...]] [[Voice from the room: Call him.]] It's a two-minute break until 11.10. [[Adjournment from 11 minutes 08 to 11 minutes 10]] I'm reopening the session. I ask the rapporteur of the Legislative Commission, Senator Jan Żaryn, to present the report of the draft resolution to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-07-senat-14-2.u58	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! I would like to present to you a draft resolution of the Senate of the Republic of Poland entitled: on the 1050th anniversary of the Polish Baptism. The project in this shape, which I am going to present at the moment, is a project developed by a three-person group of historians Senator Robert Gawel, Mr Ryszard Terlecki and Mr Senator Jan Żaryn, who are saying these words. As you can see, the content was prepared by both the representative of the Sejm and the representatives of the Senate, because, as you will soon hear, this is also due to the content of the proposed resolution, it should be read or read on 15 April 2016 in Poznań as a joint resolution of the Sejm and the Senate, i.e. the resolution of the National Assembly. This version, which I will read to you, is the version obtained after this morning's meeting of the Legislative Commission. The Legislative Commission adopted this version and directed me to continue to proceed, and I was appointed as the person to present the report and, above all, read the content of the resolution. If you don't mind, I'm going to read the draft of this resolution. Thus: the resolution of the Senate of the Republic of Poland of We'll see if it'll be today. In the 1050th anniversary of the Baptism of Poland. The Senate of the Republic of Poland at the 1050th anniversary of the introduction of Christianity on our lands expresses its gratitude to the creators of statehood and all the generations of Poles who faithfully followed the principles of determining our identity. Duchess Dobrawa, who was baptized in 966, incorporated us into the civilization circle of Western Europe, which was soon confirmed at the Congress of Gniezno in 1000 years. The Latin Community of Europe thanks to Poland expanded its scope when it came from Hungary. Jadwiga, the queen, took Władysław Jagiełł's husband, the first of the great dynasty in which the Republic of both Nations, the state of tolerance and many cultures were founded, which constituted a systemic phenomenon on the scale of the then world. Christianity has brought us a set of values, a canon of spiritual and material culture. Under his signs we defended the European heritage, in 1683 the year of Victoria Vienna and in 1920 the year of the victorious Battle of Warsaw. In the long history of glory, but also the fall of the Republic of Poland, the nation of Poland continued thanks to the strength of the spirit, thanks to the example of martyrs, from St. Bishop Wojciech to the Blessed One. Father George Popieluszko. The expression of this duration was the Millennium Victory of 1966, preceded by the Jasna Góra Weddings of the Nation and the Great Novena Fr. Card. Stefan Wyszynski, Primate of the Millennium. The great historical breakthrough of the contemporary time, which was the formation of the movement of solidarity, would not have been possible without the spiritual inspiration brought to Poland by Saint Pope John Paul. II. His choice for Peter's capital and his first visit to Homeland allowed the nation to feel like a community. It was under Christian signs and symbols, such as the Cross and the revered image of Our Lady of Czestochowa, that a great transformation of the enslaved nation took place, which allowed to regain the desired freedom and rebuild the independent state. Members and Senators of the Republic of Poland at the National Assembly call for the anniversary of 1050. Anniversary of the Baptism of Poland Let this source, from which the generations drew, remain present in our day and in the future. The resolution is published in the Official Journal of the Republic of Poland. This is the content of this resolution. However, I have two more requests, unfortunately, to say that, in a certain amount of tension, in communication... But that's what happens sometimes. These requests are as follows. The first is that, because we are the first Chamber, which, by its verdict, will arm the Sejm, in turn, to adopt this resolution next week, at the next sitting, we are in principle obliged to move on to the third reading of this resolution today and so that this resolution can be adopted at the current Senate meeting and, in addition, to complete the procession over it, i.e. to establish... And this request would probably be clear and obvious if it weren't for the problem that existed. The problem is that I have to make an amendment to the text that has been read, which means that the Legislative Commission must gather again today, even for a moment. The amendment concerns not a substantive issue, but something that is to happen in the future, i.e. on 15 April this year. The resolution should be 100% one-sounding, and undoubtedly one word will be potentially different in the Seym and Senate resolutions. And therefore, the request for codification. That's one word. It's a word. We are very close, namely the Senate. This is the first word of this resolution. It is a request that we amend the text of the resolution and introduce the words of the Senate and the Sejm of the Republic of Poland and, on the other hand, that the Sejm introduce the words of the Sejm and the Senate of the Republic of Poland. [[Voice from the room: But we can't.]] I've been talking to the Legislative Bureau about this. The Legislative Office believes that we should not make such an amendment. Nevertheless, I ask you to accept it. This will facilitate not so much the procession but the recognition that it is a one-sounding resolution of 100% Not 99.9%. I therefore make such an amendment, which necessarily also makes me ask the Legislative Commission to meet today so that the third reading can take place at this Senate meeting. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-07-senat-14-2.u59	Thank you very much, Senator. At present, senators may submit a maximum of one minute's query to the rapporteur of the committee and to the authorised representative of the applicants. I would remind you that the applicants also authorized Senator Jan Zarin to represent them. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? You're welcome, Senator Jackowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-07-senat-14-2.u60	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. Mr. Senator, here's the question: will we accept this as... I'd like to ask you about this kind of formal... Because, as I understand it, the 15th is the National Assembly, the first time in recent history outside Warsaw. Will we therefore accept what we are talking about as a single sounding text as a resolution of the National Assembly? Please explain that to me, the meanders of this procedure, so that I can understand correctly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-07-senat-14-2.u61	Thank you very much. The procedure is that we cannot adopt resolutions as the National Assembly. We can only adopt resolutions as Sejm and Senate. We can, though. As the National Assembly is a fact To read and read joint resolutions, including as an assembly, e.g. appeal, as in our resolution, to the compatriots. However, the procedure does not provide for the National Assembly as a party. This is where the dilemma came from and what constitutes a double interpretation of the contents of the first sentence. On the one hand, logic indicates that, since the Senate decides this, then the Senate is the only entity to be included in the resolution, and only it will be mentioned there. We still tried this at the Legislative Commission meeting, with the opinion of the Legislative Bureau. On the other hand, the National Assembly is a fact, and therefore there is a proposal to introduce a provision that it is the Sejm and the Senate of the Republic of Poland. I ask you, to be completely clear about what I am talking about, I will add that there is, of course, a formula that can help us to resolve the dispute or to remove some tension between these two realities of separate Chambers and this common one, the National Assembly. Namely, you can of course And we did it in the last paragraph. In exchange for the words of the Sejm and the Senate of the Republic of Poland, the Members and Senators of the Republic of Poland. So we put it in the last one. In general, the penultimate but the last substance It's a paragraph. And although the opinion of the Legislative Bureau on this subject is, to put it mildly, abstinence, it is nevertheless a request that we introduce the record of the Sejm and the Senate. But the reality is what it looks like.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-07-senat-14-2.u62	Thank you very much. Senator Zientarski.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-07-senat-14-2.u63	Mr. Senator, we agree on intent, as a matter of principle, even on a comma, we've settled everything. We've been through this problem before. My question is whether it wouldn't be better in this situation, Senator, according to the rules and even the constitution... Well, we can't decide for the Sejm and say he took something if the Senate did. However, after we have passed a resolution, the Sejm can do so and announce that the Sejm and the Senate... Because the Senate already took it, and the Sejm Not yet. And we can't take anything after the Sejm, yes a priori. That's the rule. And that's why I'd be proposing to leave it at that, with the senator's attention. [[Applause]] [[There would be two resolutions.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-07-senat-14-2.u64	Yes, Mr. Senator, it's reasonable what you say. However, we can make this amendment because the Legislative Office makes it clear that it does not interfere with the content, regardless of its opinion. Therefore, it is our decision whether we make such a decision or not. [[Voice from the room: Because it's in accordance with the rules.]] However, the intention was that the Sejm should be placed in the situation only of the party which accepts the content of our resolution, because if there is a debate in the Sejm about the introduction of one amendment, then... This may sound rude to the Lower House of Parliament, but it may turn out that this debate will begin de facto disarming this text, disassembling it into prime factors. I would therefore continue to ask for recognition of this amendment, which I propose, despite all the respect for the senator's reasoning. [[Well, let's say the Seym...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-07-senat-14-2.u65	Thank you. [[Most likely the Seym...]] Mr. Senator Rulewski.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-07-senat-14-2.u66	I do not intend to violate the procedural architecture of this resolution, Senator rapporteur, but I have noted And at least let it be on the record. In this resolution, the effort of the institution that introduced baptism and later in various ways, not only in terms of Christian values but also educational values, was not emphasized... Well, there is no mention of the Church's institution. And the second thing that's worth noticing at least in the protocol... [[Talking in the O.R.]] Of course, the Church's people are mentioned. Wojciech, priest Popieluszka, pope After all, the Church as a whole was a guarantee... He was spreading... [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[Quiet, please!]] And the second point I would like to make here. It would require that, regardless of the fact that Poland was baptized, it was clearly in favour of Christianity, it was an open and tolerant state in which over the millennia life had led. And I think he's gonna lead Many of the followers of many other religious beliefs. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-07-senat-14-2.u67	Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-07-senat-14-2.u68	If you don't mind, I'm gonna go first. The word Church does not really fall here, but it seems to stem from the content of this draft resolution in 100%. As regards the second point, please note that there is a sentence in which we stress precisely this systemic phenomenon of the Republic of the Republic of Poland of both Nations: a state of tolerance and many cultures, which constitute a systemic phenomenon on the scale of the then world. We also stress that this is the Christian heritage of our tradition. [[That's right, about that.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-07-senat-14-2.u69	Thank you very much. Senator Spider.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-07-senat-14-2.u70	Mr. Marshal! (PL) Mr President, rapporteur, ladies and gentlemen, I'd only have a possible proposal to... is there any way to write? Instead of the Senate and the Sejm Parliament of the Republic of Poland in this first paragraph and later, at the end, that Members and Senators... Is there any way to reconcile that? [[Talking in the O.R.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-07-senat-14-2.u71	Yeah, I think... I have noted this proposal, and since the amendment is going to the Legislative Committee anyway, we will try to determine whether the concept of "parliament" should be introduced, whether or not to remain with the names of the two chambers we represent. [[Mr. Senator, better is the enemy of good.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-07-senat-14-2.u72	Thank you very much. Senator Florek.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-07-senat-14-2.u73	Mr. Marshal! (PL) Mr President, I would like to ask you a few questions. We've discussed this a number of times. I think the Senate should take that resolution, like we said. If the Sejm adopts this resolution, it will be a resolution and the Sejm and the Senate, but if the Sejm considers that our resolution does not suit him, then it is said that it is difficult, there will be two resolutions. But here the decision will belong to the Sejm. He'll either accept our resolution or he won't accept it. Let's hope he accepts, because he's gonna want it to be one resolution too. And arguing about details, about dot, comma, I don't think there's any point. Thank you. [[Voice from the room: Exactly. Yes, sir.]] [[Talking in the O.R.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-07-senat-14-2.u74	Mr. Senator Czerwinski.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-07-senat-14-2.u75	Senator, I appeal to you to withdraw this amendment. When the Sejm adopts its resolution, instead of the word "Senat," there will be the word "Sejm," but it will make sense, because whoever reads these resolutions at the National Assembly will be able to say that both chambers have adopted Let's hope so. A one-sounding resolution, that is, this amendment does not really bring anything, and it will be a true statement, and that is what we want.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-07-senat-14-2.u76	Does the senator want to answer?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-07-senat-14-2.u77	Yeah, I gotta answer that. I am still asking for this amendment. [[Talking in the O.R.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-07-senat-14-2.u78	Senator Hare.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-07-senat-14-2.u79	Mr. Senator, I ask you very much to give up this amendment for logic, for the sake of this bill.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-07-senat-14-2.u80	Thank you. Then I'll ask for a 15-minute break, because, as you can imagine, not only am I the author of this amendment, but also those who will read... [[Mr. Chairman?]] They're responsible, so you have to ask them... [[Lectors?]] No, they're not speakers, this gentleman's name is Marshal of the Senate, Marshal of our House. So I'm asking for a 15-minute break... [[Mr. Marshal, before recess...]] I will try to present to him the arguments of the House.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-07-senat-14-2.u81	Senator Augustine would like to speak before recess.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-07-senat-14-2.u82	If the senator wants to talk, I would like to point out that the Senator's amendment, or rather his request, will be fulfilled in its entirety if the Sejm And he'll have the right to do that. I'm gonna write what you're gonna write, I mean. The Seym and the Senate. They'll be able to do it after our resolution. [[Yes, sir.]] There is therefore no need for this amendment. What you want to achieve will only be achieved in a different, correct order. [[Talking in the O.R.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-07-senat-14-2.u83	Then I'm asking you for a 15-minute break. [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[I'd like to, if you don't mind...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-07-senat-14-2.u84	Okay, I declare... [[May I?]] Senator Gogacz.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-07-senat-14-2.u85	With regard to Senator Augustine's remarks, I would like to say that she is of course very valuable, but it seems to me that if we listened to you, we would have two resolutions from a formal point of view and then the resolution of the Sejm would be read, not the Senate. [[Mr. Senator, but the other one will be the same...]] Although the content would be the same... [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[We don't insist on whether the Sejm or the Senate...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-07-senat-14-2.u86	Okay, I'll be in charge of a 15-minute break by 11:45. [[Adjournment from 11 minutes 31 to 11 minutes 45]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-07-senat-14-2.u87	I'm reopening the session. We're going back to the pre-break point. We continue to ask questions. You're welcome, Senator... [[I'm supposed to ask myself a question, right?]] The senator would like to speak at this moment, wouldn't he? [[Yes.]] You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-07-senat-14-2.u88	Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! In accordance with the Member's request, expressed as clearly as possible... the senator expressed as clearly as possible, I withdraw this amendment, but... [[I'm bringing in another one.]] ...please accept another amendment, which unfortunately... [[Joy in the Chamber]] ...has consequences. I would like to read this amendment at the right time before submitting it. Can I read it right now? Yes? [[You're welcome, Senator.]] Well, by a quick compromise between the fact that it's going to be 100% uniform a resolution, and the fact that we cannot write in it the Seym and the Senate because we cannot... Your comments were right, so we suggest that the first sentence should be as follows: In the 1050th anniversary of the introduction of Christianity to Polish lands we express our gratitude to the creators of statehood and to all the generations of Poles who faithfully followed the principles of determining our identity. Escape from the words "Sejm and the Senate," using the first person plural means that in the case of the Senate resolution, we express it to senators, and in the case of the "Sejm" we express it to Members. And I hope that's actually acceptable. Well, I'm sorry we didn't come up with this idea earlier, because we need to call the Legislative Commission to formally accept this amendment.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-07-senat-14-2.u89	Thank you very much. Mr. Senator, I understand that you will now make this amendment in writing? [[Yes...]] Good. Are there any more... [[I am making an amendment in writing right now.]] Good. Are there any more questions for the Senator rapporteur? [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[Voice from the room: There isn't.]] I don't see any calls. I'm opening a discussion. Please take the floor of Senator Jan Maria Jackowski. [[Talking in the O.R.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-07-senat-14-2.u90	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I'd like to draw your attention... I am very pleased with this initiative and I would like to thank Senator Żaryn for this very valuable initiative. And Senator Gawl. Because this will make the National Assembly more permanent, because the document, which is a resolution, will be documented by the resolution. [[Talking in the O.R.]] I would like to draw attention to the third paragraph of this resolution, which reads: "The Community of Latin Europe thanks to Poland... [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[I ask the senators to remain silent. Quiet, please.]] The Latin Community of Europe thanks to Poland expanded its scope when it came from Hungary. Jadwiga, the queen, took Władysław Jagiełł's husband, the first of the great dynasty in which the Republic of both Nations, the state of tolerance and many cultures were founded, which constituted a systemic phenomenon on the scale of the then world. It so happened that almost three years ago, two and a half years ago, we celebrated the 600th anniversary of the Horodelian Union, which was crucial in this work. Horodło, I remind you In the district of Hrubieszów, on the Polish-Ukrainian border, it is the seat of the easternmost gmina in the present Republic. On October 2, 1413, 602 years ago, Horodło was ruled by Prince Ziemowita IV of the Piast dynasty as the dowry of his wife Alexandra, who was the sister of King Władysław Jagiełła. And this is where an international alliance agreement has been concluded, which has become history as a horodel union. This union and then the Lublin Union in 1569 decided for centuries on the history of several nations in Central and Eastern Europe. 602 years ago it was written: "Lithuanian lands, according to the will, permission and consent of barons, lords, boyars, we re-incarcerate, abduct, allied and forever united with the said Kingdom of Poland." The previously signed Union in Blood, in 1385, was in fact only an extended form of marriage agreement between Queen Jadwiga Andegavenska and the great Lithuanian Prince Jagiellonian. The Horodelian Union was the next step, since it created a systemic foundation for a common state. The geopolitical situation at the time naturally encouraged Polish-Lithuanian cooperation. In a way, although in other relationships, the grounds for the Horodel Union have very interesting historical connotations. At the beginning of the 15th century, the common threat to both countries was not only the Teutonic expansion, but also the Moscow russian land collection action. According to Oskar Halecki, a prominent Polish historian, another very important reason for concluding the Polish-Lithuanian Federation was the cessation of a devastating confrontation between both countries and the division of zones of influence in Volyn, Podol, Kievszczyzna and the areas of Rusi Halicka. One of the effects of the historical event in Horodle was the initiation of the Republic of the two Nations, in which, over time, the system solutions and organization of statehood with administrative schemes from the Crown were introduced in the area of the Grand Duchy. The common policy of both states has been confirmed and it is written that the great prince will be elected by the King of the Kingdom of Poland with the advice and knowledge of the greats and the Lithuanian fighters. A joint session was also established and the offices of voivodships and chestlains were introduced in Lithuania. Representatives of prominent Lithuanian knights, whose descendants still live, were accepted into the Polish coats of arms. The Horodelian Union was the result of the proceedings of the first General Sejm of the Republic of Poland of both Nations. It is a wonderful testimony to the wisdom and foresight of the elites of that time, which together form a powerful Federation state, which lasted for a further 378 years from 2 October 1413 until the Constitution was adopted on 3 May 1791. This peaceful act of light political will, contained in a spirit of mutual respect for peoples and cultures, good neighborhood and unaggressive coexistence, is a great legacy and contribution to the history of Christian Europe. So that I thank you for this paragraph, which in this special resolution was placed, because in some sense shows him... And the Horodelian Union was an outstanding example of this, because even the union between Scotland and England in the 17th century did not have such a thing, so to speak, a treaty instrumentarium which was included in the Horodelian Union. And from this point of view, this is really a pioneering and original contribution to the history of a common Europe. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-07-senat-14-2.u91	Thank you very much, Senator. This list of speakers was exhausted. I would like to inform you that you have submitted a legislative proposal in writing to Senator Jan Żaryn. Since a legislative proposal has been submitted, the Senate is sending a draft resolution to the Legislative Commission. Senator Jan Żaryn has requested that the committee set a deadline for preparing an additional report in order to carry out a third reading of the draft resolution still at this Senate meeting. If I don't hear the votes of objection, I'll find the Senate has accepted the motion. There is no objection, so that, ladies and gentlemen, I will announce a half-hour break. But before there's a break, please read the message.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-07-senat-14-2.u92	Communication: 5 minutes after the adjournment in room 182, a meeting of the Legislative Commission will be held on the examination of the proposals submitted for the draft resolution on the 1050th anniversary of the Polish Baptism. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-07-senat-14-2.u93	Thank you very much. At the end of the discussion I did not say that I would close the discussion, but I consider the discussion to be closed earlier. And now I'm announcing a recess until 12:25 p.m. At 12.25, the session and the vote are resumed. [[Adjournment from 11 minutes 53 to 12 minutes 25]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-07-senat-14-2.u94	I'm reopening the session. We proceed with the examination of item 12 of the agenda: changes in the membership of the Senate committees. I would remind you that the proposal of the Rules of Procedure, Ethics and Senators' Affairs on this matter is included in print No 133. I would ask the rapporteur of the Rules of Procedure, Ethics and Senators' Affairs, Senator Sławomir Rybicki, to present a proposal to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-07-senat-14-2.u95	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The Rules of Procedure, Ethics and Senators Committee at its meeting yesterday adopted a draft resolution of the Senate on changes in the composition of the Senate committees, which I will read. Senate of the Republic of Poland on the basis of art. Article 13 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 2 Rules of Procedure of the Senate dismisses: Senator Grzegorz Bierecki from the Committee on Human Rights, Rule of Law and Petitions; Senator Tadeusz Kopcia from the Committee on National Defence. Senate of the Republic of Poland on the basis of art. 13 Rules of Procedure of the Senate elect Senator Tadeusz Kopcia to the Rules of Procedure, Ethics and Senators' Affairs Committee. The resolution shall enter into force on the day of its adoption. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-07-senat-14-2.u96	Thank you very much, Senator. Would any of your senators like to speak on this matter? I don't see any volunteers. Thank you. We'll proceed to the... I don't have a ballot. Excuse me, can I have one of those, please? We proceed to the vote on the draft resolution tabled by the Rules of Procedure, Ethics and Senators' Affairs on changes in the composition of the Senate committees. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 73 senators voted, 72 were in favour, one abstention. [[Voting No 1]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on changes in the membership of the Senate committees. We return to the examination of the first item of the agenda: the Act amending the Law on the Animal Identification and Registration System. The Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development has presented a draft resolution in which it asks for the adoption of this law without amendments of Senate printing No 100 A. We proceed to the vote on the draft resolution submitted by the committee. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 75 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 2]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the Law amending the Law on the System of Identification and Registration of Animals. We are returning to the second agenda: the Safety Act on the trading of explosives precursors. The Committee on National Economy and Innovation presented a draft resolution in which it proposed amendments to the Act "Senatski Print No. 106 A. First of all, the amendments will be voted on and then the resolution adopted on the adoption of the law in its entirety, as amended by the amendments adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Amendment 1 indicates that the Chief of Police may authorise the heads of the police's organisational units to authorise the processing of personal data in the system of reporting suspicious transactions. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 80 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 3]] The amendment went through, it was accepted. Amendment 2 assumes that the system for reporting suspicious transactions collects data on the trader's address. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 81 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 4]] The amendment was accepted. Amendment 3 is editorial and adequately defines the relationship between the rules. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 83 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 5]] Amendment 3 was accepted. Amendment 4 clarifies that the system for reporting suspicious transactions also collects data from a single-member trader. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 81 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 6]] The amendment was accepted. Amendment 5 assumes that the information collected in the system for reporting suspicious transactions should be transmitted to police units by teletransmission of data. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 85 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 7]] Amendment 5 was accepted. Amendment 6 deletes normative non-essential part of the provision. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 84 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 8]] Amendment 6 was accepted. Amendment 7 restores the code way in which criminal sanctions are formulated. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 85 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 9]] The amendment was accepted. Amendment 8 clearly justifies the regime of criminal liability of the addressees of the law. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 85 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 10]] Amendment 8 was accepted. We are voting on the adoption of a resolution on the adoption of the law in its entirety, with amendments resulting from the amendments adopted. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 85 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 11]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the Safety Act on the trading of explosives precursors. We return to the third item on the agenda: the Act on the ratification of the Agreement on the creation of the Asian Infrastructure Investment Bank, drawn up in Beijing on 29 June 2015. The Committee on Budgets and Public Finances and the Committee on Foreign Affairs and the European Union have presented a draft resolution in which they request the adoption of this law without any amendments to Senate printing No 103 A. We proceed to the vote on the draft resolution submitted by the committees. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 83 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 12]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate adopted a resolution on the Law on the ratification of the Agreement on the creation of the Asian Infrastructure Investment Bank, drawn up in Beijing on 29 June 2015. We return to the examination of the fourth item of the agenda: the Act amending the Geological and Mining Law and the Act amending the Geological and Mining Law and certain other laws. The Committee on National Economy and Innovation and the Committee on the Environment have presented a draft resolution in which they request the adoption of this law without any amendments. We proceed to the vote on the draft resolution submitted by the committees. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 86 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 13]] In the light of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the Law amending the Geological and Mining Law and the Act amending the Geological and Mining Law and some other laws. We return to the examination of the fifth item: second reading of the draft resolution on the occasion of the 120th anniversary of Kazimierz Kuratowski's birth The leading representative of the Warsaw School of Mathematics. I would remind you that yesterday the committee's report on the draft resolution was presented and a discussion was held. We proceed to the third reading. I would like to inform you that the third reading only includes voting. I would remind you that the committee requests the Senate to adopt a single draft resolution in print No 82 S. We proceed to the vote on the draft resolution. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 85 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 14]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate adopted a resolution on the occasion of the 120th anniversary of Kazimierz Kuratowski's birth. The leading representative of the Warsaw School of Mathematics. We return to the examination of item six of the agenda: the second reading of the draft resolution on the 360th anniversary of the Lviv Weddings. I would remind you that yesterday the committee's report on the draft resolution was presented and a discussion was held. We proceed to the third reading. I would like to inform you that the third reading only includes voting. I remind you that the committee requests the Senate to adopt a single draft resolution in print No 84 S. We proceed to the vote on the draft resolution. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. There were 86 senators voted, 81 for, 1 against, 4 abstentions. [[Voting No 15]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate adopted a resolution on the 360th anniversary of the Lviv Weddings. I would like to inform you that I will read this resolution the day after tomorrow at the Holy Mass in the Cathedral in Lviv. We return to the examination of item seven of the agenda: the Law on conformity assessment and market surveillance systems. A meeting of the Committee on National Economy and Innovation took place at the end of the session, which responded to the proposals put forward during the debate and prepared a report on the matter. It is in print No 118 Z. I ask the rapporteur, Senator Grzegorz Pekkis, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-07-senat-14-2.u97	The Commission accepted the proposed amendment. The amendment is specific and concerns the date of entry into force of the Act.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-07-senat-14-2.u98	Thank you very much. Does the senator still want to speak as an applicant or not? No. Thank you very much. We'll proceed with the vote. First of all, the amendments will be voted on and then the resolution adopted on the adoption of the law in its entirety, as amended by the amendments adopted. Amendment 1 ensures consistency with the Construction Products Act. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 87 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 16]] The amendment was accepted. Amendment 2 ensures consistency with the Dangerous Goods Transport Act. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 85 senators voted, 85 were in favour. [[Voting No 17]] The amendment was accepted. Amendment 3 adapts the provision to the terminology used in the Polish legal system. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 84 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 18]] Amendment 3 was accepted. Amendments 4 and 10 should be voted on together. They aim to ensure the law of terminology consistency. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 86 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 19]] The amendments have been accepted. Amendment 5 ensures compliance with Union law. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 87 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 20]] The amendment was accepted. Amendment 6 amends the title of Chapter 3 of the Act in such a way that it corresponds to the content of this chapter. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 85 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 21]] The amendment was accepted. Amendment 7 ensures consistency with the Rail Transport Act. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 87 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 22]] The amendment was accepted. Amendment 8 is more specific. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 83 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 23]] The amendment was accepted. Amendment 9 clarifies the provision specifying to what extent the provisions of the Code of Administrative Procedure apply to matters not governed by the Act. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 84 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 24]] The amendment was accepted. Amendment 11 clarifies the provisions on monetary penalties in such a way as to specify precisely the entities that may be burdened with them. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 87 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 25]] The amendment was accepted. Amendments 12, 13, 14 and 15 should be voted on together. They change the date of entry into force of the Act From 7 days from the date of its publication on 20 April 2016, this will avoid a collision with the Act amending the Act on Explosives for Civil Use and certain other laws. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 87 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 26]] The amendments have been accepted. We are voting on the adoption of a resolution on the adoption of the law in its entirety, with amendments resulting from the amendments adopted. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 87 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 27]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the Law on conformity assessment and market surveillance systems. We return to the examination of item 8 of the agenda: the Act amending the Act on Explosives for Civil Use and some other laws. The Committee on National Economy and Innovation has presented a draft resolution in which it asks for amendments to the Act "Senatski Print No. 119 A. First of all, the amendments will be voted on and then the resolution adopted on the adoption of the law in its entirety, as amended by the amendments adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Amendment 1 takes into account that pyrotechnic articles are classified at the time of placing on the market and not made available on the market. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 84 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 28]] Amendment 1 was accepted. Amendment 2 regulates the provisions by clarifying the scope of the law with regard to ammunition. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 87 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 29]] The amendment was accepted. Amendment 3 clarifies that in terms of control and supervision from the Law on Conformity Assessment and Market Surveillance Systems for Explosives, a provision will apply to the person being subject to an appropriate monetary penalty. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 85 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 30]] The amendment was accepted. Amendment 4 aligns the terminology of the Act on Explosives for Civil Use with the terminology of the Act on Conformity Assessment and Market Surveillance Systems. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 86 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 31]] The amendment was accepted. Amendment 5 tidys up the vocabulary system for the bill. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 84 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 32]] The amendment was accepted. Amendment 6 assumes that an operator holding a licence for the production and marketing of explosives is not required to have an authorisation for the manufacture of explosives by in situ method. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 85 senators voted, 84 were in favour, one abstention. [[Voting No 33]] Amendment 6 was accepted. Amendment 7 harmonises the rules. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 85 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 34]] The amendment was accepted. Amendment 8 clarifies the provisions. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 80 senators voted, 80 were in favour. [[Voting No 35]] The amendment was accepted. Amendment 9 accepts that the contact details given on the label of the material should be given in Polish. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 87 senators voted, 86 were in favour, one abstention. [[Voting No 36]] The amendment was accepted. Amendment 10 deletes provisions which require due diligence with regard to the requirements of the Act only impose on the distributor of materials and not on their manufacturer or importer. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 86 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 37]] The amendment was accepted. Amendment 11 deletes normative unnecessary words, thus making the criminal provisions of the law unambiguous. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 87 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 38]] We are voting on the adoption of a resolution on the adoption of the law in its entirety, with amendments resulting from the amendments adopted. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 87 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 39]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the Act amending the Act on Explosives for Civil Use and some other laws. We would like to return to the discussion of item 9 of the agenda: agreeing to hold Senator Robert Dowhan accountable. We join the vote on the consent of the Senate of the Republic of Poland to hold Senator Robert Dowhan responsible for the offence. The Senate agrees to pull the senator... [[Talking in the O.R.]] ...for criminal liability by means of a resolution adopted by an absolute majority of the statutory number of senators. Failure to obtain the required majority of votes means the adoption of a resolution on the non-approval of the senator's liability for the offence. The vote on personal matters shall be secret and shall be taken using sealed ballots. To hold a secret ballot, I appoint the secretaries: Senator Arkadiusz Grabowski, Senator Łukasz Mikołajczyk and Senator Rafał Ambrozik. In a moment, the appointed senators will be handing out secret ballots to the senators. The secret ballot shall be marked with only one mark on the ballot. A ballot card with more than one mark on it or no mark on it shall be deemed to be invalid. After completing the ballots of the secret state, the senators will put the cards in the ballot box in alphabetical order. Then a break will be ordered... [[Talking in the O.R.]] ...in the session during which the senators shall calculate the votes and draw up the minutes of the secret ballot. I now ask the senators of the Secretaries to hand out the ballots and the senators to fill in the ballots. [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[Mr. Marshal, did you order a vote?]] Not yet, not yet. Did all the senators receive the ballots? I ask Senator Arkadiusz Grabowski to read the names of the senators in alphabetical order. And I ask your senators, after reading their names, to put in the ballot box filled with secret ballots.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-07-senat-14-2.u99	Jan Filip Libicki, Rafał Michał Ambrozik, Anna Maria Anders, Mieczysław Augustyn, Adam Jerzy Bielan, Grzegorz Michał Bierecki, Przemysław Jacek Błaszczyk, [[Talking in the O.R.]] Alexander Tomasz Bobko, Ryszard Wiesław Bonisławski, Waldemar Bonkowski, Marek Stefan Borowski, Bogdan Michał Borusewicz, Barbara Boris-Damięcka, Margareta Budner, Jerzy Mieczysław Chróścikowski, Zbigniew Jan Cichoń, Leszek Czarnobaj, Grzegorz Czelej...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-07-senat-14-2.u100	I'm sorry, Mr. Senator. Mr. and Mrs. Senators, please be quiet. Okay? Quiet, please. I would like to apologize and inform you that there will be one more vote after the break, so please stay here and not leave the Senate. The break will be short, I don't know, ten minutes. After a ten-minute break, please come to the Senate. There you go, Mr. Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-07-senat-14-2.u101	Jerzy Czerwinski, Dorota Czudowska, Wiesław Józef Dobkowski, Jan Dobrzyński, Robert Dowhan, Jarosław Duda, Jerzy Felix Fedorowicz, Peter Florek, Robert Kazimierz Gawel, Adam Gawada, Stanisław Gogacz, Mieczysław Józef Golba, Arkadiusz Jakub Grabowski, Thomas Paweł Grodzki, Maciej Tomasz Grubski, Jan Vincenty Hamerski, Jan Maria Jackowski, Andrzej Kaminski, Stanisław Karczewski, Wiesław Kilian, Kazimierz Mariusz Kleina, Bogdan Adam Klich, Andrzej Kobiak, Maria Sophia Blanket, Stanisław Rooster, Władysław Komarnicki, Tadeusz Viktor Kopeć, Margaret Kopiczko, Waldemar Jerzy Kraska, Maciej Adam Łuczak, Józef Mikołaj Łyczak, Richard Bogdan Majer, Robert Adam Mamątow, Marek Eryk Martynowski, Łukasz Mikołajczyk, Andrzej Tadeusz Mioduszewski, Andrzej Kazimierz Biesiołek, Krzysztof Stanisław Mroz, Grzegorz Bernard Napieralski, Jarosław Wojciech Obremski, Bogusława Orzechowska, Andrzej Michał Spider, Maria Panczyk-Podziej, Grzegorz Pekkis, Mark Pęk, Wojciech Piotr Piecha, Leszek Marian Infantry, Alexander August Pociej, Marian the Messenger, Michael Francis the Crowd, Krystian Karol Probie, Zdzisław Stanisław Pupa, Constantine Radziwill, Marek Dariusz Rocki, Tadeusz Romanchuk, Jadwiga Kazimier Rotnicka, Jan Rulewski, Jarosław Rusiecki, Sławomir Piotr Rybicki, Czesław Wincenty Ryszka, Janina Zofia Sagatowska, Michael Sewerinski, Krzysztof Marek Elephant, Waldemar Jan Sługocki, Andrzej Józef Stanisławek, Lydia Eve Staron, Grażyna Anna Štark, Alexander Jakub Szwed, Antoni Szymanski, Raphael Joseph the locksmith, Przemysław Kazimierz Terminski, Peter Wach, Arthur Richard Warzocha, Jerzy Wczyła, Kazimierz Adam Wind, Jacek Władysław Włosowicz, Andrzej Franciszek Wojtyła, Alicia Maria Zając, Joseph the Hare, Barbara Grażyna Zdrojewska, Mr Piotr Benedict Zientarski, Jan Krzysztof Żaryn.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-07-senat-14-2.u102	Thank you very much, Senator. Have all the senators voted? Thank you. [[Talking in the O.R.]] Just a moment, Senator. Oh, now everybody. I am now asking the senators of the Secretaries to calculate the votes and draw up the minutes of the vote. I'm ordering a recess. After which, as I said, there will be a vote until 1 p.m. Time-out till 1 p.m. [[So, are we still gonna have a vote?]] Yes. There will still be a vote on the resolution, so that I ask for your presence. [[Adjournment from 12 minutes 52 to 13 minutes 03]] I'm reopening the session. We would like to return to the discussion of item 9 of the agenda: agreeing to hold Senator Robert Dowhan accountable. I would like to inform you that the senators of the Secretaries have completed the calculation of votes and have drawn up a secret ballot protocol. Ladies and gentlemen, I am reading the minutes of the secret vote of 7 April 2016 on the consent of the Senate of the Republic of Poland to hold Senator Robert Dowhan liable for the offence. Designated by the Senate Marshal to hold a secret ballot Senator Arkadiusz Grabowski, Senator Łukasz Mikołajczyk and Senator Rafał Ambrozik state that 86 votes were cast in a secret vote regarding the consent of the Senate of the Republic of Poland to hold responsible for the offence of Senator Robert Dowhan, including valid votes. Eight senators voted in favour, 69 senators voted against and 8 senators abstained. The absolute majority of the statutory number of senators required is 51. In the light of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate of the Republic of Poland has adopted a resolution on the non-expression of consent to be held liable for the misdemeanor of Senator Robert Dowhan. We return to the examination of item 11 of the agenda: the second reading of the draft resolution on the 1050th anniversary of the Polish Baptism. Following the second reading of the draft resolution, the Senate sent the draft to the Legislative Commission and obliged the committee to submit an additional report at the present Senate meeting. It is in print No 134 X. We proceed to the third reading. I would ask the rapporteur, Senator Jan Zarin, to present an additional report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-07-senat-14-2.u103	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. Dear Senators! The Legislative Committee met at the meeting, as the Marshal said, and as a result of the discussion it accepted the proposal for an amendment. Its final shape after discussion... The amendment concerns the first paragraph, which is what we discussed here in plenary. I will read this amendment: In the 1050th anniversary of the adoption of Christianity on our lands we express our gratitude to the creators of statehood and to all the generations of Poles who faithfully followed the principles that set our identity. This is the final version of this amendment adopted by the senators at the meeting of the Legislative Commission. [[Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-07-senat-14-2.u104	Thank you very much. Do you still want to speak as an applicant? I take it you didn't. [[No, no. My part is just...]] No. Good. At present, senators may submit no more than one minute of a request to the rapporteur and the applicant in connection with the additional report submitted. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? I can't see and I can't hear the calls. Thank you very much, Senator. We'll proceed with the vote. First of all, the amendment will be voted on and then the draft under print No 134 S will be adopted in full, with changes resulting from the amendment adopted. We proceed with the vote on the amendment presented in print No 134 X. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 72 senators voted, 71 were in favour, one abstention. [[Voting No 40]] The amendment was accepted. We proceed to the vote on the draft resolution in its entirety with the amendments resulting from the amendment adopted. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 72 senators voted, 70 were in favour, two abstentions. [[Voting No 41]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate adopted a resolution on the 1050th anniversary of the Polish Baptism. In view of the resolutions taken, I ask the senators of the rapporteurs to represent the Senate in the course of the examination of the Senate resolutions by the Sejm committees. I would like to inform you that the agenda of the 14th Senate meeting has been exhausted. I inform the senators that the next Senate meeting will be held on 13 and 14 April. The order of this meeting was sent to you by electronic means. The meeting begins at 9 a.m. We proceed to senators' statements outside the agenda. I inform you senators that the statements made to the minutes will be included in the official version of the short-term report. Declarations may not last more than 5 minutes. The statement may include matters relating to the implementation of the mandate, but may not relate to matters on the agenda of the current meeting. The Marshal will refuse to accept unsubstantiated statements which cannot be established or which the Senator's announcement would not be possible within the time available, i.e. within 5 minutes. There is no discussion on the senator's statement. Would any of your senators like to speak? Senator Grażyna Shark, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-07-senat-14-2.u105	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I would like to make a statement on behalf of Senators Tomasz Grodzki, Jadwiga Rotnicka, Wiesław Kilian, Piotr Zientarski and of course... [[My own.]] ...your own. Oh, very nice. The statement is addressed to the Minister of Environment Jan Szyszka. It concerns the implementation of the programmes of the National Fund for Environmental Protection and Water Management, i.e. the programme of thermomodernisation of single-family buildings, as well as the selection of applications for the provision of funds to regional environmental and water management funds, as well as the programmes of the "Azbest", "Kawka" and "Prosumer" programmes. On 16 October 2015, the Council adopted Decision (CFSP) 2015/1333 [2] appointing the The National Fund for Environmental Protection and Water Management presented for consultation the technical requirements for the priority programme of thermomodernization of single-family buildings. The programme aimed at improving energy efficiency in single-family buildings, promoting energy efficiency and developing the market for equipment and contractors. The programme was primarily intended to be based on the provision of preferential grant-based reverse financing. The proposed budget for 2015 is PLN 400 million. The programme was aimed at individuals and other entities with a single-family residential building. The announcements of the launch of the programme met with great interest and very positive acceptance of beneficiaries. On 15 December, the National Fund for Environmental Protection and Water Management announced the recruitment of applications for the provision of funds to regional environmental and water management funds to conclude loans and grants with final beneficiaries for projects implemented under Part 4b of the Priority Programme The funding of the projects was allocated to PLN 100 million to be spent in 2016 and-2020, with the possibility of concluding contracts by the end of 2017. The requests were received from 11 January 2016 on 7 March on the website of the National Fund for Environmental Protection and Water Management, stating that as a result of the recruitment of applications for loans and grants to banks for projects carried out under the scheme of thermomodernisation of single-family buildings, no bank's request was received into the national fund and the laconic statement that the requests for funds to the regional environmental and water funds had been received by the national fund from 10 funds. I would like to point out that since 2014 several funds have been successfully implementing the Prosumer programme. It was assumed that by the end of 2016 2.5 thousand projects would be financed for about PLN 200 million. Most of them are small installations for the production of heat and electricity and investments are carried out by individuals. With great concern, the announcement of the National Fund for Environmental Protection and Water Management to interrupt the programme has been adopted. On 8 March at the meeting of the Senate Committee on the Environment, the vice-president of the committee asked whether there was any threat to the further implementation of the "Fish' programme, as well as other programmes such as "Kawka', "Prosumer' or "Azbest'. It follows from the reply of the President of the National Fund that these programmes may be terminated due to a lack of resources. Dear Minister, we ask you with the following question: when will the decision be made to implement the announced programme and to decide on the selection of applications for the provision of funds to regional environmental and water management funds and whether there is a real risk that the current cooperation under these programmes of the voivodship funds with the National Fund for Environmental Protection and Water Management will be discontinued? That's where the signatures come in. [[The meeting is chaired by Vice-Marshal Maria Koc]] Thank you very much, Marshal.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-07-senat-14-2.u106	Thank you very much. Senator Ambrosik. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-07-senat-14-2.u107	Thank you, Mrs. Marshal. I am directing a statement to the Minister of Justice and the Attorney General of Zbigniew Ziobra on gross errors in the indictment in case 5 Ds 28/11 of the District Attorney's Office in Sieradz. I ask that the Minister of Justice, the Attorney General, review the response of Andrzej Seremet's Attorney General on 13 May 2013 to the letter of the Polish Senator Grzegorz Wojciechowski of 25 March 2013 on the indictment in Case 5 Ds 28/11 of the District Public Prosecutor's Office in Sieradz. The indictment in this case seems absurd because the allegations made in it concerning persons performing different functions in the authorities of the Pabian district are defined as an action to benefit the district and at the same time as an action to damage the old age. In his letter of 13 May 2013, the Attorney General admitted that it was a mistake to identify old age as a victim institution, but pointed out that the actions of the accused as a public officer violated the individual property interests of the entity, which is the district of Pabczański. This is an unreliable answer, because it is from the indictment that the defendant in this case, Beata Mateusiak-Pielucha, as well as other defendants, acted in order to benefit the county. So you can't claim that this act has violated the county's property interests because this claim directly contradicts the contents of the indictment. As a matter of fact, I believe that the entire charge in the V Ds case. 28/11 The District Attorney's Office in Sieradz is absurd and illogical and cannot be the basis for a fair trial. He cannot be prosecuted by an official of public authority, in this case an governor, for acting in favour of the county and, on the other hand, It's bad for old times. I believe, therefore, that the Attorney General should have the case removed from the preliminary investigation and verified the allegations made both by Mrs Beacie Mateusiak-Pielusze and other defendants in this case. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-07-senat-14-2.u108	Thank you, Senator. You're welcome, Senator Libicki.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-07-senat-14-2.u109	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I address my statement to the Minister of National Education, Anna Zalewska. It concerns the consequences for individual municipal authorities of the withdrawal of the so-called. reform of six-year-olds. Well, one of the first and main changes that the current government majority has made was the withdrawal of the so-called. reform of six-year-olds, which causes certain perturbations as regards the functioning of certain local authorities. I would like to refer here to a broader and more detailed example of the municipality Opalenica from the district of Nowomysk, that is the district which is located in my district of Senator No. 89. The facts are as follows. In the municipality of Opalenica 95% Six-year-olds remain in kindergartens or preschool branches. This fact has led to the fact that today the municipality lacks about 80 seats for three-year-old children who have been reported for kindergarten. The municipality runs 5 primary schools, including one in the city. There will be no first class in 2 rural schools, and there are no seats for 21 three-year-olds. In Opalenica in primary school, instead of the planned 7 first classes, one and 115 six-year-olds remain in kindergarten. In the entire municipality 160 six-year-olds stayed in kindergartens. As the municipality engages in large financial resources because it has started to build a pre-school crèche team to be put into service at the end of this year, it is difficult to find the possibility of creating new pre-school branches from 1 September of this year. In this year the general part of the educational subsidy was reduced by over PLN 230 thousand in the municipality of Opalenica. The next financial year, i.e. 2017, will be even more difficult for the municipality financially, because the loss of 160 children, which could be pupils and remain in kindergartens, will result in a reduction of the subsidy of the municipality by about 900 thousand PLN. My question is the following. The situation varies in different municipalities. Here I referred to the case of the district Opalenica. A similar situation, although on a smaller scale, is in the municipality of Granowo, the district of Grodzisk Wielkopolski, or in the municipality of Zbąszyn, also the district of Nowotomyski, while the opposite situation is in the district of Wolsztyn in the municipality of Przemęt, where parents make the opposite decisions, i.e. the number of first classes in the upcoming school year will increase sharply. So we're dealing with about the same terrain with drastic differences, different solutions that have been adopted by the government majority. I would therefore like to ask: does the Ministry of National Education carry out appropriate monitoring of the situation? And can you already draw any more general conclusions, as it looks like in individual municipalities, how many are these municipalities, where there are difficulties with the formation of the first classes, and how much is there, for example. municipalities in which the first classes will be more? The second question is: on the basis of these proposals, does the Ministry of National Education plan to launch some compensation mechanism for those municipalities which, like the municipality of Opalenica, in 2017 will suffer quite a loss on their budget due to a decrease in educational subsidies? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-07-senat-14-2.u110	Thank you, Senator. And I'm asking Senator Janina Sagatowska to speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-07-senat-14-2.u111	Mrs. Marshal! High Senate! My statement is addressed to the Minister of Infrastructure and Construction. Dear Minister, I have been approached by local government officials, mayors, mayors of the communes from my constituency, and not only on the extension of the term vacathio legis of the Act of 16 December 2010 on public collective transport. The local government considers that the implementation of the district and municipal passenger transport system in the municipalities of the county is not feasible as of 1 January 2017. The entry into force of the Act as it stands at voivodship, district and municipal level will cause significant disruptions and difficulties in the functioning of public transport. Given the fact that the change will take place during the school year, local government officials - concerned about bringing the children in, about their efficiency in this area. They consider that the new operating rules will result in organisational deficiencies and emergencies. As of 31 December 2015, none of the municipalities announced their intention to organise the public service transport in advance on a yearly basis. However, each municipality carries out the obligation to transport children to primary and secondary schools and special schools in the municipality with the provision of childcare services for disabled children. The municipalities are in the process of carrying out contracts with carriers which have been selected by tender and have been signed with them with the relevant agreements, which in some cases also concern transport in 2017. The local government therefore considers that the period of the vacathio legis of the Act should be extended in order to be refined at that time and that a new system should be introduced in stages: first at voivodeship level; after its implementation with at least 6 months interval at district level; and after the next adjustment period at municipal level. This is a more friendly and least painful way for local communities to implement a new law. The reality of small, rural, scattered towns will still cause great complications in adapting the new system. Therefore, checking its functioning, precisely such, i.e. stages, at the various levels of the local government So at the voivodship level, then at the county level. It will enable municipalities to implement the law in such a way as to adapt public collective transport to the needs of local communities. Such a position as I am getting to me, Minister, the municipalities express themselves in the conventions of the starosts and in the conventions of the communes. They're hoping the Minister will take these votes into account. I also know that I am not the only one on this issue, because other Members are also very concerned about this problem. Sincerely Senator Janina Sagatowska. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-07-senat-14-2.u112	Thank you, Senator. You're welcome, Senator Jan Maria Jackowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-07-senat-14-2.u113	Thank you, Mrs. Marshal. High Izbo, I have two statements. The first statement, individual, is addressed to the Minister of Health. Poland has the lowest rate of doctors in Europe, especially the severe deficit of representatives of this profession occurs in rural communities. My senator's office is being approached by representatives of the medical community with proposals that may at least partially reduce this deficit in health care. My interlocutors point out that many doctors with Polish roots, with the Polish Charter, in Ukraine want to return to Poland and here under the care of Polish doctors prepare for the nostrilization of the diploma. This situation creates the possibility to amend the existing provisions allowing the employment of a doctor with the Polish Charter from Ukraine for a period of 2 and 3 years as part of an internship preparing for the nostrilization of the diploma. As my interlocutors emphasize, the internship would take place under the supervision of a Polish doctor of family medicine or an intern who would also finance the work and stay of a doctor from Ukraine. In view of these proposals, I ask for information as to whether such a form of increasing the employment of doctors is being considered. Jan Maria Jackowski. And now a statement on behalf of a group of senators addressed to the Senate Marshal of the Republic of Poland and the Minister of Health. On 21 April 2016, the 20th anniversary of the death of Prof. Dra hab. Ireneusz Roszkowski, on behalf of the signatories of this statement, would like to present and mention this outstanding Pole Nestor of Polish obstetrics and gynecology and protection of life, lover of Polish culture and nature, father of four children and a wonderful husband. A man whose life contained several people's biographies, because his work as a professor was so fertile, was called by the posterity a keeper of human life. Prof. Ireneusz Roszkowski was born on 24 March 1909 and graduated from the Faculty of Medicine at the University of Warsaw in 1935. In September 1939, as a lieutenant of the Polish Army reserve, he was mobilized and was the head of the chemical-bacteriological laboratory of the field hospital. He was wounded and taken prisoner from whom he escaped. He then spent part of the occupation in Warsaw. He lived and worked on the premises of the Transfiguration Hospital. He collaborated with midwives who received births in homes in Prague, Warsaw, and treated wounded soldiers after the assassination of Kutschera. He was one of the initiators and organizers of teaching medical students in Boremlov, which after the war turned into the Faculty of Medicine of the University of Warsaw. After the war he worked at the Medical and Gynaecological Clinic in Warsaw with Professor Adam Czyżewicz. After defending his habilitation work, he became a docent at Professor Henryk Gromadzki's Medical University of Gdansk, then from 1955 he was the head of the Medical University of Poznań Medical Clinic and Gynaecology at ul. It's a field. From 1955 until his retirement in 1979 he headed the Second Clinic of Obstetrics and Gynaecology in Warsaw. He created a state-of-the-art clinic in Poland based on numerous diagnostic and research laboratories. Penalty has become a model. It was here that he organized the conditions for the creation of numerous studios, which were often interdisciplinary. In a clinic on the street. For the first time in the country, patients were tested using ultrasound cameras, and also for the first time in Poland the rooming-in system was organized for children to stay with their mother immediately after birth. He has educated a large group of specialists and valuable academic teachers both in Poznań and Warsaw. Under his direct direction and care, dozens of people obtained degrees of doctor and doctor of habilitated medicine. He was the author of 330 scientific works, including 50 published abroad, editor of a series of textbooks. Twice he was a national specialist in obstetrics and gynecology. He was the initiator and organizer of mother schools in Poland In 1954, there were 650 schools that evolved in the following years in birthing schools. He painfully accepted the introduction of the abortion law in 1956 and tried to defend life at all costs. In one of the books given to the Professor by the Primate of the Millennium, entitled "Lists of Pastoral Primate of Poland" we read such a dedication: Dear Professor Ireneusz Roszkowski with deep appreciation and appreciation for his steadfast struggle to save the lives of Poles and for the health of Polish women, Stefan Cardinal Wyszynski blesses him. He was a member of many Polish and foreign scientific associations. Awarded in Poland and abroad. The most appreciated was the gold medal of the Polish Medical Academy of 1991. Medicus Magnus, which he received for outstanding merits for the development and humanization of medicine. On the reverse it is written: The Medal is a symbol of gratitude to those who create immeasurable values, to those who have found a place in history and in human hearts and minds. We, the signatories of this statement, ask the Marshal to consider the possibility for the Health Commission in the Senate of the Republic of Poland to hold a session devoted to the person and to the performance of Prof. Ireneusz Roszkowski. And we ask the Minister of Health to consider the possibility of giving one of the institutions or institutions subordinate to the Ministry of Health the name of Prof. Ireneusz Roszkowski. Signatories of the statement are senators: Rafał Ambrozik, Antoni Szymański, Rafał Śluszarz, Artur Warzocha, Jerzy Czerwiński, Waldemar Kraska, Andrzej Pajak, Kazimierz Wiatr, Stanisław Gogacz, Maciej Łuczak, Przemysław Błaszczyk, Andrzej Kamiński, Tadeusz Kopeć, Małgorzata Kopiczko, Aleksander Szwed, Tadeusz Romanczuk, Jan Dobrzyński, Wiesław Dobkowski, Krzysztof Słoń, Zbigniew Cichoń, Jacek Włosowicz, Robert Gaweł, Alicja Zając, Margareta Budner, Maria Koc, Janina Sagatowska, Andrzej Mioduszewski, Jan Maria Jackowski. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-07-senat-14-2.u114	Thank you, Senator. You're welcome, Senator Czerwinski.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-07-senat-14-2.u115	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! My statement is addressed to the President of the Council of Ministers, Mrs Beata Szydło. 10 September 2004 The Polish Sejm practically unanimously adopted a resolution on the rights of Poland to German war reparations and on unlawful claims against Poland and Polish citizens in Germany The Polish Monitor from 2004, no. 39 item. 678. As a Member then, I had the honour of being a representative of a group of Members of the applicants in the drafting of this resolution. In addition to the clear position of the Sejm, confirming the unlawfulness of claims made in Germany against Poland and Polish citizens and the necessity for Poland to receive a reparation of war, there were three calls addressed to the Government of the Republic of Poland. In the first of them, the Sejm calls on the government to take action against the Government of the Federal Republic of Germany in the matter of receiving adequate financial compensation and reparations of war for the enormous damage and material and intangible losses caused by German aggression, occupation, genocide and the loss of independence by Poland. In addition, in its resolution, the Sejm calls on the government to present to the public as soon as possible an estimate of the material and intangible losses suffered by the Polish state and its citizens as a result of World War II. The Sejm also calls on the government to take decisive steps on the definitive recognition by the Federal Republic of Germany of any compensation for the damage suffered by German citizens as a result of the resettlement and loss of the assets of the population after the Second World War, resulting from the provisions of the post-Czdam Agreement and subsequent repatriation processes. As President of the Parliamentary Reparation Team of Poland, please answer the following questions. What was the history of the implementation of the described calls of the Sejm by individual governments of the Republic of Poland during the more than one-year period since the adoption of the resolution, and what was the effect of these actions? In particular, whether these tasks indicated by the Sejm were initiated and possibly carried out, whose execution by the government was independent of the position of the German party, i.e. has the loss account of the Polish and Polish citizens been drawn up as a result of World War II? How does the current government of the Republic of Poland intend to execute the described requests, tasks, imposed by the Sejm on the government in the content of the resolution indicated, especially in respect of respect for the war losses of Poland and its citizens? With respect, Jerzy Czerwinski Senator of the Republic of Poland.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-07-senat-14-2.u116	Thank you very much. The list of speakers has been exhausted. I would like to inform you that the minutes of the 14th Senate meeting of the Republic of Poland IX term will be made available to the senators within 30 days of the Senate meeting at the Senate Office, room 255. The 14th session of the Senate of the Republic of Poland 9th term of office is closed. [[The Vice Marshal strikes three times with a marshal's cane]] [[Meeting adjourned at 13 minutes 36]]
