ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-12-sejm-16-1.u1	I'm opening a sitting. [[Marshal hits Marshal's staff three times.]] I would like to appoint Catherine Osos, Arkadiusz Myrcha, Arthur Sobonia and Sylvester Tulayev as secretaries of today's proceedings. The first part of the session will be Mr Artur Soboń and Mr Sylvester Tulaev. The minutes and lists of speakers will be led by Artur Soboń and Arkadiusz Myrch. I consider the minutes of the 15th session of the Sejm to be adopted in the absence of objections. High Izbo! I would like to inform you that in connection with the expiry of the mandate of Mr Arthur Górski, on the basis of Article. 251 § 5 of the electoral code, I have decided to join Mr Andrzej Melak in his place, who has taken the oath of a Member of Parliament. [[Applause]] I ask Mr Andrzej Melak to come closer to the presidential table and, ladies and gentlemen, please rise. [[The Gathered Rise Up]] I'll read the vows now. I solemnly vow to do my duty to the Nation, to safeguard the sovereignty and interests of the State, to do everything for the welfare of the Homeland and the welfare of citizens, to observe the Constitution and other rights of the Republic of Poland. Mr Andrzej Melak.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-12-sejm-16-1.u2	I swear. So help me God. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-12-sejm-16-1.u3	Thank you very much. I state that Mr Andrzej Melak has taken a vow of marriage. High Izbo! On April 5, you died Zyta Gilowska. [[The Gathered Rise Up]] Prominent politician, Minister of Finance and Vice-President of the Council of Ministers in the Governments of Kazimierz Marcinkiewicz and Jarosław Kaczyński, Member of the Parliament of the Republic of Poland IV and VI term of office, Member of the Monetary Policy Council and National Development Council. Let's celebrate her memory with a moment of silence. [[A moment of silence]] [[Voices from the hall: Eternal rest give her rest, O Lord, and let her light shine forever. Amen.]] Thank you. After consulting the Seniors Convention, I decided to delete the following items from the agenda: - Report from the Infrastructure Commission on the draft Parliamentary Law on investments in wind power plants, prints No 315 and 365, - Report from the Committee on the Environment, Natural Resources and Forestry and the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development on the draft law amending the Law on Hunting Law, print No 219 and 324. The Council of Ministers has submitted draft laws: - specific rules for the performance of certain tasks in the field of computerisation of the activities of tax administrations, customs services and tax control, - amending the Act on Export Insurance Guaranteed by the State Treasury and certain other laws. The projects are printed in No 395 and 405 respectively. Therefore, after obtaining the uniform opinion of the Seniors Convention, I decided to supplement the agenda with points covering the first reading of these projects. In these cases, I propose that the Sejm consent to the application of the article. Article 37 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 4 Rules of Procedure of the Sejm. If I do not hear opposition, I will understand that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. The Bureau of the Sejm proposes that the Sejm should listen to 10 minutes' statements on behalf of the clubs in the discussion on the Council of Ministers' information on the implementation of the measures resulting from the National Drug Prevention Programme in 2014. The Sejm Bureau also proposes that the Sejm should listen to the five-minute statements on behalf of the clubs in discussions on the other items on the agenda. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the proposals. I can't hear you objecting. I would like to inform you that the Seniors' Convention accepted the proposal of the Bureau of the Sejm to consider at its meeting the current information on the consequences of the amendment of the Act on the system of education related to the change of the age of school obligation and the changes in the school system planned by the Ministry of National Education in Poland, which was requested by the Poselski Modernna Club. The agenda items of this meeting will be dealt with in accordance with the order adopted by the Bureau of the Sejm and the Seniors' Convention. Information on this matter, as well as the list of laws that the Senate adopted without amendments, are available in the Sejm Information System. Mr Secretary has communications. Before I ask you, Mr Mirosław Maliszewski, a club of the Polish People's Party, is making a formal request.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-12-sejm-16-1.u4	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! The Parliamentary Club of the Polish People's Party proposed that the Sejm listen to the information of the Minister of Agriculture and Rural Development about the situation prevailing in the Arabian horse stud in Janów Podlaski. We do not see this item on the agenda, so my formal request on behalf of the club is that the Marshal convenes the Senior Convention and completes the agenda, because it is a very interesting and very important issue, concerning not only agriculture but also the image of Poland on the international stage. Because the horse stud in Janów Podlaski, which has existed since 1817, has great achievements in the breeding of Arabian horses, but also has great achievements in the promotion of Poland. The staff changes that took place in this stud and the consequences of which are the falls of several mares of incredible market value, reaching almost EUR 1 million, cause questions to be asked as to their correctness and purpose, as to the purpose of replacing people who have good qualifications, recognised international authorities, people who are not prepared for this. We believe that this proposal is most appropriate, because this discussion has moved from Poland to the international arena. In this case the European Arabian Horse Breeding Organisation is negative, Polish breeders associated with the Polish Arabian Horse Breeders Association are also negative. These organizations are even talking about the boycott of Poland in terms of breeding. In this respect, we believe that if changes are made, these should be changes to those who have grounds for undermining their competences, to those who have good opinion and present real programmes that are supposed to lead to the better. In this case, we see that this change was a bad change. We cannot allow the institution, which is the state Arabian horse stud in Janów Podlaski, the Polish pearl in the international arena, to lose its reputation and thus lose its reputation in Poland. I move, Mr. Marshal, for a recess and a discussion at the Seniors' Convention on the return of this item to the agenda. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-12-sejm-16-1.u5	Mr President, I inform the High House that this issue was discussed at the Seniors' Convention and the Sejm Bureau before the beginning of the Sejm meeting. The request of your club - the Polish People's Party - was discussed. I also informed the Bureau, and the Convention, that I was transferring the application to the Committee on Agriculture. This disposition has already been activated. Let us therefore wait until the Agriculture Committee has dealt with this proposal. On the other hand, High Sejm, I would like us to repeat Mr Andrzej Melak's vow... [[Ooh, never mind...]] ...because, from a formal point of view, any of your fellow Members can pay attention to whether the word "marriage" is equivalent to the word "swear." [[Voice from the room: There it is. He promised.]] In our Rules of Procedure we speak of the word, the expression I vow. Therefore, if you allow and you agree, we will repeat this part of the vow. [[The Gathered Rise Up]] I'll read the vows now. I solemnly vow to do my duty to the Nation, to safeguard the sovereignty and interests of the State, to do everything for the welfare of the Homeland and the welfare of citizens, to observe the Constitution and other rights of the Republic of Poland. Mr Andrzej Melak.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-12-sejm-16-1.u6	I promise. So help me God. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-12-sejm-16-1.u7	Thank you, sir. I am already saying without any doubt that Mr Andrzej Melak has taken a vow of marriage. I ask the Secretary to read the messages.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-12-sejm-16-1.u8	I would like to inform you that the following Commission meetings will be held today: - to State Control - at 10 p.m. 11.30, - Education, Science and Youth - hour 11.30, - Physical Culture, Sports and Tourism - hour 11.30, - Protection of the environment, natural resources and forestry - h.m. 11.30, - Health-- hour. 11.30, - to the European Union, at 3 p.m. 12, - Culture and Media - hour 12, - to the European Union, at 3 p.m. 13, - Communication with Poles abroad together with the Committee on Culture and Media - hour. 14, - Senior policy - h.m. 15, - Local Government and Regional Policy - h.m. 15, - Agriculture and Rural Development - hour 3.30 p.m., - Social Policy and Family Policy - hour 4:30 p.m., - Administration and Home Affairs together with the Committee on Economic Affairs and Development - h.m. 17, - for Petitions - at 10 p.m. 19, - Foreign Affairs - hour 7:30. In addition, I would like to inform you that the following parliamentary teams will be held today: - Parliamentary Group for: Anti-Activities I Say Hate and Protect Human Rights - h.m. 11, - Parliamentary Animal Friends Team - h.m. 12, - Parliamentary Group for: Multiple sclerosis - hour 16. In addition, I inform you that the Parliamentary Team for the Promotion of Entrepreneurship and Economic Patriotism invites you to the conference of the Grey Zone - unfair competition against entrepreneurs. Diagnosis. Proposals for solutions at 3 p.m. 12 in the column room. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-12-sejm-16-1.u9	Thank you, sir. We proceed with the examination of item 1 of the agenda: Report from the Health Committee on the Government's draft law amending the Law on Public Blood Service and some other laws (prints No. 294 and 379). I would like to ask Mrs Joanna Kopcinska to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-12-sejm-16-1.u10	Mr. Marshal! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! At its 14th meeting, on 16 March 2016, the Sejm sent the draft law in print No 294 to the Health Commission for consideration. The Health Committee, after considering the above draft law at its meetings on 17 and 31 March, asks that the draft be adopted. Since the European Commission informed that it had decided to refer Poland to the Court of Justice for an infringement of the Treaty obligations on Poland's failure to complete the transposition of the Directives on blood donation and blood treatment, given the nature of the issues which absolutely need to be regulated under Polish law, a draft law on amending the Law on Public Blood Service and certain other laws was drawn up. This draft, together with the implementing acts issued on the basis of it, fully and fully implements the Polish legal system of the European Union Directive to the extent discussed above. At the same time, I would like to inform you that the Health Committee has made the following changes: Firstly, a number of editorial amendments have been made. Secondly, the existing statutory authorisation in Article has been extended. Article 21 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 3, which did not take into account the requirements of the laboratory for transfusion immunology, although the regulations concerning these laboratories were in the Regulation. This amendment will allow for the regulation of requirements for head of the blood immunology workshop. At present, there is still a shortage of people with the qualifications required as head of the Serology and Transfusion Immunology Studio. It is proposed to extend the transitional period until 31 December 2020. Thirdly, a legal basis has been introduced at the level of the law to conduct or order the Minister of Health to conduct public procurement procedures for the purchase of blood products, recombinant coagulation agent concentrates and desmopressin, which are, for example, purchased under health policy programmes. Fourthly, the tasks of the public blood service organisation were clarified according to the facts. The existing Act on Public Blood Service of 1997 indicated only the supply of blood products in the centres' tasks. This provision referred to medicinal products for haemophiliacs and related haemorrhagic defects. Currently in Poland, this group of patients is also treated with recombinant coagulation factor concentrates and desmopressin. It was therefore necessary to extend the group of products issued by blood centres. In addition, blood donation and blood treatment centres provide not only medicinal products but also haemophiliac patients and related haemorrhagic disorders in the area of the so-called. domestic treatment and therefore the restriction of supply to medicinal products has been waived. In this respect, blood donation and blood treatment centres will carry out this task within the framework of hospital pharmacies or hospital pharmacy departments established in their structure, the activities of which are regulated by the Law of 6 September 2001. Given that the expedition department is open 24 hours a day, it was necessary to clarify the provisions in such a way that centres can carry out their tasks in accordance with the law and that the medicinal product is available 24 hours a day for patients in the event of unforeseen events. The proposed task of running a medical diagnostic laboratory carrying out verification tests and of monitoring the reliability of the results of laboratory tests in the field of blood donation and blood treatment has been removed from the tasks of the Institute. This amendment aims to avoid a situation where only one entity is entitled to carry out verification tests. The Minister responsible for Health in the Notice will indicate which bodies will carry out such tests. The Commission recommends adopting the proposed changes which are necessary and have been expected for years not only by patients but also by healthcare professionals. Thank you so much for your attention. [[Applause]] [[President of the session includes Deputy Marshal Joachim Brudziński]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-12-sejm-16-1.u11	Thank you, Member. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of the clubs. I'm opening a discussion. Please take the floor of Mr Krzysztof Ostrowski, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-12-sejm-16-1.u12	Mr. Marshal! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to present the position of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice regarding the presented government bill amending the Act on Public Blood Service and some other laws. Ladies and gentlemen, the project is a long-awaited regulation on blood donation and blood treatment. The provisions of the revised law will ensure the safety of both recipients and blood donors, as well as medical personnel, and ensure that adequate standards are maintained in the blood donation and blood treatment process. This draft, together with the implementing acts issued on the basis of it, introduces into the Polish legal system the European Union Directive on quality standards and safe collection, testing, processing, storage and distribution of blood and its components and its final purpose, i.e. this is a complete trace of the blood path and its components from the blood donor to the recipient and vice versa. It regulates the rules for the carriage of blood and its components from outside the Member States of the European Union and the European Economic Area, which were not previously regulated in Polish legislation. The transport of blood and its components will only be permitted if it is possible to ensure the quality and safety of the blood transported at a level not lower than that of the public blood service units in the territory of the Republic of Poland. It will also be possible to monitor the blood transported and its components on the way from the donor to the recipient of the blood and vice versa. The draft law also introduces legal bases that will enable the creation of an electronic system, so-called. E-blood system. This system will contain information about blood donors, including rare blood types donors, and information about adverse events and reactions, including serious events. This system will also be used for reporting. The project also includes a provision that allows disabled people with limited communication opportunities to agree with their doctor on how to exchange the information necessary to perform the procedure in accordance with the applicable procedures. The changes also concern, among others: standardize the scope of the data that should include the honor card of the blood donor, the rules for applying for the title and badge of the Deserving Honorary Blood Donor. Ladies and gentlemen! The provisions of the amended law will ensure the implementation in Polish law of the provisions of EU directives on blood donation and blood treatment, which will ensure the safety of all participants in the process. The Law and Justice Club fully supports the Government's bill to amend the Public Blood Service Act and some other laws. I would also like to conclude by reminding you that the legal term, when this law should be implemented, is 27 April 2015. Now we have a situation where the European Commission is referring the matter to the Court of Justice. I just wanted to mention that in the event that the Court of Justice will judge, and this is very likely, the costs of this for us, for the Polish state, are several tens of thousands of euros per day. This is PLN 1.5 million per month. I wanted to say that this is a mockery of the previous government from patients and employees of hospitals and health centres, employees, patients who are told to save every dollar, not the euro. Thank you very much. In the end, perhaps I would like to make two brief amendments to the hands of the Marshal on behalf of the club. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-12-sejm-16-1.u13	Thank you, sir. I would like to ask the floor of Mrs Elżbieta Gelert, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-12-sejm-16-1.u14	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I have the honour to present the position of the Civic Platform club on the government draft law on public blood service and some other laws. The aim of this project is mainly to bring the right into line with European directives, but also to increase supervision of the organisation of public blood services and to implement the e-blood system. In the course of the work, the Health Committee made amendments mainly of a more precise and legislative nature. As at first reading, the Civic Platform Club supports the bill with amendments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-12-sejm-16-1.u15	Thank you, Member. Please take the floor of Małgorzata Zwierzan, Kukiz Club15.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-12-sejm-16-1.u16	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The main objective of the proposed amendment to the Act on Public Blood Service and some other laws is to adapt Polish legislation in the area of collection, testing, preparation, storage, release and transport of blood and its components to the requirements of European directives. These changes must undoubtedly be made because they guarantee the safety of patients, recipients and donors. First of all, I hope that the regulations introduced will have a positive effect on the search for blood and donors for patients with rare blood types. I also hope that monitoring blood quality and safety will reduce the number of complications in patients. Unfortunately, the ban on commercial activities for regional blood donation and blood treatment centres has not been included in the Act. I would like the blood donation centers, on the one hand, to give priority to the search for blood for the patients in need. On the other hand, to distribute it so that the blood given for the right purpose should not be disposed of because of the time limit exceeded. For example, the contested law deviates from the idea of the Kukiz club15 in terms of changing the whole system. On behalf of the Kukiz Club, 15 I would like to make an amendment to the parliamentary draft law amending the Act on Public Blood Service and certain other laws contained in print No 294. In the amendment to the article. 3 (1) (a) 2 point 4 proposes the following wording. Article 6 6: The badge referred to in paragraph. The Red Cross, together with the ID card of the Honorable Blood Donor, issues the Polish Red Cross on the basis of a certificate issued by an organizational unit of public blood service in which the blood donor obtained the volume of blood or its components to give this badge. The issue of the badge together with the Polish Red Cross card shall be notified to the organizational unit of the public blood service which issued the certificate as the basis for granting it. In the explanatory memorandum, the proposed amendment aims to change the basis which entitles you to give a badge together with the legitimacy of the Honorable Blood Donor. The organizational unit of the public blood service should issue a certificate directly to the donor that the appropriate volume of blood is given to the honorary title. After obtaining the certificate, the donor goes to the Polish Red Cross for a suitable badge and ID only if his will exists. The donor, providing a certificate and expressing his desire to obtain a badge, automatically agrees to the processing of his personal data. This would exempt the organizational units of the blood service from transmitting data to the Polish Red Cross. On behalf of the Kukiz Parliamentary Club15, I request that our amendment be taken into account and that the proposed bill be further examined. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-12-sejm-16-1.u17	Thank you very much, Member. And please take the floor of Mr Mirosław Suchon, the Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-12-sejm-16-1.u18	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I am pleased to present on behalf of the Poselski Club a modern position on the draft law amending the Act on Public Blood Service and some other laws, print No 294. The committee's report is contained in print No 379. At the beginning of my speech, I would like to appreciate the fact that the work on this project was very substantive, there was an atmosphere of awareness of the importance of legislation both in the context of improving safety in dealing with blood and derivatives, and in the context, I will say euphemistically, correct relations with the European Union. This is a joy, for this is the way that important matters must be dealt with, and the area of public blood service, the blood that is the gift of life, is undoubtedly important. The purpose of this Act, as I have already talked about and told my previous speakers, is to transpose into Polish legislation the requirements of the four directives of the European Union. We discussed this very thoroughly during our first speeches, but also during committee work. And it was during the committee's work that a number of regulatory and legislative amendments were made and substantive amendments were adopted, including. an obligation for the head of the medicinal product to ensure continuous, 24-hour access to blood and its components, together with specific indications on the location of the blood bank and its testing, in view of the safety implications It's extremely important. The amendment also included a delegation to the Minister of Health to issue regulations on specific requirements in this respect. There has also been an extension of the transitional period for the head of the studio as there are still insufficient staff meeting certain criteria. The designation of only one entity authorised to verify the results of the studies in favour of the list of entities published by the Minister of Health has also been waived. This is positively reflected in other detailed solutions contained in the project. It is worth recalling this, because not everyone realizes how important this project is precisely because of the detailed solutions, i.e. the principle of any public blood service organisation wishing to obtain accreditation of a quality management system and quality assurance system or a system of qualifications for donors. This law also introduces a system to ensure full traceability of blood and its components, so-called. a standby system, which is an extremely important change for patients. It also lays down rules on the carriage of blood and its components from outside the Member States of the European Union and the European Economic Area, which were not previously regulated in Polish legislation. There is no need to convince anyone that this is very important due to the safety of Polish patients regulation. Finally, the proposed law also introduces provisions allowing for the creation of an electronic system of e-blood, in which all information related to blood circulation, its donors, of course, will actually be included, from collection to transfusion. Thus, given that the project has a positive impact on the Polish blood system, it is an expression of a broad consensus and implements the recommendations of the European Union, the Modern Posel Club will of course support it in the vote. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-12-sejm-16-1.u19	Thank you very much, sir. Please take the floor of Mr Kazimierz Kotowski, Polish People's Party.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-12-sejm-16-1.u20	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Minister! The amendment aims to implement into Polish law the provisions of four EU directives: from 2003, 2004 and 2005, which are intended to guarantee the safety of all blood recipients and donors and to influence the maintenance of appropriate standards throughout the blood donation and blood treatment process, from the moment of blood donation from the donor, through its examination, preparation, storage, transport, release and finally transfusion. The law includes a provision which obliges all blood donation and blood treatment centres to operate a quality system. It is intended to ensure that the whole process of blood collection and its components, the tests will be carried out under strict control and will meet all requirements, standards and standards, will also be verifiable. The project also enables us, through the introduction of legal bases, to operate an electronic system of e-blood which will be compatible with systems operating in the countries of the European Union. This is to be done between 2017 and 2019, which is a very good phenomenon, and it will also be possible to support the implementation of this system by EU funds under the Operational Programme of Poland digital. This system will increase access to modern solutions, facilitate blood management, facilitate the acquisition of rare blood groups and help to rule out undesirable phenomena and situations. It will also be very helpful in monitoring the quality and way of blood donation, as well as in assessing the optimal use of blood. An important element of the amended law is the introduction of rules requiring blood donation and blood treatment centers to follow fully, as I mentioned. It is also important that new elements have been introduced, which should include a blood donor questionnaire. It is a good thing that during the committee's work formal changes have been made, which relate to the change of information and data collected from blood donors, the change of the PESEL number to the identification document number. These are all very important actions, and it is good that they will be implemented definitively, because this puts us among the countries of the European Union, as I said, with a system that is compatible and usable in the EU countries. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! It's very good that we're changing that we're introducing that we're modernising. We are not talking about this in the amended act, but it will probably be time that we think in blood centers, in voivodships about how to meet all these obligations, meet standards, equip, change the operating conditions. I would ask that we then, in the near future, prepare the financial expenditure assumptions for the coming period, anticipate the resources from the state budget for this purpose. And while we're planning, please don't forget about a facility like Kielce, where plans, actions are prepared for the next period, and people working there. [[♪ The bell ♪]] They showed that they knew what to do, how to do, and what to do. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-12-sejm-16-1.u21	Thank you very much, sir. I would like to inform you that two people have come forward to the questions. If there are no more volunteers, I'm closing the list of people who are written down for questions. It's time for the question to be asked for two minutes. Mrs Józef Hrynkiewicz will be the first to speak. You're welcome, my fellow Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-12-sejm-16-1.u22	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! It's a very important bill, but I didn't find in it what ultimately serves in emergencies, the danger of life above all, the solution, because this solution should be directly in a medical facility, which is, in human terms, in a hospital, because there, in case of an accident, in case of an emergency, is a patient, often a patient in danger. It's not just health, it's life-threatening. The outsourcing process, i.e. the transfer of services from public entities to various private operators, is not a well-planned and well-controlled process. It is primarily intended to save money. What savings, Minister, will we get when it comes to outsourcing of diagnostic services, laboratory services from the hospital to private entities? Is there really a hospital to which, on Friday evening, a person with a life-threatening condition will be delivered on Saturday morning, able to use this entity to which he is outsourcing his services, including blood testing services, with the necessary life-threatening tests? I wanted to ask you straight: Is this bill solving this problem? Is this problem, in the opinion of the Ministry, well resolved? If the Minister is not prepared to answer this question, I will ask for an answer in writing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-12-sejm-16-1.u23	Thank you, Member. I would like to ask the floor of Małgorzata Płępek, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-12-sejm-16-1.u24	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The regulations proposed in today's draft law are extremely important for the whole blood donation system and a great number of honorary blood donors. As you know, the need to establish an IT system for blood management and information related to blood results from EU law. The planned implementation of the IT system e-blood will improve the flow of information between medical establishments and blood donation services. The implementation of the project worth PLN 111 million is planned for 6 years. The project will receive funding from the European Regional Development Fund under the Operational Programme I would like to ask you about the preparation for the implementation of the e-blood project for the moment. Why is the date of entry into force of the law that has been pending today set for 3 months? Can't it be shorter? There's one more thing. The proposed solutions do not include provisions that give paramedics the right to blood transfusions, and they give them to trained nurses and midwives in addition to doctors. I would like to ask, are the solutions proposed in this regard sufficient? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-12-sejm-16-1.u25	Thank you very much, Member. Please address the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Health, Minister Katarzyna Głowala. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-12-sejm-16-1.u26	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! With regard to Mrs Hrynkiewicz's question, I would like to point out that the issues raised by Mrs Hrynkiewicz are governed by the Law on Medical Activity and the Law on Laboratory Diagnostics. It is therefore not possible... This is not the scope of the procedated changes covered by the Blood Act. The problem will be analysed in the course of work on the law on medicinal activities. The Act on Medical Activity is in inter-ministerial arrangements. I think that possible changes in this area will be made to the law on medicinal activities. On the other hand, as regards Mrs Navel's question, I would like to say that a proposal was sent to the European Commission on 30 March. The European Commission will consider whether to grant us funding, while work on the implementation of this system is already underway at the Ministry of Health - including the Ministry of Digitalisation. The groups responsible for the implementation of this system began to meet. We're on full steam, so I think the system will be properly prepared. On the other hand, as far as rescuers are concerned, I will try to respond in writing if I may. [[You're welcome. Thank you.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-12-sejm-16-1.u27	Thank you very much, Minister. Please take the floor of the rapporteur of the committee, Mrs Joanna Kopcinska.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-12-sejm-16-1.u28	Mr. Marshal! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I am pleased to have a common look at such an important problem as the regulation of the problems of blood donation in the government project. Thank you very much for the substantive work at the meetings of both the extraordinary subcommittee set up for this purpose and the Health Committee. Thank you for asking me today. Taking this opportunity, I would like to first of all to thank those who make blood treatment possible - honorary blood donors. Thank you very much. Thank you, Marshal.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-12-sejm-16-1.u29	Thank you very much, Member. The discussion is closed. In view of the fact that, at the time of the second reading, the draft amendment was tabled, I propose that the Sejm re-direct this proposal to the Health Committee in order to present a report. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. We proceed with the examination of item 2 of the agenda: Report of the Public Finance Commission on the Government's draft law amending the Personal Income Tax Act, the Corporate Income Tax Act and the Business Freedom Act (Print Nos 322 and 381). I would like to ask Mr Sasin to present a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-12-sejm-16-1.u30	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour to present a report to the Committee on Public Finance on the Government's draft law amending the Personal Income Tax Act, the Corporate Income Tax Act and the Freedom of Business Act, print No 322. This government project of the Sejm at its 14th meeting on 18 March 2016 in accordance with Article 14 of the Rules of Procedure. 39 (1) (a) 2 Rules of Procedure of the Sejm, he addressed to the Committee on Public Finances for consideration. On 31 March 2016, the Public Finance Commission examined this project. During the committee work, an amendment was tabled concerning the content of this draft, proposing the deletion of the article. 3 (1) (a) 1 (a) (i) (ii) (ii) (iii) (ii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) b, i.e. the provision introducing payment obligations relating to the economic activity carried out through the trader's payment account whenever the one-off value of the transaction, regardless of the number of payments resulting from it, exceeds the value of 15 000. zł. It was a revision of the existing regulations. This applies to the provisions which provided for this limit of 15 000. Euros. As I said, the committee has accepted this amendment and recommends that the High House adopt this draft law with this amendment. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-12-sejm-16-1.u31	Thank you very much, sir. I would like to inform the High House that a group of guests from Milowka and Łękawica are listening to our deliberations at the moment. We cordially greet the representatives of the beautiful Podbeskid. Thank you kindly. [[Applause]] The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of the clubs. I'm opening a discussion. And you will be the first to speak by Mr Jacek Sasin, Parliamentary Club of Law and Justice. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-12-sejm-16-1.u32	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The draft law submitted by the government aims to introduce a much wider obligation to apply non-cash settlements in economic trade than was the case with the existing legislation. The necessity of these regulations stems from the belief that cash invoices, as today's regulations have laid down, at tens of thousands of zlotys - because 15 thousand. The euro, as this provision said, is the maximum amount for which such a cash transaction can be carried out - such invoices, amounting to tens of thousands of zlotys, can in practice be a document that concerns a transaction that did not actually take place and can thus serve as a phenomenon of tax avoidance and concealing income from business activities, and thus can also serve such criminal phenomena as money laundering or terrorist financing. The government has proposed that, in order to minimise these practices, new regulations should be introduced which, firstly, would change, as I said, this maximum limit for cash transactions of 15 000. EUR 15 000 zł, which is, moreover, common practice in the European Union, such a limit for such transactions. It is worth noting that such regulations currently exist in 16 European Union Member States, setting a limit on cash transactions, with maximum quota thresholds for cash payments, among other things. in France, 3,000. EUR 1 000 in Portugal EUR 5 000 in Hungary EUR 2,5 000 in Spain EUR 5 000 in Bulgaria EUR and 1.5 000 in Greece Euros. As you can see, against this background Polish regulations, which set this limit very high - at the level of 15 thousand. The euro, they are a phenomenon in the countries of the European Union and therefore the need to amend the rules in this regard. Moreover, in the second area, it is a matter of introducing provisions which will result in the failure to comply with the provision on the limit on transactions having specific consequences. It is therefore proposed that any transactions that would have been carried out without taking this provision into account cannot be classified by traders as part of the cost of business. As I mentioned in my speech as rapporteur for the committee, the committee decided in the vote to amend this draft law, which consisted in maintaining the existing limit of 15 000. Euros. According to the Law and Justice Club, maintaining the existing limit is not correct. We believe that the proposal made by the government is a rational proposal, a proposal which is reflected in the laws of other countries of the European Union, and at the same time will have a positive impact on the reduction of the grey area, the generation of additional revenue into the budget, as well as the possibility of fictitious transactions involving the marketing of dirty money or the financing of criminal activities. I therefore allow myself, on behalf of the Law and Justice Club, to make an amendment which is a proposal to restore the provisions proposed by the Government concerning this particular issue. We will, of course, vote in favour of this amendment and after its adoption, if this is the decision of the High House, we also declare our support for this bill. Thank you very much. I'm handing the amendment over to the marshal.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-12-sejm-16-1.u33	Thank you, sir. Please take the floor of Mr Michał Jaros, the Civic Platform Club. There's no envoy. If you do not have a Member, then please take the floor of Mr Mark Jakubiak, the Kukiz Club15. You're welcome, sir. [[Good morning, Mr. Marshal.]] Good morning. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-12-sejm-16-1.u34	High Izbo! In fact, I did not understand what the Member said. Such duality of attitude. Once we're 15 grand. Euros and then 15,000. zł - that's what it sounded like. Kukiz,15 will always work to simplify to the minimum economic regulations and we will always say that entrepreneurs and Polish industry maintain the Polish state. Here I'll remind you that 90% GDP is produced by small and medium-sized enterprises. Kukiz-15 will act to abolish CIT in general and PIT tax on persons who carry out business activities on this tax also, and this example of CIT and PIT law is a powerful example, because regardless of the settlement - whether it will be cash settlement, whether it will be a transfer settlement - in the case of income tax this tax will have to be paid. So the simplified form of settlement with the treasury, i.e. the Treasury, is simplified to a minimum. Then there's nothing to figure out at all, because it's a simple conversion: I have revenue, I'm taking 1% off. or 2% the tax and the settlement with the State is over. There is no cost of obtaining income, there is no combination, there is no definition, which is the cost, which is not the cost. A desktop computer is a cost, a laptop is not a cost. It's just starting to become an ordinary cabaret, and we're talking about serious stuff. We're talking about the country, we're talking about taxes, we're talking about what you're going to finance. If we are discussing taxes and these discussions are not enough in the Sejm, we say: simplification will increase revenue, because it will minimize or even make it impossible. As an entrepreneur and representative of the Kukiz club15, I would like to say that I am pleased with the work of the committee, because the committee has taken into account all the comments I made from the stand in a quite emotional way regarding the amount of 15 thousand. zł, as well as that legal gibberish which was included in this Act. All these comments have been taken into account by the committee. I congratulate and say that I believe that the role of the opposition today is not to concrete ourselves, just to discuss it, to show the issue in a way that is as rational as possible and to justify that the government party is erring in certain moments and must be led to the tracks. I hope that all the comments that we made during our speech will, however, be taken into account. Certainly, the government side will not disregard the committee's position. Since the committee consisting in a pluralistic manner of all political forces believes that 15 thousand. The euro is acceptable, we will support this amendment, even though it is a further complication of economic law. As an entrepreneur, I know that amounts to 70,000. You don't pay with cash, you pay with a wire transfer, so we're talking about very virtual financial flows, because with a file of 70,000. Nobody walks anymore, the ease of payment by means of a wire transfer is already common, but limiting it to 15,000. is already a very serious restriction. I know that such transactions are carried out, e.g. cash payments in stores. So I am pleased to say that all our comments have been taken into account. At the end of my speech, I will only say that as Kukiz.15 we will always defend entrepreneurs from complicate their daily lives and we will always appreciate their hard work in order to satisfy the budget, the Treasury with taxes that are really hard to earn in Poland. Only that the government party has to notice that the more complicated our lives are, the less taxes are paid, because it is more expensive to keep the company. Simplification will essentially result in the legality of entrepreneurship life in Poland, and I think that's what we all want. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-12-sejm-16-1.u35	Thank you, sir. And I ask for the floor of Mrs Joanna Schmidt, the Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-12-sejm-16-1.u36	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! As a modern club, we took note of the proposed amendments to the Personal Income Tax Act, the Corporate Income Tax Act and the Business Freedom Act. We understand the intentions of the government, which seeks to seal the tax system with all available means, but we also see the determination to finance not always economically rational promises of law and justice. I would like to draw attention to what I mentioned in my previous speech at the first reading of the amendment proposal. In recent years, the process of failing the Polish tax system has increased. The difference between the budgetary implications that we can expect from the state of the economy and the actual receipts that the budget receives is becoming increasingly apparent. Estimates show that in 2015 the VAT gap alone reached the level of PLN 53 billion. A separate issue is the assessment of the CIT gap. Although this is probably not a key element of the budget in terms of revenue, there is a worrying trend here, so let's think about what it results from. In 2008, the budget revenue from CIT accounted for 2,7% GDP, in 2014, was only 1.7%. Of course, we may think that this is due to the deterioration of the conditions for doing business in Poland, the reason may also be the decline in profitability due to increasing competition in the market, but some of the reasons are certainly also due to aggressive tax optimization. Ladies and gentlemen! All this is the result of increasing bureaucracy, the increasing costs we impose on entrepreneurs in Poland. The applicant argues in the explanatory memorandum that the regulations proposed in the Act will have a positive impact on the transparency of transactions and on fair competition between traders. This element is to be the lack of the possibility to account for cash transactions above 15 000. Euros. On the other hand, we have critical arguments indicating that the changes introduced will reduce flexibility in business relations, especially in certain sectors. We would like to point out that in general companies in Poland have managed this problem perfectly on their own, because it is done without cash in Poland 98% transactions - these are data of the National Bank of Poland from 2013. The effect of the amendment was therefore achieved by market forces, as Mr Kukiz said earlier15. The Modern Club is aware of the leaks in the tax system. However, we believe that we should focus on system solutions rather than ad hoc ones. It is worth discussing a profound change in the tax system, which will eliminate many of its pathologies, starting with the VAT accounting principle, by introducing a central invoice register or by supporting other innovative solutions that will reduce VAT deductions. We are ready for such a discussion, to discuss the VAT system. Notwithstanding the doubts expressed, the Modern Club supports the solutions proposed in this amendment following the amendments made in the Committee on Public Finance. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-12-sejm-16-1.u37	Thank you, Member. And I ask for the floor of Paulina Hennig-Kloska, including the Modern Club. [[Voice from the room: There isn't.]] There isn't? I would like to ask the floor of Mrs Genowefa Tokarska, the Polish People's Party.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-12-sejm-16-1.u38	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Parliamentary Club of the Polish People's Party, I will present my position on the report of the committee on the governmental bill amending the Act on income tax on individuals, the Act on corporate income tax and the Act on freedom of business, print Nos 322 and 381. Recalling the general assumptions of this project, it is important to stress that the Act introduces tax solutions which are intended to reduce the phenomenon of payment in breach of the Law on the Freedom of Business, thus excluding the payment account. According to this project, taxpayers will not be able to account for the cost of obtaining the income of that part of the cost which was not paid through the payment account, either in the light of the Individual Income Tax Act or the Corporate Income Tax Act. Thus, the settlement of payments without an account will reduce the cost of obtaining revenue. The original government print project No 322 also assumed a significant reduction in the payment limit without using the payment account. This value was to be reduced from 15 thousand. Euros up to 15 000 zł. The proposal to lower the limit was motivated by the government's greater transparency of the accounts. Entrepreneurs' environment - practically all, both the Business Centre Club, the Association of Entrepreneurs and Employers, and the Polish Crafts Association - have critically assessed the proposal to reduce the limit on cash settlement, highlighting its negative impact on the economy above all. The Committee on Public Finance at its meeting on 31 March this year unanimously - and I stress that unanimously, Mr President - she rejected the proposal to reduce this limit to 15 000. zł, deleting in the draft from print No 322 in Article. 3 in point 1 (a) b. In this way, today's print project No 381 sanctiones this limit at the previous level, i.e. 15,000. the euro and Article. 5 became objectless and was removed from the bill. In addition, the Committee on Public Finance recognised the comments made by the Legislative Office on the harmonisation of the provisions concerning both personal and corporate income tax, i.e. CIT and PIT, taking into account the unambiguous, identical determinations of the non-calculation to the cost of obtaining revenue in the part in which the payment relating to the transaction referred to in Article. The 22th Freedom of Business Act was not executed through a payment account. Today, it is a surprise to me to change the position of parliamentarians of Law and Justice, because, as I stressed during the work of the Committee on Public Finance, the position to leave a limit of 15 000. The euro was taken unanimously. The Parliamentary Club of the Polish People's Party will vote in favour of the draft no. 381 proposed by the Public Finance Commission. The amendment tabled today is simply a surprise. It took several days for the Law and Justice Club to change its position. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-12-sejm-16-1.u39	Thank you very much, Member. Mr Jacek Sasin, as corrected. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-12-sejm-16-1.u40	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! However, I am forced to correct the information that had just passed because this decision was not taken unanimously at the meeting of the Committee on Public Finance. I and a large part of the members of the Law and Justice Club voted in favour of leaving the records in the form that was in force. So it's such a small remark that it doesn't sound false in the High House. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-12-sejm-16-1.u41	Thank you. [[Mr. Marshal, you're welcome. Will it be okay?]] You're welcome, my fellow Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-12-sejm-16-1.u42	It will be possible to look at the transcript, but I have the results of the vote here. 24 people voted in favour of the amendment, no one was against and no one has abstained, sir. Yeah, well... [[Then it must be a mistake. This must be a mistake, my fellow Member.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-12-sejm-16-1.u43	Thank you, Members. Since none of the ladies and gentlemen of the House have joined the questions, please take the floor of the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Finance of Minister Leszek Skiba. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-12-sejm-16-1.u44	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The government's position is that, indeed, according to the words of the Member - here thank you for agreeing with Mr Jakubiak - the government is also in favour of making the right for entrepreneurs as simple as possible. Simplification is indeed an important objective of this government. This is happening in many different areas and it can be said that there is no contradiction here - in the sense of facilitating, simplifying the law for entrepreneurs. This is a thing that is important both for the coalition, for the government and for the opposition. Of course, there is also full agreement to limit cash payments to non-cash at a certain, high sum. Like the Member said, it is difficult to imagine someone walking around with cash, with 70,000. zł. Of course, until a certain point, I understand, it is indisputable. Here, too, we're discussing whether it's going to be 15,000. Euros or 15,000. zł. The government's position, the position of the Ministry of Finance is that 15 thousand. Evil makes sense. I will give - actually I will no longer - just two numbers, assuming that they will be strong arguments. In Spain, a few years ago, cash payments were recently reduced to 2.5 000. The euro and this led to a drop in the grey zone from 19.2 to 18.6, i.e. a difference of 0.6. And if we recalculate this by the Polish gross domestic product, the share of public finances in GDP, the effect is 2 billion PLN more, if this effect would be the same. In Portugal, a non-cash limit was introduced, there was no such limit before, in 2012 and the share of the grey zone fell from 19.6 to 17.6, i.e. around 2% GDP. If 2% GDP appeared in Poland as in Portugal, which would result in 6 billion PLN more tax revenue. In fact, these two figures - the Spanish experience of PLN 2 billion, the Portuguese experience of PLN 6 billion in proportion to the scale - are an argument for us that these 15 thousand. Evil makes sense. I therefore thank Mr Sasin very much for submitting this amendment. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-12-sejm-16-1.u45	Thank you very much. Is there still a rapporteur at this point? Mr? [[No, thank you very much.]] Thank you very much. Because, as I said, no one signed up for the questions, I'm closing the discussion.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-12-sejm-16-1.u46	Dear Marshal, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, the Civic Platform of the Republic of Poland would like to present a position on the draft law amending the Act on income tax on individuals, the Act on corporate income tax and the Act on freedom of business, print No 322. The project submitted by the Ministry of Finance assumes in particular a reduction in the limit on cash transactions and the introduction of fiscal sanctions for non-compliance with this limit. Currently, the Freedom of Business Act requires the bank to account for transactions that exceed the equivalent of 15 000. The euro, but it does not provide for any sanctions. According to the plans of the Ministry, the limit of cash payments would decrease to 15 thousand. zł, and whoever does not comply with it, could not include the amounts paid in the cost of obtaining revenue. This would include both direct and indirect costs, i.e. those that are deducted over time. A taxpayer who would have included the amount in the accounts rather than paid by bank transfer would have had to adjust the cost of obtaining income. The proposed amendment is clearly detrimental to entrepreneurs and directly affects their interests. The changes may cause up to 42% to suffer. companies in the micro and small business sector that prefer cash as a form of payment. The amendment will mainly affect entrepreneurs from the automotive, chemical, household and RTV industries, entertainment, sports and health and beauty sectors. 18% entrepreneurs do not use electronic banking at all today, 12% He doesn't need a computer to work. The proposed changes will impose a burden on them disproportionate to the potential benefits. Force to hold a bank account, associated maintenance costs of this account, additional fees, commissions, administrative requirements are a blow to owners of small companies. Government project in a straight line hits entrepreneurs who will be burdened with further requirements. At the same time, it is a bow towards banks - reducing the limit on cash payments will increase their customer base, new receipts from account fees. What is very important for small entrepreneurs, the change will negatively translate into their liquidity. Unlike cash-free trading, cash is an immediate and final transfer of value. The payment received as payment execution may be used immediately for subsequent payments. It is spoken for by the convenience, speed, awareness of its physical possession and access at any time - there is no reason for entrepreneurs to receive these rights. The Civic Platform cannot agree to restrict freedom of choice for entrepreneurs. In our opinion, the proposed changes do not bring any benefit to each other. The authors of the project do not indicate how to tighten the obligation for entrepreneurs to use bank accounts to reduce the grey area. Indeed, cash settlements are characteristic for transactions carried out in the grey zone. But the essential feature of such transactions is their incorrect documentation, e.g. no VAT invoice. A reduction proposed by the MF will relate to expenditure falling within the cost of obtaining revenue, i.e. documented expenditure. The conclusion is that the limitation of cash turnover cannot be effective in combating the grey zone. It is also doubtful that tax law is involved in this. The calculation of expenditure in revenue costs is one of the most complicated issues. When we add to this another formal condition - confirmation of bank transfer - entrepreneurs will have even more work. In addition to invoices, bank statements will have to be collected. Designed changes are not only adverse effects for entrepreneurs, but also limiting the freedom to conduct business, hitting the free market. It is worth adding that the Business Centre Club, the Association of Entrepreneurs and Employers, the Polish Crafts Association gave a negative opinion on these issues. Based on the content of the presented project, as well as the analysis of its individual points and assumptions, the Civic Platform Club recommends rejecting the Government's draft law on the amendment of the Personal Income Tax Act, the Corporate Income Tax Act and the Freedom of Business Act at second reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-12-sejm-16-1.u47	In view of the fact that, at the time of the second reading, the draft amendment was tabled, I propose that the Sejm re-direct this proposal to the Committee on Public Finances in order to present a report. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. High Izbo, I'm announcing a short three-minute break. Thank you very much. [[Adjournment from 10 a.m. 12 minutes 14 hours 12 min 24]] I'm reopening the session. We proceed with the examination of item 3 of the agenda: Report from the Committee on Education, Science and Youth on the Parliamentary draft law on the establishment of the Academy. Jakub z Paradyża w Gorzów Wielkopolski (prints no. 220 and 380). High Izbo! I inform you that our deliberations are being listened to by her Magnificence, Mrs. Prof. Dr. Hab. Elżbieta Skorupska-Raczyńska - Rector of the State Higher Vocational School. Jakub from Paradyz in Gorzów Wielkopolski. Welcome, Rector Major. [[Applause]] We also have the Lubuskie Voivode Władysław Dajczak with us. [[Applause]] and a large group of young people, which we also warmly welcome and greet. [[Applause]] - maybe future academy students. I would like to ask Mrs Marzena Machalek to submit a report to the committee. You're welcome, my fellow Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-12-sejm-16-1.u48	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I have the honour to present on behalf of the Committee on Education, Science and Youth a report on the parliamentary draft law on the establishment of the Academy. Jakub from Paradyz in Gorzów Wielkopolski. Gorzów Wielkopolski is a 125-thousand-year-old town with a 758-year history. It is the only capital of the voivodship, in which the independent public university does not function so far. The nearest large academic centers are located 100 to 250 km from Gorzów Wielkopolski. To the National Higher Vocational School. Jakub from Paradyża in Gorzów Wielkopolski could continue to develop dynamically, first of all, strengthening, expanding the development of education and research and international cooperation. Hence, as the applicants claimed, there is an urgent need to create a public university in the structure. The applicants also stressed that the initiative to set up an academy is an expression of the desire of the whole community to develop higher education in the Lubuskie region. The created academy will serve the development of the economy, science, culture, but above all it will enable education of young people in the field of humanities, social and technical sciences referred to in the submitted justification of the project. Marshal, in accordance with his prerogatives, in accordance with Article. Article 37 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 and Article 1 Article 40 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm, sent the above draft to the Committee on Education, Science and Youth for first reading on 2 February 2016. The first reading was held on 31 March 2016. Four amendments were tabled, including two drafting amendments. The Commission proposes that the attached draft law be adopted. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-12-sejm-16-1.u49	Thank you very much, Member. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of the clubs. I'm opening a discussion. On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, Law and Justice will be spoken by Mrs Elżbieta Rafalska. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-12-sejm-16-1.u50	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Today in the Seym at the second reading - presentation of a report by the Committee on Education, Science and Youth on the parliamentary draft law on the establishment of the Academy. Jakub from Paradyża in Gorzów will hold an important debate for the academic community of Gorzów, which is extremely important for the development of Gorzów and the northern part of Lubuskie voivodship, one that will enter into the history of this city. But the most important thing is the final decision - the vote of the Sejm, the Senate and the signature of the President. The draft in print No 220 is an initiative of Members of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice. I am honored to be the applicant of this bill and now as a representative of my club I can present a position in support of the initiative to set up the Academy to them. Jacob from Paradisa in Gorzów. I've been waiting for this moment for years. The dream of establishing an academy in Gorzów has ripened for years and has been the participation of many circles, including the most important participant - the State Higher Vocational School and the Rector of Prof. Elżbieta Skorupska-Raczyńska and her colleagues. It's her determination. and good cooperation led this intention to the Sejm, before the High House. The efforts made so far to establish the academy have proved insufficient for many reasons and limitations. The very concept of her vocation has also changed and we have wasted a lot of time on this in Gorzów. The Academy in Gorzów is to be established on the basis of the State Higher Vocational School and its rich 17-year achievements. It is an opportunity which must be used by academic, local, regional and economic communities of Gorzów, those who have wanted the academy for years, because they saw in it an opportunity for Gorzow for better development of science, economy and culture. All these multi-annual declarations must today turn into actions that will enable them to meet the conditions for having the required number of doctoral qualifications in accordance with the statutory requirements. On this road, the university can't be alone. I believe that's not gonna happen. Today's presence of Władysław Dajczak's voivodeship, the President's presence at first reading and the attitude of the opposition MEPs show this. Gorzów Wielkopolski is the only voivodship city without an independent public school. It is the seat of the voivodship in difficult, two-city voivodship. It was difficult because the eternal rivalry between Gorzów and the Green Mountain heated up many unnecessary disputes. Today, the University of Zielona Góra supports the idea of creating an academy in Gorzów. This initiative does not raise the slightest doubts about the Green Góra dorms, and the benefits are clearly assessed as important not only for Gorzów, but also for the region. Thank you very much for this position. It's honest, it's valuable, it opens up a field for cooperation. Currently, the State Higher Vocational School has the greatest teaching potential in the educational market in the Gorzów region. It has a wide range of: 14 courses and 51 specialties of education and a wide range of postgraduate studies. The number of students in the last 5 years was on average 3 000. Up to 3.5,000. The number of students is based on our PWSZ in the group of the five largest state higher vocational schools in Poland. The State Higher Vocational School in Gorzów stands out from the background of other public vocational universities in terms of education, scale and scope of research and staff development. The university is one of the largest and few state-owned vocational schools in Poland, which, apart from teaching activities, also conduct research, development, education and promotion of scientific staff. More than 85% of those employed at universities are those for whom they are the basic place of work. In total, 162 people are employed on the first period, including 10 professors. [[♪ The bell ♪]] The two-year workers are 192, including professors - 20, habilitated doctors - 24. A few sentences on the draft law, which sets out the creation on 1 September 2016. The academy. Jakub from Paradyza, based in Gorzów. The Academy will be a public university and it is created from the State Higher Vocational School. The main focus of the academy is education and research in the field of humanities, social, natural, technical, medical and health sciences and science on physical culture. The Act regulates matters of property, financial economy, employees, students. The key is art. 7 a law which obliges the basic organizational units of the academy, within 3 years of its creation, to adapt the number of powers held to confer a doctoral degree to the requirements laid down in the Law on Higher Education. The other articles deal with the issues of collegial bodies, the appointment of rectors, the Senate and the term of office of the Academy. And the term of office of the authorities is to last until 31 August of the year following the academic year in which the academy was established. The second term of office of the authorities is to last until 31 August 2020 and the law is to enter into force 14 days after the date of publication. At first reading, an amendment was made to the article. Article 6 (6) (a) 2. For better legibility, two paragraphs have been broken down, and a paragraph has been added relating to persons admitted for the first year of study and to Article. Paragraph 7 is deleted. 2, which contained a kind of recommendation but did not contain sanctions. High Izbo! I strongly recommend to the Sejm the support of the bill on the establishment of the Academy. Jakub from Paradyża in Gorzów Wielkopolski, believing that the established academy will meet the expectations of an ambitious scientific and teaching environment, talented young people and other environments, improve the availability and attractiveness of education in the Gorzów region, improve the social and territorial cohesion of the region and contribute well to the development of Gorzow, Polish science and economy. The establishment of a university in Gorzów will also strengthen the academic status of western border areas, which in the current geopolitical situation must also be strong in the field of education. Parliamentary Club Law and Justice does not make any amendments. We thank the government Prime Minister Beata Szydło for this credit of trust, which is a joint commitment for our Gorzów community. I ask the High House to support this project. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-12-sejm-16-1.u51	Thank you very much, Minister. And please take the floor of Krystyna Sibinska, the Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-12-sejm-16-1.u52	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Dear Rector! The Way of Youth! Potential students! As the marshal said. Today is a very important day for Gorzow, because today we are putting a dot over and on a project that has been developed for years by various environments. As far as this project is concerned, there is no opposition, no opposition, that is our joint action, that is, the operation of the university community, that is, the operation of the local government, which provided the facilities that supported the implementation of various projects, that is, the support of the local government, that is, support of all political communities. We've been working on this for years, but it's fair to say you've worked the most hardest with your team. And here in the annex are the results of this work. Because there are objects, because there's staff, because there's scientific achievements, because there's students because there's plans. These plans are very ambitious and very important for Gorzow, which is a Polish city only since the post-war period, a multicultural, multi-national, multi-faith city. It's hard to build an identity in a city like this because people from all over the world have come. Undoubtedly a university, a university, is one of the elements of building and strengthening such an identity. Today we add this dot above and because we are all deeply convinced about this project. This is important, as I said, for Gorzow, but also for the entire Lubuskie province, because Gorzów and its surroundings are 40% residents of the entire Lubuskie voivodship. We are on the Polish-German border and that is another reason why a strong academic centre in Gorzów is important and necessary, because the university already works with German universities, with environments, conducts joint activities, joint conferences. I think it's important too. It is also important because this environment, potential students very often have no other choice, namely for various reasons, mostly economic, they cannot study in cities far from Gorzów. The university, our academy in Gorzow will give them such a chance, give them a good step forward, give them the preparation and the basis for their development, I am sure that for the sake of our entire community. We all know that there were different ways to create an academy. One of the roads was the possibility of connecting with the local faculty of the Academy of Physical Education in Poznań. For various reasons this project has not been implemented, but I am convinced that sooner or later this consolidation will take place, because this is also the case of the state of Gorzów and Lubuskie Voivodeship. We will strongly support this project and although, as the Minister has already mentioned, it is a kind of action on credit, I am convinced that the whole community will pay off this loan and it will pay back with interest. It is worth investing, because simply the achievements so far, the cooperation so far and the joint operation of different environments show that this project will also be supported further. Such declarations were made by your voivodeship, by President Jack Wójcicki, by the Marshal of the voivodship. I think that everyone who will speak today will also support this and say: Yes, we will support this youngest academy in Poland because it is worth trusting. It's worth trusting her employees, it's worth trusting the rector, it's worth trusting her students. I think it's a good thing, and we're gonna be glad someday that we put this proverbial finger to the button by voting for this project. My colleagues at the club, even though they have different doubts, especially when it comes to this action on credit, will support this project and I am glad that this compromise has been achieved. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-12-sejm-16-1.u53	Thank you very much, Member. Please take the floor of Mr Jarosław Porwich, Kukiz Club15.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-12-sejm-16-1.u54	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Kukiz Club, I have the honour to present my position on the draft law on the establishment of the Academy. Jakub from Paradyz in Gorzów Wielkopolski. Gorzów Wielkopolski is the only capital of the voivodship in Poland, where there is no independent public university. What is very important, the city lies in the region with the weakest income per capita. This means that a large proportion of young people, without a university on the ground, will not study at all because they will not be able to learn outside their residence. Negative symptoms can be seen today. Gorzów Wielkopolski as the capital of the voivodship, as a middle-sized city has a dramatically low number of students per thousand. inhabitants, because the 27,7 factor is the weakest indicator among indicators concerning other voivodship cities in Poland. Thus, the lack of a university in the northern part of the Lubuskie voivodship does not bring glory to Polish higher education today. The National Higher Vocational School, from which the academy is to be established, has achieved many successes, as can be seen from the rankings conducted, and over the years has greatly increased its potential. It has recently focused on technical directions, which is important for the regional labour market. The observed dynamics of the State Higher Vocational School in Gorzów Wielkopolski give strong grounds for fulfilling all formal conditions, including the right to doctorate, within the three years indicated by law. It should be pointed out that social considerations are very clear in favour of the establishment of a multi-directional university. A significant slowdown will be made in the exit of valuable young people from the border region, and thus from the country, there will be opportunities for development and opportunities for wide-ranging activation, we will strengthen the aspect of sustainable development. The Academic Academy was established. Jakub from Paradyz in Gorzów Wielkopolski will therefore become a regional good enabling the constitutional right of all to be treated equally by public authorities and to ensure universal and equal access to education for citizens. To sum up, the Kukiz Club will vote in favour of the Act establishing the Academy. Jakub from Paradyz in Gorzów Wielkopolski. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-12-sejm-16-1.u55	Thank you very much, sir. Please take the floor of Mr Paweł Pudłowski, the Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-12-sejm-16-1.u56	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Minister! Mr. Voivode! Mrs. Rector! The word "Academia" originally meant a gathering of scholars or artists who were educated under the guidance of a prominent authority to develop science and art. The name is derived from the ancient school Plato founded in the Akademas grove. In Poland this name appears in the second half of the 16th century. In the pre-dissection period, both universities were defined as such - e.g. Krakow Academy, universities aspiring to the name of the university - the Lviv Academy, as well as some outstanding secondary schools. At present, the university may use the term "Academia' if its organisational units have the authority to confer a doctoral degree in at least two disciplines. The idea of establishing the Gorzow Academy was born in 2006. Finally, there is a concrete announcement of the implementation of this project by transforming the State Higher Vocational School in Gorzów Wielkopolski into an academy, unfortunately, not without some controversy. It must be admitted with confidence that the 10-year time of the PWSZ has taken advantage of, significantly developing, as confirmed by the figures on education courses: from five in 2007 to 14 in 2016. In March this year, the Ministry of Science and Higher Education awarded the Faculty of Humanities of the Gorzow University of Science B. Under the proposed law, PWSZ will receive 3 years of access to all conditions. So he gets the title of the academy on loan. Of course, giving permission to promote is not unusual. None of us, on the other hand, would like to be treated in a serious case by a first-year student who has received a medical degree on condition that all exams are passed or that the pilot is about to fly the flight hours required by law. In this case, however, it should be borne in mind that scientific centres, especially nobilitating as dorms, in smaller towns are a very rare, valuable and very, very expected gift. They give opportunities to those who, for financial or family reasons, cannot study in remote large university centres. They prepare an educated, more likely to stay on site group of people who understand the world better, their challenges and have - at least theoretically - better preparation for solving problems. I am in favour of the support of the Gorzow University, but I am also concerned that two local academic centers: PWSZ and AWF have failed to reach an agreement on the joint organisation of the Academy. The future has strong academic centres, and the combination of these two great educational entities would give a better chance to do so, would significantly strengthen the potential of the future academy and facilitate the fulfilment of the required criteria. It is also impossible not to think about the negative opinions of the Main Council of Science and Higher Education and the Conference of Rectors of Academic Schools in Poland, which are presented on the pages of the Sejm, raising among others. contradiction of proposals with the need to consolidate and strengthen staffing, teaching and scientific capacity of universities in Poland. As a representative of Lubuskie voivodship, I am in favour of the development of higher education in our region. This is certainly a huge opportunity for us. I believe that the upcoming Gorzow Academy will adapt flexibly to the needs of the local labour market, and the quality of education will result in graduates of this university being sought by entrepreneurs of employees. With this expectation and conviction as Lubuszanin I will vote in favour of transforming the WWS in Gorzów Wielkopolski into a Gorzow Academy. However, I would like to add that the Modern Richard Petru Posel Club does not impose discipline on its members in this vote. Each of us will vote in accordance with our own assessment of this project. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-12-sejm-16-1.u57	Thank you very much. And please take the floor of Katarzyna Lubnauer, the Modern Club. There isn't. Then please take the floor of Mr Krystian Jarubas.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-12-sejm-16-1.u58	Dear Marshal, Minister! Mrs. Rector! High Izbo! On behalf of the Parliamentary Club of the Polish People's Party, I am pleased to present my position on the report of the committee on the draft law on the establishment of the Academy. Jakub z Paradyża w Gorzów Wielkopolski, prints no. 220 and 380. Ladies and gentlemen! According to the project under consideration prepared by PiS Members, the Academy in Gorzów Wielkopolski would start its activities on 1 September 2016. It would be created from the State College of Vocational Education operating in this city. The Academy would take over the rights and obligations of the State Higher Vocational School, and employees and students of the State Higher Vocational School would work and study at the Academy. In Gorzów the attempts to create an academy lasted many years. Prof. Elżbieta Skorupska-Raczyńska, university rector, argued that as a university headed by WWSZ, the university achieved everything it could: "We came to the conclusion that the only path to further development of the university was to change its status. The reservation to the project has a Conference of Rectors of Academic Schools of Poland, in turn the Ministry of Science does not oppose the granting of the status of academy of Gorzów PWSZ, but believes that it can obtain it on loan. PWSZ in Gorzów Wielkopolski is one of the strongest PWSZ, while this development is not full enough to obtain the status of the academy by law. Under the law, he is entitled when the university has two doctoral rights, i.e. the award of a doctoral degree in two scientific disciplines. On the other hand, the draft provides in Article. 7 that the new university will adapt within 3 years the number of doctoral degrees to the requirements of Article. 3 (1) (a) 5 Law on Higher Education, which means the need to obtain two doctoral powers at that time. Depending on whether the university meets the requirements, I quote here, the academy will be transformed accordingly into a public university or a public professional university. The Gorzow State Higher Vocational School therefore does not currently meet the criteria for transformation into an academic university. If the law had been accepted by Parliament and signed by the President of the Republic of Poland, the university would have received a new name - the Academy - but would not have obtained academic status. Professor Jan Łaszczyk, representing the Conference of Rectors of Academic Schools of Poland, pointed out that the law, if adopted, would significantly interfere with the structure of higher education. I suppose the establishment in Gorzów of the Academy opens a precedent, which will result in further requests of this type being addressed," said Prof. Łaszczyk. Ladies and gentlemen! In this respect, I believe that it is appropriate, as my previous speakers have said, to allow the Gorzow university, as it was said: on credit, and I would like to draw attention, to ask the Minister of Science and Higher Education to pay close attention to the Gorzow Academy. The Parliamentary Club of the Polish People's Party will support this law. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-12-sejm-16-1.u59	Thank you kindly, sir. Mr Leszek Sirko will speak to the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Science and Higher Education. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-12-sejm-16-1.u60	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! All the votes in the discussion were positive and supported the establishment of the academy. For my part, I would like to present the position of the Council of Ministers. The Council of Ministers does not object to the bill submitted on the establishment of the Academy. Jakub from Paradyz in Gorzów Wielkopolski. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-12-sejm-16-1.u61	Thank you very much, Minister. Is the rapporteur of the committee, Mrs Marzena Machalek? No. High Izbo, the discussion is closed. We will proceed to the third reading of the bill in the voting block. Thank you very much. We proceed with the examination of item 4 of the agenda: Report of the Committee on Administration and Home Affairs on the governmental bill amending the Act on granting protection to foreigners on the territory of the Republic of Poland (prints No 290 and 377). I ask Mr Sylvester Tulayev to submit a report to the committee. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-12-sejm-16-1.u62	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour to present a report by the Committee on Administration and Home Affairs on the draft law amending the law on granting protection to foreigners in the territory of the Republic of Poland. On 1 March 2016, the Marshal of the Sejm sent the above draft law to the Committee on Administration and Home Affairs for first reading. The Commission for Administration and Home Affairs carried out the first reading of the draft law at its meeting on 30 March 2016. After considering the draft, the Commission requests the adoption of Print Act No 377. The draft law amending the Law on the granting of protection to foreigners in the territory of the Republic of Poland aims to adapt the regulation adopted in the Act of 13 March 2003 on the granting of protection to foreigners in the territory of the Republic of Poland in Chapter 5a: Resettlement and relocation, to the rules resulting from Council Decision (EU) 2015/1523 of 14 September 2015 establishing provisional measures in the area of international protection for Italy and Greece and Council Decision (EU) 2015/1601 of 22 September 2015 establishing provisional measures in the area of international protection for Italy and Greece. The bill is quite short because it actually covers only two articles. The third article was added as part of the amendment by the Committee on Administration and Home Affairs. The proposed amendments are to extend the time limit for consultations by the Head of the Office for Foreigners with the competent authorities in matters of State security or public order regarding aliens intended for relocation or resettlement. As a result of the change, the current period of 7 days is extended to 45 days. In particularly justified cases where the Chief of the Border Guard, the Chief of Police, the Head of the Internal Security Agency or another body to which the Head of the Office has asked for Foreigners' Affairs will not be able to provide information as to whether the entry and stay of a foreigner in the territory of the Republic of Poland may pose a threat to the defence or security of the State or the protection of public order, the 45-day period may be extended for another 14 days. This means that consultations on the protection of the security of the state or the protection of public order for a given foreigner in exceptional circumstances will last for 59 days. However, having regard to the above mentioned above, the Council of the European Union decisions time limits for the relocation procedure, the possibility of an additional extension of the time limit for the provision of the said information for a further 14 days should be used occasionally. This catalogue for other bodies is open, everything depends on the particular situation. It is also about the information that will be collected about the foreigner that the head of office receives. On the basis of these, the appropriate authority is being selected, e.g. it may be the chief health inspector in the event of consultations on public health protection in connection with the arrival of persons from areas affected by an epidemic of some infectious disease which may enter the territory of our country with a foreigner. The time allowed for the relocation procedure in accordance with the said decisions of the Council of the European Union shall be up to 2 months from the time when the Republic of Poland indicates the number of people who can be relocated to our country. The two-month period, apart from the examination of State security issues, also includes the organisation and execution of the transfer of aliens. In order to improve the level of state security in the process of relocation or resettlement of foreigners to Poland, the principle resulting directly from the act is introduced, that even one negative position of the body to which consultation on the security of the state or public order is requested, justifies that the foreigner is not displaced or relocated. The draft law proposes that the obligation to obtain information as to whether the entry and stay of a foreigner in the territory of the Republic of Poland may pose a threat to the defence or security of the state or to the security and security of public order, should not apply to a foreigner who has not completed 13. the year of age. The amended regulations will undoubtedly contribute to the improvement of the security of Poland - increasing the security of Poland during the implementation of the procedure related to relocation or resettlement of foreigners in the territory of the Republic of Poland. It should also be stressed that the Supreme Audit Chamber indicated the need to implement deadlines that actually guarantee the exchange of in-depth information between services and allow for coordination of their activities. The solutions set out in this Act are going in the direction that NIK has advocated. In the course of the work on this draft law, as I mentioned, a clarification amendment was adopted. It is a matter of Article. 2, which states that in cases initiated and not completed pursuant to Article. 86f Act as amended by Art. Article 1 as it stands shall apply. 86f Act as amended by Art. 1 in the wording of this Act, i.e. as regards the whole procedure which is currently being carried out under the old law, the new provision of this article will already apply once the new law is adopted. Ladies and gentlemen! On behalf of the Committee on Administration and Home Affairs, I ask the High House to adopt a draft Print Act No 377. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-12-sejm-16-1.u63	Thank you very much, sir. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of the clubs. I'm opening a discussion. On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, Mr Sylvester Tułaev will speak. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-12-sejm-16-1.u64	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour to present the position of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice on the draft law amending the Act on granting protection to foreigners in the territory of the Republic of Poland. The report of the Committee on Administration and Home Affairs, which I have presented in detail, describes the main objective of this initiative. It's about extending the deadline from 7 days to 45 days. Security is a key issue. We are looking at what is happening in Europe. As the events in Brussels show, there are no security systems in Europe. All security procedures in the European Union should be implemented. We as Law and Justice have been saying for months that security, security of Poles is the most important thing for us. The bombings show that security is the problem in Europe. That's the first thing we should do. Let us remind you that it was the previous government that agreed to allow migrants to go to Poland on a voluntary basis. We must and we also want to emphasise, and we stress that Polish citizens are safe. All personnel are operational and standing by. The issue of relocation will depend strictly on the positive effect of the verification procedure for individual foreigners. The current situation in Greece and Italy, as I mentioned, does not give us the slightest reason to believe that those who would be brought to Poland have a confirmed identity and that it can be guaranteed that they will not pose a threat to the security of the state. State security cannot be compromised. Nor can we bring about a situation that is perhaps desirable by the European Commission, i.e. to the uncritical and unverifiable relocation of foreigners in the countries of the European Union. Therefore, this draft law addresses the key issue, the security issue, the extension of this deadline, the introduction of mandatoryity as regards the disclaimer of the individual authorities of the State. We're talking about the Border Guard here, we're talking about the Police here, we're talking about the Internal Security Agency here, and we're talking about other entities that the head of the Foreign Office will address. The extension of this term from 7 days to 45 days will result in a thorough verification of the person who is eligible for relocation. This will ensure the safety of Poles. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, I ask the High House to adopt this bill. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-12-sejm-16-1.u65	Thank you very much, sir. I would like to ask the floor of Mrs Anna Nemś, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-12-sejm-16-1.u66	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, the Civic Platform has the honour to present its position on prints 290 and 377. The draft law amending the Act on the granting of protection to foreigners in the territory of the Republic of Poland aims to adapt the regulation adopted in the Act on the granting of protection to foreigners in the territory of the Republic of Poland to the rules resulting from the Council Decision of 14 September 2015 establishing provisional measures in the area of international protection for Italy and Greece and the Council Decision of 22 September establishing provisional measures in the area of international protection for Italy and Greece. It's changing its mouth. 2 of the abovementioned provision, which in its current wording provides that the Chief of Police, the Head of the Border Guard or the Head of the Internal Security Agency shall provide information as to whether the entry and stay of a foreigner in the territory of the Republic of Poland may constitute a threat to the defence or security of the State, or to the protection of security and public order, within 7 days of receipt of the request. The amendment is an extension, as the rapporteur of the committee just said, of the deadline for the transmission of this information from 7 to 45 days. In addition, it is also possible to extend this period by a further 14 days in exceptional cases. The proposed provision shall waive the provisions laid down in paragraph so far. 3 presumption that, in the absence of information, the entry of a foreigner into the territory of the Republic of Poland and his stay do not constitute a threat to the defence or security of the State, or to the protection of security and public benefit. The proposed law requires that the authorities to which the Head of the Office will address the Foreigners' Affairs be consulted. They will not be able to stop silently when their findings indicate that the reasons for the state's security do not preclude the admission of foreigners to the territory of the Republic of Poland, but will have to inform the head of the office. In turn, the determination by these authorities that a foreigner's stay on the territory of the Republic of Poland may pose a threat to the defence is binding on the head of the office, even if such information comes from only one of the bodies asked. In such a case, the foreigner will not be resettled and in the event of relocation the head of the office will notify the competent authority of the Member State from which the relocation is to take place that the foreigner has not been qualified for relocation. Ladies and gentlemen! This provision will not apply to foreigners who have not yet completed 13. the year of age. This provision seems appropriate in the current situation. The Civic Platform Parliamentary Club will vote in favour. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-12-sejm-16-1.u67	Thank you, Member. Please take the floor of Mr Bartosz Józwiak, Kukiz Club15.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-12-sejm-16-1.u68	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Today, in a time of increasing terrorism, which has an increasingly tragic impact on Europe, tightening up the rules on Muslim migrants and not only is it necessary and justified to do so. At the same time, it should be reserved that this should only be a preventive action, because in our opinion Poland should not be responsible for the illogicalness, inconsistencies and bad decisions of some Western European countries, especially Germany, which has caused the crisis to take place in Europe today. The refugee relocation system is nothing but an attempt to shift responsibility for its own recklessness to neighbouring countries. The draft law amending the Act on granting protection to foreigners in the territory of the Republic of Poland aims to adapt the article. 86f to the rules resulting from the decision of the Council of the European Union of 14 September 2015 establishing provisional measures in the area of international protection for Italy and Greece and the Decision of 22 September 2015 establishing provisional measures in the area of international protection for Italy and Greece. It is these decisions of the European Union that the relocation procedure should be carried out as soon as possible, no later than 2 months after the Member State of relocation gave the number of applicants that could be relocated. The main foundation of the law is among others. an extension of the number of entities to which the Office for Foreigners may request information about a person, including the Border Guard Chief and the Head of the Internal Security Agency, as well as an extension of the deadline for the submission of the requested information from the present 7 days to 45 days, with the possibility of further extension of 14 days in particularly justified cases. In a previous situation, failure to meet the deadline resulted in the recognition that the entry and stay of a foreigner in the territory of the Republic of Poland would not constitute a threat to the defence or security of the State or to public order and security. In the case of information that the entry and stay of a foreigner in the territory of the Republic of Poland may constitute a threat, the foreigner shall be subject to an X-ray or the head of the office shall notify the competent authority of the Member State from which the relocation would take place that the foreigner has not been qualified for it. No request for information about a person shall be made if the foreigner has not completed 13. the year of age. It's all been mentioned before. The current wording of the amended provision, which required verification of the person subject to relocation within 7 days, certainly did not allow for its proper verification. The extension of the deadline to 45 days, and in exceptional cases up to 59 days, while extending the list of institutions to which such information can be requested, will probably allow a slightly better verification of alien relocation and increase a certain level of security. In our opinion, however, this is a purely technical procedure that does not solve the problems envisaged, because this law can only provide preparation for the reception of refugees under the relocation system, but does not give us the guarantee that we are seeking. This guarantee clearly states that the Polish government, the government of the Republic of Poland, should clearly withdraw from this system and not participate in the European division. It is about the consequences of the EU or, more specifically, German recklessness, not to say even foolishness about the admission system. As a rule, the law should be adopted as a tightening of admission conditions. However, its proceding may indicate that the Polish government intends to consent to the adoption of quotas for refugees, which in our opinion would be a wrong move for Poland. We stand in a position, which we have repeatedly stressed, that Poland has no obligation or responsibility for the reckless, completely misguided policy of Western countries, mainly Germany, I will emphasise once again, the consequences of which we are currently observing. These effects in the form of relocation schemes and quotas for refugees are to be mitigated by shifting them to others or by sharing responsibility for the situation with neighbours. To conclude, we believe that, for our common and well understood security, effective protection of Poles against the spilled terrorism in Europe, which is also connected with such a very free admission of immigrants, tightening the rules on granting protection to foreigners is as legitimate as possible in the current situation. However, this should not mean accepting any amount of refugees as part of taking responsibility for others' mistakes. Therefore, in our opinion, the Polish government should stand firm and refuse to accept any amount of refugees, focusing its assistance on the victims of wars where it is most needed, namely the places closest to the outbreak of conflicts. We also expect a clear declaration from the Law and Justice on this matter. [[♪ The bell ♪]] I expect a simple answer on the amount of immigrants: yes or no. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-12-sejm-16-1.u69	Thank you. And please take the floor of Mr Mirosław Suchon, the Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-12-sejm-16-1.u70	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I am pleased to present the position of the Poselski Club in relation to the draft law amending the law on granting protection to foreigners on the territory of the Republic of Poland, included in print No 290, after the report of the committee included in print No 377. State security issues should be prioritised by all institutions both in Poland and in the European Union. And first of all, I would like to point out that it is a good thing that the Council of the European Union has come to the conclusion that this monthly relocation deadline, which had to include both procedures for assessing a person in terms of security and public order as well as organisational issues, is too short to effectively carry out all these procedures and changed it to a 2-month period. The effect of this amendment is the draft amendment of the Article. 86f Act on granting protection to foreigners in the territory of the Republic of Poland, over which we are currently proceeding. The amendment itself consists of extending the deadline for consultation by the Head of the Office for Foreigners with the authorities competent for security and public order in the Republic of Poland listed in the Act in relation to persons submitted for relocation to Poland. As a result of the adoption of the amendment, the current deadline of 7 days will be extended to 45 days, but, as the Act states, this deadline will be extended in a situation where the Chief of the Border Guard, the Chief of Police, the Head of the Internal Security Agency or another body to which the Head of the Office has addressed the Foreigners' Affairs will not be able to provide information in the original period, i.e. those 45 days, whether relocation and residence in the territory of Poland of the proven person may pose a threat to the security of the state, defence or security and public order. Thus, these consultations can last up to 59 days in exceptional circumstances. In addition, during the committee's work it was clarified that cases initiated before the date of entry into force of this Act would be subject to the provisions of the amended Act. However, the provisions introduced by the amending act will not apply to foreigners who have not completed 13. the year of age. This is clear from the European Union's rules. The law also introduces the principle that even one negative position of the authority to which the head of the Office for Foreigners has submitted, as regards the verification of the foreigner, will prejudice that the person will not be accepted by the Republic of Poland as part of the relocation. It is worth noting that the Act obliges the institutions to which the Head of the Office has asked the Foreigners to reply. This record eliminates the so-called. Silent consent, ladies and gentlemen, which should not be the case in matters of state security. So these are very important changes. They meet the expectations of citizens, because Poles expect that in case of relocation of any number of foreigners - regardless of where they come from - Poland as a country will take all possible measures to rule out that there will be people threatening our security in our country. As for those who will be relocated to our country, we will be sure that their presence in Poland does not endanger the security of the state. But there's one thing I want to say here. Any security regulations will do nothing if the institutions and officers do not apply them strictly if the security services in Poland have a level of quality if the heads of service, but also the officers, do not make every effort to carry out their tasks at the highest level. This has already been shown in Poland and in a much more tragic dimension in Paris or Brussels. So there is nothing to be done unless the services are free from politics and political vendettas. In order to be effective, services must carry out only the tasks of ensuring security for all citizens of the Republic of Poland. This is their only purpose and their only duty to the nation. Ladies and gentlemen! Taking into account the fact that the project will ultimately allow to increase the quality of checks of foreigners before they are relocated to Poland, and thus increase the level of security of Poland and citizens of the Republic of Poland, the Poselski Club Modern will support this project in the vote. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-12-sejm-16-1.u71	Thank you, sir. And please take the floor of Mr Zbigniew Sosnowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-12-sejm-16-1.u72	Dear Marshal, Dear Minister, High Seym! The Act of 13 June 2003 on granting protection to foreigners on the territory of the Republic of Poland was amended several times. However, it should be noted that the reason is still the same - the changing international situation. It is under the influence of this situation, as well as the changing circumstances, and this time we are leaning down in this House, once again, on the amendment of this act. Today's debate is devoted in its entirety to the amendment of Chapter 5a: Resettlement and relocation, which is to adapt the existing rules to the rules resulting from Council Decision 2015/1523 of 14 September 2015 establishing provisional measures in the area of international protection for Italy and Greece, supplemented by EU Council Decision 2015/1601 with an identical title. Art. 1 of the draft amends the provision of Article. 86f of the Act in the version so far. It's changing its mouth. 2 ww. the provision which provides that the Chief of Police, the Head of the Border Guard or the Head of the Internal Security Agency shall provide information as to whether the entry and stay of a foreigner in the territory of the Republic of Poland may constitute a threat to the defence or security of the State or the protection of security and public order within 7 days of receipt of the request. The change introduced consists in extending the current deadline from 7 to 45 days. In addition, the legislator provides for the possibility of extending the 45-day time limit in special situations by 14 consecutive days. It is worth noting that it is proposed that the provisions referred to in paragraph 1 should be abandoned. 3 - the presumption that, in the absence of information, the entry of a foreigner and his stay in the territory of our country are not considered to constitute a threat which I mentioned at the outset of the speech. The proposed rules impose an obligation to address the authorities to which the Head of the Office will refer to the Foreigners' Office. These organs will not be able to stop by silence. If one or more of these authorities raises a reservation, this information shall be binding on the Head of the Office for Foreigners. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, The security of the state and the security of our citizens must be a priority of all actions, including in the event of immediate measures to prevent any threat in the broad sense of the word. With safety and human life, you must not experiment. It should therefore be considered that, in the case of negative information received by the head of office, the person concerned will not be resettled and, in the case of relocation, the head of office will notify the competent authority of the Member State from which the relocation is to take place that the foreigner has not been qualified for relocation. In order to harmonise the provisions of the Act, a solution is introduced that the described mode will not apply to a foreigner who has not completed 13. the year of age. The seriousness of the international situation and its dynamic development forced the Council of the European Union to take a decision establishing provisional measures in the area of international protection for Italy and Greece. Since the project does not contain technical provisions, it is not subject to notification. High Seym! The Parliamentary Club of the Polish People's Party will vote in favour of the report of the Committee on Administration and Home Affairs from print No 377. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-12-sejm-16-1.u73	Thank you, sir. One parliamentarian signed up for the questions. Since I don't see anybody else interested in the question, I'm closing the list of speakers. I'm setting time for the question -- two minutes. Please, Mr Sylwester Khrushch.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-12-sejm-16-1.u74	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! We are debating today about the bill amending the Act on granting protection to foreigners on the territory of the Republic of Poland. During this debate, two questions were raised. First: Are our services already working on creating a database of organizations and people who would not ever be allowed into Poland? After all, we must be aware that this is a huge job. Today, following the attacks in Brussels, we are aware that very experienced, very well paid services in the European Union have failed to deal with terrorism. We know that even in the case of Zaventem airport, many dozens of people, today we are aware of it, very close to being connected in different ways with terrorists from ISIS, very sympathetic to them. Do our services monitor such individuals, such organizations? It's the Middle East, Africa. After all, this is Eritrea, these are different religions, these are different divisions, these are different individuals, these are different military relationships. I don't know if even the two months we give to control a person is too little, because it really is a very important job. So the first question is, are we already working to create a base like this? And the second question, more serious: However, as Poland, do we want to accept, respect immigrant quotas, whether we want to accept immigrants or not? Because the Polish government has repeatedly stressed in recent days that we will not accept immigrants and, on the other hand, we are carrying out legislative work, changes in laws, so that in the future we will be able to do so. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-12-sejm-16-1.u75	Thank you very much, sir. Please address the Secretary of State at the Ministry of Interior and Administration of Minister Jakub Skiba. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-12-sejm-16-1.u76	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The answer to the first question is yes. Since 2001, the Foreigners' Office has been established. The list of undesirable aliens in Poland and this list includes names on the basis of applications submitted by the services, a whole range of services involved in maintaining security in Poland, as well as the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of Internal Affairs and Administration. This is the result of the work of those services which, through operational activities, obtain information also on organisations bringing together specific persons who may present a specific threat. So in this respect, I will answer: of course, yes, there is already a lot of knowledge in our services and it is collected further, which naturally does not mean that, in the face of the tense international situation and the growing threats of this issue, it is not necessary to increase significantly. So we keep such a register and this register will be developed in the near future. On the other hand, as regards the answer to the second question, to the general question, I must repeat what has been said so far many times. The previous government agreed to relocate and relocate to Poland in a total of about 11 thousand. people, because the number that often appears in the media, 7 thousand, does not correspond to the truth, as it does not include our share in the unallocated amount of 54 thousand. Of course, it is up to the European Council and the European Commission to decide when this number will be activated. This is precisely the case at this point and is a consequence of the conclusion of an agreement between the European Union and Turkey. These are commitments that constitute European law. Therefore, the government has undertaken this right, but these decisions last year have been accompanied by a very clear emphasis on security issues, i.e. all these relocation and resettlement processes can only take place if security is guaranteed. In this context, after a series of terrorist attacks in the west of Europe, in particular following the recent attacks in Brussels, the government is carrying out these procedures with particular attention and insight. I would like to say very clearly at this point that until now no person has been admitted to Poland for reasons such as that it was not possible to verify the identity with 100% certainty. Therefore, as far as the safety condition is concerned, it has not yet been taken into account. On the other hand, the European Commission's plans for the future are important. A very important communication on the revision of the Dublin system was published last week. In this communication, which is to be converted into concrete legal solutions, there is an unlimited relocation mechanism in line with the principle of automation. This is an absolutely unacceptable proposal for the Polish Government, the Polish Government will not agree to such solutions, because such a decision can cause, can lead to very serious changes in the demographic structure and is currently in Poland and politically, and socially unacceptable. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-12-sejm-16-1.u77	Thank you very much, Minister. Please take the floor of the rapporteur of the Committee of Members... No, you are not speaking. Good. In that case, the discussion is closed. We will proceed to the third reading of the bill in the voting block. We proceed with the examination of item 5 of the agenda: First reading of the government draft law on specific rules for the implementation of certain tasks in the field of computerization of the activities of tax administrations, customs and fiscal control (print No 395). I ask the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Finance of Minister Leszek Skiba to present the justification for the bill. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-12-sejm-16-1.u78	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The draft law, which I am presenting, i.e. the draft law on specific rules for the performance of certain tasks in the field of computerization of the activities of tax administrations, customs and tax control, aims primarily to reduce what is a problem of public finances, i.e. to reduce the gap in VAT revenue. Overall, the VAT gap is estimated by the European Commission at about PLN 40 billion, which is more than 1/4 of all VAT revenue that goes to the state budget. The main problem is that the source of this gap on the one hand is the gray zone, on the other hand it is the activities of companies which break the law, using the inefficiency of public administration, fiscal administration and customs, acting unlawfully, extorting VAT, i.e. extortion, by making unjustified refunds or not paying a fair tax. Of course, it's a pretty difficult thing. It is difficult because we are dealing with very specialised companies or very specialised criminal groups, which in fact do not work only in Poland, but also this activity, this problem is the problem of the whole European Union, which is the problem of VAT, in fact, whether the VAT gap is the problem of the whole European Union, as evidenced by a document published last week by the European Commission, an action plan which aims to change the VAT system really deep over a few years. Knowing that this biggest problem, i.e. the zero rate of export, i.e. zero rate of export of goods, is indeed the cause of many irregularities, the European Commission is planning to take action to create uniform VAT throughout the European Union. However, we do not fully know whether this process will end or whether it will actually be effective. There are already a lot of doubts in different countries about supporting this project. Therefore, we cannot, we can say, remain in such a situation that we will wait for what will happen in Brussels. The Polish authorities are obliged to counter criminal activities and indeed to ensure that VAT revenues are as high as possible and that these criminal activities are limited. The draft law aims primarily at setting up a special purpose vehicle which will quickly prepare the IT solution necessary to reduce the VAT gap. Thanks to these activities of the IT company, which will be accompanied by improvements in the activities of the tax and customs administration, it is expected to increase VAT revenues in the long term, to reduce the VAT gap at least - in the first horizon - to the average level in the European Union, i.e. more than 25% up to approx. 15% . That's what it says in the explanatory note. Of course, we are aware that this is not sufficient, but it can be said that this most realistic goal in this horizon is to make this gap in such a dimension limited. Of course, the next steps will certainly be taken and another type of action will also be taken in parallel so that these VAT receipts increase. The idea of setting up a special purpose company is that, in fact, we are dealing with a great inefficiency in the state administration with the creation of IT projects. We have experience in various ministries that either it takes a long time, or there is a big problem with implementation. The problem is how it works, you can say, state administration. This can be seen, for example, from the efforts of the previous government, the Ministry of Finance, to resolve, to take action in this area. This is indeed due to the fact that these instruments, the implementation of IT projects by state institutions is, you can say, doomed to failure or very difficult, for this reason these actions were not successful. The lesson for us from these actions of our predecessors is that, of course, one can say, adopt extraordinary solutions, that is the establishment of a commercial law company and this company will create IT solutions in an exceptional manner. We hope that this project will arise quickly, that the IT solutions that will later be applied by the Ministry of Finance will, of course, be prepared in a fast manner. For this reason, time is important. Time is important, because if we look at numbers, and the figures are that the VAT gap is about 400 billion PLN, i.e. the delay in creating... [[Forty.]] 40 billion PLN, yes. ...a delay of one month, that is over PLN 3 billion. Therefore, each month is really important, because each month it is over PLN 3 billion smaller VAT revenues. Of course, so that the idea of creating this company is not in doubt, for two reasons it is important to say, a certain control by public institutions, I mean, in fact, security institutions. So, on the one hand, this company will temporarily use access to tax data that are classified, on the other hand, we are, of course, dealing with the creation of a system that should be hermetic, the source codes should not have access to criminals, and on the other hand, we are still dealing with the situation that there is no doubt about corruption that this project is really a special mode when it comes to the supervision by the services of the design of this solution. On the one hand, we know that there is a group of people who benefit from the fact that there is this gap in Poland, so that we are actually dealing with the situation that many people who are currently engaged in criminal activities would want this project to fail. For this reason, one can say, it is a very sensitive project in terms of security and we are aware that there are certainly some for whom the success of this project is a loss of very large money, reducing their illegally achieved influence. For this reason, on behalf of the Ministry of Finance, I ask the High House to support this bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-12-sejm-16-1.u79	Thank you very much, Minister. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of the clubs. I'm opening a discussion. The first vote will be taken by Mrs Gabriela Masłowska, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-12-sejm-16-1.u80	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! A government project with specific rules for the implementation of certain IT tasks in the field of tax administration, customs and tax control from print No 395 aims to improve the work of these authorities by providing them, in short, with modern IT systems, effectively supporting the detection of fraud and a rapid response to tax collection, enforcement of fraud or unpaid amounts and the exercise of responsibility. Today, the non-disclosure of taxable income, concealing it in the grey zone or extortion take on such sophisticated methods, and the teams of lawyers often work on this, that the methods used so far to counter this, both legislative and control, have proved inadequately effective. Therefore, all countries of the European Union, including Poland, are looking for ways to collect taxes more effectively in order to ensure compliance with the law and secure budgetary revenue. Such new methods prepared and proposed by the government include the plans to set up a national tax administration board, as well as what we are talking about today - the improvement and wider use of modern ICT tools to monitor current turnover and tax payments, including. by creating a central invoice register. We therefore believe that these changes are moving in the desired direction. According to the concept adopted in the draft, the creation of suitable solutions for this purpose is entrusted to the State Treasury company, a limited liability company to be appointed by the Minister of Finance. It is this company that is to be entrusted with the construction and modernisation of existing IT systems for the provision and processing of classified information for the analysis of data which are relevant in the work of the Minister of Finance and Tax Administrations, Tax and Customs Services for the analysis of possible infringements. In general, the Act provides the legal basis for the establishment of such a company, defines the scope of its tasks, data protection, the provision of its capital and possible liquidation. This is all supposed to belong to the Minister of Finance. In support of this direction, however, I would like to ask a few questions about this project, which are the result of some doubts, and I would ask the Minister for an answer and an explanation. So, first of all, is the software owned by the Minister of Finance now owned by the Minister of Finance and its subordinate entities, or does the Minister use it under a licence agreement? Who has access codes? That was the first question. So will the company that we set up produce the software itself, or will it commission outside institutions, commercial institutions, business institutions? Because I believe that the added value of this law would indeed be if the finance department, specifically this company, had built such an IT system with the help of its own IT specialists who would develop software and have their own source access codes. After all, we have such experience that the use of source access codes from entities that built software is very, very expensive and extremely effective every time. So what is the concept in this regard? What criterion will the company be based on when it is excluded from the Public Procurement Law? How are you going to hire employees? Will it only be employment contracts or other contracts? Because in Poland we have a huge problem, unsolved by the previous authority, namely that many works are carried out on a basis other than contracts of employment, although they have all the characteristics of employment contracts. Why is it dangerous? For example, from such high wages [[♪ The bell ♪]] the contribution of the Social Security Office is not paid, as the state budget suffers. Is there a resolution in this matter? Marshal, one more sentence. Will the Secretarys of State and Undersecretaries be remunerated for their participation in the Supervisory Boards, as is mentioned here? Other questions, two more questions, I'll ask during the questions. I don't want to prolong. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-12-sejm-16-1.u81	Thank you very much, Member. I ask for the floor of Mrs Isabella Leszczyna, the Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-12-sejm-16-1.u82	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! Minister! I thank the Minister for noticing that the predecessors have taken action to seal the tax system. Thank you also for noticing by the Minister that this is a long-term, long-term, extremely complicated process. All the more so, however, I do not understand why the Polish state under the rule of law and justice capitulated. After all, it was supposed to be strong and powerless, the PiS was supposed to strengthen the role of the state and reduces it, in addition in an area that is so important and so sensitive to each country, which is the tax system and tax collection. Therefore, Minister, I have to ask the question: Where are those competent law and justice activists who were to come to the place of expelled civil servants and build a professional state administration? The answer is sad and simple at the same time. They just don't exist, 'cause I don't think it's like they're waiting for their powers to be made in a special purpose company where they can make more money, because you're statemen. The management of the Ministry - I regret that - has separated key people from the most important projects carried out in the Ministry of Finance. Projects sealing the tax system are, as you yourself have admitted, multi-annual projects, which is why officials working with them have some knowledge, competence, experience and something called historical memory. The removal of these people from these projects, the appointment as heads of various organizational cells in the Ministry of Finance completely new people causes some paralysis in this very important area of work of the Ministry of Finance. I assure you, Minister, that officials working in the Ministry of Finance are real statemen, these are people for whom, apart from a decent salary - because you know very well that outstanding specialists in the Ministry of Finance earn good money - apart from good wages, the Polish state is important: Poland, financial security, economic security of our homeland. Unfortunately, you threw such officials out of work and assigned people without the necessary knowledge and experience, without this historical memory. Hence the idea that a special purpose company should do what you cannot do, that is, seal the tax system for tax, tax and customs administration, because today you already know three things. Firstly, you know that sealing the tax system is a series of large-scale activities and a lot of small-scale activities. Secondly, you know that it is necessary to wait for the results of these actions and that the sentence expressed by Prime Minister Beata Szydło - which sounds exactly like this: Sealing the tax system will bring PLN 30 billion in the first year - indicates either incompetence or that the Prime Minister deliberately misled his constituents. Thirdly, you also know that you can't do it, you can't seal the tax system because you don't trust the officials, you don't trust those who don't have the PiS card, and those who have the ID can't do it. You could also add the fourth point that today you already know that you can't even introduce new taxes. Bank tax, I recommend my blog, and commercial tax, which I think has already been completely abandoned. So these are the real reasons why the finance minister came up with the idea of setting up a company that will filter the market and keep an eye on entrepreneurs. That sounds like a joke, and this is unfortunately the idea of a white-red team. Minister, you must know that the employment of external companies in such an area significantly increases the risk of access to data of unauthorized persons, that persons employed in such companies [[♪ The bell ♪]] - Mr. Marshal, half a minute - people employed in such companies, particularly commercially targeted, are an additional threat. And really, Minister, I'm asking you to do it with a heartfelt request. It is not about writing on Twitter like Minister Jasiński that in a few days the Act on National Tax Administration as a historic and unique project on a global scale - these are the words of the Minister - will be announced. Less megalomania, more consequences. Improve our system. We've probably made mistakes, but don't throw everything in the trash, just take the responsibility of the state for what's very important in the country, so tax collection. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-12-sejm-16-1.u83	Thank you, Member. Please take the floor of Mr Jakub Kulesza, Kukiz Club15.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-12-sejm-16-1.u84	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! As a citizen who is unhappy with dealing with various official matters, I am a keen supporter of the informationization of public administration. It is only a pity that the contested law does not contribute to this in any way. The purpose of this law is not at all to help taxpayers, to help citizens settle matters, but to correct errors, to correct the error that lies in the very essence of the tax system in Poland. I sadly observe how Law and Justice take on the worst features of the Civic Platform. The special purpose company of the Ministry of Finance is nothing but an attempt to create another position for its own, such a Space Agency bis. The Minister rightly pointed out that you had promised excellent professionals in public administration, but you have already given up, and they have capitulate, saying that, however, an external company of the Treasury must be created, which will be carried out by this administration in these tasks. Perhaps the Minister's answer will be that these law and justice professionals will sit in this company. But this isn't the right way. The Ministry of Digital Affairs rightly notes that the way public administration is computerized should be different. It is a proposal that the computerization of the administration in one ministry connected with one department, with one system dealt with by one company, newly created, which will not have experience in such projects, no longer talking about the experience of IT specialists, programmers who will be employed in such a company, only talking about the experience of implementing this system, with the management of such a company. This is not a path in line with the Ministry of Digitalization's strategy, which rather implies the coherence of information systems in Poland and the consistency of procedures for the development of software and systems that will be used in public administration. One of such centers, units indicated by the Ministry of Digitalization, which can manage this type of task, is the Data Processing Centre of the Ministry of Finance, which, I think, could easily order such software on normal market principles. I am a practice when it comes to the implementation of information systems, and I will tell you that the path you have chosen is the worst possible. This institution, this special purpose company without experience, will not have the opportunity to prepare good professional software. In my opinion, good cooperation procedures should be developed here between good, conscious administration and companies that have experience in software development, and this is the only way to manage such tasks. Moreover, in my opinion, this is an attempt to solve the problems that lie within the VAT Act itself. This bill is getting more complicated every year, and it's getting bigger and bigger. The Polish State is unable to cope with VAT carousels, and in fact this solution proposed by the Ministry does not serve in any way to solve this problem, but to mask it. Let's finally change the VAT bill, make it simpler, make it impossible to do various scams in this system, such as the VAT-Own carousel. To conclude, I will quote the words of the Dominican Republic, Józef Bocheński, about bureaucracy, because in my opinion this proposal is the result of this bureaucracy. Dominican Józef Bocheński wrote that the class of officials is a kind of social cancer that grows at the expense of a healthy organism and how cancer will kill it if it does not lay down there. The overthrow of the superstitions spread by officials is a condition for at least a partial release of society from exploitation. In keeping with this terminology, the proposed law should be described as metastatic cancer and must be rejected immediately if we want to think of a modern, computerized public administration that serves citizens and not disturbs them. Moreover, my greatest reservation concerns the article. 15 of this law, which de facto makes sensitive data available to taxpayers of a given company. Perhaps this is an attempt to reduce control over the public administration, because such a company of the State Treasury will be less controlled, but in my opinion it is reprehensible, [[♪ The bell ♪]] I want this company to operate in this way. I therefore request that this law be rejected at first reading. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-12-sejm-16-1.u85	Thank you, sir. Please take the floor of Mr Paweł Pudłowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-12-sejm-16-1.u86	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Minister! According to the estimates of consultancy companies, the size of the grey zone is up to 12 GDP. The country loses from PLN 25 billion to PLN 40 billion per year depending on its source. Without a doubt, these are huge, very needed money, which is not unfairly transferred to our country's budget. In 2014, we heard the then Deputy Minister announce that the services use the POLFISC system to quickly detect tax fraud. Deputy Minister Królikowska then stated that the new tools provide the treasury with almost 100 percent efficiency: thanks to him we are able to predict which companies are extorting tax, we do not waste time on missed checks. Print 395 tells us that the situation is not so candy. The Council of Ministers adopted a draft law on specific rules for the implementation of certain tasks in the field of computerization of the activities of state administrations, customs services and tax control. The bill will enable the creation of an electronic system that will support administrations in combating fraud and VAT fraud and will help to seal the collection system. In practice, it is the construction, development or modernisation of information systems used to detect tax infringements. These systems will be used to process classified information and information containing statutory secrets and will serve to protect the financial security of the State. And that's where it all seems clear. However, as we read further, we find that these tasks will be carried out by a specially appointed special purpose company appointed by the State Treasury. The purpose of this company will not be to collect and administer taxpayers' data, but to prepare IT solutions and equip administrations with ICT systems. There is no doubt that we all want a change in order to reduce irregularities in the area of public finances and trade in goods. We want an efficient detection of tax fraud. However, do you need a separate entity to create a central invoice register, a single control file or upgrade of ICT systems? Why - I ask - create a new company? Can these tasks not be carried out by a team established within the Ministry? Is it necessary to create, as we read in the article. 3 (1) (a) 1 of the proposed act, an entity with share capital of at least PLN 5 million? And what's the most, Minister? Unfortunately, the project doesn't specify that anymore. Is there a need for a company with a three-five-man management board and a five-seven-man supervisory board? If we assume that it will be just 5 and 7 people, i.e. a total of 12, then slightly counting, the remuneration of the Management Board will amount to about PLN 2 million per year, and the management staff alone will not modernise the IT system, they will not write software to increase the efficiency of tax collection. So what will she do? Who are these people gonna be driving? Who are they gonna be? With help in response to these questions, the justification in which we read: The provisions of the Commercialisation and Privatisation Act of 30 August 1996 will not apply to the members of the Management Board and the Supervisory Board. The Minister responsible for public finances will be able to appoint a State Secretary or Under-Secretary of State to the Supervisory Board of the special-purpose company in the office serving the minister responsible for public finances. Ladies and gentlemen! Dear Minister, I'll be the first person to vote in favour of raising your salary. Let's do it straight, not by creating a separate company. The applicant gives examples of technical solutions - I stress that they are not separate companies - in other countries such as: VRT or FEAST in the UK or ZAUBER in Germany. You can actually find the answer to the above questions in the name of the latter, because the "zauber" means charm, charm, but also circus. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-12-sejm-16-1.u87	Thank you, sir. I would like to ask the floor of Mrs Genowefa Tokarska.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-12-sejm-16-1.u88	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! On behalf of the Parliamentary Club of the Polish People's Party, I would like to present my position on the government draft law on specific rules for the implementation of certain tasks in the field of computerization of the activities of tax administrations, customs services and tax control. The bill concerns a certain organisation of the finance department, which aims to provide tax administration, customs service and tax control of ICT systems supporting the control and detection of tax infringements. For this purpose, the Minister of Finance representing the State Treasury will set up a limited liability capital company, which will have the task of expanding or modernising existing IT systems, as well as building new supporting tax administration, customs service and tax control. The use of modern information technologies in the field of tax administration and tax control will certainly increase the effectiveness of detecting and punishing perpetrators of criminal offences and tax offences. In particular, this is about increasing the efficiency of VAT collection, where fraud and shortages - so-called. VAT gap - they are particularly large. It is estimated that these deficits amount to up to PLN 40 billion. In order to prevent this abuse, the introduction and use of ICT systems in this area will allow for a much faster detection of irregularities, the provision of detailed information on potential frauds relating to fraud or unpaid amounts, and the cooperation of tax authorities with other bodies set up to combat crime. The VAT IT systems already exist in many European Union countries and make use of solutions such as e-invoices made using certified software, which copies are kept up to date on tax administrations' servers, so they can quickly identify irregularities and capture dishonest taxpayers. The company established pursuant to the draft law may obtain data from the electronic system of the Minister for Public Finance, Tax Administration, Customs and Tax Control. The Company may obtain and process data free of charge from data collections, including personal data collections by public authorities, state organisational units, clearing houses and institutions provided for in banking law. The company is governed by the laws on protected secrets and the company may process personal data without the knowledge and consent of the person concerned for the period necessary to carry out the tasks of the company. And this regulation seems justified because we have the task of catching irregularities well and quickly. The powers of the Treasury vis-à-vis the company are exercised by the Minister responsible for public finances, who creates the company, equips it with capital, and has the right to appoint and dismiss the authorities of the company, i.e. the board of directors consisting of 3 and 5 persons and the supervisory board composed of 5 and 7 persons, the Supervisory Board may appoint a Secretary or Undersecretary of State from the Ministry of Finance. The draft law sets out the rules for the functioning of the bodies appointed and clarifies the scope of the tasks to be carried out. It also provides for the appointment of a representative by the supervisory board to supervise the compliance of the processing of personal data with the provisions on their protection, compliance with the provisions on the protection of legally protected secrets, the role of information security administrator, the verification of the needs of the processing of personal data. In many OECD countries, IT systems are being implemented to help reduce the financial gap in State revenue from taxes, including VAT. Despite many doubts in practice, the law should contribute to the effectiveness of the detection of crimes and offences and should increase the criminality of their perpetrators. It is also a matter of quick enforcement of extorted or unpaid amounts. And the result of these new, modern solutions will also be a smaller number of unjustified checks on honest entrepreneurs. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-12-sejm-16-1.u89	Thank you very much, Member. Six Members joined the questions. If there are no more reports, I'm closing the list of people who are written down for questions. I'm setting the time to ask you a question for two minutes. The first question will be asked by Mrs Genowef Tokarska. You're welcome, my fellow Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-12-sejm-16-1.u90	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! The company carrying out tasks related to the use of ICT systems will receive very large powers, because the use of databases of different institutions or accessing personal data without the knowledge of these people is otherwise a correct solution, but strongly interfering in the field of data protection, protection of secrets. Supervision of these issues is very important, I believe, important. Hence the question to the government: Will the proxy appointed by the supervisory board guarantee proper supervision in this necessary but very sensitive subject matter? Shouldn't there be more guarantees on the part of the Minister of Finance so that there is no irregularities so that there is no leak of protected information, and not just from the tax side? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-12-sejm-16-1.u91	Thank you. I ask the floor of Mrs Isabella Leszczyna.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-12-sejm-16-1.u92	Mr. Marshal! Minister! I would like to ask you whether you really believe that the public opinion or anyone would eventually question even some extra-high incentive system for computer scientists or other substantive workers who would gain billions of dollars for the state budget sought by the government. 'Cause I'm pretty sure it's not. Do you think Parliament would question the additional resources for improving the systems and IT tools used by the finance department? I think I do, and I'm pretty sure I don't. That's the first question. The second question, it has already sounded here in the words of my previous speaker: Are you not afraid that it is simply dangerous to remove IT services from the resort, that the employment of external companies in this area is a really big threat - and my previous speakers have also signaled this - that it is a threat for unauthorized persons to access such sensitive data? And finally, the third question. It may not be directly related to print 395, but I hope the Minister will answer. In the implementation of projects of computerization of the resort was or is the PRINCE 2 method still used today. It is known that this involves a number of tools that had to be bought, they are not cheap - these are software, their market price is quite high, they are training workers who work on projects, manage projects. Is it true that management wants to change this methodology, and that would mean throw the taxpayer's money in the basket, and invest in new tools, new training? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-12-sejm-16-1.u93	Thank you, Member. And I would like to ask the floor of Mrs Gabriela Mastowska.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-12-sejm-16-1.u94	Minister, will the government, Parliament have knowledge of the performance of tasks in a given period by the company, and how will we gain such knowledge? Is this planned in any way? Do you think that the NIK control mechanism and submission of this Public Finance Act is sufficient? I also wanted to ask you about the attorney to whom the long article was devoted. 17 and to protect personal data - sensitive, subject to such protection. Will the proxy be a one-man function, or will it be a team of employees? At the same time, I would like to return to my question, which I think is fundamental: Will the company employ its own IT specialists who will create this software, and will have source codes for access to data, or will these issues be outsourced? Because it doesn't sound clear from this project, and I think what I'm talking about would just be the added value of this bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-12-sejm-16-1.u95	Thank you. Please take the floor of Mr Rafał Wójcikowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-12-sejm-16-1.u96	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! My question concerns the expected revenue for the state budget, the revenue that will be implemented through this law. I see here the increase in revenue, which thanks to the new special purpose company will receive the state budget for closing, closing the gap, especially VAT - here we are moving to 13.5 billion in the third year after the planned changes entered into force. My question is this: On the basis of what do we have such information that we will manage within 3 years, only through purely IT changes, to improve the collection rate at the level of several billion zlotys? If it was so simple, why wasn't it introduced much, much earlier? And now: in the explanatory memorandum, you refer to actions in other countries of the European Union which have already introduced changes that you plan to introduce through this special purpose company, but you have not written whether those countries have been successful and how successful it was, in concrete figures, in concrete savings, in concrete closure of VAT gaps in these countries. I would like to know whether Portugal has significantly improved and if it has improved, if it has introduced these solutions, whether the Netherlands has improved it, whether Slovakia has improved it, at what stage it is, whether it is simply going to be worth it, whether it is really the countries that are making these changes, and we are just ahead of them, have achieved results and what results. I would like to get this answer because I would like to compare your projections on [[♪ The bell ♪]] revenue from this law with actual income which is obtained in other countries. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-12-sejm-16-1.u97	Thank you very much. I would ask you to ask Mr Mirosław Suchon, Modern.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-12-sejm-16-1.u98	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I would like to ask a few questions, but at the beginning there is a fundamental remark, because during the campaign you said, as we did, that the important barrier to the development of entrepreneurship in Poland are restrictions on bureaucracy, there are taxes, the degree of their complexity, and instead of dealing with solving this specific Gordian node, which stands in the way of the dynamic development of the Polish economy, the state is trying to create another tool that will be more oppressive. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] Yeah, but oppressive in its dimension. In addition to evil, this tool takes such a form rather, I would say, unusual. This is not fully explained in the explanatory memorandum to the bill, and I would therefore like to ask the Minister to clarify a few points. I would very much ask that these answers be addressed in writing to me as well. And so: the first thing I want to ask is why this form was chosen, this form of organizational company, not another form. I am more concerned with why other organisational forms have not been chosen, which are more appropriate for the national unit, i.e. the national budgetary unit, the executive agency or the institution of the budgetary economy. Why didn't you choose one of these organizational forms? The second question is fundamental to the informationization of the state in general, because over the last few years we have been dealing with a situation in which the IT project [[♪ The bell ♪]] In fact, it meant failure right away. In view of the fact that the Ministry of Digital Affairs asked you such a question, the question whether it would be appropriate to consider how these projects should be implemented in a comprehensive, coordinated manner at government level, I would like to ask you why you believe that this project must be put in place in a separate path rather than in a coordinated manner with other projects concerning, for example, taxes. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-12-sejm-16-1.u99	Thank you, sir. Please take the floor, to ask Mr Maciej Masłowski a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-12-sejm-16-1.u100	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, One of the basic demands of the Kukiz club15 from the very beginning was the simplification and sealing of Polish tax law. ICT systems are excellent tools that can help repair the tax system. However, they are only tools in the hands of the legislator. The purpose of the Act is to focus mainly on the creation of IT systems dedicated to the increase of VAT collection and the elimination of fraud. Some studies point to the so-called. VAT gap, which may amount to up to PLN 25, to PLN 40 billion, such as the report "Study to quantify and analyse the VAT Gap in the European Union Member States', commissioned by the European Commission, which estimated this amount for Poland at EUR 10 billion in 2013. However, the Act itself does not indicate the specific directions in which the IT solutions created by the company are to go. In the explanatory memorandum it is considered, inter alia. the Portuguese model in which economic operators are forced to send a real-time copy of all invoices to the tax administration's servers. The question is whether the legislator plans to create a central invoice register. Another question is the procedure for selecting the President and the members of the supervisory board of the proposed special purpose vehicle. Art. Article 4 (4) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013 shall apply. The 2th Act states: The Minister responsible for public finances appoints and dismisses the members of the authorities of the special purpose company. I'm concerned about the lack of any competition procedure. What is the certainty that the people appointed by the Minister will be top-class specialists rather than party nominates? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-12-sejm-16-1.u101	Thank you, sir. Please take the floor of the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Finance of Minister Leszek Skiba.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-12-sejm-16-1.u102	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I answer the Members' questions, for which I thank you very much. First of all, I feel like there's a thing that comes up in a lot of questions, a question of experience. This issue appeared both in Mr Pudłowski's question and Mr Kulesza's question, which is to doubt that the company is indeed effective in the sense that it will actually bring this project to an end. I have the impression that I may not have put it in the right way, but the purpose of such a company is that people who are experienced IT specialists, first of all experienced IT project managers, have the motivation to get involved in this project. The creation of a company is a mechanism which - also due to the elimination of restrictions on remuneration - allows the company to employ people with the highest competence, who are the leaders of IT projects in the private sector and who will then be able to carry out this project. And this project will be implemented efficiently and quickly - efficiently in the sense that the intended objectives will be achieved, and quickly because time is important. For this reason, you might say, this employment... This model was chosen precisely in such a way that the best IT specialists could take these measures without restrictions. There is also the question of Mrs Masłowska: Will the company buy or create? Of course, simple modules, such as a database engine, will be bought, but later on when it comes to many specialized things, additional, related e.g. with an analytical module, which is about data analysis, these things will definitely be created on the spot. Therefore, you can say, in this sense This is a complicated project that we will have to do with buying modules that are universal in the sense that they can be found on the market as well as on those things that will be created. Here, I have the impression that Mrs Leszczyna has forgotten the experiences of recent years. I mean, for example. Says that it is dangerous that the company will have access to taxpayers' data, so we can ask ourselves why a private company was chosen during the rule of the Civic Platform, when the Member was a Deputy Minister in the Ministry of Finance, for example as regards the e-tax project that assumes access to taxpayers' data. [[But supervision... not at all. It's not the same.]] If this is an allegation, it can be said that this allegation is also to the Member that, in fact, private IT companies in previous years have also carried out IT projects in the Ministry of Finance. [[It's not the same, Minister.]] So if the Member has doubts about this situation, why is there no doubt about what has been happening in recent years? I also have a question. I understand, I agree, that we must have confidence in the officials, and I agree with that, that is, I very much welcome the fact that the Member has confidence in the officials of the Ministry of Finance, and thank you very much for that. But at the same time I have a question: Where was the trust when the first draft anti-law clause... It was blocked by the Prime Minister of the Civic Platform before the election. Why were the projects that were really needed in the Ministry of Finance, tax changes, eventually blocked by the Civic Platform government? Where was that trust in the officials of the Ministry of Finance? When it comes to such things, it's also worth looking at yourself. I agree that... Mr Kulesza pointed out that the VAT Act could solve the problem of tax carousel. Of course, changes in the law on goods and services tax are important, but it is not enough to change the law and with the help of a magic wand everything will work out, because at the same time we are dealing with tax carousels, not with purely legal problems, but with the fact that European regulations and administrative failures limit the possibility for tax officials, customs officials to find and quickly fight these tax carousels. So, in fact, the legal changes support it, but they're not, you can say, enough to change it. I understand doubts and a quote from Father Józef Maria Bocheński about bureaucracy, but I will remind you that Father Józef Maria Bocheński also once said this: I am best in bed. For us, I have the impression, it is important to have such a general perspective on the world, but it is also better to pay attention to the problems of everyday life and not necessarily focus on very theoretical issues, because sometimes the challenges are very practical. Mr... These doubts, I hope... In two places, there is a question about the remuneration of Undersecretaries of State. In accordance with the Act in force, the Undersecretaries and the Secretaries of State shall not be remunerated for sitting on any supervisory board in any public institution. Therefore, if, under the Act, the Undersecretary of State or the Secretary of State is designated to the Supervisory Board of that company, he will obviously not receive any additional remuneration. That was also Mrs Masłowska's question. I will now turn to Mrs Masłowska's questions. Is he commissioning or creating? Of course, and commission, and create. Source codes - the purpose of the company is to ensure that the source codes are in the hands of the Ministry of Finance. As far as the tender criterion is concerned, indeed on the basis of the current Public Procurement Act, a project defined, occluded, can be said to be excluded, but there is still an obligation from the Public Finance Act, that is, in fact, the purpose criterion, i.e. no one, can say, will not defend the reasonableness of the decision of the Minister of Finance. And from this point of view, it's like... This question has also been raised by Mr Masłowski: Will there be a central invoice register there? Of course, the aim of this project is to create a central invoice register. Why aren't there any competitions? Competitions, firstly, are time-consuming and secondly, but this criterion is a criterion of political responsibility. If this project does not provide adequate resources, it will be a great concern for the whole government and, of course, for the Minister of Finance. I have the impression that the Minister of Finance has a very strong responsibility when he declares that he will achieve very... means that this project and a number of other projects will significantly improve tax revenue. This is his political responsibility, his entire team at the Ministry of Finance, and I have the impression that this is the strongest guarantee that the finance minister is concerned that those people who will be employed in this company and who will run this company should be - as best as possible. In fact, it can be said that there are very many risks and no competitions, no formal criteria will later justify the Minister of Finance when he says that there are actually few of these effects. I therefore feel that this political responsibility is particularly strong in this case. This is worth paying attention to. Employment, the form of employment will be adapted to the conditions. I can't tell you exactly what it's gonna be like right now, in that sense... Of course, revenue, tax collection is important, but I understand that some projects will also be commissioned as part of some work with computer scientists. Therefore, it will be, you can say, to be organized already during, but the criterion will be that it is safe to have access to the information properly regulated, and it is important that the entire operation is carried out smoothly. Mrs Tokarska asked for a proxy. Of course, it will be one person, although if the whole problem is complicated, I suspect that the proxy will cooperate with other people. It is not that these regulations that are written there, it is the end, you can say, of legal regulations, because at the same time we are dealing with the Personal Data Protection Act and all the regulations that are still in force, and are not cited in this law, because they are simply written in other laws. They are intended to ensure that this company will be kept confidential in accordance with general legislation in Poland. And the guarantee that this data will be protected is not only the existence of this article, where the proxy is mentioned, and its regulations, but also the entire legislation, other laws. Mrs Leszczyna asked about PRINCE 2. I can't tell you right now. I would be happy to answer in writing what the situation is. Mrs Masłowska asked for control and implementation of the tasks. Of course, this progress will be monitored by the supervisory board on an ongoing basis. The fact is that at some point, NIK will be interested in this, and whether this company will continue to have some effect is in the interest of the Minister of Finance and his delegated supervisory board. Therefore, this is the control mechanism. I think there are two more questions, namely the questions of Mr Wójcikowski and Mr Suchon. The answer will be given in writing. I hope that's all. Thank you very much. [[Mr. Marshal, in correction mode. You're welcome. The Minister didn't understand what I said.]] [[Chairman of the proceedings includes Deputy Marshal Stanisław Tyszka of the Sejm]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-12-sejm-16-1.u103	Please, Mrs Isabella Leszczyna, as corrected.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-12-sejm-16-1.u104	Mr. Marshal! Minister! You didn't understand what I said about outsourcing and trust in the officials of the Ministry of Finance. Well, when it comes to outsourcing, you can't compare Sygnity, which is the contractor of the contract... As there are a number of different companies, like Unique One is the contractor of the lottery project selected in the tender. You want to outsource the brain and heart of the project, which is to de facto seal the tax system or reduce the VAT gap. It's impossible to compare. That's one thing. This is the task of the state and we have officials in the Ministry of Finance who are prostates who can do it, know how to do it, and in addition to the salary the greatest or equally great motivation for them is precisely this value, i.e. to obtain for the budget of the state adequate income. On the other hand, on the other hand, the anti-tax avoidance clause, it is not that the government of Prime Minister Ewa Kopacz did not introduce this clause because he did not trust the officials. At the Ministry of Finance, we invented this clause, along with the officials. We didn't bring her in because we didn't make it. We have not been able to convince the public that this clause is important, we need it to seal the system and is against large corporations that rob a Polish taxpayer, not against a Polish entrepreneur. A parallel can be done: it is as if President Obama introduced a ban on universal access to weapons in the United States. But he doesn't. Why? Because he's got public opinion against himself. [[♪ The bell ♪]] He has to convince her first. We're gonna convince you to come with us to introduce this clause. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-12-sejm-16-1.u105	Thank you very much. The discussion is closed. A motion to reject the draft law at first reading was put forward in the discussion. We will proceed to the vote on this proposal in the voting block. We proceed with the examination of item 6 of the agenda: First reading of the Parliamentary draft law on hunting damages and on amending certain other laws (print No 372). I ask Mrs Urszula Pasławska to present the reasons for the bill.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-12-sejm-16-1.u106	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! I have the pleasure to present a draft law prepared by the club of the Polish People's Party on hunting damage and on amending some other laws. At the moment, we are proceeding in the Seym with the Hunting Law Act, which also concerns this very difficult matter, which is hunting compensation. The bill prepared by the PiS Members is after first reading. The High Sejm, the amendment of the current law on hunting damages has been signalled for several years. This has become a burning problem since ASF appeared in Eastern Poland. The lack of clarity - this must be said - has consistently caused the accumulation of hunting damage in crops, which has resulted in an increase in the dissatisfaction of farmers who are concerned about the fate of their production, whether they can sell pork at a decent price and, on the other hand, damage caused by wild boars in field crops. So what are the solutions? In our presentation we propose a change of philosophy, thinking about hunting damage. After all, the State Treasury owns the game in its single state and is therefore responsible for the damage caused by this game regardless of its status, i.e. whether it benefits from the protection of species, such as a bear or beaver or a temporary memorandum, such as a moose or a population is subject to hunting. This country grants an organisation of hunters' licences to manage selected animal populations considered to be hunted. This licence should be comprehensive, i.e. to manage, including liability for damage caused by those species in crops. If hunters conclude a contract with the state, they must be responsible for their actions until the end. In this submission, we provide for State aid in the implementation of economic plans through partial compensation for compensation expenses paid by hunting wheels. However, these measures will only end up in circles in the event of a full execution of the firing plan. We propose in the Act that if the plan is implemented at 90% the refund was 50% the amounts of compensation paid for the damage and the circle had the possibility of regressing to the State budget. If the plan is implemented at a lower level - 80% - such entitlement, a claim for reimbursement of part of the amount of compensation paid would allow a refund of 30%. An important issue worth paying attention to is the social capital that hunters work in the field of hunting, including work to reduce the pressure on field crops: crop fences, barrage belts, crop guarding, enrichment of the feeding base. These actions cannot be decreed by a specific law, and they are carried out throughout Poland. Wise hunters are looking for compromises with landowners regarding the maximum reduction of damage to game. It's in the interest of the owners to work with hunters. In the vast majority of cases such cooperation takes place. Indemnities before the courts represent a fraction of the percentage of all claims paid. This system needs to be modernised, but by evolution, not revolution. We cannot exclude Polish hunters from these changes. The state should focus on effective supervision of the implementation of plans and Polish... maybe not the Polish Łowiecki Union, but the activities of hunting circles. However, if something needs to be improved, if something needs to be changed, it can be improved rather than fired a child with a bath. The owner of the agricultural property should have a clear message. If the game does damage to its crops, if it is a game of prey, it is done by a hunter with the municipality. The cooperation of the farmer, the hunter and the commune is recorded, proposed in our bill. If this is another game, the case belongs to the State Treasury and through the municipality it can claim compensation in the voivodeship, not in the DGOS, in the veterinary or national park management. The law prepared by PSL for the first time defines what hunting damage is, introduces new stakeholders such as fishing circuits, as I said, also indicates the obligation to cooperate with hunters, farmers and municipalities, introduces into the entire process the estimation of the municipality and calls who, how and for what damage is responsible. Given how difficult this matter is and how many times we have approached this problem, I am open to cooperation, for good proposals for farmers, for hunters and for nature. High Izbo, a good change may be a small change, but a change in order and respectful of the interests of all concerned. Therefore, on behalf of the club of the Polish People's Party, I request that the project be directed to further work in the environmental committee. Thank you. [[Voice from the Chamber: After 8 years of transition, Member.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-12-sejm-16-1.u107	Thank you, Member. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of the clubs. I'm opening a discussion. [[Game in the O.R.]] Quiet, please. Mr Robert Telus, Law and Justice have the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-12-sejm-16-1.u108	Mr. Marshal! Gentlemen of Ministers! High Seym! In two cases, I agree with the Member, the applicant's representative. Firstly, this is a problem and this problem needs to be solved. As a rule, we agree with the PSL Members. The second thing is that this is a difficult topic. We agree here, too. I am only very interested in the fact that the Polish People's Party in the last government was for 8 years, and after 1989 it was in the government for 16 years. Suddenly, it is only now that you say that this is a problem for farmers. Madame, this problem has been affecting farmers for many, many years. That's not the problem of the last few days. You could have done that. You didn't even want to discuss it with us because we were putting together projects on this subject in the previous term. Suddenly, you're making a bill now, you're doing a bill. Ladies and gentlemen, this is the greatest hypocrisy that is in this bill, because again, in the defense of farmers, we leave estimation of damage to hunters. It can't be, ladies and gentlemen, as it is so far, that hunters are judges in their own case. This project is like this, it's just such a bang to show that as a PSL, you're presenting a bill. It says there, as the honourable Member said, that he is doing a great deal. Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, This is a project really done on your knees after our report. If we put forward a draft of our bill, a project that solves the problem of what it is, just to make another political war or a political riot... This project, ladies and gentlemen, which you are presenting, is a project not acceptable for many reasons. Firstly, it introduces an even bigger mess, it is only such a political game to present the project, when ours is at second reading, it is already after first reading. If you take this matter seriously, you can prepare good amendments to our project. We don't speak, we discuss it. Even because this is not yet a project at this meeting, because we want to discuss, we want to find good solutions, but not to give a new project, which is simply an underdeveloped project, just as I said at the beginning, political dunes for the project. Once again, I stress that the Polish People's Party has been in the coalition for the last eight years, and after 1989 it was in the government for 16 years, and I do not know if it will be longer. I know that the Member is a young Member and from experience, but also from age, and may not know certain things. I take this as a good coin that the Member, on behalf of the applicants, presents the project and says that we are now presenting the project. But we've been out with open hands for eight years to sort this out because the farmers wanted to, and they asked us to take care of it. Our project, my dear country, which we are currently working on, this law and justice project is doing two basic things. First of all, we give the assessment of the damage to an independent committee in front of the voivodeship, and that's the basis, that's the clou of the case. Secondly, we are creating a compensation fund in which there will be hunters' contributions, so that we do not let go of the hunter, as you have said here beautifully, that hunters must also be involved in this matter, and I apologize for the colloquialism. We don't leave hunters in such a way that they're not responsible. They're responsible for this. In our proposal, Madam, if you had read it correctly, you would know it depends on the implementation of the plan. Contributions also depend on the implementation of the plan. [[♪ The bell ♪]] So that, ladies and gentlemen, the project that is ours, the Law and Justice, is much better and does these basic things. But we as Law and Justice spoke in the election campaign...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-12-sejm-16-1.u109	Thank you, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-12-sejm-16-1.u110	But last sentence, conclusion.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-12-sejm-16-1.u111	Go ahead and finish it.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-12-sejm-16-1.u112	We said that in the election campaign. We are open to proposals, so that I do not apply for rejection. I'm applying for this project to go to the agriculture committee, and we'll sit there. We're gonna talk to make good changes for farmers, because farmers expect it.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-12-sejm-16-1.u113	Okay, thank you, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-12-sejm-16-1.u114	Farmers want these changes because they are very important. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-12-sejm-16-1.u115	Mr Zbigniew Ajchler, Civic Platform. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-12-sejm-16-1.u116	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, It was my honor to present the position of the Civic Platform Club regarding the draft law on hunting damage and the amendment of some other laws, print no. 372. I would like to say that the club of the Polish People's Party is heading in the right direction. But as the proverb says, the devil is always in the details. Of course, this project solves in part only one chapter of the Hunting Law - chapter 9, but most important. However, the main flaw of this draft law is the fact that the hunting damages are assessed by the managers and directors of hunting circuits simultaneously operating management and economic activities in their circuits. It is therefore unacceptable that the co-responsible today for the damage done at the same time value them. Due to the share of public funds from the State budget and their correct spending of compensation payments for hunting damages, they should be transparent, i.e. clear and fair. Therefore, the whole of the financial sector should lie on the side of the services of the voivode and, in our view, rely on the creation of a separate compensation fund. In addition, the presence of representatives of agricultural chambers in any decision should be an advisory and formal element due to the very low representativeness in agriculture of our country's agricultural chambers. According to the National Council of Agricultural Chambers, 140 000 farmers participated in the elections to the agricultural chambers of 31 May 2015 for less than 5 million eligible farmers. people and overall attendance was 4.33%. At regional level, attendance was: in Małopolska 1.86% , in voivodships: Opolskie - 2,41, Podlaski - 2,74, Silesian 2,79, Podkarpackie - 2,87, Wielkopolski - 3,3%. In view of the fact that free living animals are owned by the State and by the national good, it is appropriate to supplement the funding from the State budget. It would also be useful to set up a compensation fund of the amount of funds necessary for the payment of compensation for hunting damages as a complement to the funds that feed the fund from other sources, including those mentioned in the draft law, as well as from the economic activities of hunting circles. I would like to say that the draft law in question is too general in nature and requires quite large adjustments on transparency of financial flows and expenditure, especially from the state budget. However, it goes in the right direction, solves problems. We stand on this position: the Civic Platform Club requests that the above-mentioned appointment be made. the draft to be discussed by the committee responsible, plus the Committee on Agriculture. I think that such projects, burdened, as I said, Mr. Marshal, are few more or less faulty. The village, Polish farmers expect these projects. This project is suitable for adjustments and adjustments. Is he better than the law and justice project? I don't know, it's democratic. On the other hand, the fact that he is going in the right direction is obvious. As a farmer I speak from this tribune - it is expected. Generally speaking, as I said at the very beginning, it cannot be as it has been so far, that it is judged by those who are co-responsible for the damage caused. The damage was, is, and will be. The animals are moving. It's a good thing that they are, only it has to be in certain systems - adequate density, corresponding amounts per km2. This institution, which says it should be more or less, causes damage. It is also necessary to include in the projects elements related to responsibility and the size of the contributions of hunting circles. There can be no equality between these contributions, and this is not the case here either. Therefore, it is not possible to be ignorant, so that only the voivode, etc. [[♪ The bell ♪]] But these are committee cases, and we'll deal with it. I submit once again the project of the Polish People's Party to the committee, which will be able to make a good project out of it. Thank you very much, Marshal.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-12-sejm-16-1.u117	Thank you, sir. Mr Jarosław Sachajko, Kukiz,15 has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-12-sejm-16-1.u118	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! I am pleased to present my position on the draft law on hunting damages and on the amendment of certain other laws. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that Kukiz15 has submitted a draft amendment to the Hunting Law Act already on 7 January this year. The project was stuck in the Legislative Commission, while the project submitted by the PiS on 15 January after 18 days was addressed to the first reading. A month and a half ago, from the same place, I presented an opinion on the amendment of the Law of Hunting, but prepared by Members of the PiS. Today, the first reading of the draft law, which proposes a new system for the repair of hunting damages, this time prepared by PSL Members. Time is running out. Field work has already begun. Farmers are very much looking forward to settling compensation for hunting damages, and we have been at the same point for a few months now, we are crawling in place and the case is unsolved. It is assumed that the law will enter into force after 3 months, i.e. it could actually enter into force in 5 and 6 months. This is an unacceptable deadline, the bill is needed now, immediately. Unfortunately, I am sorry to say that this amendment is also underdeveloped and full of shortcomings. Once again, underestimation of the value of compensation is a weakness of the project. The calculations based on GUS data on the amount of compensation in previous years are significantly understated, as I have already mentioned from this place. The second major disadvantage of this project is the procedure for examining and estimating the damage. The project shall confer competence to determine the amount of compensation to the representatives of the manager or the owner of the hunting circuit together with the victim or his representative. He can also participate in the inspection of the local government - interestingly, on his own initiative. However, since there is no obligation to notify the municipality's office of the damage caused, it is difficult to imagine that a representative of the municipality's office would come on his own initiative. This provision duplicates the current solutions that need to be eliminated as they are the source of the greatest pathology in the system of compensation for damages. It is the inability to agree between farmers and hunters that causes mutual dislike of both groups. So what is the difference between the current regulation and the one proposed in the project, which will result in the two conflicting interests of the groups themselves reaching an agreement and setting an adequate, satisfactory level of compensation? It would seem that such a function could be fulfilled by Article. Article 5 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 4, which assumes that in the event of a dispute over the amount of compensation for damages, the parties may refer to the competent authority of the municipality for mediation, amicable settlement of the dispute. Apart from the fact that the wording of this provision is exactly the same as in the current law, and, as I have already mentioned, it did not pass the exam, do the authors of the draft law really believe that the authorities of the municipality are competent institutions for mediation? It is necessary to introduce an independent assessment body, such as an assessor, which would not in any way be related to either party. The Polish People's Party had 8 years to solve rural problems. The decisions of the previous ruling team have aggravated the problems associated with hunting damage. This project only reinforces the problems of farmers so far. However, there is one positive outcome from the submission of this Act - a modification of the PiS project. But I want to ask the question: When will it be over? Farmers are waiting for fair compensation. In conclusion, this project is not innovative in any way, it does not introduce new groundbreaking solutions for farmers' compensation. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-12-sejm-16-1.u119	Thank you. Mrs Ewa Lieder, Modern. [[Lieder.]] Lieder. That's what I said.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-12-sejm-16-1.u120	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! In the last few months, we have confronted three different draft laws amending the Hunting Law, for which the common denominator is the provisions concerning the inclusion of the liability of the State Treasury in the coverage of hunting damages. Position of the Poselski Club Modern remains unchanged on this issue. The draft Act on Hunting Damages and on the amendment of certain other laws aims to involve the state budget in the process of hunting economy in Poland. Art. Point 6 (1) provides for the reimbursement of part of the costs incurred in paying compensation for damage to agricultural crops and foetuses or fishing circuits. Where at least 90% has been obtained the maximum number of wild game intended to be collected in a given marketing year by the tenant or the manager of the hunting circuit may apply for reimbursement of up to 50% of the amount of compensation paid in the previous marketing year. Looking through the prism of how the hunting economy operates in our country, it is an extremely beneficial provision for hunters. With concrete benefits from the hunting economy, they would also be relieved by the State Treasury of their responsibility for carrying out their hunting activities. The total costs of introducing new rules are approximately PLN 40 million per year, according to the applicants, but in practice this could be a number of times higher. Another aspect is to cover the hunting damage caused by hunting, which we believe should not be covered by the state budget. This applies especially to commercial hunting, which brings both large profits for the organizers and a lot of damage. Commercial hunting is an area requiring increased state control. The criteria for commercial hunting are based on obtaining the best possible trophies, which is reflected in the prices paid by customers of commercial hunting for taking trophies home. The argument on hunting as an activity included in the environmental principle is not applicable in this case. In Poland there is a lack of reliable state control over the activities of the Polish Łowiecki Union. On the one hand, there are provision of insolvency hunters themselves in confronting the hunting damage and the need to finance their activities from the state budget, resulting from the declared role of nature conservation guards, and on the other hand it is difficult to deny the evidence that sometimes thinking is simply a profitable business that harms the environment, among others. through commercial hunting. Therefore, the introduction of the State Treasury's contribution to the fulfilment of the obligation of hunters would have to be accompanied by an increase in state control over hunting in Poland or a change of its model. In order to maintain high standards of nature conservation in our country, it is necessary to launch reliable research into the consequences of the natural hunting economy. This would prevent situations that we know from the near past, when several years ago the mismanagement of the moose population led to its collapse and the introduction of a ceasefire suspension, or when excessive firing of the hooves in the 1990s dangerously affected the state of protection of large predators in the Białowieża Forest. The PSL project does not provide sufficient arguments to justify the right of taxpayers to contribute to the cost of hunting damages. Hunting animals are the property of the State Treasury, but the State Treasury does not derive financial benefits from this on the basis of the rules on which hunters draw them. However, we must take the interests of farmers into account here. In many Western European countries, farmers and landowners are paid by hunters for hunting and setting up hunting circuits on their land. The law which, despite the judgment of the Constitutional Court, still cannot be regulated, i.e. the law protecting landowners, is decisive in this regard. Land ownership and hunting rights are integrally linked in Western European countries. The landlord can lease, transfer to hunters the right to hunt on his land, thus reaping the financial benefits. The rates shall be determined by the amount of game to be collected in the area concerned, which shall be analysed by the external bodies controlling nature welfare. Such regulations, which respect property rights, would be a real source of income for farmers who, not only do not have control over the establishment of hunting circuits on their land, are still suffering from crop damage as a result of hunting within these hunting circuits. This situation is extremely unfair for farmers. However, the Modern Posel Club is in favour of this amendment to the Hunting Law Act [[♪ The bell ♪]] to work in committee and give PSL a chance to make reasonable amendments and to farmers for fair compensation. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-12-sejm-16-1.u121	Thank you. Ms Urszula Pasławska, Polish People's Party, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-12-sejm-16-1.u122	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Thank you so much for all your opinions and positions. As we all see, it's not easy. In response to the words of 8 years - we actually hear it at every law or every attempt to dialogue on the law - I recall that in the previous term, and I was a Member soon, because since January 2014, there have been such regulations related to hunting law, where we could find a compromise, an agreement on matters of importance to nature. The Hunting Law law, in which hunting damages were also included, was brought to second reading, and in fact the time did not allow it to be carried out by a vote, by a third reading. Before us, another law, I think, soon enough, concerning the Law of Hunting, which the Constitutional Tribunal points out to us, which will certainly involve no less emotions. Of course, I am hoping for fruitful cooperation on this bill. But I do know one thing: neither nature, nor agriculture, nor hunting, do not like revolution and the elimination of hunting will not help agriculture at all. [[Who said anything about liquidation?]] Your law actually eliminates hunting in Poland. [[Oh, come on.]] Therefore, I believe that in this way of consensus and cooperation we will be able to develop the best model for Polish nature, for Polish hunting and for Polish agriculture. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-12-sejm-16-1.u123	Thank you very much. Let's get to the questions. If any of your fellow Members would like to sign up, please. I'll close the list after the first question. Mrs Margaret Płępek has the floor. Time - one and a half minutes.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-12-sejm-16-1.u124	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The course of the last meeting of the committee in which the amendments to the Hunting Law introduced by this Act were discussed has shown how important the issues raised by it are, especially for farmers. I wanted to ask how much of their demands were reflected in the bill, all the more so since the next item on the agenda is another parliamentary bill on this matter. One of the important issues raised by the agricultural environment concerns the somewhat bureaucratic sphere. The Act contains a description of the protocol and its contents. Such a protocol is to be drawn up after the examination and assessment of the damage has been completed. It shall contain personal data to identify the owner or holder of the agricultural land and the persons examining and assessing the damage. It should also contain other relevant information. Honourable Members of the Applicant! Can a model for such a protocol be developed? I don't think it's some sort of dwarf assignment. This is also highlighted by farmers. This would greatly simplify procedures and prevent errors. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-12-sejm-16-1.u125	Thank you. Mr Bartosz Józwiak, Kukiz.15.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-12-sejm-16-1.u126	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Perhaps to Mr Telus first. Once again, you're missing the truth, accusing hunters of being guilty of hunting damage. [[Did I say that?]] This is the only group that protects farmers from hunting damage. Don't make that mistake again. [[Did I say that?]] That's what you said from that bleacher. The second thing is this. [[Mr...]] Mr President, the second thing is this. [[Corrigendum.]] You say you don't kill Polish hunting with this bill. You're killing this hunt. You kill hunting with this bill because you start charging the wheels with compensation per hectare. The wheels that pay minimum compensation today, because they have no hunting damage, will be destroyed by this bill. These are two basic things. Next issue, and that is the question to the Members of the applicants. I have three technical comments that I would like to make to this proposal... [[I'd like a corrigendum, please.]] ...and I wanted to ask if you'd be willing to accept them. The first relates to the provision of Article. Article 6 (6) (a) 1 collection 90, 80% The plan. Here it would be necessary to change the acquisition of the works. This is important in terms of, for example, the downfall of animals, and this is quite important. [[Yeah, yeah.]] The second is also the wording of the article. Article 6 (6) (a) 1. In my opinion, it is necessary to clarify the damage caused by the game group. It seems that the fat game should be added. If we also count small game, it will be practically very bad for the wheels. [[♪ The bell ♪]] The third thing, the writing of the article. Article 6 (6) (a) 1. In my opinion, the maximum number of wild animals should be changed to the optimal number of wild animals, because today we use the so-called. optimal settlement of the area. If it's accepted... We'll bring it in. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-12-sejm-16-1.u127	Thank you very much. Mr Robert Telus as corrected.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-12-sejm-16-1.u128	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I think I've been misunderstood by the Member and I don't know why you're so emotional. [[We have understood the honourable Member well.]] I've never acted against a hunter, and I know that hunters are needed in all their structure, all their biodiversity. If you knew my opinion on this subject and knew me more closely, you would know that I am always looking for a solution here that is good for farmers, for hunters, and above all for biodiversity, i.e. I'm talking about the game. I think that the Member misunderstood me, which is why I wanted to correct it. I know that in this whole arrangement, let's call it that, hunters are very much needed and you have to do everything to, first, keep hunters, hunting wheels, second, not let what some people want, on my left, [[♪ The bell ♪]] privatize the hunting circles. That's, I think, our basic principle. Thank you very much. [[This is a country you're trying to commercialize hunting.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-12-sejm-16-1.u129	Thank you, sir. Mr Zbigniew Biernat, Law and Justice have the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-12-sejm-16-1.u130	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I think we're discussing a very important bill today. Let us not refer to the fact that it was time to introduce these good solutions for farmers much earlier. However, the entire period of power was a period of elimination of the state budget, which did not help farmers in their problems. I have specific questions about this project. Why did you leave an estimate of the damage in the hands of the hunting district managers? Second question: How do you plan to estimate damage to fishing circuits? These are mainly rivers and here the area for interpretation of compensation will be very, very wide. The third question relates to the reimbursement of the State budget. Will the hunting circles have to spend this money only on damages, or are you planning any other solutions? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-12-sejm-16-1.u131	Thank you. You have the floor of Mr Jan Warrzecha, the Law and Justice. [[But we have a nice marshal.]] [[Joy in the Chamber]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-12-sejm-16-1.u132	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! The bill is full of confusion and general wording. Most of these are either too vague or even harmful to landowners. It has been prepared in a non-precision manner and does not even cover as obvious elements as the possibility of appealing against a negative decision. Moreover, it does not even specify who would decide to accept compensation as legitimate - it is merely a laconic statement that the money is paid by the voivode - nor does it force the parties involved to reach any compromise, which would exclude the voivodeship and administrative path from the whole procedure. The provisions merely mention that the parties to the proceedings should agree and, if they cannot, may request mediation from the municipal authority. However, the rules do not in any way determine what this mediation is to end, whether it must be accepted by a government or local government authority or what procedure should be implemented if the parties involved do not agree on the amount of compensation. I ask the rapporteur... [[The applicant.]] ...to answer: What would the Article rely on? Article 5 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 3 of the proposed law, cooperation between the representative of the manager or the owner of the hunting circuit with the victim or his agent for the assessment of the damage if the interests of those entities are completely conflicting? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-12-sejm-16-1.u133	Thank you. Mrs Anna Elizabeth Sobecka, Law and Justice have the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-12-sejm-16-1.u134	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The draft law on hunting damage includes: the extension of the catalogue of animals causing damage for which hunting compensation is paid. Currently, hunting damage is limited only to damage caused by several species: wild boar, elk, deer, daniels, deer. In addition, compensation would be paid not only for damage to crops and agricultural fetuses, i.e. mainly in fields, but also for hunting damages caused by fishing circuits. I therefore ask: How much is the estimated damage to agricultural crops and foetuses and those caused in fishing circuits during the past year, and how much of the State budget provides for the government to pay compensation? Thank you kindly. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-12-sejm-16-1.u135	Thank you. Mr Robert Telus, Law and Justice have the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-12-sejm-16-1.u136	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! Madame Member of the Requestor! Question: "Why do you leave such an important issue as the assessment of damage, a case that has plagued farmers for many years, in the hands of hunters again?" Why do you want hunters to be judges in their own case again? If we are talking about the differences between the two projects, I note the following difference: our project was prepared by farmers in agreement with hunters, in agreement with the Ministry of the Environment, and your project was prepared by hunters. [[The Minister for the Environment presented the opinion. What are you saying?]] And your project was being prepared by hunters. Everyone knows that you are a hunter and you are shooting. And you're doing it a little bit in your own business. I think it would be better if farmers had a bigger voice than hunters. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-12-sejm-16-1.u137	Thank you. Mr Jan Duda, Law and Justice have the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-12-sejm-16-1.u138	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Hunting and agriculture are the two oldest economic activities of humanity and hence, I think, so much emotion, but I think it is necessary to do everything to ensure that they can coexist without conflict. I have a question for the Member. In Article 2, paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: 6 the procedure for partial reimbursement of compensation paid directly to hunting wheels shall be recorded. I ask the question: will this not be treated as de minimis aid under national or EU legislation, or was this checked? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-12-sejm-16-1.u139	Thank you very much. The list of Members registered in the vote has been exhausted. Please take the floor of the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Environment, Mr Andrzej Nebile.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-12-sejm-16-1.u140	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The Parliamentary bill on hunting damages and on the amendment of certain other laws is a proposal to solve the growing problem of hunting damages in recent years. This is why, of course, the proposal to involve the State Treasury more in the payment of compensation deserves directional support. However, first of all, it should be noted that the solution to the above-mentioned problem of hunting damages is a problem, it is the subject, I apologize, of the present parliamentary draft law amending the Law on hunting, the printing of Seym No 219. It is therefore not appropriate to carry out two-track work on projects relating to the same regulation. At the same time, this draft in print 372 requires not only far-reaching legislative and editorial amendments, but, above all, concerns about the validity of the concrete solutions proposed. In particular, it should be noted that it follows from the justification of the project that its aim is to create a comprehensive regulation on liability for hunting damages. However, the draft law contains only a few general provisions which cannot be implemented without a whole range of more precise and complementary regulations, in particular the law outside the general rules on inspection and estimation does not regulate the procedure and rules for determining compensation. The analysis of the project leads to the conclusion that it does not introduce solutions which differ significantly from the current rules. The proposal therefore does not introduce a new quality in terms of compensation for hunting damage compared to the current legal situation. Introducing the possibility for tenants or managers to claim reimbursement by the voivode of part of the compensation paid, i.e. the proposed Article. 6, while maintaining the principle that hunting damage in hunting circuits will continue to be estimated by the tenants and managers of those circuits, Article. 5, does not ensure that the objective of the law is achieved, i.e. to stabilise the legal situation leading to the actual compensation of hunting damages in a fair, clear and transparent manner. The proposed law significantly extends the concept of hunting damage. In the current legal state, these are damage to crops and agricultural fetuses caused by hunters during hunting and by five specific species of wild game, i.e. wild, moose, deer, dwarf and deer. Meanwhile, the design definition of hunting damage, the designed article. Point 2 (1) states that hunting damage within the meaning of the proposed law will be damage caused by any species of wild game or species of animals subject to protection in agricultural crops and foetuses or fishing circuits. The justification does not indicate why it is proposed to cover damage caused by all species of wild game and animals subject to species protection. The Act also extends the liability of the tenants and managers of hunting circuits and the Treasury for damage caused in fishing circuits without providing funds for this purpose. The justification does not imply, at the same time, what is justified by this. Art. 6 the proposed law provides for the reimbursement by the voivode of the parts of the compensation paid to the tenants or managers of the hunting circuits. This reimbursement is to be between 30 and 50% depending on the level of implementation of the annual hunting plan. It raises doubts as to whether the state budget should contribute to this extent to hunting damage. Hunting economy in hunting circuits is run by managers and tenants of hunting circuits. They're the ones who benefit from it. In the context of the previous remark, the financial implications of the proposed law on the State budget of only PLN 40 million per year, as set out in the explanatory memorandum on page 17, should be considered to be underestimated. The amount calculated only on the basis of the historical data does not take into account that the compensation would cover damage caused by all game-fishing animals, not only those mentioned at the outset, and all species-protected animals. It can therefore be considered that the costs for the state budget will be much higher than the applicants assume. At the same time, the Act does not provide funds for this purpose. The above reservations point to significant doubts as to whether the proposed law is appropriate to the objectives pursued. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-12-sejm-16-1.u141	Thank you very much. The representative of the applicants, Mrs Urszula Pasławska, shall have the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-12-sejm-16-1.u142	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Quite unnecessary - I say this to Mr Telus, but I see that he has left the room - we are making a conflict between hunters and farmers, because people are divided into wise and stupid rather than farmers and hunters. Today we show, the Sejm shows that hunters and farmers are primarily fighting each other, but they can also work together, and there are many excellent examples for this. In answer to questions concerning the law concerning the demands of farmers, which were presented at the last meetings of the environmental committees and the agricultural committees which dealt with the Law on Hunting Law, I will say that our law was filed at the same time as the law submitted by Members of Law and Justice. On the other hand, if we look at the problem of hunting damage today, we will see that the problem of hunting damage does not concern the time in which the damage is estimated, it does not concern the miscalculated damage. It's always about money. Money, because money isn't enough. And that's what we should agree on. But why isn't the money enough? Because hunting damage is the responsibility of hunting wheels and they finance it with their own money. Hence the proposal that in the case of game in a single state, which is the property of the State Treasury, the State Treasury should also be responsible for hunting damages - that is the intention and philosophy of our law. Will this be in line with EU law? Since the Law and Justice Act, which also points to co-financing from the State budget - the compensation fund is to be co-financed from the State budget - is compatible, I understand that there is no reason to believe that this way of financing hunting damages is incompatible with EU law. If today it has been said that the Law prepared by the PiS has a positive opinion of the Minister for Environmental Protection, then - here is the Minister for Environmental Protection - I would like to hear that this is the truth that the Minister for Environmental Protection has given a positive opinion on the Law of Hunting, which is currently being examined and is on the initiative of the PiS. The next issues that have been raised today are fishing circuits. And I have to tell you that we're having some trouble with fishing circuits because they can't be left alone. Today, fishermen are experiencing huge losses in terms of game, but also huge losses in terms of cormorants - the minister tells me. Of course. Therefore, fishermen cannot be left to themselves and I believe that it is necessary to include in this law or in the law which will arise in the future also those stakeholders as beneficiaries of the measures. And the question that actually appeared in every speech: Why should hunters also estimate damage? Why should they be in committee to estimate the damage? I have to say, I can't imagine the payer not having an impact on the value of the amount paid. [[Participates...]] But there were questions about why. Eliminating hunters from the very estimation of damage, or - as in the PiS Act - even not telling hunters that there has been damage and that there will be a payment, bringing hunters out of the entire system of estimation of damage will be very bad for the estimation itself, very unfair for hunting circles, and yet the lack of information that damage has occurred will also prevent the proper hunting economy. So much for answering questions. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-12-sejm-16-1.u143	Thank you very much. The discussion is closed. The Marshal of the Sejm, after consulting the Bureau of the Sejm, proposes that the Sejm refer to the Parliament's draft law on hunting and amending certain other laws contained in print No 372, to the Committee on the Environment, Natural Resources and Forestry and to the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development for consideration. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. The Health Commission submitted a report on the draft law amending the Act amending the Law on the Information System in Health Protection and some other laws. The report shall be published in the Official Journal of the European Union. Therefore, after obtaining the uniform opinion of the Senior Convention, the Marshal of the Sejm decided to supplement the agenda with a point including the examination of this report. In this case, I propose that the Sejm consent to the application of the article. 51 (3) of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm and in the discussion on this item, he listened to the five-minute statements on behalf of the clubs. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the proposals. I can't hear you objecting. I'm ordering a three-minute break. [[Adjournment from 10 a.m. 15 minutes 30 hours 15 min 39]] I'm reopening the session. We proceed with the examination of item 7 of the agenda: the report of the Committee on Social Policy and Family Affairs and the Committee on Foreign Affairs on the Government's draft act on ratification of the Agreement on Social Security between the Government of the Republic of Poland and the Government of Quebec, signed in Quebec on 3 June 2015 (prints No 337 and 384). I ask Mr Józef Leśniak to present a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-12-sejm-16-1.u144	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! On 31 March 2016, the Committee on Social Policy and Family Affairs and the Committee on Foreign Affairs examined the project, carried out the first reading of the Government's draft act on the ratification of the Agreement on Social Security between the Government of the Republic of Poland and the Government of Quebec, signed in Quebec on 3 June 2015. The Sejm Analysis Office presented a positive opinion to the committees on the draft law and on the procedure chosen by the government for ratification of the agreement. As we read in the explanatory memorandum of the bill, the right to social security is a fundamental human right. The international standard for social security is the conclusion by States of bilateral or multilateral agreements which form the basis for coordination of systems in Contracting States, thus ensuring effective protection for their citizens. The agreement to which Law No 337 agrees is unusual because it is concluded not with the State, but with one of its provinces, despite the existence of an agreement with that State. So what is the need for an agreement with Quebek? In 2008, a social security agreement was signed between Poland and Canada and since then the citizens of both countries can count on the benefits of mutual coordination of social security systems. However, the agreement was limited to the largest territorially and second largest in terms of the population of the Canadian province - Quebec. It has its own social security system based on Quebec's pension plan. Thus, persons resident and employed in the province of Quebec are not covered by Canada's pension plan but by the Quebec pension plan. As a result, the existing Polish-Canadian social security agreement on the acquisition of the right to social security benefits does not apply to persons covered by the pension scheme in Quebec. Therefore, it is necessary for the authorities of the Republic of Poland to conclude an appropriate legal act directly with the authorities of this province. I will also mention that the conclusion of an agreement with Quebek meets the demands of Canadian Polonia, and in particular the part of it that lives and works in this French-speaking province of Canada. Mr. Marshal! High Seym! The Committee on Social Policy and Family Affairs and the Committee on Foreign Affairs, after first reading and after considering the draft law, unanimously adopted a report in which they request the adoption by the Sejm of the Republic of Poland of a draft law on printing no 337 without amendments. I'm asking you to accept it. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-12-sejm-16-1.u145	Thank you, sir. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of the clubs. I'm opening a discussion. Mrs Joanna Kopcińska, Law and Justice have the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-12-sejm-16-1.u146	Mr. Marshal! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I have the honour to present the position of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice in the scope of the Government's proposal for ratification of the Agreement on Social Security between the Government of the Republic of Poland and the Government of Quebec, signed in Quebec on 3 June 2015. Today we present a bill which is particularly expected by Polonia living in the province of Quebec. Polish citizens living in this province have not yet had a social security guarantee, and it should be noted that this is one of the fundamental human rights. Therefore, the Polish government has consistently introduced legal and statutory changes involving the assistance and support of Polish citizens residing or taking up employment outside our country's borders. By October 2009, a group of people without such guarantees had been Polonia lives in Canada. However, thanks to the activity and engagement of Polish-Canadian social security relations, this situation has changed. On 2 April 2008, a bilateral social security agreement was signed between Poland and Canada. This agreement allows for the acquisition of the right to Polish and Canadian benefits falling within the scope of this agreement, both in Canada and in the Republic of Poland. In other words, on the Polish side they will be pension rights, invalidity pensions, pensions for accidents at work or occupational diseases, one-off compensation for accidents at work or occupational diseases, family pensions, funeral allowances. On the Canadian side, these are the rights to benefits due under the pension security law and the pension scheme of Canada. During the negotiations of the Polish-Canadian Agreement, the Canadian authorities repeatedly pointed to the existence of a separate social security system in the Canadian province of Quebec, which is not covered by the Polish-Canadian Agreement or by any other bilateral social security agreement concluded by the Canadian authorities. The fact that Polonia lived in the province of Quebec was deprived of the possibility to benefit from the principle of summing up insurance periods, often prejudicing the right to pension benefits, dissatisfied this group of people and exposed the Republic of Poland to the charge of unequal treatment of Polish people living in Canada. It was stressed that in order to guarantee Polish citizens covered by the social security system of the province of Quebec the benefits of the bilateral social security agreement, it is necessary for the authorities of the Republic of Poland to conclude an appropriate legal act directly with the authorities of that province. Ladies and gentlemen, the government's draft law is written in print about nr. 377 is the fulfillment of that promise. By agreeing to ratify the project submitted, the Polish State will guarantee social security for members of the Polish community from the province of Quebec. In accordance with the international standard, the bilateral agreement between the Polish state and the Government of Quebec will provide the basis for coordination of the systems operating in our countries, thus ensuring effective protection for our fellow countrymen. The conclusion of a bilateral agreement enabling the Polish citizens covered by the social security system of the Canadian province of Quebec to acquire their pension rights will meet social expectations in this area, as well as an effort to build a positive image of the Republic of Poland among the Polish people living in the territory of the province of Quebec. Having regard to the above, the binding of the relevant authorities of the Republic of Poland and the province of Quebec on social security should be considered to be deliberate and justified. On behalf of the Law and Justice Club, I ask you to adopt the bill as proposed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-12-sejm-16-1.u147	Thank you very much. Mr Rajmund Miller, Civic Platform, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-12-sejm-16-1.u148	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I have the honour to present the position of the Civic Platform club vis-à-vis the government's draft act on ratification of the Agreement on Social Security between the Government of the Republic of Poland and the Government of Quebec, signed in Quebec on 3 June 2015, prints no 337 and 384. The agreement on which we are proceeding is similar to the bilateral social security agreement between the Republic of Poland and Canada signed on 2 April 2008, which entered into force in 2009. Since the Canadian province of Quebec has its own social security system, the Polish-Canadian social security agreement on the acquisition of the right to social security benefits does not apply to persons covered by the pension scheme resident and employed in the province of Quebec. For this reason, it is necessary to provide social security protection for Polish citizens working or moving in the province of Quebec. This agreement corresponds to international social security standards and is based on fundamental principles of coordination of social security systems such as the principle of equal treatment, the principle of preservation of acquired rights and the principle of aggregation of insurance periods. The provisions of the Agreement will apply to workers and persons subject to social security in the territory of each party, employee and self-employed person, members of their families and other entitled persons remaining after the death of the host. This legislation is of particular importance for individuals in obtaining the right to pensions, pensions or family pensions and funeral allowances. High Seym! The Civic Platform Club welcomes the provisions contained in the bill and asks the High Sejm to express a positive opinion on this law. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-12-sejm-16-1.u149	Thank you. Mrs Cornelia Wróblewska, Modern.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-12-sejm-16-1.u150	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Modern Club, I am pleased to refer to the proposed Act on ratification of the Agreement on social security between the Government of the Republic of Poland and the Government of Quebec, signed in Quebec on 3 June 2015. We often forget what we're here for in the battle for the growth of the posts in the polls. We forget that every decision should be considered cold, separate from political and personal sympathies or antipathy. That is why it was a great surprise for me to read this project first in the Committee on Social Policy and Family Affairs, because everyone unanimously supported the draft law. And it must be made clear that this change, that is, the government bill ratifying this agreement, is indeed a good change. In order to bring the Poles closer to what is going on, I will allow myself a brief summary of the justification. The agreement between the Government of the Republic of Poland and the Government of Quebec is the development of the 2009 agreement on social security between the Polish Republic and Canada concerning the possibility of acquiring rights to Polish and Canadian pensions, invalidity pensions, accidents at work or occupational diseases and one-off compensation in the above mentioned situations, family pensions and funeral allowances. It is a legal basis for Polish residents living in Canada as well as for people living in Poland, but having periods of insurance completed in Canada to obtain the right to Polish and Canadian benefits. However, the legislator, by creating that agreement, did not take account of the important thing. The largest and second largest of the population in the province of Canada - Quebec has its own social security system based on Quebec's pension plan. What does that mean in practice? The fact that the Polish-Canadian agreement does not apply to the inhabitants of Quebec Province. Canadian authorities during the negotiations of the Agreement They have repeatedly pointed out the existence of a separate system in Quebec and the need to conclude a similar agreement directly with the Government of Quebec. As a result, there is an Article in the original agreement. 27, which guarantees the possibility for the government of the Republic of Poland to enter into agreements with individual provinces of Canada. That's the deal we're working on today. Ratification of this agreement is extremely important both for Poles living in Canada and for Canadians living in Poland. At this moment, as regards social security, we have a regulated situation with the United States, Australia, Ukraine, Macedonia, Moldova, countries of the former Yugoslavia which are not part of the European Union or the European Economic Area. Pretty soon, since the entry into force of this agreement, the whole Canada will join these countries. This is another step in the right direction, which is a long-term process, a relay of successive governments aimed at supporting Poles outside the country. However, this is not the end. There are many countries for which there are no relevant international agreements, despite the numerous Polonia, which also needs our support. I hope this is the beginning of good changes for our fellow countrymen in the country. To conclude this positive opinion on the law ratifying the agreement between the government of the Republic of Poland and the government of Quebec, I inform you that the Modern will support this document. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-12-sejm-16-1.u151	Thank you very much. Ms Joanna Augustynowska, Moderna, has the floor. There isn't. Mr Krystian Jarubas, Polish People's Party, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-12-sejm-16-1.u152	Dear Marshal, Minister! High Izbo! On behalf of the Polish People's Party Parliamentary Club, I am pleased to present my position on the report of the committee on the Government's draft act on ratification of the Agreement on social security between the Government of the Republic of Poland and the Government of Quebec, signed in Quebec on 3 June 2015, prints no 337 and 384. Ladies and gentlemen! The right to social security is a fundamental human right. The implementation of this right is primarily served by national internal social security systems of individual countries. Polonia lives in Canada, which demanded the regulation of Polish-Canadian social security relations, is covered by the social security system of the province of Quebec. Therefore, the conclusion of this bilateral agreement will allow for the acquisition of pension rights by Polish citizens covered by the social security scheme of the Canadian province of Quebec. I will not develop this point more because my previous speakers have justified this law, and therefore the Parliamentary Club of the Polish People's Party raises no objections and supports the bill presented. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-12-sejm-16-1.u153	Thank you very much. Mr Rafał Wójcikowski, Kukiz, 15 has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-12-sejm-16-1.u154	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The speech I have the honour to present is the position of the Kukiz Poselski Club15 on the ratification of the agreement with the province of Quebec on mutual social security. Ladies and gentlemen, social security is a misfortune of the 20th century, a misfortune that has proven to have a disastrous negative effect on demographics in the long term. All the countries that have adopted these human rights that my previous speaker spoke about, the rights to social security, today are facing a catastrophic demographic situation and a disaster, and they are slowly withdrawing from the security measures adopted. Replaceability and the level of today's pension in relation to earnings is steadily decreasing. It used to be 70.80%. Today, pensions are already spoken of at 20%, in the case of women - 20%, which means the system is actually failing. But since we're sticking to this system, we need to ratify these kinds of agreements. We cannot leave the Canadian Polonia without resources, without legal solutions. It cannot be that we have a signed agreement with Canada, and we are waiting, we do not know why, to sign a deal with the autonomous French-speaking province of Quebec in Canada, which has autonomy not only in terms of language, but also, as you can see, in terms of social security. The cost of ratifying this agreement, estimated by the government by the applicants, is PLN 8 million, so this is really symbolic money compared to the 180-190 billion that the ZUS spends on payment of benefits. So ratification or non-ratification of this agreement really does not have any financial significance here, and for this few Polonia, because the number of people, beneficiaries of this agreement is estimated to be about 700 people, really it can be a gesture from the state that cares about Polonia, and nothing else really. On the other hand, this is an excuse for some discussion, to reflect on the continuation of the social security system as it is, because, as I mentioned earlier, the level of replacementability with remuneration pensions in terms of the continuation of the system is systematically falling. At the moment, as I said, we are approaching the level of 20-30% replacement pensions with recent salaries. And if today we have a situation that the social security system in Poland is to be verified marketly, then without subsidies from the state budget it is enough for 2/3 of the benefits, i.e. for every third pensioner, one third of the pensioners is not covered in the social security system in terms of benefits. This compensation is only included in additional subsidies from the State budget, i.e. additional taxes. And the situation is going to get worse because demographic forecasts are catastrophic. As if the secondary effect of the compulsory social security system in the form of catastrophic demography, such as feedback, results in an ever worse financial situation of the system. It doesn't seem to have an end, because the system's worse and worse situation is causing worse demographics, and so on and so on. In this way, you can say very graphically, the mammoths are extinct, and we are about to walk their path, we are already in the second half of this process of extinction. Ladies and gentlemen, what else can we say, maybe not about the Quebec province system, but about the Canadian system? As a Kukiz group15, we urge you to consider the introduction of the Canadian system in Poland, i.e. the civic pension system. If we can draw something from Canadian designs, this is a sort of solution to the problem of this feedback spiral, this feedback between the demographic disaster and the financial disaster of the social security system - citizens' pensions are a solution. I think that apart from, of course, we recommend, for our Polish people, the adoption of today's agreement, we also recommend the government to consider whether to continue the functioning of the current social security system will not lead to a total financial disaster in the long term and a demographic disaster and whether it is worth using Canadian solutions in the field of social security reform. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-12-sejm-16-1.u155	Thank you very much. Please take the floor of the committee rapporteur... Oh, I'm sorry. With a question from Mrs Józef Hrynkiewicz. Time - one and a half minutes.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-12-sejm-16-1.u156	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! I wanted to ask the Minister, Prof. Zielenecki, whether the government is finally going to explain to the Members and to the citizens' pensioners where this civic pension came from, its genesis and its consequences. I still hear about this civic pension, which is supposed to be a panacea, a solution to our pension problems, problems with financing pensions, but nobody can see that the average contribution in Poland, with an average salary of 4.2 thousand. PLN, is paid on the salary of less than 1.9 thousand. zł, so it is actually paid from 45% an average salary, not a full salary. So I would very much ask you, Minister, in particular, to explain to us that the government should finally present exactly what is a citizen's pension and what is the impact on the income of the elderly, who are no longer working, with this solution. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-12-sejm-16-1.u157	If any of your fellow Members would like to speak again, I would like to invite you. I'll close the list after that question. Mr Rafał Wójcikowski, Kukiz, 15 has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-12-sejm-16-1.u158	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! In a manner of speaking by the Professor... [[I didn't call you.]] ...because I brought up the issue of civic retirement, and I wanted to ask you a question. Of course, each stick has two ends and the introduction of a civic pension poses such a problem that it will not be a paradise for the elderly, it is not promised an easy life for the elderly. But on the other hand, looking at the situation of the young generation, which will soon be subject to contributions of 60 and 80... If the demographic situation continues to develop as it is developing, we will have to raise the ZUS contributions to 60%. salary, because the replacement of generations will be such that soon, in a dozen or several decades, there will be three people of retirement age per young person. I ask at this point: Are there such strong young people who will be able to carry the weight they will put on their backs? On the other hand, whether an ageing Polish society - because it must be said here that we are a society which has been systematically ageing in the demographic sense for 20 years - can make an increase in efficiency, increase in economic efficiency [[♪ The bell ♪]] and manage this burden when it comes to the demographic disaster in the social security system? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-12-sejm-16-1.u159	Thank you very much. Mr Marek Jakubiak, Kukiz.15
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-12-sejm-16-1.u160	Good morning, Mr. Marshal. High Izbo! As far as civic pensions are concerned, I would like to say that this is part of the Kukiz club's programme15. I would like to say that we do not really pay attention to the amount of this pension contribution. We note that today's government policy, which leads to the absurdity of the fact that the cost of paying one pension is virtually equal to that pension, is in the long run unbearable. When asked two years ago how much a ZUS costs one pensioner, we figured 18,000 a year. That's $1.5,000. PLN per month. Madam President, I would like to say that if we assume that pension costs the State Treasury an average of 1.9 thousands. zł, the costs of payment of one benefit are equal to the benefits. This is bullshit and absurd! The point is that a citizen's pension, whatever it may be, will be equal and the cost incurred on it should be minimal. That's $80,000. People employed in ZUS are absurd, giggles. Looks like our retirement contributions are going to officials, not pensions. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-12-sejm-16-1.u161	You're welcome. [[Excuse me, Mr. Marshal, may I correct? Because it's for me, Mr...]] [[Yeah, yeah, I didn't mean to, but it's a fact.]] Mrs Hrynkiewicz, as corrected.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-12-sejm-16-1.u162	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! Minister! I hope that you will correct this information even more thoroughly than I do, which is that the Social Insurance Institution, which employs not 80,000, but less than 40,000. employees - probably also a little too much, so maybe their number will decrease - was one of the cheapest institutions that are in Poland. The cost of maintaining the Social Insurance Institution without an IT system, which is very important in this case, and without servicing open pension funds, is 1.8% funds at the disposal of the Social Security Office. So there's no such thing as what you're talking about. On the other hand, citizens' pensions paid once a week, weekly, allow them to survive for 5 days. Is that what you want? [[In corrigendum mode.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-12-sejm-16-1.u163	In the procedure of correcting Mr Marek Jakubiak.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-12-sejm-16-1.u164	Madam President, all I want to say is that I will provide you with an article from a serious industry press in which it is written exactly as I said it would. One benefit per year costs 18 thousand in ZUS. zł a w KRUS - 9. [[Applause]] [[Master, you use your documents.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-12-sejm-16-1.u165	Thank you very much. Please take the floor of the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Family, Labour and Social Policy of Mr Marcin Zielenecki.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-12-sejm-16-1.u166	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I will limit myself to the answer to Mrs Hrynkiewicz's question. [[In my own name, thank you.]] This design or this idea of civic retirement seems seemingly attractive above all because of, you can say, costs. On the other hand, if we look at the page on the amount of benefits, this is, say, the attractiveness of this solution becomes much less. As regards the origin of the citizen's pension itself, it has evolved as a result of a certain evolution of social assistance benefits. It can be said that social assistance is the oldest technique of social security, even in ancient times. From the outset, this social security technique has been linked to the need to examine the individual situation of the recipient of such benefits. And in certain systems, some countries have decided to make certain elements of the possibility of using these benefits objectively, based on some objective considerations such as age, inability to work, period of residence in a given country, etc. There are countries that have this kind of solution, but we cannot say that it is the only solution that, in every country or country that has decided to do so, is in force. If we look at the Canadian system, it's not like we only have a pension system in Canada. This is a very complex pension security system consisting of three essential components. [[We have a complex system, too.]] And this civic component, as we call it, is the basic component. This is a component that people who are not protected by other techniques, especially insurance technology, are supposed to provide, simply guarantee a minimum of existence. We're the kind of system that would guarantee benefits on such, say, a minimum level, we don't want to. We want the social security system to meet the higher needs of the insured. There's an insurance system in Canada, too. The latter component of the social security system is based on the construction of the insurance premium. Among other things, there is a need to conclude a bilateral agreement with Quebek, which will be as if guaranteeing people who paid contributions in the system or in this pension plan of Quebec province, and they came to Poland, using this period when they apply for benefits in Poland under Polish regulations, and vice versa, Polish citizens who had previously reached periods of insurance in the Polish social security system and then went to Canada, also worked and paid contributions, using these periods of insurance when they applied for pension benefits in Canada. And there's a third component in the Canadian system. This is, as in Poland, voluntary insurance. So that these differences, contrary to appearances, contrary to what I said, the apparent attractiveness of the idea of civic retirement, are not so big. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-12-sejm-16-1.u167	Thank you. Mr Józef Leśniak, rapporteur of the committee, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-12-sejm-16-1.u168	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! I would like to thank all those who have worked on this bill, which is so important and expected by our fellow countrymen in Quebec. That's why I'm asking you to accept it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-12-sejm-16-1.u169	Thank you very much. The discussion is closed. We will proceed to the third reading in the voting block. We proceed with the examination of item 8 of the agenda: First reading of the government draft law amending the Act on Export Insurance Guaranteed by the State Treasury and some other laws (print No 405). I ask the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Development of Mr Mariusz Haladyj to present the justification for the bill.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-12-sejm-16-1.u170	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The draft law amending the Act on Export Insurance Guaranteed by the State Treasury and some other laws is primarily important for the efficient and efficient building of an institutional system supporting the economic development of the country. The project changes primarily in the organisation of institutions supporting the economy and entrepreneurs. The instrument or document, which is the basis for this action, which points out precisely these key directions for long-term development, identifying at the same time certain barriers to this development, is the plan for responsible development adopted by the government on 16 February this year. Why is the influence of the Minister of Development increasing on these institutions? First of all, we want to organize the support provided by the state to Polish entrepreneurs. It is a step towards looking at the needs of the entrepreneur comprehensively from a broader perspective. At present, it can be said that such a product view dominates, i.e. KUKE has its own insurance and PARP has different grant instruments, while they do not always constitute a system of mutually complementary instruments, among others. because of the diversified supervision of these individual institutions. These changes are therefore an introduction to a comprehensive look at the support of entrepreneurs from this institutional side and to develop and then to implement new technologies or to acquire new markets with the support of these institutions. The revised supervisory system is intended to ensure, first and foremost, the strengthening of actions for domestic industry or the implementation of innovative initiatives, as well as the creation of this institutional environment for economic development, including, or even above all, the strengthening of the foreign expansion of Polish business with effective use of both domestic and foreign resources, as well as support for domestic investments. To this end, it is essential to create a revised model of development activities in this area. It will be based on a well-functioning system of integrated institutions or integrated supervision, based on functional links between individual institutions for the development of the state sector with strong support and cooperation from institutions of science, education and business. What further action is planned in relation to these institutions by the government, including the Minister for Development, in the event of a law being passed? Above all, action will be taken, and this is in fact already slowing down, concerning the mapping of offers of all products and programmes of institutions which are subject to changes in supervision, e.g. by identifying all export support funding streams. As I said at the beginning, the draft law introduced to the proceedings of the High House represents, first of all, a stage in the process of building an integrated and functionally related mechanism of institutions supervised by the Minister of Development as tools supporting the development of the economy. The primary objective is to make these changes to the rules by transferring to the Minister responsible for the economy, i.e. in this current architecture the Minister for Development, supervisory powers over the Export Credit Insurance Corporation, by transferring the competence of the Minister responsible for Finance to the Minister responsible for Economic Affairs, to Treasury companies such as the Industrial Development Agency, the Polish Information and Foreign Investment Agency, Polish Development Investments and the General Savings Fund of the Bank of Poland, by transferring the competence of the Minister competent for Treasury to represent the Treasury to the Minister for Economic Affairs, by increasing the representation of the Minister responsible for Economic Affairs in the bodies of the Bank, which will be appointed by the President of the Council of Ministers, changes in supervision of the President of the Public Procurement Office by transferring the powers of the President of the Council of Ministers to the Minister responsible for Economic Affairs and additionally including the representative of the Minister for Development in the composition of the Financial Supervision Commission. The consequence of the changes, as I said, is to integrate these powers into the management of all these institutions and to increase the influence of the management of these institutions of the Minister responsible for the economy, so that it is in a more functional, flexible and coherent way and thus able to participate in those activities which have been prepared and designed in the plan prepared by the Minister for Development. Supervisory competence in the exercise of rights from shares by the Minister of Development in designated companies will primarily be important in the field of promotion of the Polish economy and investment support through the creation of interrelated instruments in a more coherent and friendly way. For example, the supervision of the functioning of the Export Credit Insurance Corporation is intended to allow for the creation of a functional link between the corporation and the minister responsible for export support, and will, above all, mean the possibility of more flexible ongoing measures, such as the conclusion of export insurance contracts or the granting of guarantees in relation to entities or specific sectors. An important element of the state's business strategy will also be the supervision of the Minister of Development of the bank PKO BP. Here, I think, an important feature of the bank is that, if we make such comparisons, other development agencies do not have such tools of distribution or reaching out to citizens and, above all, to SMEs that the bank has. With regard to the management of the Bank for National Farms, taking into account the greater role of the Minister for Development in this area will also increase the role of this institution in the process of creation and implementation, but in cooperation with other ministers, this is particularly the case with the Minister of Finance and Minister of Infrastructure and Construction, effective development support instruments and a more flexible response to current needs. The transfer of supervision of the President of the Public Procurement Office will, first and foremost, make public procurement a strong instrument for the implementation of both economic and social policies by, first, placing a strong emphasis on increasing the participation of SMEs in the procurement market, second, promoting innovation, thirdly, reducing bureaucratic obligations in procurement procedures or, finally, strengthening the role of non-price tender criteria and social clauses. The first stage of the transformation of the procurement system into such an instrument takes place in the Sejm, as the subcommittee is working on the revision of the Public Procurement Law. In conclusion, the common denominator justifying the amendments to the Act submitted to the State is the creation of an efficient and integrated system of development institutions. When proposing a project, the government asks the High House to refer it to further parliamentary work. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-12-sejm-16-1.u171	Thank you, Minister. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of the clubs. I'm opening a discussion. Mr Wojciech Zubowski, Law and Justice have the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-12-sejm-16-1.u172	Dear Marshal, Minister! High Izbo! On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, Law and Justice, I have the honour to present the position of the club as regards the draft law amending the Act on Export Insurance Guaranteed by the State Treasury and certain other laws presented in Seym printing No 405. The Council of Ministers adopted Resolution No 14/2016 of 16 February 2016 adopting the Plan for Responsible Development, inter alia. the main projects to be carried out by the Minister for Development, in cooperation with the relevant ministers, within the framework of the above. The plan. This entails the need to adapt the legal system in the area of functioning of existing development support institutions for their integration in order to initiate or finance investment projects, support the development of entrepreneurship and innovation. Thus, the proposed bill proposes changes in the rules of supervision of: Insurance Corporation of Export Credits S.A. - by transferring the competence of the Minister responsible for public finances to the Minister responsible for the economy; certain companies of the Treasury - by transferring the competence of the Minister responsible for the State Treasury to the Minister for Economic Affairs; Bank Gospodarstwa Krajowego - by including the Minister responsible for Economic Affairs in the procedure of appointment and dismissal of the members of the authorities of the bank; President of the Public Procurement Office - by transferring the powers of the President of the Council of Ministers to the Minister responsible for Economic Affairs. In addition, it is proposed, among others. in the Law of 7 July 1994 on Export Insurance Guaranteed by the State Treasury, add a new regulation under Article. 5 act indicating that the Management Board of Export Credit Insurance Corporation will consist of 4 members, including one appointed and cancelled at the request of the Minister responsible for public finances. The Law of 4 September 1997 on the departments of government administration proposes to amend Article. Article 9 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 3 and repeal point 13 of Article. 33a in the mouth. 1. This is due to the fact that the Minister responsible for Economic Affairs takes over the supervision of the President of the Council of Ministers of the President of the Public Procurement Office. The Act of 14 March 2003 on Bank Gospodarstwa Krajowego introduces major changes in the scope of the Supervisory Board and the Management Board of Bank Gospodarstwa Krajowego. The proposed amendment implies a change in the way these authorities are appointed by Bank Gospodarstwa Krajowego, as well as changes in their composition. They aim to take due account of the role of Minister of Economic Affairs in the management of BGK, given the important role Bank Gospodarstwa Krajowego plays in implementing the programmes supporting economic development. The Public Procurement Law of 29 January 2004 proposes that the Minister for Economic Affairs be transferred to the President of the Public Procurement Office and that the Financial Market Surveillance Act of 21 July 2006 extends the composition of the Financial Supervision Commission to the Minister for Economic Affairs or its representative. The draft law also contains the necessary transitional provisions related to changes concerning bodies of entities subject to the amendment. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The proposed solutions are intended to implement the ambitious economic plans announced during the election campaign of Law and Justice, the Prime Minister's exposé and presented by Mr Morawiecki's Deputy Prime Minister in the Responsible Development Plan. In order to achieve this, it is necessary to amend and adapt the law so that solutions awaited by society and businesses can be introduced. Therefore, on behalf of the Parliamentary Club, Law and Justice, I request that the project be directed to further work in the Sejm. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-12-sejm-16-1.u173	Thank you. Mrs Bożena Szydłowska, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-12-sejm-16-1.u174	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! I have the honour to present the position of the Civic Platform Parliamentary Club regarding the government draft law amending the Act on Export Insurance Guaranteed by the State Treasury and certain other laws. The case concerns print 405. In the explanatory memorandum concerning this Act, applicants demonstrate that the adoption of the amendments proposed in the draft Act on Export Insurance Guaranteed by the State Treasury and certain other laws results, in particular, from the need to adapt the legal system in the field of functioning of existing development support institutions for their integration in order to initiate or finance investment projects, to promote the development of entrepreneurship and innovation. In this respect, the proposal proposes a solution to change supervision - my previous speakers discussed it in detail - the Export Credit Insurance Corporation, certain companies of the Treasury, Bank Gospodarstwa Krajowego, the President of the Public Procurement Office, the composition of the Financial Supervision Commission. Since the proposed scope of the changes concerns extremely important functions, even sensitive to the state of the Polish economy, my club requests that the draft law be sent to the committee for further legislative work, during which I hope any doubts related to the specific provisions of the proposed legal act will be clarified. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! According to the order adopted in Poland, the Minister of Finance was responsible for the state of public finances and should continue to be the responsibility of the Minister of Finance. However, in the bill submitted, the burden of this responsibility is shifted to the Minister for Economic Development, for which public finances are certainly important, but it is not the most important objective - during the committee work, we would like to know why the projector decided to weaken the position of Minister of Public Finance - and equally important, the adoption of the proposed solutions could lead to a weakening of the position of Bank Gospodarstwa Krajowego, an institution whose impact on the state of public finances is beyond estimate. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! As assured by Prime Minister Beata Szydło, the members of her government were to form a cooperative team, as was known in public speeches, to form a white-red team. The provisions proposed in the draft law take away the competences of one resort and pass them on to another, which indicates rather not cooperation, but competition. It may also indicate that applicants are submitting the current political interest associated with their current activities to ensure the current and future state of public finances. On behalf of the Civic Platform Club, I request that the project be directed to further legislative work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-12-sejm-16-1.u175	Thank you. Mr Rafał Wójcikowski, Kukiz, 15 has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-12-sejm-16-1.u176	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! This is an important law, a law that allows you to significantly increase the competence of your Deputy Prime Minister Morawiecki and give him real tools to stimulate and control the Polish economy by hand, especially in terms of investment, innovation and the use of resources, I understand, European for this purpose. My first suggestion is that it could have been done even more, because undoubtedly, if anyone is to control the economy by hand, it would have been better for the experienced Minister of Development to do so than for the Minister of Finance, who is an accountant and will manage the finances, companies in terms of, above all, future dividend revenues and in terms of future tax revenues, and it will be passive management, static management. On the other hand, the Minister of Development, I hope, will primarily think about the development of industrial production, the development of innovation, technological development, the development of co-operatives, the construction of the economy. We know patterns, these are Korean designs, Japanese designs, early-Japanese designs, Chebo designs, i.e. strong centres, if we do not have private ones, state or associated with the Minister of Development, and cooperation of private entities that have the basis and security, and opportunities for development, which alone, without the support of the cheetahs, would never have. It can be said that for the version of economic development adopted by PiS, i.e. the version a la Eugeniusz Kwiatkowski, the non-free market version, but more moving towards state interventionism, towards a strong state, probably due to the lack of a middle class, capital that could take over this role, this is acceptable, and the question is why you choose certain entities of the Treasury and do not go any further. You have taken into account the Industrial Development Agency, which has various entities, various companies, various projects, sometimes saving meaningless, sometimes saving with greater sense, Polish Development Investments - we will no longer comment on this, the Polish Information and Foreign Investment Agency, one of the key elements for managing innovation, managing industry, because it is here that decisions are made about where we direct innovation, foreign investment, at least we have an impact on whether these investments, e.g. will continue to be concentrated mainly in western Poland, along the motorways, or also the eastern wall will have foreign investments within this agency, as well as the Universal Savings Fund, PKO BP. Where's PZU, where's KGHM? The biggest exporter of Polish industry, Polish economy and company, which should potentially play a significant role precisely because it is the leading Polish industrial company, heavy industry, and the leading Polish exporting company, and the Polish company, is KGHM, and even considering what has been happening in recent days in KGHM, i.e. these 5 billion copies for completely failed foreign investments, it is the manual control of KGHM that should take over the Deputy Prime Minister Morawiecki, in order not to make those mistakes that have led to 5 billion losses, and perhaps lead to the next five this year. These are very serious errors in management, just errors from the State Treasury. And this is where I think we'd have to add KGHM. Although it is, let's say, a mining company, but not specifically related to energy, so calmly the Ministry of Energy or the Treasury could let it go and hand it over to Deputy Prime Minister Morawiecki, because there really is a need for intervention if we do not want there to... Because in a moment's time, if procedures like KGHM continue like this for a year or two, we're going to see a 50,000 mutiny. dissatisfied employees. So here's a very serious problem. In conclusion, the bill goes in the right direction, [[♪ The bell ♪]] We should pass it on to the committee and I believe that the powers of Deputy Prime Minister Moravian should be further extended. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-12-sejm-16-1.u177	Thank you. Mr Zbigniew Gryglas, Modern.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-12-sejm-16-1.u178	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I am pleased to present the position of the Modern Poselski Club in relation to the bill. This novel is a typical law of competence and, as I say with sadness, unfortunately also personnel. This is all the more disappointing after the solutions that we could expect, and which I do not find in this law, which follows after such a loudly announced economic programme presented by Prime Minister Morawiecki. The amendment of the law really transfers the competences assigned to the Minister of Finance so far, as in the case of the Export Credit Insurance Corporation, and the Minister of the Treasury, as in the case of Polish Development Investments, the Industrial Development Agency or the Polish Information and Foreign Investment Agency. Three basic remarks to this project, the attention of a large caliber. The first concerns the transfer of supervision of KUKE, i.e. the Export Credit Insurance Corporation, a minister of substance at the expense of the Minister of Finance, i.e., colloquially speaking, the guardian of the budget. I would like to remind you that KUKE provides guarantees and guarantees which, in extreme cases, may lead to a burden on the state budget. There have been several cases in the past, but they were lucky to be rare, since actually the budget guard, the Minister of Finance, did his duties. This will now be done by the Minister responsible for development, who has different priorities. It should be assumed that the Minister will be willing to risk more in making such decisions. In addition, as the Law itself and the practice of the Law and Justice so far indicate, these decisions will probably be taken by new people who have not yet been involved in the process of guarantees and guarantees, and this will increase the risk of making mistakes in this respect. The second point is the transfer of ownership powers from the Treasury to the minister responsible for economic affairs. So far we have dealt with a centralised model of ownership supervision, where the competences, I will remind you, were at the Minister of the Treasury. Today there will be many of these resorts responsible for ownership supervision. This means that there will be no clear separation of regulatory issues, no separation of regulatory issues from ownership. Law and Justice goes to a decentralised model, where this supervision, regulation will mix, where the principles of ownership supervision may vary in different resorts - otherwise the case will be in the Ministry of Energy, otherwise this issue will be resolved in the Ministry of Development. This could cause significant problems. Finally, the last question, I think, is the most important one, one that is exposed to this law, which is a matter of staff. In any case, the novel increases the number of posts that will be in the agendas and companies of the Treasury. The Management Board of the current two-person KUKE will consist of four persons, the composition of the Financial Supervision Commission will be increased from seven to eight persons, the Board of Bank Gospodarstwa Krajowego, which has so far been able to count from eight to 12 persons, now it will count the maximum number of persons, i.e. 12, the Management Board of BGK - from the current five members to six, etc., etc. We have a lot of these situations in this bill. Worse still, the authorities of Bank Gospodarstwa Krajowego - such an important bank, the previous speakers raised it - will now be appointed by the Prime Minister. It's a sign of politicization of this bank. As you can imagine from the recent practice of law and justice, the bodies will be composed mainly of connected persons [[♪ The bell ♪]] Law and Justice. This will result in replacing professionals with political managers. Here we have a very negative example of horse studs, this is a litmus paper of the Law and Justice action. Modern is in favour of harmonising supervision, i.e. that the rules of ownership... [[You guys have...]] ...they were the same. We are in favour of transparency and transparency of companies.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-12-sejm-16-1.u179	Thank you, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-12-sejm-16-1.u180	We propose to publish reports...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-12-sejm-16-1.u181	Thank you, sir, time is up.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-12-sejm-16-1.u182	I'm almost done. We propose publishing reports of the same kind as for companies listed on the Stock Exchange, as well as, most importantly, professionalisation of staff.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-12-sejm-16-1.u183	Thank you very much, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-12-sejm-16-1.u184	We tell political capitalism and nepotism in companies of the Treasury. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-12-sejm-16-1.u185	Thank you very much. Mr Mieczysław Kasprzak, Polish People's Party, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-12-sejm-16-1.u186	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I have the honour to speak on behalf of the Parliamentary Club of the Polish People's Party in the debate on this law. Well, as some of my previous speakers have said, a bill is needed because some changes must be made. Life has some insights, but this kind of mixing is also aimed at staffing policies of many of these institutions, because it will be an opportunity to exchange staff, to change subjection. This is the first case. Secondly, again too late we received this bill because I would like to say that it was only yesterday that this bill appeared. So that it was not even possible to examine all these changes in detail, and things are very important. We need to address what's been going on so far. Well, our economy, our export, because it will largely relate to exports, KUKE, export insurance, because this is primarily the goal before this institution, all these previously mentioned institutions, such as KUKE, PAIiIZ, PARP, Bank Gospodarstwa Krajowego, have been doing well so far, because in recent years we have had a dynamic increase in exports. This is not discussed, but this increase in exports has been taking place for many years. It is important not to spoil what has been developing so far, because all indicators clearly indicate that there is a dynamic development of exports. In many countries around the world, we have trade and investment promotion departments - these are also individuals that have undoubtedly contributed to finding new places that have emerged in all countries of the world in recent years. Especially the countries of the Far East. Poland existed there. This is also the effort of many of these institutions, many people employed there. It is therefore important to continue to maintain this good pro-export, pro-development direction. Our economy in the country is important, but what we can produce here and sell abroad is also important, because it is then a double profit for our economy, for our country. We are in favour of referring this bill to committee work. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-12-sejm-16-1.u187	Thank you very much. Let's get to the questions. Please, if any of your fellow Members would like to sign up, take the floor, I would like to invite you. I'll close the list after the first question. Question time - one and a half minutes. Mr Rafał Wójcikowski, Kukiz, 15 has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-12-sejm-16-1.u188	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! In order not to be so sweet, I will try to complete my speech on behalf of the club. Not only are we lucky that Deputy Prime Minister Morawiecki will now hold the helm of the economy with a hard hand, but we must also pay attention to the fact that unfortunately, on the occasion of the increase in stagism is being smuggled in. And what the Modern Member has said is unfortunately true that this increase in the number of board members, the increase in the number of board members... It is to be expected that there will probably also be rapid and perhaps also quantitative changes in offices. Unfortunately, this appointment is associated with the worst form of etatism. Perhaps the person of Prime Minister Morawiecki guarantees that they will be people of higher management quality than those who are filled by Minister Jackiewicz in their companies, but unfortunately this is an increase in stagism, and in the long term no etatism leads to anything good. The question is: Why does the government in the person of Deputy Prime Minister Morawiecki promote the increase in the placement of these elements mentioned in the Act?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-12-sejm-16-1.u189	Thank you very much. Mr Mieczysław Kasprzak, Polish People's Party, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-12-sejm-16-1.u190	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! After the good ones, so to speak, the phenomena and observations I spoke about in my speech, I would like to ask the Minister about the bad side. Well, for some time the European Union has introduced an embargo on Russia. I would like to ask if we have any calculations, whether any data are collected on what the consequences of this are for Poland. I would like to say that Russia has imposed sanctions on Poland in the case of imports of our agricultural goods. What are the consequences? As far as the embargo is concerned, the effects in international policy are little visible or zero, but there are undoubtedly quite large consequences for the Polish economy. I know that maybe the Minister is not prepared for this, which is why, if it is possible, Minister, if the Polish government has such data, I would ask you very much to present it in writing. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-12-sejm-16-1.u191	Thank you. Mr Wojciech Zubowski, Law and Justice have the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-12-sejm-16-1.u192	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! Minister! A brief question: Would it be possible to implement the plan for responsible development without the changes that we are discussing today? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-12-sejm-16-1.u193	Mr Jerzy Gosievski, Law and Justice have the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-12-sejm-16-1.u194	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Dear Minister, The proposed changes in competence should indeed contribute to the development of the country's economic processes. Competence will be delegated to the Minister responsible for Economic Affairs. Therefore, I wanted to ask the Minister: Are the fittings in yet? To what extent will the personal resources available to the Minister responsible for economic affairs be transferred to the President of the Council of Ministers, the Minister of Treasury and the Minister of Finance? At the same time, I would like to stress that I am very grateful for the resolution adopted by the Council of Ministers No 14/2016 of 16 February 2016 on the Plan for Responsible Development. This is the first such intense green light for the development of the Polish economy. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-12-sejm-16-1.u195	Thank you. Mr Zbigniew Gryglas, Modern.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-12-sejm-16-1.u196	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Seym! The Minister, my previous speaker, spoke a lot about the development plan, but in the Act we find no development plan, no way to implement it, not instruments to implement this programme - mainly we find an increase in the number of jobs, i.e. new positions in companies, in government agencies. I have a very specific question, Minister. What is the aim of increasing the number of persons on the organs of these key entities of the State Treasury? Second question: What is the purpose of changing the way in which the authorities of Bank Gospodarstwa Krajowego are appointed? I would like to remind you that, as proposed, they would be appointed by the Prime Minister himself. Finally, the last issue that raises our worst associations is how to end the term of the Supervisory Board of BGK and the Management Board of Export Credit Insurance Corporations. This situation is very similar to the situation of the Polish Television and Polish Radio, because the terms will also be extinguished when this law enters into force. I see no justification for this situation. I'm asking for an explanation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-12-sejm-16-1.u197	Thank you. The list of Members registered in the vote has been exhausted. Please take the floor of the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Development of Mr Mariusz Haladyj.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-12-sejm-16-1.u198	Mr. Marshal! Dear Members, Dear Messengers, And maybe I can answer in two words these issues, which were also in the process of presenting the positions of clubs, because it is also very much connected and coincides with what was asked when asking specific questions. The first very important element mentioned by Mrs Szydłowska. I do not understand why changes in supervision would pose a threat to the sustainability of public finances or the stability of individual institutions. Taking care of public finances is the task of the whole government. Both the Minister of Finance and the Minister of Development and each other are responsible for the stability of the budget. So that from this point of view, I don't see this threat. Rather, the aim is to make full use of the instruments available that are in the possession or portfolio of individual institutions, while maintaining the security of public finances. This, too, is not a demonstration of the rivalry of individual ministries, as it is said, but rather a manifestation, so I would say, of cooperation, because the changes that are being made here, such as in the Bank Gospodarstwa Krajowego, show this division of competences between individual ministers just so that this bank can implement government policies in particular areas in a complementary manner. Mr Wójcikowski asked why no more, why no further. This project focused on institutions supporting companies. First of all, this applies to those institutions that have in their portfolio instruments to support businesses. Therefore, only such institutions are here. Mr Gryglas spoke of an increase in the number of posts. Only by way of memory, it seems to me that the only increase in the number of posts in the entire project concerns the Management Board of BGK - from 5 persons to 6 persons - of course allowed - and a reduction in the minimum number of members of the Management Board in the Supervisory Board of BGK. From what I remember, these are probably the only examples of an increase in the number of posts, because an additional person in the Financial Supervision Committee is not an additional job, because this function is performed by one of the Undersecretaries or by the Secretary of State of the Ministry responsible for economic affairs, for which he does not receive any remuneration. So it seems to me that here you can only talk about increasing the number of posts in BGK's Management Board. As far as I'm concerned, I'm going to answer as a lawyer. Nor do I really understand why a change in the minister supervising certain institutions should increase the politicisation of these bodies. From a legal point of view, this is a completely neutral change in this context. Moreover, as far as KUKE is concerned, let us also remember that in the Export Insurance Policy Committee, the representative of the Minister of Finance remains, because there was also an argument in this context to reduce the stability of KUKE, and today there is a representative of the Minister of Development. Both representatives will remain in these institutions. Finances in all institutions as state institutions are transparent because this is a sector whose main features are financial transparency. Minister Kasprzak also spoke about HR policy. Here, too, this argument does not come to me completely, that these changes cause greater politicisation, I say, completely neutral. However, it agrees, of course, that there has been an increase in exports and, as the Minister said, it is necessary to further strengthen and cause this increase to be even more dynamic and, above all, stable in exports. These specific questions, as I said, were largely consistent with those contained in the respective positions of the clubs. I have already answered the question about this increase in stagism, the stagnation that Mr Wójcikowski asked about. As regards the question concerning the embargo on Russia, which Minister Kasprzak referred to, as the Minister said, we will answer in writing. Mr Zubowski asked if it would be possible to implement the programme for responsible development without this change. I would say that because it is difficult to give such radical answers, but what is in the programme for responsible development is the exhaustion of the so-called. existing fuels related to, for example, labour costs. They are undoubtedly slowly running out, i.e. this current magnet, so to speak, attracting investment to Poland, will also automatically be much weaker in this area. We have a risk associated with the medium-development trap, so putting these institutions under the greater influence of the Minister of Development is designed to ensure that the instruments that are in these institutions... Looking today, for example. KUKE, the market share of KUKE in relation to commercial operators is low, so the aim is to increase the efficiency of the use of these instruments, while at the same time, as I said at the beginning, maintaining or ensuring the discipline of public finances. Mr Gosievski asked about human resources. There is no question of relocation in this project, we will work on it in committee, but for this moment the project assumes, through its silence in this respect, that it is a more operational issue. What I can tell you is that in the Ministry of the Treasury, a dozen people are under supervision within these entities, so if you can assume that this is a certain order of magnitude that you can think of here... As I say, this is not the subject of a government project. Mr Gryglas asked why there was nothing in the project about support instruments, I understand, such material, business, and these instruments mentioned in the Responsible Development Plan, and there is only a matter of how I understood the jobs. I mean, first of all, I've already said about jobs that I don't think there's this kind of extension here, except for the BGK Board, but it's definitely the first step in building this support or rebuilding, because today all these institutions are functioning, and that's also about the question of increasing staffing, there's no building new institutions or setting up new institutions here. These are only changes that have been developed jointly by a group of economic ministers, and in this way it has been agreed to redirect certain competences, while a law that changes institutional supervision rules does not necessarily include a business-type support instrument, a type of, I don't know, guarantees, loans, insurance, etc., because it is already in the portfolio of individual institutions and mostly these instruments do not require legislative changes at all, so that such instruments are used and supported by exports or investments. Change of appointment of the authorities by the Prime Minister. Answering strictly again Legally, this does not change the character from less political to more political, because they are currently appointed by the Minister, and therefore I do not see this change in this context. The way you put it out, the way you put it out, the way you put it out. It seems to me that this is a rule often used in such changes. Recently, we have had a law on a system of conformity assessment, which is in less possibly such an exciting sphere, as regards institutional issues or the attractiveness of the type we are thinking about here. On the other hand, this mechanism was used there, e.g. in the case of the Polish Accreditation Centre, so I don't think it's an extraordinary solution. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-12-sejm-16-1.u199	Thank you, Minister. The discussion is closed. The Marshal of the Sejm, after consulting the Bureau of the Sejm, proposes that the Sejm refer to the Government's draft law amending the Act on Export Insurance Guaranteed by the Treasury and certain other laws, contained in print No 405, to the Committee on Economic Affairs and Development and to the Committee on Public Finance for consideration. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. We proceed with the examination of item 9 of the agenda: Report of the Health Commission on the draft law amending the Law on the revision of the Law on the Information System in Health Protection and some other laws (prints No. 397 and 402). I ask Mr Tadeusz Dziuba to present a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-12-sejm-16-1.u200	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! Maybe three sentences of explanation to begin with. At the last meeting of the previous term of office, the legislator introduced a change, adopted a major amendment to the Health Information System Act, which assumed that as of 1 May of this year a system of information would be introduced, including the issue of examinations concerning different professions, trainings and various qualification procedures. This law can only work if there is an appropriate IT platform when the appropriate software is available. At that time it seemed that by 1 May 2016, such software would be created, verified and will be functional and reliable from the user's point of view. Today - although this software exists - it should be tested. In view of the above, the designers, the authors of the project we are talking about today, in agreement with the Ministry of Health, decided to postpone the entry into force of these provisions by one year, i.e. by 1 May 2017, but subject to the fact that for two categories of medical professions, namely laboratory diagnostics and pharmacists, the provisions adopted in autumn 2015 will enter into force as they were designed, i.e. as of 1 May 2016. This will provide an opportunity to verify the functionality and reliability of the entire system. Today, the Committee on Health took its first reading and examined the draft law, it must be said that it was very efficient. Four amendments tabled by the authors of the project were considered: three of them were linguistic and - you can say - technical and legislative, and one was substantive, in short, adapting procedural rules to material law. The Commission calls for this law to be adopted as soon as possible. I would like to make this request in the hope that the vote will take place tomorrow. Thank you very much, Marshal.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-12-sejm-16-1.u201	Thank you very much, sir. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of the clubs. I'm opening a discussion. Mr Andrzej Sosnierz, Law and Justice have the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-12-sejm-16-1.u202	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! As has just been presented, all the amendments related to this law, with the draft law amending the Act on the Health Protection Information System, are related to postpone the entry into force of the Medical Workers' Training Monitoring System by one year. It is not the first that and probably not the last delay and some failure connected with the implementation of information systems in health care, but it is good that this change is taking place because some good practice in the implementation of information systems requires caution. Action on large populations of people and dedication of the IT system, which will be used by many medical professionals, without testing whether this system will work properly, giving infinite systems is a major disadvantage and a high risk of such implementations, so it is much better for this system to be implemented later. Therefore, it will be tested on a group of laboratory diagnostics and pharmacists. This does not mean that this group will be particularly vulnerable to any inconvenience, but it will be a good place to see the need to make possible changes and correct the errors of the system that is being implemented. Unfortunately, the implementation of IT systems in health care is not going well, there are not many successes here. The previous government has neglected many issues in this area, and it is necessary and careful that even if the system enters into force, it should be possible to have a chance to correct it to the extent possible. Since the whole set of amendments proposed in this Act concerns a single phenomenon, it is simply a shift - here may be many points, but they all concern one - the system will simply be delayed by a year, but certainly, as I mentioned earlier, this will allow for possible corrections, which this underdeveloped system may sometimes require. Therefore, the Law and Justice Club will support these changes, I hope, at tomorrow's meeting. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-12-sejm-16-1.u203	Thank you very much. Mr Marek Hok, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-12-sejm-16-1.u204	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I have the honour to present the position of the Civic Platform Parliamentary Club vis-à-vis the Act amending the Act amending the Act on the Information System in Health Protection and some other laws. I think it's a bill that doesn't have any controversy. I am pleased that the rapporteur has prepared the argument so well for these changes, and it has indeed been adopted unanimously today in the Committee on Health, without any discussion, because this is a very important problem. It primarily concerns the monitoring of the training of workers of all medical professions, and at the time of specialisation or upgrading of medical qualifications, the transition from this historical paper system to the electronic system is very important, because this will facilitate future education and monitoring of this training in all groups of medical professions. That is why I believe that the time needed to introduce these gradual changes may be in testing, but on such entry into these professional groups least exposed to complications from this side is necessary, and that is why the Civic Platform Parliamentary Club will vote in favour of this law and I think that there will be no problems here with its adoption. So the Platform Club is all for it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-12-sejm-16-1.u205	Thank you very much. Mr Marek Ruciński, Modern.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-12-sejm-16-1.u206	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Poselski Club Modern I have the honour to present the position of the club in relation to print no. 397 concerning the draft law amending the Act on amending the Act on the Information System in Health Protection and some other laws. In accordance with the provisions of the Act of 9 October 2015 amending the Act on the Health Information System and certain other laws, the system of monitoring the training of medical staff for professional groups of doctors, dentists, laboratory diagnostics, pharmacists, paramedics, nurses and midwives should be implemented as from 1 May 2016. The system of monitoring training introduces a change related to the transition from paper to the electronic formula of the training process of the above mentioned professional groups. This involves the implementation of complex IT systems for a large number of different users. Therefore, the proposed phase-in start-up of the system from 1 May 2016 only for laboratory diagnostics and pharmacists seems to be the safest, logical and cost-effective solution. For other professions, i.e. doctors, dentists, paramedics, nurses and midwives, the system is planned to be launched on 1 May 2017. Undiagnosed system errors may occur during the operation of the system for diagnostics and pharmacists, which occurs in this type of IT tasks. According to our assessment, this is a good solution, because the implementation of the system on as large a scale as it was originally claimed would have much greater consequences in case of possible errors. The planned reduction of the launch scale to relatively narrow audiences compared to other professions will allow for the diagnosis of problems arising during use and their smooth and certain removal. The Modern Posel Club will be in favour of the proposed law. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-12-sejm-16-1.u207	Thank you. Mrs Marta Golbik, Modern. There is no Member. Mr Krystian Jarubas, Polish People's Party, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-12-sejm-16-1.u208	Dear Marshal, High Izbo On behalf of the Parliamentary Club of the Polish People's Party, I am pleased to present my position on the report of the committee on the parliamentary draft law amending the Act on amending the Act on the Information System in Health Protection and some other laws, prints No. 397 and 402. Ladies and gentlemen! In accordance with the provisions of the Act of 9 October 2015 amending the Act on the Information System in Health Protection and certain other laws, Dz. U. poz. 1991 and 2016 item 65, The Monitoring System for the Training of Medical Workers for professional groups of doctors, dentists, laboratory diagnostics, pharmacists, nurses and midwives should be implemented on 1 May 2016. The system introduces a change in the transition from paper to the electronic formula of the training process of the above mentioned professional groups. Adopting this way of running the system will allow the analysis and harmonious elimination of errors occurring during use and will also allow the system to be adapted to enhance its usability and accessibility for users. Projectors propose to launch the system from 1 May 2016 for laboratory diagnostics and pharmacists. For other professional groups, i.e. doctors and dentists, paramedics and nurses and midwives, the deadline for implementation should be postponed to 1 May 2017. They stress that making the system available in the early stages of its operation will allow for time to adapt to emerging needs, as well as improvements in errors that have not been identified during the design of the system. The Parliamentary Club of the Polish People's Party will support the proposed law. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-12-sejm-16-1.u209	Mrs Małgorzata Zwierzan, Kukiz,15 has the floor. [[Wait a minute, now, now.]] Easy, easy. [[Excuse me, I'm from the meeting.]] Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-12-sejm-16-1.u210	Excuse me. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! In accordance with the provisions of the Act of 9 October 2015 amending the Law on the Information System for Health Protection and certain other laws, the Monitoring System for the Training of Medical Workers, Professional Groups, Doctors - I apologise most strongly - dentists, laboratory diagnostics, pharmacists, nurses and midwives should be implemented on 1 May 2016. As project promoters bring in, the implementation of the transition from paper to electronic learning should take place in stages. It is difficult to disagree with this, bearing in mind the implementation of many earlier IT systems. It is also important that the system is aimed at a large number and to different users. I'm so sorry. [[Three breaths.]] [[We're stalling. We're taking our time.]] This variety of system users and users of its different functions may cause problems with its proper operation at the beginning. According to the applicants' assumptions, the introduction of the system first for laboratory diagnostics and pharmacists from 1 May 2016 will allow for the elimination of errors and the matching of the system to the needs of its users. However, it is interesting to know why these groups were chosen first. Unfortunately, the applicants do not justify this. However, due to the chaos that may arise when the system runs for all medical professional groups, it is appropriate to launch the Monitoring System for Medical Workers Training from 1 May 2016 for laboratory diagnostics and pharmacists. [[The Member is experiencing...]] For other professional groups, i.e. doctors and dentists, paramedics and nurses and midwives, the deadline for implementation should be postponed to 1 May 2017. Unfortunately, the reasons for the projecters lacked reliable information as to why the project would have a positive social and economic impact. I hope that we will gain this knowledge during the further process of the bill. On behalf of my Members' Club, I request further proceedings over this bill. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-12-sejm-16-1.u211	Thank you very much, Member. Let's get to the questions. If any of you would like to speak, please. I'll close the list after the first question. Mr Grzegorz Wojciechowski, Law and Justice have the floor. Question time - 1.5 minutes.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-12-sejm-16-1.u212	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Designing information systems looks something like that, that 90% of this system costs 50%. Time. It seems that when designing not only this system, but when designing all the previous systems whose date of entry into service was postponed, we do not fully remember this principle. Therefore, is this next deadline fully, I would say, reasonable and fully feasible? The principle is that this end of work is always the most labor-intensive, it takes the most time. Does the Ministry take this into account so that there will not be any further transfers, as we have had many, many transfers in the case of other similar systems? Thank you very much, High Izbo, thank you very much, Marshal.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-12-sejm-16-1.u213	Thank you very much. The list of Members registered in the vote has been exhausted. Please take the floor of the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Health of Mr Piotr Gryza.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-12-sejm-16-1.u214	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! (PL) Mr President, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, First, I'm gonna answer in general. The principle of governance is that you have to set deadlines, otherwise we won't do anything at all, so as if it's a general answer. There must be a deadline for the organisation that implements the software to implement the system. On the other hand, more detailed information is needed here. Namely, the system was received, in the contractor's environment passed test scenarios and only now CSIOZ examines, analyzes the real possibilities of this program. And by May 1st, the test work and the preparation of this program continue. From May to July, professional groups of laboratory diagnostics and pharmacists... and this is going to be about 300 people, so relatively small. So there are possible errors, irregularities will not cause perturbation in the system. This will help to improve those errors that did not occur during the test scenarios or during this period of preparation for the start of the life of this system. The risk of failure to implement this programme, the training monitoring system, the risk of not starting its functionality from 1 July 2017 seems to be very low. It seems that this deadline is set in such a way that there is a chance that this system will work properly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-12-sejm-16-1.u215	Thank you, Minister. I would ask the rapporteur of the committee, Mr Tadeusz Dziuba, to speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-12-sejm-16-1.u216	Information systems, as you know, are tested on a limited population. That's what the Minister said. I just - as a supplement - would like to give the figures coming from 2015. Well, the number of people who took the exams for the relevant professional groups last year was as follows: pharmacists - a government of 250 people, laboratory diagnostics - 650 people, and for example the medical final exam was over 11,000. persons, specialist examination and - 6,5 thousands. These figures show why these two professional groups, which you have been asking about, have been chosen. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-12-sejm-16-1.u217	Thank you very much. The discussion is closed. We will proceed to the third reading of the bill in the voting block. The Committee on the Environment, Natural Resources and Forestry submitted a report on the draft law amending the Law on Forests. The report shall be published in the Official Journal of the European Union. Therefore, after obtaining the uniform opinion of the Senior Convention, the Marshal of the Sejm decided to supplement the agenda with a point including the examination of this report. In this case, I propose that the Sejm consent to the application of the article. 51 (3) of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm and in the discussion on this item, he listened to the five-minute statements on behalf of the clubs. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the proposals. I can't hear you objecting. I'm ordering a two-minute recess. [[Adjournment from 10 a.m. 17 min. 28 hours 17 min 30]] I'm reopening the session. We proceed with the examination of item 10 of the agenda: Report from the Committee on the Environment, Natural Resources and Forestry on the Government's draft law amending the Law on Forests (Prints Nos 394 and 411). I ask Mrs Anna Paluch to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-12-sejm-16-1.u218	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour to present a report from the Committee on the Protection of the Environment, Natural Resources and Forestry on the Government's draft law on amending the Law on Forests. From 1 May 2016, the transitional period for the limitation of the possibility for foreigners to acquire agricultural and forestry land on the territory of the Republic of Poland will expire. With regard to agricultural property, in order to counteract excessive concentration of ownership of these properties, the pursuit of agricultural activities by persons without appropriate qualifications, the Sejm adopted on 31 March 2016 a law to suspend the sale of real estate of the Agricultural Property Resources of the State Treasury. High Izbo! It should be noted that similar risks also apply to forest land. The forest land not owned by the State Treasury is 1751 thousand in Poland. ha. They must be countered by their rude buy-out, by increasing forest resources, by increasing forest area with the standards of management and protection in force in the State Forest Forest Forests. Sustainable forest management must be carried out in the interest of the general good, bearing in mind that Polish forests are strategic resources, that they perform protective, productive and social functions. Ensuring the sustainability of forests is essential for the environmental safety of the country. The protection of the environment, which will be served by the law discussed here, is a very important constitutional value. High Izbo! Today's law introduces legal instruments for the acquisition by the State Treasury, represented by the State Forest Forests State Farm, forest land. In the case of the sale of forest land by a natural or legal person or by an organization which does not have legal personality, which is granted legal capacity by law, the Treasury of the State represented by the State Forests State Forests will be entitled by law to buy these land first. On the other hand, if the transfer of land ownership does not occur as a result of the sale, it will be entitled to the so-called transfer of land ownership. the right of redemption. High Izbo! I will perhaps move on to a detailed presentation of the proposed solutions which the Committee on the Environment, Natural Resources and Forestry adopted at today's meeting. Well, ladies and gentlemen, the new wording of the article is good. 37 Forest Laws. These changes are based on the fact that the head of the organizational unit of State Forests will be able, with the consent of the Director-General, to buy land for forestry or other land or real estate, if justified by the needs of forest management and without prejudice to the interest of the Treasury. And there are very important indications as to the purpose of acquiring these land. They're in the mouth. 2. This is the case of land which is directly adjacent to land remaining on the Board of State Forests if we are dealing with the abolition of joint ownership of the forest or land intended for forestry or other land or property, if we are dealing with the regulation of the course of the agro-forestry border. So, ladies and gentlemen, these are the conditions that allow the forwarder to reasonably assess whether or not the land should be bought out. In such a situation, if it considers it appropriate, it shall refer to the Director of State Forests and, after obtaining his consent within 30 days, shall give a statement to the notary before whom the sale contract was concluded on the acquisition of the State Treasury land. Ladies and gentlemen, there are, of course, exceptions. It should also be added that when there are no sales, there is so-called. the right of redemption, i.e. a forward declaration in the case of contracts other than a sales contract, those which lead to the purchase of land at the price which is proposed. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to remind you that these are solutions similar to those of the law adopted on 31 March this year concerning the marketing of agricultural land. As in that law, here we are dealing with exemptions within the immediate family. He's talking about his mouth. Article 4 37a. Namely in accordance with the provisions of the mouth. 4 The provisions shall not apply to the spouse of the seller, to relatives or relatives of the seller in a straight line without limitation of degree, to relatives or relatives of the seller in a lateral line to a third degree, shall not apply to persons associated with the seller for adoption, care or prosecution, nor shall they apply to local self-government units, nor in the event of inheritance and in the case of disposal of the agricultural holding. In short, there are far-reaching exceptions to the application of this law. The whole procedure shall be laid down in Article. 37a-37k added to the Forest Act. There is talk of how a proposal should look, which forwarders submit to the Director-General of State Forests, is marked with deadlines, the whole detailed procedure is marked. Ladies and gentlemen, it is, of course, that issues such as environmental protection, such as the proper management of forests... Following the application of all the legal instruments described here in the draft law that we are discussing, we will have to deal with the situation that a larger area of land will be covered by a rational forest economy, such as those carried out by the State Forests on their land, and that without these instruments it would not be possible to obtain this value. In these articles added to the Forest Act, we have some kind of security, as in the Agricultural Land Act, namely that the legal act which was not carried out in accordance with these articles - i.e. if the right of pre-emption cannot be exercised if the notary does not notify the relevant forward-looking - is simply invalid. In general, I ask you to impose the same protective provisions on forest land, which will allow them to be protected from uncontrolled buy-out, before the expiry of the transitional period until 30 April 2016. A rational forest economy allows the whole society to benefit from the forests owned by the Treasury. The forests managed by the State Forest Farm State Forests have numerous functions, not only in production, but also in protection or in order to make all the benefits of the forest available to the general public. Therefore, by 30 April 2016, the provisions of the Act should be in force. Art. The 4th project discussed here by me states that the Act enters into force on 30 April 2016. As you know, today is April 12th. Of course, there must be constitutional terms for the Senate, for the President, but the values that this law will protect are so important that - I think - this 14-day term vacathio legis will certainly be achieved. The idea is that Polish forests should be protected before the end of the transition period. High Izbo! On behalf of the Committee on the Environment, Natural Resources and Forestry, please accept the report of the committee in print 411. I would add that the committee is also presenting minority proposals to the High House, but we will vote on them at third reading. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-12-sejm-16-1.u219	Thank you very much, Member. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of the clubs. I'm opening a discussion. Mr Skurkiewicz, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice, will be the first to speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-12-sejm-16-1.u220	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, Law and Justice, I would like to begin by thanking Prime Minister Beata Szydło and the whole government for this initiative and preparing an amendment to the Forest Act. At the end of April, the transitional period, characterised by the limited possibility of acquiring agricultural and forestry land by foreigners on the territory of the Republic of Poland, will pass. There is a risk that since 1 May 2016, land in Poland will be the subject of increased interest of buyers from other countries. In response to this, the Sejm of the Republic of Poland adopted a law on stopping the sale of real estate of the Agricultural Property Resources of the State Treasury. However, these solutions do not apply to forest land. At the same time, it is highly likely that after 1 May there will be an increase in demand from individuals, and not only on land property in the territory of the Republic of Poland, including non-state forest land, which is about 2 million hectares in Poland. There will also be difficulties in fulfilling the obligation of State Forests to expand the area of national forests. The proposed law introduces legal instruments to the acquisition by the State Treasury, represented by the State Forests Forests, forest land. In the case of the sale of forest land by a natural or legal person to the Treasury, represented by the State Forests State Forests, it will be entitled by law to buy these land first. If the transfer of ownership of the land concerned is due to the conclusion of a contract other than the sale agreement, State Forests representing the Treasury Countries may make a statement on the acquisition of this land. A similar approach is also foreseen in the Law on the shaping of the agricultural system in respect of agricultural land. It should be stressed that the proposed solutions do not interfere with the constitutional essence of ownership. The right of pre-emption and redemption will not apply to disposals to a wide range of loved ones and successions of both statutory and wills. Similar solutions exist in the Law on the shaping of the agricultural system and have been applied in practice for many years. It should be pointed out that the solutions provided for by the proposed law are justified by the rational need to intervene in the factual and legal situation in question and serve directly the constitutionally justified objective of protecting the environment. The right of first purchase and so-called. The State Treasury's right of redemption will enable the expansion of the area of natural resources of a strategic nature such as the state forests. Ensuring the sustainability of forests and their multifunctionality is also important for the environmental safety of the country. This objective can be achieved precisely by increasing the strategic forest resources of the country, which are state forests. The expected effect will be to increase the area of forests owned by the State Treasury and to improve the condition, condition and condition of forests thus acquired by covering their standards of management and protection in the State Forest Forests' State Forests. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I would like to stress that the Polish forest land is an immense public good and, as such, forest land should be subject to specific legal regulations ensuring the enlargement of the area of state forests. The primary objective of forest policy is to ensure the sustainability of forests with their multifunctionality, which is also important for the environmental safety of the country. Ensuring the sustainability of forests is possible precisely by increasing the forest resources of our country. The basis of forest works in Poland is the National Foresting Programme approved by the Council of Ministers. The programme shall determine the size of the forest, its distribution and the manner in which it is implemented. The increase in forest resources is expected in particular by increasing the country's forests to 30% in 2020 and 33%. in 2050 At the same time, it should be stressed that there is no way to achieve the essential purpose of the law, namely to increase the area of state forests, without the application of the right of pre-emption and the right of redemption. In the current system of law, it is not possible to force entities that will want, for example. sell the land to be disposed of to the Treasury. The right of first purchase and so-called. the right of redemption - of similar construction, but concerning cases other than sales - seems to be the only instruments in the system of law that will ensure effective implementation of the main purpose of the law. The measures applied do not impose excessive burdens over what is [[♪ The bell ♪]] necessary to ensure that the provisions on first purchase and redemption work in practice. Notwithstanding the above, it cannot escape the fact that the right to buy land for the State Treasury was already adopted on 1 January 2012 without reservation of the European Union and introduced into Polish legislation under the Nature Conservation Act of 16 April 2004 in relation to national parks. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, I recommend that the High House adopt an amendment to the Law on Forests. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-12-sejm-16-1.u221	Thank you very much, sir. I invite Mrs Gabriela Lenartowicz, the Civic Platform Club. You're welcome, my fellow Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-12-sejm-16-1.u222	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour to present the position of the Civic Platform Parliamentary Club regarding the draft law on amending the Law on Forests. This is another project by PiS, which owns further areas of the country. This time, the government, not the parliament, but also the express procedure. His first reading took place today in the committee and we have just finished it, and the proposed date of entry into force is, no less than, 30 April, which is only two weeks from now. The project de facto serves the forced nationalisation of forest land and forest land, which are in private hands, to the State Forests State Farm representing the State Treasury in this regard. This is the second such law, where the state interferes in, would say: sacred, property rights under a coat of protection from the acquisition by foreigners of land, this time forest. However, the law addressed to the Senate on the suspension of the sale of the agricultural property of the State Treasury, although in part it is intended to limit the disposal of state land, but it concerns only private forests which, when the decision to dispose of them by law, will be subject to the right of first purchase or repurchase by the State Forests, and not for the transaction price determined by the parties - the classic pre-emptive - and the price accepted by the foreword or valuer appointed by the Forests or, in the event of discrepancies, determined by the court. Of course, this is a shortcut to those regulations that are included in the Act. On the other hand, the Act does not say anything about restricting the trading of land by the State Forests themselves, including their disposal in tender, so maybe also foreigners. It is crazy to justify the applicants, even quoted in part just now, that the design solution does not interfere with the constitutional essence of ownership, because - sic! - If the owner wishes to dispose of the land, the owner retains the basic attribute of his ownership, i.e. the right to dispose of the thing - in the case of the will to dispose, the thing will be disposed of, but the buyer will be the Treasury - at a price which the same and not the parties accepted. It's like saying that the bride's will will will be fulfilled and that she will be married, only that she will be appointed another spouse. On the other hand, the principles resulting from the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, including the prohibition of discrimination on grounds of nationality, the principles of freedom of establishment and the free movement of capital, will be fulfilled by the applicants, because - each natural person who is a national of any Member State, including any non-natural person established in any Member State, will have to take equal account of the fact that he will not acquire non-state forest land if the State Treasury uses the right of first purchase to acquire that land and, of course, dictates the price accordingly. While the Court of Justice of the European Union allows national restrictions on the exercise of the fundamental freedoms laid down in the Treaty in order to achieve an objective of general interest, the measures necessary to achieve this objective are equal to, adequate and proportionate for all. However, the most important charge on our part against the bill is its inadequacy in relation to the public objective for which it is submitted. This public objective, which is referred to in the draft law, is the requirement of an increase in the country's forestry status, as amended by the Forest Act. It is in the opinion of the applicants in the vital interest of the Republic of Poland as a national community. Only that, first of all, the change of ownership of forest land and forest land, whether private or national, does not alter the nature of the land, nor increases or reduces forestry, second, in order to increase forestry, it is sufficient for the State Forests to acquire suitable land for that purpose on a general basis, as has been the case so far, or to forest land, at their disposal, already intended or appropriate incentives for other than the State Forests of owners. Unfortunately, the public objective referred to in the project [[♪ The bell ♪]] without convincing justification, he was identified with the extension of the area of national forests, whatever it meant (for it is not known whether it is the nationality of trees or owners). However, it can be concluded that the only national forest within the meaning of the Act is the state forest in the rule of the State Forests, but here the legal nationalisation is not the only instrument, as defined. The project also does not respond to the above-mentioned concern about the purchase of forests by foreigners, because it does not touch this issue at all. The Civic Platform Parliamentary Club will request that the bill be rejected in its entirety. In the event of further proceding, we will submit minority requests to restrict the right of pre-emption of private forests and land to the Treasury only on general principles, in accordance with the provisions of the Civil Code, and propose an extension of the vacathio legis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-12-sejm-16-1.u223	Thank you very much, Member. Do I get a request from the Member? [[Yeah, yeah. Thank you.]] Thank you very much. I would like to ask Mr Jakub Kulesza, the Kukiz Club15. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-12-sejm-16-1.u224	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! The Forests Act, including the private ones, is a twin law to this neofeudal one, and as if some people had said the Neobolshevik Law on agricultural land. Once again, the honourable government of the Republic of Poland, elected by a majority of Members of Law and Justice, proposes to limit the trade in forest land, this time forest land. And once again, the right of pre-emption will have state institutions, which, for obvious reasons, violates sacred and constitutional property rights. Minister Jurgel admitted in the agricultural debate that the aim is to transfer as much land as possible to the State Treasury, in other words: the widespread nationalisation of the land. You will be buying agricultural land, forest land, forestry land, and, if you disperse, maybe construction land as well. Soon citizens will not only not be able to buy agricultural parcels outside the city or in the city, but also land under the forest. Now even farmers who meet the very high criteria of an individual farmer will not be able to buy a parcel that borders on the state forest. The criteria contained in your law are very broad, resulting in excessive interference of the State Treasury with the freedom to trade in land. I'll read the criteria. The forest or land intended for forestry may be acquired in particular in the case of its direct attachment to the land remaining on the Board of State Forests, which means that the law will also cover land bordering forests, the removal of joint ownership of the forest, land intended for forestation, other land or property and the regulation of the north-forest border. On 1 May 2016, it became an excuse for law and justice politicians to exclude most citizens from trading in agricultural, forestry land, which violates, I repeat, sacred and constitutional property rights. We've been offering better solutions. The requirement of several years of residence in Poland would fully protect Polish land from the purchase by foreigners. In conclusion, I might add this example from life taken. My uncle inherited the land from his grandfather, where the forest grows. This forest is neither fenced nor guarded. Any Polish citizen can enter this forest, collect blackberries, collect mushrooms. At this point, if uncle wanted to hand this forest over to his neighbour or sell it, the Polish state will extort him from this forest. [[Voice from the Chamber: A Member may pass it on.]] Therefore, I recommend not only to colleagues from my club, but also to all Members present in the Chamber to reject the project at second reading. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-12-sejm-16-1.u225	Thank you very much, sir. [[Applause]] I invite Mr Krzysztof Truskolaski, the Modern Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-12-sejm-16-1.u226	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! According to data from the Central Statistical Office, forest land in Poland is an area of approximately 9 million ha, of which less than 2 million belong to private owners. The amendments proposed in the draft law on forests introduce the right to buy private forest land for State Forests. As the designer assures, the aim of the change is to protect private forests from uncontrolled buy-out after 1 May 2016, when the 12-year protection period for the purchase of agricultural land and forest land by foreigners on special conditions. In addition, it is intended to be a security for State Forests for the implementation of the obligation to increase areas under the National Forest Enhancement Programme. The State Forests will have an impact on the prices of private land by questioning these prices and the possibility to refer the case to a court in order to establish a binding amount. The project assumes that the land can be purchased at a price not higher than the value specified by the valuer. The government project will introduce a two-step process for the sale of forest property. Sellers and buyers may conclude a conditional agreement, which the notary will be required to report to the State Forest Forests Forests. If the State Forests make a declaration on the exercise of the right of first purchase, the seller will be obliged to conclude a contract for the sale of his land to the State Forests in accordance with the guidelines of the conditional agreement, unless the price is contested by the forward State Forests. We also noticed a few inconsistencies in the project and proposed an amendment on parcels that combine forest land and urbanised land. The reason for restricting the free movement of capital is the public interest, which according to the projector is to increase forest resources belonging to the Treasury. However, it should be noted that the economy of State Forests often involves an increase in the logging of forests under the jurisdiction of this state unit. At the same time, it is not subject to social control except to consultation of forest equipment plans, which take place once every 10 years and are not binding. The last events related to the Białowieża Forest are in bad light of the State Forests. Among citizens, organisations interested in nature conservation in Poland and politicians, there are many doubts about the noble motives of the actions of State Forests, whose aim is to protect nature, of course. There is reason to believe that the forest management carried out by the State Forests does not always serve the environment. Appropriate action and decisions by the State Forests are needed to restore public confidence. The work on the project involved a short period of time for public consultation and the limited scope of the opinion institutions, but some reservations were taken into account and impacted on the final version of the Act. The Polish Districts Association questioned the limitation of the right of first purchase only for State Forests. As a result, local government units were not covered by these provisions because of the functions of the local authorities in the purchase of land. This law will result in State interference and a restriction on the freedom of private owners to dispose of their assets, which consequently leads to the nationalisation of forest land in a simple way. This is a consequence of agricultural land. In the face of such changes, the Modern Posel Club will not support this amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-12-sejm-16-1.u227	Thank you very much, sir. I invite Mrs Urszula Pasławska, a club of the Polish People's Party. You're welcome, my fellow Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-12-sejm-16-1.u228	Thank you very much. Dear Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I have the pleasure on behalf of the Polish People's Party Parliamentary Club to present the position of the club on the draft law amending the Law on Forests. The idea of the law itself is absolutely right and here we agree with Minister Necessary. The project of increasing forestism in Poland through the acquisition of private property, private forests is absolutely, I would say, the right and Polish People's Party supports this aspect of the procession. In contrast, much doubt is raised by further records, prescriptive, which cause interference in other activities, such as donations, will inheritance. The sovereign interference of the State Forests seems to be even a regime in these activities. After all, the donation is in its own intention a donation, not for profit, but by giving anything to another person, we are motivated by completely different motives. The entry of State Forests into such an agreement between two persons is as unjustified as possible. Similarly, many doubts concern the question of determining the value or market price of the forest or land real estate, which is to be forested. Let us remember that this law refers to two issues: firstly, how to determine the market price, since the market will not be - the state, restricting the marketing of private forests, in fact eliminating the market - secondly, should the State Forests really show such a sovereign action and, if they do not agree with the price, determine the price themselves, leaving the person who sells only the right to sue the court for fixing the price? It seems that this is unreasonable and it is entering into the sacred right of property. It can be said that this is a very dangerous precedent, but unfortunately it must be said that it is already a redecisive, because it is another entry into the right of ownership, in the next law, and it is very dangerous. The Polish People's Party depends on the support of this law in the part I was talking about earlier, on the acceptance of the amendments tabled. It reminds me of the American phrase. I think the politician who said: A country that can give you everything is also able to take everything away from you. Thank you very much, and I'm making corrections to your hands, Marshal.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-12-sejm-16-1.u229	Thank you very much, Member. Nine Members joined the questions. Would any of you like to sign up for any more questions? If not, the first question will be asked by Mr Norbert Kaczmarczyk, the Kukiz club15. Question time - 2 minutes.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-12-sejm-16-1.u230	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The fact that Polish forests should be protected as much as the land is obvious. In the case of the Land Protection Act there has been a curiosity situation: the German farmer has a greater right to buy Polish land than the resident of the Polish city, which is the result of a new definition of the individual farmer. Forests must be protected, but this time let's do it so that it doesn't affect ordinary citizens in any way. The mechanisms introduced since the entry into force of the Act may result in paralysis in the relations of private entities subject to land and immovable property. While the request to maintain the country's strategic natural resources in the hands of the State Treasury seems appropriate, the question remains open as to whether this must be done on such a large scale. Last Monday we noticed in the club that there was such a situation in the provisions of the Land Act, that the German individual farmer has a greater right to buy Polish land than the resident of the Polish city. This is the definition of an individual farmer. It seems to me that in this situation it would be worthwhile to proceed... [[I do not know what you are basing your thesis on.]] Please? [[Not in fact.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-12-sejm-16-1.u231	Please, no polemics from the benches.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-12-sejm-16-1.u232	Then we can meet here just after and I'll show you the definition of an individual farmer. We also tabled amendments. It would be worth thinking about securing citizens. It seems to me that in this situation 5 years of living on the ground Polish would have been enough. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-12-sejm-16-1.u233	Thank you very much, sir. The question will be asked by Mr Zbigniew Ajchler, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-12-sejm-16-1.u234	Mrs. Marshal! Mr Fellowships and Mr Fellow Members, The speed of proceding is cosmic. There's a clear rush and a kind of fear, but of what? You've taken an insane course of statehood. After all, there is no climate in our country of moving in parliament, nor do we Poles have any, except for special exceptions, contraindications to moving in forests. Why do you have such huge, gigantic trust in one official? This also applies to the Agricultural Property Agency, as regards land, and to the institution, the State Forests. Aren't you afraid of responsibility and all sorts of unclean things? This case of woods is not good for the good. You don't even sanction an element when entities can't get along. I'm talking about the details of the bill. In the case of natural or legal persons purchasing land, if they do not agree in price terms, the seller shall not withdraw. You can't do that, it's an attempt on privacy. On five experts, if we put them in separate rooms, I bet the same product will be five times different. I want to make it clear that generations of Poles have been fighting for decades for private property as the basis of our country. Today I see in many planes it is beginning to be threatened. I can't see in your billings why you're so eager to make such a state. After all, Poles, farmers, we have reason, we know what to do with private, personal property. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Do not forbid us to possess and decide what to do with it. After all, this is the fundamental right of every Pole, every man. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-12-sejm-16-1.u235	Thank you very much, sir. I invite Mr John Duda, the Law and Justice Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-12-sejm-16-1.u236	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! We do not defend Polish forests from nationalisation, but from such a complete, disorganized buyout. But I understand and support this concern of the government. I also support the Ministry, because the purchase of forests by foreign investors is a threat. However, I would like to draw the Minister's attention to his lips. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the Wouldn't it be worth considering not using the first-running rules for small forest parcels, e.g. to 1 ha, adjacent to each other, as it is in the adopted agricultural law? This would simplify the process of trading in parcels which the State Forests are not interested in anyway. According to the experience regarding the right of the first purchase, the notary will inform about any transaction where the stamp will appear on the map, and with us in southern Poland, I suspect that probably also in eastern Poland, with a very large fragmentation of the forest parcels, this will be a huge problem. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-12-sejm-16-1.u237	Thank you very much, sir. I invite Mr Jerzy Meysztowicz, the Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-12-sejm-16-1.u238	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Two issues have already been raised here, which are indeed quite important. The first is that this law raises very serious reservations about its constitutionality. Because here it is shown that this law restricts property rights. Here, Mr Ajchler has rightly put this issue under consideration. It is a question of why you do not allow the possibility that the price that will be accepted and confirmed by the court will be the price that the owner will not accept and will say: no, I will not sell this forest for this money, I will withdraw from this transaction. You're making it impossible for the state to withdraw. He's gonna say no, I wanna still own this forest, I'm not gonna sell it to anyone. Indeed, in your solution, you lead to a situation where its sacred property right is limited. And the second thing that also complicates the whole process of preparing such an agreement. It is not enough that here the notary will have to check in very detail when it comes to recordings in the plan, whether this plot is really a plot that borders on the forest. He will also have to check whether this forest on this land list will be a state forest, whether it will be a private forest. Because when it's a private forest, it's not gonna be a right of pre-emption for a good cause, because from this bill, it's just about the land that's gonna stick to the state forests. Therefore, you create some additional activities there, when, for a good cause, really these solutions that are in force today, and possibly records that would limit the ability of foreigners to buy forests, would be quite sufficient. But if we look at all these actions in the field of land and now the matter of forests, it's like it's coming together and we see why you're not so comfortable with the work and functioning of the Constitutional Tribunal, [[♪ The bell ♪]] Because these laws raise constitutional doubts, so it's better not be anyone to check it out. Thank you very much. [[If you don't know what's going on, it's a tribunal.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-12-sejm-16-1.u239	Thank you very much, sir. I invite Mr Richard Wilczyński, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-12-sejm-16-1.u240	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The rapporteur made a number of comparisons between the Law amending the Law on Forests and the Law stopping the sale of real estate from the Treasury's Agricultural Property Resources. The same threats have been raised, e.g. redemption by foreigners, speculators. Consequently, other threats are not raised, e.g. resulting from the possibility of a decrease in the value of real estate due to the stiffening of turnover or the exclusion of large numbers of people and entities from the possibility of acquiring agricultural or forestry land. But there are, of course, differences. I'd say there are even inconsistencies. In the agricultural land law, churches and religious unions were allowed free circulation of land. A corresponding change occurred at second reading. Churches and religious unions do not have the same fora in the processed law on forests. And here's the question, a very serious question. This would have to be explained to the High House and to society. What is the substantive reason for this difference? Here Churches and religious unions can freely rotate the earth, and here they are subject to the same principles as everyone else. Or maybe the lack of preference for churches and religious unions in the trade in forest land is an oversight and an appropriate amendment will still appear. Thank you very much. [[Exactly.]] [[We'll fix it in the Senate, sir.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-12-sejm-16-1.u241	Thank you very much, sir. I invite Mr Jerzy Gosievski, the Law and Justice Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-12-sejm-16-1.u242	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Dear Minister, The proposed law is necessary primarily for the protection of Polish land, here - forests and land related to forest management. There is a risk that after 1 May 2016, land in Poland will be subject to increased interest of possible buyers from other countries. I would very much like to ask you to answer a few questions that will calm the doubters. Is it true that the State Forests will have the right, not the obligation, to take advantage of the possibility of acquiring land? Is it true that the costs of handling a notary and valuer will not be borne by the vendors? Is it true that it is the responsibility of every country to protect this country and its citizens, and for the first time in many years the Polish government has fulfilled this obligation? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-12-sejm-16-1.u243	Thank you very much, sir. I invite Mr Piotr Pole, the Law and Justice Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-12-sejm-16-1.u244	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! The law on the shaping of the agricultural system adopted at the last meeting of the Sejm was a broad reference to this topic, as the agricultural land is protected in other European Union countries. Here we do not find this thread in the justification. I would therefore like to ask: How is the land which is wooded or adjacent to forests protected by these countries in other countries of the European Union? As my predecessor said, it is in the interests of every Member State of the European Union to protect its resources, whether agricultural or forestry resources, in a responsible manner, of course. There's a lot of talk here about sacred property rights. Therefore, I would like to ask, knowing already that the law does not cover forest land, which will be transferred to the nearest one in the form of inheritance, etc., or the owner of such land donated be inheriting this land as the closest person will be able to... [[That's what's missing.]] ...by exercising the right of ownership, if, of course, the stock of the stand on this ground is adequate, to manage this resource in the form of sales? Will he be able to simply sell the trees growing on this land as wood and thus take advantage of the opportunities of his income, then, of course, he will be able to forest this land? I would also like to say, High Izbo, that the forest farm of the State Forests is a good host, one of the very good estate owners on the premises [[♪ The bell ♪]] The Republic of Poland. In recent years, for this good governance, you have been punished with a special tax, which you must pay to the state budget. Therefore, if there is a need for some funds to buy back the land we are talking about today, will these funds be found? Because we know that the budget of the State Forests for this has been...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-12-sejm-16-1.u245	Thank you very much, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-12-sejm-16-1.u246	...in previous years he's been messed up. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-12-sejm-16-1.u247	Thank you very much, sir. I invite Mrs Gabriela Lenartowicz, the Civic Platform Club. You're welcome, my fellow Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-12-sejm-16-1.u248	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I would like to ask the applicants, the representative of the applicants: On what basis do you claim that, without this de facto expropriation, there will be some uncontrolled buy-out of forest land, and on what would this uncontrolled buy-out be? Who would control him, and who should normally control such a buyout? Because I don't hide that it's quite difficult and very specific. That's one thing. Second line. I would like to ask you about the wording in your statement that this forced purchase by the Forests is the only tool for protecting and shaping the natural environment in these forests. Is it, therefore, merely nationalisation that guarantees compliance with environmental rules and rules? And does that mean that we are moving towards further nationalising different areas of our lives in order to comply with environmental and environmental principles... Because just now, my previous speaker asked if it was your duty to protect the citizens. What is the protection of citizens in terms of their ownership? So much for me. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-12-sejm-16-1.u249	Thank you very much. The question is asked by Mr Grzegorz Wojciechowski, club Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-12-sejm-16-1.u250	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The principle is that the countries joining the European Union sign the Accession Treaty, and in this treaty is that the conditions for acquiring both agricultural and forestry land must not be worse for the citizens of the European Union than at the date of the signing of the Treaty. Poland is an exception here. Some say we have a long transition period, but this exception is still different. This exception is that the law on the acquisition of land by foreigners, which was in force on the date of signature of the accession treaty - this pre-war law, from 1920 - is mentioned as: it cannot be taken into account. So the power of this law ends on April 30th. Hence my question: Are the safeguards, which are in this law, similar to those contained in the agricultural land law mentioned here by your Member, sufficient to ensure that the level of security generated by this law is similar to the level of security that the 1920 law gives? [[♪ The bell ♪]] Of course, I'm skipping cases here about the fact that this law didn't work at some time, these transactions weren't recorded or recorded...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-12-sejm-16-1.u251	Thank you very much, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-12-sejm-16-1.u252	...and not recorded. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-12-sejm-16-1.u253	Thank you. I invite Mrs Anna April, the Law and Justice Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-12-sejm-16-1.u254	Marshal, thank you so much for letting me speak. Dear Izbo! I have a question for the Ministry, for the Minister. Will this law increase the implementation of the National Forest Scheme? Will 30% of the forest be reached in 2020? Is the Ministry of the Environment working on the implementation of this programme? These are the three questions I'm asking you. Please answer me. Thank you kindly.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-12-sejm-16-1.u255	Thank you very much, Member. I invite Mrs Józef Szczurek-Żelazko, the Law and Justice Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-12-sejm-16-1.u256	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I have a question for the Minister: Can the State Forests now buy agricultural land under the forest? If so, what is the scale of this, what is this row of magnitude? Second question: If this law is adopted, does the State Forest Directorate have the knowledge of the estimated annual cost of purchasing the land? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-12-sejm-16-1.u257	Thank you very much. The list of Members to be put to the floor has been exhausted. I ask the Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Environment of Minister Andrzej Necessary to answer questions.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-12-sejm-16-1.u258	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! National Forest Farm State Forests is the best company in Europe in terms of development, in terms of all biological, natural indicators, all factors in terms of nature conservation. We boast so much that there are protected areas, there is nature. In general, all of Nature is located in the State Forests. By what? Thanks to the proper development. On the issue of forests, since 1945, ladies and gentlemen, 2 million hectares of forests have arrived in Poland - 2 million hectares. [[Good.]] [[It didn't come out of nowhere.]] It didn't come out of nowhere, it's just the ant work of generations of foresters. You don't talk about it every day because it's not a bearable subject. This is exactly what I'm going to say right now, so that you all have this information as well. 2 million ha of wooded, i.e. the level of state forests increased by 2 million ha. What does that mean, 'cause I'm hearing about some clippings here? This means that the economy in the State Forests is characterised by a sustainable model of management, and a sustainable model of management, according to Clark's paradox, means that less biomass is produced than it grows annually. In the State Forests, about 60% of the population is raised annually. what's going to grow in a given year. By comparison, the farmer raises 100% If he has time to reap the fruit. This is a situation... [[It's a classic.]] Yes, sir, I am very pleased that you know this. This is a production function, but we are not talking about non-production functions which the state, as a guarantee of environmental safety, guarantees every citizen: clean air, tourist functions, non-production functions, temperature mitigation, water protection and many, many others. That is why you enter with your, as you might call it, interventionism. He does this to protect the health, environmental safety of all Poles, because forests are clean water, clean air. Private forests - lower wealth, lower wealth, lower indicators, lower growth, less wood per hectare. Vide State Forests. State Forests - over 90-year-old organization, thanks to which on the basis of a compound percentage, i.e. the work done for many generations, are the resources that they are. We don't interfere with property rights. The person who decides that he is dumping is free to choose whether or not he is disposing of the property in question according to the law intended for forestry, forestry, etc., etc. There's no breach here. On the other hand, the statutory right of pre-emption is optional. It's optional. Maybe. The State Forests are a special organisation and are specifically controlled. Practically all the time, some control of the Supreme Chamber of Control continues in the State Forests. It is the Supreme Audit Chamber and other bodies that check whether the principles of purpose, economy and whether these optional decisions were properly complied with will be properly taken by the State Forests, represented in trade by a forward-looking or not. That is why I say: this is an optional right. Traders, as the Member has said, agree on the price and, as a rule, the sale will take place at this price. In a situation of gross difference in price levels, we have two instances. According to the property management regulations, we have an asset valuer, an authorized valuer, and the next step may be the court. Mr... [[That's not a record.]] Mr Duda. I understand that there is some concern about very small parcels located here, let us call it, in the neighbourhood and at the same time in the neighbourhood, in the sense of the neighbourhood, as is the case in some regions of our country, where this fragmentation is specific. After the entry into force of this law, its implementation will be entrusted here to the current Directorate-General for State Forests, it will report to us and if there is any awkwardness towards citizens, we will respond. That's why there's an organ of State Forest Farm State Forests, a unit supervised by the Minister of Environment, so we're going to keep reporting it and explain it according to the needs. This is still in reference, Mr Meysztowicz, to what he said about the infringement, the limitation of property rights. There's a conditional agreement, so you can't talk about this violation here. The draft provisions of this law cover all entities that will try to trade, including churches and religious unions, here there is no doubt. Mr Gosiewski asked if the State Forests would have the right, not the obligation to acquire. As I said, this is optional on the basis of the conditions set out in the Act. It is the forwarder who makes the decision, directs the proposal to the Director-General, who, on the basis of a verification within the structure, the organisation of the internal structure of the entity will issue the consent or not. So it's not as violent as we imagined. Notarial costs and any costs associated with the whole purchase and sale process, here the Directorate-General of State Forests will issue an appropriate technical order, these costs will be borne by the State Forests unit. I've talked about it a little bit. Protection of the state and citizens, environmental security. This is a fundamental condition to be met. We have adopted the country's forest policy, we have a national forest-enhancing programme, and that's where we have the provisions that by 2020 we are going to get a forest-enhancing rate of 30%. At the moment, we're 29.4%. The woods of the country. This subject has been investigated, an expert study has been carried out. At the moment, in order to achieve this level of forestism, about 680,000 are missing. ha. This is the size that is necessary to complete this programme, which was adopted by the Council of Ministers. The topic of land protection in other countries. Here's the situation a little bit... In the case of forest land in other countries, the situation is such that this forest land is protected in a special way in Poland, because we still have forest land, which belongs to the State Treasury. For example, in the Czech Republic, where there was a reverse process, i.e. there was a sale, now the state buys, or increases the share of state ownership. And I will tell you that during the interwar period, in 1927 and 1937, during the Second Republic of Poland, there was a situation that the State intervened and during that period 380,000 were acquired. ha forest land and forests, this, too, should be highlighted, regulated at the same time, I am talking about land movements, income and distribution, all the backlogs that were due to the policies of the possessive states. I just want to show you how important it was and how important it was. The owner of the private forest... Private forests and state forests - all forests are covered by one law, the Forests Act, and the laws apply equally to all forests. If it is a private forest which has a simplified plan for the installation of the forest or the decision of the old forest, it is possible to conduct forest management on the basis of these documents in its forest, and therefore, by simplifying, obtaining wood, to sell wood from its own land. As far as the funds are concerned, the funds for the acquisition of this forest will come from the forest fund. The Forest Fund is a specific fund which is fixed in the State Forests, and one of the main sources of revenue of this Fund, perhaps the most important, is a permanent write-off from each cubic meter sold by the State Forests. This copy shall be transferred to the forestry fund in the forewords. And now this forest fund will fund this task, so we do not enter into the state budget here. Control of land purchase, compliance with environmental rules, general rules of trade. So, yes, from May 1st, if we don't introduce these laws, we'll have general rules for the rotation of forest land. The audit shall be carried out at the level of the Director-General of the State Forests. Any information on land income and land use, the purchase of forests will be published in the Public Information Bulletin, so this information will be widely available. I'm almost done. Mrs April - the implementation of the National Lesitisation Programme. I said, we're about 680,000 short. Lands suitable for forestation within the State Forests have been exhausted, these land has been forested. Therefore, at the moment it is necessary to achieve this and to achieve it, or at least to minimise the failure - because it is quite a large area, it is difficult at the moment to say decisively - of this 30% ratio by 2020. This requires this type of intervention because the State Forests in their resources have exhausted the land they could wood. Is the Ministry of Environment working on... [[Voice from the room: Realization.]] ...the purgatory of this program? Yes, expert reports were carried out in 2014. Expertise has been carried out on the risks and possibilities of both default and execution. Therefore, this size, which I am talking about, this missing size, is precisely the result of this expertise, which was carried out by the Forestry Research Institute. The annual cost of land purchase - this is currently estimated at PLN 10 million and 500 ha per year, because at least in the first year of implementation, i.e. this year, we find it difficult to expect such increased traffic in the field of forest land. And one last piece of information. The question was, how many forests did they acquire? Between 2012 and 2015 there were 178 hectares of forests worth PLN 3,867,606, on average for 1 ha PLN 21 728, and 49 hectares of agricultural land to be forested with a total value of PLN 671 416, on average for 1 ha PLN 13 702. The data comes from a land register held in the Directorate-General for State Forests in Warsaw. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-12-sejm-16-1.u259	Thank you very much. The rapporteur of the committee, Anna Paluch, will also answer the questions. [[Your Marshal, in corrigendum mode, I wanted to speak...]] But you haven't been replaced... [[Game in the O.R.]] [[But the Member was not mentioned.]] You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-12-sejm-16-1.u260	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! Allow me to point out modestly, Minister, that the fact that you are doing your job very well shows that only congratulations should be made, and I am glad that they are. But for this country, you collect money, wages. That's one thing. [[Game in the O.R.]] [[Voice from the room: Is that a correction?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-12-sejm-16-1.u261	I ask you to remain calm in the courtroom, and I ask you to approach...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-12-sejm-16-1.u262	Second thing. I think... [[Game in the O.R.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-12-sejm-16-1.u263	I'm asking for peace in the courtroom.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-12-sejm-16-1.u264	I think, Minister, that you have... [[That's not a correction.]] ...property of obsessive dislike of the private property of Poles...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-12-sejm-16-1.u265	Mr President, this is not a corrigendum.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-12-sejm-16-1.u266	...which is the motor of progress in the world... [[Voice from the room: Out of line.]] ...and that's why you're blowing our brains out, Poles...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-12-sejm-16-1.u267	Mr...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-12-sejm-16-1.u268	...about this sort of thing and the phobia of foreign buy-out...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-12-sejm-16-1.u269	Mr...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-12-sejm-16-1.u270	...and there's no place at all...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-12-sejm-16-1.u271	Mr...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-12-sejm-16-1.u272	...this element. Thank you very much. [[Mr President, you are obsessed with something normally.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-12-sejm-16-1.u273	I'm really sorry, but this isn't a correction. I would very much like to ask you to comply with the rules of procedure. Please, Mrs Anna Paluch, the rapporteur of the committee, will address the questions.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-12-sejm-16-1.u274	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Mr. Necessary has already answered the excellent majority of the questions. I'm just gonna let a few things go a little further. Question one, which is the pace of the procession. So, ladies and gentlemen, today was the first reading of the law and a report was presented to the committee, but we do not even dream of breaking the record from the last term, when the racket was imposed on the State Forests, it is about these amounts twice of 800 million PLN and then 2% from turnover. And that was 26.5 hours: Thursday at hours. The committee meeting started on 9.30 a.m. on Friday at 9.30 a.m. 12 was after the third reading, i.e. from the first reading to the adoption of the law it was 26.5 hours. I don't think anybody's gonna beat that record anymore. That's the first line. Now line two. There were questions about price fixing, in case of doubt, by a forward-looking. That's what Art says. 37g. He says that if the foreseeable considers that the price specified in the contract of sale or in those other contracts is abnormally different from the market value, in particular it exceeds the value specified by the valuer, he may request the court to determine the price within 14 days of the submission of the redemption statement. So, ladies and gentlemen, nothing slows down the forward-looking head of the public unit, out of care, out of rational management of public funds. And you can really imagine that, in the vicinity of the state forests, one owner offers to sell to another owner for a grossly high price, so that he can use the foreplayers. There has to be a mechanism, a safety valve that allows us to realize... Well, I'm sorry, but court control is probably the highest standard of protection for citizens' rights. Here's another line. The concept of sacred property right was created here in very emotional speeches. [[Possessions.]] Well, ladies and gentlemen, the rules that we are debating today are designed to ensure that the uncharted and uncontrolled forest areas do not go into private hands, because the Polish people in general, when they want to go into the woods, mushrooms or berries, they are threatened by contacting the private terrace. Aliens are not allowed to enter. In many countries of the old Union, this is the case. [[Voice from the room: Sweden.]] The Minister has already spoken here about these non-production functions of the forest. Let me remind you that forests have a retention function, even in the past perspective it was implemented from environmental funds a lowland forest retention programme, because regulation of water relations is affected by the presence of forests. The issue of air protection, the issue of conservation of natural habitats. I live in a place where there's a lot of forest... [[Well, that's how I live.]] ...and where many reserves, which radically improve the tourist attractiveness of the area, are administered by the State Forests. So the forests perform a lot of these non-production functions and certainly, comparing the situation in the State Forests with the situation of forest management in other countries, we can consider the State Forest Forests as a model in terms of forest management. One more point that has come up in the debate is the constitutionality of these rules. Well, ladies and gentlemen, let me remind you, I mentioned this analogy between the solutions of the law we are debating and the solutions of the law on the shaping of the agricultural system. I would like to remind you that there, a State Treasury agency can make a statement on the acquisition of this property for payment of the equivalent monetary value. In this context, it would be appropriate to stress that the Constitutional Tribunal in its judgment of 18 March 2010, signed. Act K 8/08, stated - with regard to the Act on the shaping of the agricultural system, but this is a provision similar to that which will be laid down in the Act under review today - quote: Art. 4 of the Law of 11 April 2003 on the formation of the agricultural system is compatible with Article. 2 and Article 2 of Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 16 February 2011 laying down the rules and general principles concerning mechanisms for control by Member States of the Commission's exercise of implementing powers pursuant to Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council and repealing Council Regulation (EC, Euratom) No 1605/2002 (OJ L 347, 20.12.2013, p. 1). Article 21 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1, Article Article 64 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 and 2 in conjunction with Article. Article 31 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 3 of the Constitution of the Republic of Poland. You know perfectly well that these articles of the Constitution that I mentioned, quoted from the operative part of the judgment, are articles relating to property rights. The Constitutional Tribunal did not contest the substance of such a right of acquisition under the Law on the formation of the agricultural system and it can be assumed that, in the case of similar provisions, the decision would be similar if someone challenged it. So, ladies and gentlemen, do not support such arguments without covering, because they are untenable in the light of the case law of the Constitutional Tribunal. To conclude, ladies and gentlemen, forests are the lungs of Poland. And I would very much appeal... I am sorry that these proposals have been made to reject the project from the PO club and the Kukiz club15, because the act of this law is intended to serve the general public. Ladies and gentlemen, forests are the green lungs of Poland and let us try to make sure that future generations also have something to breathe. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-12-sejm-16-1.u275	Thank you very much. The discussion is closed. As a proposal was made at second reading to reject the draft submitted and amendments were tabled, I propose that the Sejm re-direct this proposal to the Committee on the Environment, Natural Resources and Forestry in order to submit a report. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. This concludes the agenda items scheduled for 12 April this year. I would like to inform you that Members have come forward to make their statements. Would any of you and your fellow Members like to make a statement? If not, I'm closing the list. Ms Iwona Michalek, club of Law and Justice, will make her first statement.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-12-sejm-16-1.u276	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Almost 100 thousand city of Grudziądz, with a state-of-the-art hospital in the background, is at risk of bankruptcy. Is there gonna be a board of directors? Following talks with the Kujawsko-Pomorskie voivodeship and a consistent lack of reaction by the city president, i.e. the lack of any action to develop an effective resolution programme, the Councillors of the Grudziądz Law and Justice Club applied to the voivode for the appointment of a commission board. The financial disaster is getting worse overnight. Unofficially, the loss of the hospital for 2015 is already known, which must cover the city. It amounts to almost PLN 43 million. The amount estimated by the municipal authorities of the Civic Platform at the end of 2015 of PLN 24 million is significantly different from the actual amount. The authorities have no idea where to get funds for the current loss cover, they have no idea how to save the city from bankruptcy and the hospital from tearing down the hospital's assets, they're doing nothing, they're carrying out sham actions. I'm guessing the board of directors would sort out a sinking ship. Of course, it's the Prime Minister's decision. The question arises: What's next with this big debt of a 100-thousand city? I would remind you that it has been ruled by civil platform politicians for 10 years. The city itself is in debt for over 250 million, and the hospital's debt is 600 million, but there are still claims. I am afraid that a large audit will reveal actual data, which may be significantly more detrimental to the most indebted on a per capita basis of the city in Poland. Now the city authorities of Grudziądza have come up with the idea that the hospital is owned by a voivode and he is to pay their debts. This information is now soaked into the heads of the citizens of Grudziądz. I declare that there can be no consent to throwing your negligence upon others, and I demand that you draw consequences from those who really have done so. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-12-sejm-16-1.u277	Thank you very much, Member. I invite Mr Mark Polak, the Law and Justice Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-12-sejm-16-1.u278	Thank you very much. Dear Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to dedicate my message to the course of this year's 76th anniversary of the Katyn crime and the 6th anniversary of the Smolensk disaster which took place in my hometown Andrychów last Sunday. The ceremony was organised at the initiative of Fr. Prelate Stanisław Czernik, parish priest of St. Maciej, with my participation and the Union of Political Prisoners of the War Period. The union activists, together with the Prelate, glorified the program of celebrations through the initiative of bringing and then consecrating the urn with Katyn and Smolensk land on the field altar, the so-called. Andrychowska Golgota. The ceremony began at St. You have a Holy Mass in the name of your country and a presidential couple and 94 victims of the catastrophe near Smolensk. After the Holy Mass, in which many residents of the city and surrounding area participated, delegations of many communities laid flowers and lit candles under a plaque commemorating the victims of the catastrophe. The event was attended by local parliamentarians, local government officials of various levels and representatives of social organizations, as well as school youth and scouts. A commemorative speech was given in which the tragic events of both April 1940 in the Katyn Forest and 10 April 2010 in Smolensk were presented. During the speeches, a special letter from the President of Law and Justice, Mr Jarosław Kaczyński, addressed to the organizers and all participants of the ceremony was also read. The climax was sacrifice and placing on the field altar, so called. Andrychowska Golgota, land from Katyn and Smoleńsk and reading the content of the certificate of its origin. Along with the celebrations of the 6th anniversary of the Smolensk catastrophe, the 5th anniversary of the plaque commemorating the event was also celebrated. The atmosphere of seriousness and patriotic mood was emphasized by the brass band at the CSR in Roczyń performing a properly selected repertoire. The festivities ended the commemorative meeting organized in the historic undergrounds of the rectory of St. Maciej in Andrychów, which has become an excellent opportunity for parliamentarians, self-governments and residents to share their reflections, comments and insights about not only the events of 10 April 2010 but also the current political situation and the need for unity of society. To conclude, I would like to express my thanks from this point of view for the initiative, help and participation in these touching, patriotic celebrations. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-12-sejm-16-1.u279	Thank you very much, sir. I invite Mrs Teresa Nolas, the Law and Justice Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-12-sejm-16-1.u280	Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Ladies and gentlemen! In every man, one must be able to see his sensitivity and work for values. Today I want to talk about a boy with a guitar who deserves the best memories, about Krzysztof Clenchon, because we're talking about him. This year the 35th anniversary of his tragic death passed on April 7. Krzysztof Antoni Klenczon was born on 14 January 1942 in Pultusk. He was an outstanding Polish composer, vocalist and guitarist of rock music, founder and co-founder of bands such as Blue and Black, Five Valley, Red Guitars, Three Crowns. But the best of his musical years, as he confessed, come to work with the band Red Guitars. Red Guitars as a formal group were founded on 3 January 1965 at the Café Cristal in Gdansk between hours. 11 a.m. 2.30 p.m. This band can be called a musical phenomenon. In the autumn, let's go back to the lakes, the history of one knowledge, the white cross, are songs that have been permanently inscribed in the collective consciousness of Poles and are still recognizable by millions of listeners. The white cross is a song that was born from the family history of the Clenchons. Krzysztof's father, Czesław, was an AK guerrilla soldier who, after his conviction in 1946, hid under a changed name for 10 years. To Szczytno returns only after the so-called. political thaw. It is on the basis of the father's conversations with his son in 1968 that the white cross arises. This song at the Opole Festival in 1969 wins the main prize of the Minister of Culture. A year later, in 1970, Krzysztof Klenczon leaves the Red Guitars and creates a new band of Three Crowns and such songs as In 1972 in the Congress Hall in Warsaw he gives his last concert before going to the United States with his family. This is a very difficult time for him. I'll take the risk that Krzysztof Klenczon never found himself in America. He misses Poland very much, it is there that he writes some works about his Slavic soul and his longing for his homeland, such as lightflies from my parts, cherry orchard, music from the other side of the day, Home. On February 26, 1981, Krzysztof Klenczon at the Mirford Club in Chicago plays a charity concert from which the income in part is intended for the treatment of Polish children. It was his last performance. On the way back, he is injured and goes to the hospital, where after 40 days he loses his fight for his life at only 39 years old. In July, his ashes return to Poland to rest at the cemetery in Szczytno. The crowds say good-bye to him, people sit on roofs and trees, and there's a circular movement in the city. His funeral became a manifestation of love for beautiful creation and personality, a tribute to thousands of fans who said goodbye to him forever. Krzysztof Klenczon lives in his songs and in our memory. In Warsaw one of the streets bears his name. In Szczytno concerts and festivals of his music are organized every year. In Gdynia on 11 October 1993, a musical association of his memory was established under the name of Christopher and under the direction of Wiesław Wilczkowiak. Krzysztof Klenczon, Niuniek, because that's what the colleagues in the industry called him, is an outstanding rock artist of the 60s and 70s. Last century. Everything was due to his talent and hard work of self-learn. His music always carried where the water and the forest were. Today it is carried from the clouds to the ground. 'Cause he loved life like crazy, He was walking through the park with the guitar. In the dawn of the nightingale of happiness he chased, He bowed his neck over a white cross. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-12-sejm-16-1.u281	Thank you, Member. I invite Mr Krzysztof Głuchowski, the Law and Justice Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-12-sejm-16-1.u282	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! This statement is made on behalf of myself and on behalf of Mrs Teresa Nolas. We would like to draw attention from this point of view to the difficult situation of the tobacco industry in Poland, including tobacco growers and tobacco processors. The proposed solutions contained in Directive No 40 of the European Commission of 2014 deepen the situation in this industry, not only with regard to tobacco growers but also with other actors in the tobacco market, thereby creating a real threat to the stability of tobacco cultivation and the revenue of the state budget. In addition, the difficult situation of Polish growers results in a lack of EU subsidies. The Ministry of Agriculture did not make use of its capacity at the time and the formal application for aid was submitted after the deadline, which unfortunately resulted in a lack of Union subsidies for domestic production as opposed to other countries which benefit from these subsidies. So from the vending machine we became a group of growers uncompetitive to growers from other countries. The production and processing of tobacco is an important part of the Polish economy, of which it is a high indicator in the overall balance of Polish trade in agri-food products. It should be added that excise and VAT revenues amount to around PLN 23 billion in 2013, this year the sum is estimated at PLN 15 billion. It's a sign of something. An important argument is the 100-year tradition of tobacco cultivation and the high rate of specialisation among growers. A separate argument is the investments carried out and the mechanicalisation of this production and the climatic and climatic conditions. The current rules introduced by the previous government are highly unfavourable and can consequently lead to the elimination of tobacco cultivation in Poland. For the sake of the above, we ask the Prime Minister to amend the rules on the re-training of growers and to point out the need to introduce rules on the input of Polish tobacco of 40%. for the production of cigarettes in Poland. Such solutions are applied in other countries which thus protect their industry. It should also be borne in mind that these solutions will contribute to the eradication of unemployment while ensuring higher financial revenues for the national budget. The above argument is that, as a country, we should give due care to protect domestic tobacco production while ensuring that we have more production opportunities for our tobacco products and thus remain a high tobacco leader in Europe. Of course, this is not an incentive to smoke tobacco products, as I inform the High House. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-12-sejm-16-1.u283	Thank you very much, sir. I invite Mr Simon Giżyński, the Law and Justice Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-12-sejm-16-1.u284	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! Berlin and Volomin on the same list. The famous, opinion-making and high-profile tabloids - a painting based on German Bilda, in response to the recent accounts of Bilda, his older and most famous German brother, situated in Warsaw among the most dangerous European cities - published his own list of Europe's most dangerous cities. To the despair of its bright and impeccably pro-European editors and readers, the Bending Image revealed that the most dangerous European city is Berlin, accompanied by two other German colosses: Cologne and Hamburg. The direct background of this undisputed German top among the most dangerous European metropolises is Brussels and Paris. Amsterdam, Frankfurt and Marseille were placed in 6 to 8 locations respectively. Unfortunately, there are no Polish accents on this unfortunate, unsavory, but also informative letter. The first ten most dangerous European cities close Pruszków and Volomin. It is hoped that in the next research the situation will change, because positions of Pruszkow and Volomin are fiercely attacking Dortmund and Naples. Thank you kindly. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-12-sejm-16-1.u285	Thank you very much, sir. I invite Mr Robert Winnicki, Kukiz Club15. There isn't. This is Mr Rafał Wójcikowski, the Kukiz Club15.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-12-sejm-16-1.u286	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Today is the 120th anniversary of the birth of one of the most outstanding Polish naturalists, entomologists, as well as foresters - we were just talking about the law on forests - Mr.Prof. Jan Karpiński, who comes from Piotrków Trybunalski, from my constituency. That's why I've decided to remind myself of this distinguished man. Because we are discussing the fierceness of the Białowieża Forest, the State Forests, the sacred property law, the Corners, which eat trees in the Białowieża Forest, let us remind you of this character, because it is an outstanding character. It is a figure, a person who graduated from forest studies in St. Petersburg, still in Tsar Russia and fortunately finished it in June 1918, before the Bolsheviks. Since 1919, this person, Mr.Prof. Jan Karpiński, has started working in the State Forests, almost from the very beginning, and is so good that soon he creates a reserve in Białowieża, becomes his first director, and the second national park in the history of Poland - Białowieża National Park, which he is the first director, is created from this reserve. Professor Karpiński's doctoral thesis was probably in 1929, in 1933. And imagine that the title of the doctoral thesis, memento mori, simply reads: "The Fauna of the Corners in the Białowieża Forest." The doctoral thesis was published by Prof. Karpiński in 1933. In 1935 he became an honorary citizen of Białowieża. Imagine that during the war he is in exile, mainly in Lithuania, but in October 1944 he returns when the Red Army, in quotes, liberates eastern areas, to Białowieża and instantly covers its duties, and has been working since October 1944 in the Białowieża Forest. There is still war, especially the anti-communist uprising, and Prof. Karpiński is already taking care of his trees, his beloved forest. Ladies and gentlemen, this is the only man I've ever known who's been awarded the Golden Cross of Merit twice. The first Golden Cross of Merit gets before World War II, in the Second Republic of Poland, and the second Golden Cross of Merit gets after World War II from communist authorities. I think he's the only man I know who both authorities respect, and both authorities reward with this award no matter what history we've had. This is the man who performed this function and before the war, and after the war and never joins the Communist Party, never joins the PPR or the PZPR. Ladies and gentlemen, his brother Stanisław Karpiński is a well-known pilot, a well-known RAF soldier. Nevertheless, despite this burden on the communist authorities, the communist authorities do not decide on repression, they do not decide on... Of course, he didn't become a minister, he didn't get a forestry executive, he didn't become a minister, as I say, he didn't become a university rector, the dean of any forestry department. It wasn't possible for him. Nevertheless, he works for the rest of his life, as I say, with his lovely trees. He wrote many books, including books for children, young people, about nature, about the Białowieża Forest, about the Świętokrzyskie Mountains. This is the man who first took pictures of the Białowieża Forest, which praised the Białowieża Forest all over the world. There is even a house in the Białowieża Forest called: Karpiński. This is the fourth house in size in the Białowieża Forest. It's his fault, too. And I'm going to add one last curiosity before I make part of this man's memory. In 1961 Prof. Karpiński was the first in the world to grow in laboratory conditions, i.e. under artificial conditions, realism, or borowice. He was the first in the world to grow up under laboratory conditions to produce borowice. So that we have such outstanding units, [[♪ The bell ♪]] which deserve to be remembered, and since he was born where I am from, I remind you of this outstanding person. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-12-sejm-16-1.u287	Thank you very much, sir. I invite Mr Zbigniew Chmielowiec, Club Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-12-sejm-16-1.u288	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Firefighters alarm and appeal for non-smoking waste. Since the beginning of the year, nearly 20,000 have exploded in the country. grass fires. Three people died in them. The burning of grasses is criminal and harmful to the environment, and deliberate firing may result in the removal of EU subsidies from farmers. The burning of grasses, meadows, pastures is legally prohibited in Poland. There are penalties for this: a fine of up to 5,000. PLN, or even up to 10 years in prison, if such a fire poses a threat to the health and life of many people or causes significant material losses. Since the beginning of the year thousands of hectares of grass have been burned, which are dried up after winter and burn very quickly. Winds also help to spread fire. In the event of a violent change in its direction, fires can get out of control and move to nearby forests and buildings. Fire spreads at a speed of up to 60 km/h, and a fast running man reaches a speed of 20 km/h. It is particularly dangerous to burn grass near roads, as this reduces visibility, which can lead to dangerous collisions and road accidents. A number of toxic chemicals are secreted during grass fires. Animals are also destroyed in the flames, and the breeding places of many species of birds nesting on the ground and in the bushes are destroyed. The nests already settled are also on fire. The European Union is also involved in the fight against the phenomenon of spring firing. The system of direct payments obliges the land user to maintain the land in good condition. The deliberate firing of grasses may result in a reduction or even a complete collection of direct payments. Misuse fires due to their nature and usually large size involve a large number of firefighters and firefighters. Firefighters involved in extinguishing fires of grasses, meadows and wasteland at the same time may be needed to save lives and human property elsewhere. In the spring, the largest number of fires are fired not only by grasses but also by forests. I ask all parliamentarians to join the call of foresters and firefighters to be particularly careful when they are in and adjacent to forest areas, because about 95% Fires are caused by man. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-12-sejm-16-1.u289	Thank you very much, sir. I invite Mr Aleksandr Anczynski, the Law and Justice Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-12-sejm-16-1.u290	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! In my parliamentary statement, I will present an initiative concerning the refusal of the Lace to Divine Mercy on 15 April this year, which came out of my city, Chojnice, from a colleague of Wenceslas Zygmanski, whom I greet. This initiative was supported by our parliamentary team and the Divine Mercy Spark Team from Łódź, which I present. The Parliamentary Team of Members and Sympathists of the Movement of Light-Life, Catholic Action and the Association of Catholic Families in cooperation with the Team of the spark of Divine Mercy from Łódź organizes the prayer of the Crown to Divine Mercy on the day of celebration of the 1050th anniversary of the baptism of Poland. This prayer will take place on 15 April 2016 at 3 p.m. 15 at intersections and squares of the whole Poland. The prayer will have a special character in Poznań at the Poznań International Fair, which will be attended by parliamentarians. So we invite all parliamentarians who want to pray for their homeland to take part in this prayer. It will be held in the hall on the third floor, in room 3.1. This meeting has a one-time, unique character, connected exclusively with the anniversary of the baptism of Poland. Archbishop Marek Jędraszewski, metropolitan Łódź, blessed our prayer with an honorary patronage and an undertaking. TVP1 took over this event with media patronage. For supporting this initiative, I would like to thank everyone, especially the Spectacle of Divine Mercy Team, with Father Remigiusz Recław, Jesuit, headed by Mrs Danusi Pawłowska, Tomek Taladze, also thank you for the commitment of Fr. bp. Damian Bryl. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-12-sejm-16-1.u291	Thank you very much, sir. I invite Mrs Józef Ratchurek-Żelazko, Club Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-12-sejm-16-1.u292	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! On 18 April, we celebrate European Patient Rights Day. The aim of the establishment of this day was to remind you of the fundamental rights of the patient contained in the European Charter of Patients' Rights containing 14 rights, which together lead to a high level of protection of human health and to the provision of quality services provided by different health systems in Europe. These 14 rights are the embodiment of fundamental rights and must be recognised and respected as such in each country. They are linked to the responsibilities and responsibilities of both nationals of the State and all participants in the health system. In Poland, patient rights are derived from the Constitution of the Republic of Poland, ratified international agreements and the Act on the Rights of the Patient and the Ombudsperson of the Rights of the Patient and a number of ordinary laws. The European Patient Rights Charter is one of the documents governing patient rights in Europe. It sets standards of conduct and recommended practices. As various studies on patient awareness show, most people have little knowledge of the subject. It is good to know your rights, this knowledge will allow you to take care of dignity, to have a comfortable feeling during treatment and to have a proper relationship between the patient and the person providing health services. It will allow equal and fair treatment. Patient education is part of the process of raising the standard of healthcare services. The better the patient is informed, the more likely he will cooperate with the medical staff. The most important rights of the patient include: the right to free healthcare services, the right to respect for dignity and intimacy, the right to comprehensive and understandable information on health status, the right to confidentiality of information on the health of the patient, the right to consent to the provision of health services, the right to access medical records concerning health status and medical benefits, the right to respect for private and family life. The right to pastoral care, the right to object to a doctor's opinion or the right of the patient to assert his or her rights are also important rights. Patient education is part of the process of raising the standard of healthcare services. Educational activities aim to make patients aware of their rights, as well as to approximate procedures that govern the functioning of the health system. Various campaigns promoting these rights are aimed not only at patients, but also at all those who can help patients get acquainted with them, i.e. health professionals, families and friends of sick people. In view of the above, I would like to inform you that for the first time in the history of Polish parliamentarianism, the Parliamentary Group was formed. Patients' rights. It was created on the initiative of Members of the Law and Justice. I have the honor of working on this team. This team is working very hard. It provides a natural platform for the exchange of positions between patients and parliamentarians. Once again, the Members of the Law and Justice have proved that the patient and his rights are the most important to us. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-12-sejm-16-1.u293	Thank you very much, Member. I invite Mr Waldemar Andzel, the Law and Justice Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-12-sejm-16-1.u294	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! On 10 April this year. We have already celebrated the 6th anniversary of the Smolensk tragedy, the largest in terms of the number of victims of the tragedy in the history of the Polish Air Force, in which the President of the Republic of Poland died. Professor Lech Kaczyński and his wife Maria. Together with the presidential couple, the remaining 94 passengers of the aircraft TU-154M lost their lives, including the last President of the Republic of Poland in exile Ryszard Kaczorowski, ministers, parliamentarians, heads of central government offices, commanders of all types of Armed Forces, officers of the Office of Government Protection, clergymen, representatives of the military and social organizations, accompanying persons and the entire crew of the aircraft. The memory of the victims was celebrated a week before the anniversary. April 3 in the pine church of the Cathedral of St. The Assumption of the Blessed Virgin Mary took place a solemn Mass, followed by a plaque on the wall of the building commemorating the victims of the tragedy. The inscription on the board reads: "In homage to 96 Poles, deserved for the Homeland, headed by the President of the Republic of Poland Lech Kaczyński, who died on the way to the 70th anniversary of Katyn's crime, in the catastrophe near Smolensk, on April 10, 2010. Residents of Sosnowiec, 10 April 2016. The ceremony was attended by the President of Law and Justice Jarosław Kaczyński. The main national celebrations commemorating the victims of the catastrophe took place last Sunday. It was a special anniversary because for the first time its celebration took place in the rule of law and justice. On that day in Warsaw, a plaque commemorating the victims of the catastrophe was unveiled in the Ministry of National Defence, as well as two in memory of the President of the Republic of Poland Lech Kaczyński - on the building of the Warsaw Town Hall and the Presidential Palace. On the latter one appears among others. an inscription stating that the President of the Republic of Poland, Prof. Lech Kaczyński, worked and lived in this building in 2005 and 2010. The Warsaw anniversary of the Smolensk catastrophe is primarily the speech of the President of the Republic of Poland Andrzej Duda, Holy Mass. in the intention of the victims of the catastrophe in the architects of St. John the Baptist, a march of memory at the President's Palace and a speech by the President of Law and Justice Jarosław Kaczyński. The memory of the victims was, of course, celebrated not only in the capital, but also throughout the country. Numerous festivities took place in many Polish cities, among others. in Krakow, Wrocław, Gdańsk, Szczecin, Sopot, Koszalin or Łódź. Memory marches were held there, and prayers were made in churches throughout the country for victims. Poles honoured the memory of the dead not only by participating in official celebrations, but also by laying flowers and candles on graves and in numerous places commemorating victims of the Smolensk catastrophe. In many places you could hear the sounds of sirens, while national flags appeared in windows. The victims of the Smolensk tragedy, which has shaken us all, will not be forgotten. Poles who commemorated the dead in the catastrophe on April 10 will not allow this, so numerously putting themselves in Kraków Przedmieście and other places of memory. By creating the white-red sea, they demanded the same thing as they have for the past six years - the truth. I hope their demands are met. Let all those who are morally responsible for the death of 96 people bear the consequences. As the President Jarosław Kaczyński said, forgiveness is necessary, but forgiveness after confession and after punishment. I hope that the crowning of the actions commemorating the dead of the devoted country will be a monument that will eventually stand in Kraków Przedmieście. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-12-sejm-16-1.u295	Thank you very much, sir. The statement will now be made by Barbara Dziuk, the Law and Justice Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-12-sejm-16-1.u296	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Today's statement concerns collective transport. Urban communication is one of the most important issues not only integrating agglomerations, but even enabling efficient operation in cities and municipalities. Communication in Silesia is such a big logistical challenge that the former presidents of KZK GOP cities cannot lift it. The Communication Communal Union of the Upper Silesian Industrial District is the organizer of public collective transport. It uses 32 bus and one tram carriers - Silesian Trams. The Marshal's office is responsible for communication. The region is not covered by a single ticketing system and there is no correlation between KZK GOP, MZKP and e.g. Those or Jaworzno. The conclusions of the Supreme Audit Chamber following the KZK GOP audit indicate: tenders were placed under specific carriers, only the most expensive tickets were sold on buses, the quality of the rolling stock was forgotten in the tenders announced to include technical specifications and we know what it looks like. Following the inspection of the Supreme Chamber of Control, the spokesman of the Katowice delegation NIK stated: We met with irregularities of this scale for the first time in the history of our delegation. We have already sent an appropriate notice to the Ombudsman of public finance discipline. 600 million have been spent on the modernisation project for tram infrastructure, and crossroads are hand-held, as in the 19th century. Stop announcement systems do not work despite requirements, no data update. In time of obstacles in the movement of trams, replacement communication should be started - only exists on paper. The restrictions on the volume of transport make it impossible to move around the agglomeration on Saturdays and Sundays, and it is not easy on business days to move in the afternoon and evenings either. PURCHASE, which is the electronic ticket system. Project cost - PLN 189.6 million. Includes the implementation and maintenance of the system for 65 months. European Union funding is covered by the implementation of the system - PLN 149 million. The amount of EU support from the Regional Operational Programme of the Silesian Voivodship for the period 2007 to 2013 amounts to PLN 97.8 million. It is a terrible system purchased in Italy, where it failed. Can such actions be called the care of the region's finances and are they lawful? The system was to be put in place between 2007 and 2013 and the delayed system did not work properly. Failures and non-accessibility of services risk unfairly punishing the passenger. There are similar systems in the country, but only in Silesia did someone come up with the idea that having a ticket could result in punishment. Is forcing people to use periodic tickets in a system that is wrong and, above all, requires recording each journey with a periodic ticket, a sign of a new democratic state in which the passenger is checked personally by his electronic movement control in the urban agglomeration? What about the security of passengers' personal data? What does GIODO say about this, so sensitive to the protection of personal data? I believe that this institution should be audited. There is a breach of personal data protection and a waste of public funds, while the effects of waste are trying to be passed on to the taxpayer and the passenger. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-12-sejm-16-1.u297	Thank you very much, Member. I invite Mr Jack Kurzepa, the Law and Justice Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-12-sejm-16-1.u298	Mrs. Marshal! Dear Messengers, Gentlemen! Your countrymen! Forgive or forgive, what's all this about? Two days ago, during the Smolensk celebrations in Kraków Przedmieście, we heard two speeches encouraging the restoration of the community of the nation and the creation of links between us Poles despite the bad experiences of 2010 related to the Smolensk catastrophe itself and its explanation. It is not that the presidential reflection is embedded in a paradigm other than what President Kaczyński said. None of these statements ignore the sense of pain, the suffering of families and the part of society for which the Smolensk catastrophe is more of a planned action, that is, an assassination rather than a fatal fate. Poland and Poles have clearly divided in this matter into those who share the conviction of the assassination, and those who recognize that it was fatal in effect, but still disaster. This division is a fact and those who are its participants, i.e. we, must, in the name of thinking about the future of the nation and the sustainability of the homeland, undertake the task of rebuilding or maybe re-establishing a bond between us Poles. So far, we are driven by intense emotion, digging ourselves back into the chains of hostility and intransigence. We haven't known it since yesterday. We've reached the fall election solstice. Today, Mr Duda and Mr PiS have the key to Poland's future in their hands. What are we gonna do with her? It is also our responsibility in the moral, social, national and creative sense. How to behave against this small part of Poles, which the Smolensk case does not deal with, or by which it is interpreted diametrically differently, than we do? I think it should be shown, and I trust that this is possible, naked facts, without any interpretation of any of the headquarters of the united right about the events of 10 April 2010. Let us not attempt to interpret the obvious - I call and demand - only the facts, only the truth, no comments of eggheads and polytrunks, no intrusive propaganda. Regardless of this truth, the nation must confront her, see her in all helpless and adjectiveless nudity, and then decide what to do with her. Ignore and pretend she's not here? See, lock yourself in hate and revenge? See, judge the guilty and draw conclusions to move on and be together? What are we gonna do about it, me and PiS and you with PO, me party and you free of party thinking, me Pole and you Polka? Are politicians supposed to order us to do this, or do we need to see the face of your people in the face of a countryman? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-12-sejm-16-1.u299	Thank you very much. I invite Mr Sylvester Khrushch, the Kukiz Club15.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-12-sejm-16-1.u300	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! On 20 April we will celebrate the anniversary of the birth of Wojciech Korfanty, the Polish national leader of Upper Silesia. According to the program bases of the National Democracy, he proclaimed the slogans of inseparable communication between the Upper Silesians and the Polish people. He demanded equality of national Poles. For years he organized our compatriots so that they could fight their freedom, create Polish writings and organizations. He was one of the pillars of the National League. In January 1920, appointed by the Polish government as plebiscite commissioner in Upper Silesia, he managed all the organizational, propaganda and political preparations. As an opponent of the policy of facts made and military decisions, acting as the actual dictator of the Third Silesian Uprising, after the first military successes, he ordered the cease-fire and waiting for the decision of the powers of the Entent. He died on 17 August 1939. His funeral turned into a great patriotic manifestation. It is worth mentioning this outstanding figure also in the recent discussion about bringing Silesians to the role of ethnic minority. Wojciech Korfanty proved that Silesia is a region deeply devoted to the national affairs of Poland. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-12-sejm-16-1.u301	Thank you very much, sir. I invite Mr Norbert Kaczmarczyk, the Kukiz Club15.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-12-sejm-16-1.u302	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! It's sports tonight. Football is the most popular sport in the world. In 2009, as many as 265 million players from both sexes and 5 million judges took part in the competition on the basis of league data from around the world. This is the most famous sport of all people. It is considered a national sport in Poland, thanks to which it brings together a huge crowd of citizens. The level of football in our country is not the highest, but we also have our reasons to be proud. In order to improve this situation, we need new players who will be able to meet the most difficult opponents from all over the world. That's why our hope lies in young players who try every day to grind their skills to soon be able to play at the highest level and represent white-red colors in international games. Unfortunately, there is a problem with financial matter. Because more and more small clubs, most often rural or with small cities, cannot afford to maintain many teams, different age groups. For this reason, the Junior League teams are most likely to suffer, in which we seem to place our hopes on future outstanding footballers. It should be possible to finance clubs located in rural areas, which are at the same time an important centre of culture and sport in their territories, bringing together and activating young people. Is it possible for these clubs to obtain funding for youth training or organize tournaments? Is it possible to support the construction, development or regeneration of sports facilities, especially in rural areas? I've been playing soccer since I was a kid, as long as I can remember. No more talent, because the highest league I've ever played is class. And to which we were promoted with the Flame of Kościelec, where I grew up. Today, when time permits, I play on the B-class team of Agricol Klimonts. Juniors raised in Flame Kościelec play in many clubs in Małopolska today, supply B-class and A-class clubs. I'm already looking forward to the next Agricola and Flame derby. To get to the point, training young people in rural clubs is an exception, and that should be the goal. The subsidies from the municipal and city budgets for the funding of these clubs are added to the hobby, because it is mainly played by players at the age of 30 and more. It's a hobby. Very well, because thanks to this you can somehow cultivate these local traditions, but it seems to me that the most important goal for us would be to fund these very young people. We can't afford coaches, we can't afford to keep a few age groups in small rural clubs, including small cities. In addition to adding to the hobby, the state should add to the training of young people so that it can not only represent our country in dignity at the world championships or European championships, but it is healthy to develop, because in the sports spirit, systematicness, responsibilities and principle, one for all, all for one, are overriding matters. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-12-sejm-16-1.u303	Thank you very much, sir. That concludes our parliamentary statements. I'm ordering a recess until tomorrow, i.e. On 13 April 2016, by 3 p.m. 9. Thank you. [[Adjournment at the meeting at 3 p.m. 19 min 37]]
