ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-21-senat-32-6.u1	Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. I'm reopening the session. Happy birthday to Senator Silence for your birthday. [[Voices from the room: Ooh...]] [[Applause]] We proceed with the examination of item thirty-fifth of the agenda: the Law amending the Civil Procedure Code and certain other laws. The text of the act is contained in print No 384 and the report of the committee In print No 384 A. I ask the rapporteur of the Legislative Commission and the Committee on Human Rights, the Rule of Law and Petitions, Senator Marek Pęka, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-21-senat-32-6.u2	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. High Senate! I have the honour to present a report to the Joint Legislative Commission and to the Committee on Human Rights, Rule of Law and Petitions on the Law adopted by the Sejm on 15 December this year on the amendment of the Civil Procedure Code and certain other laws. To begin with, literally a few words about the purpose and subject of the bill. The purpose of the Act is to ensure the effective implementation of Regulation No 655/2014 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 15 May 2014 establishing a European Account Preservation Order procedure to facilitate cross-border recovery of claims in civil and commercial matters. That Regulation entered into force on 17 July 2014 and As a general rule, This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Notwithstanding the fact that the regulation in principle enters directly into national legal orders, it can therefore be said that it does not require specific transposition, it is always necessary to adapt certain national rules to the functioning of the whole system in a coherent manner to the entry of such legislation into our legal order. Thus, the law on which the joint committees were discussing certain amendments to the Civil Procedure Code, the Law on bailiffs and executions, the Law on Banking Law, the Law on Judicial Costs in Civil Matters and the Act on Cooperative Savings and Credit. The essence of the European Account Preservation Order is to allow the protection of claims on a bank account or an account held by a credit institution other than a bank under the same conditions, i.e. regardless of the country in which the account is kept. The European Account Preservation Order issued in one Member State will therefore be recognised and enforceable in another Member State without having to initiate a separate procedure. This new instrument is therefore intended to provide an alternative to the equivalent safeguards available under national law. So much for the purpose of the bill itself. As for the meeting of the Joint Committee held on 20 December... In addition to the senators, the members of the joint committee were also present representatives of the Ministry of Justice, including Minister Łukasz Piebiak and the Head of the Legislative Department Andrzej Ryng. There was also a senate legislature, Mrs Katarzyna Konieczko, and a judge Waldemar Żurek from the National Judicial Council. At first, Minister Piebiak briefly presented the purpose of the bill, so... that is basically what I have already stated. The discussion then referred literally to two or three specific issues. Senator Pociej asked whether maintenance claims could also be sought and secured on the way of the said legal institution. The Minister's answer was yes. The legislator then raised the question of a flat-rate fee for the provision of information by the Minister of Justice and noted that, given the nature of that fee, the law should at least specify its maximum amount. Senator Seweryński also pointed out in this respect that perhaps it would be necessary to simply give up this fee at all, as it is a manifestation of a certain action of the state which... Well, the state simply has to take on some of the costs of certain documents, some of the information it provides. The Minister referred to these issues in such a way that the Regulation itself gives rise to the introduction of these charges and therefore does not see any grounds to depart from such a construction. In addition, information fees are also levied in other Member States. These are sometimes relatively high fees, even in some countries, if I remember, several hundred pounds or euros. Well, for the time being, we're offering a fee of PLN 50. A special regulation will be issued which will deal with these issues in detail. I think that's it for the report. If there's any questions, I'll answer them as much as I can. Eventually, I'm sure the Minister will be at your disposal as well. I will sum up the report: the joint committees, after considering the law, recommend that it be adopted without amendments.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-21-senat-32-6.u3	Thank you very much, Senator. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the rapporteur's senator. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? No. Thank you very much, Senator. [[Thank you very much.]] The bill was filed by the government. The Minister of Justice has been authorised to present the government's position during parliamentary work. Does a government representative wish to speak on the bill under consideration and present the position of the government? [[Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Justice Łukasz Piebiak: Yes, Mr. Marshal.]] You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-21-senat-32-6.u4	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! In fact, I will limit my speech to thank the Senator rapporteur, Senator Pęk, for making a precise statement of the reasons that the government was in favour of making such a proposal and adopting a law in this form rather than in another form. I would like to stress that we are implementing European Union law. I would also like to stress that we want to implement them on time, so the law should enter into force when the regulation enters into force, namely on 17 January next year. I think we can do it. The fees for the information we propose on the occasion of this law are moderate charges. In the case of the essential part of the questions, these charges will be charged to foreign entities who will address Poland, to the designated authority, the Ministry of Justice, with the request for a bank account. Therefore, it would be difficult for me to remain here in the course of the discussion that was outlined by the rapporteur, the Senator. To charge Polish taxpayers such costs. These costs The 50 zlotys are moderate, these are simply operating costs, the costs of connecting to information systems and the labour costs of officials who will be assigned to do so. The bill is not a controversial act. In the course of work in the Sejm, all clubs supported this law. And I, too, your senators, the High House, would like your support for this bill. Thank you... Of course, I am at your disposal if there are any questions, as are the Senator rapporteur.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-21-senat-32-6.u5	Thank you very much. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of questioning to a government representative related to this item on the agenda. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? Mr. Senator Czerwinski.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-21-senat-32-6.u6	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. I have two questions, Minister. First. We are opening up to a certain extent to the whole of the European Union when it comes to recovery issues. Do other countries do the same? What information do you have on whether other countries have adapted or adapted their buildings to implement these solutions? That's one thing. And second of all... In the explanatory memorandum, I have stated that if the debtor is a consumer, only the courts of a Member State have jurisdiction to issue the order. In other words, courts outside Poland will not be able to issue orders against Polish consumers. What is the rule? Because this is some kind of protection against debt collection companies, let's say, from Luxembourg. But is this absolute protection, or is it possible to override it?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-21-senat-32-6.u7	Thank you very much, Senator. The High Izbo, as far as other Member States are concerned, is how they adapt, of course we do not have detailed information. But we assume that, well, EU bodies, including the European Commission, have measures to enforce the alignment of the normative systems in the Member States with the regulation. Therefore, I do not imagine that Poland or any other Member State should not fulfil the obligations which result from the need to enable the Regulation to function in the legal order of each Member State. We have not studied this issue thoroughly, so I will not say that we have done detailed research in the 27 other Member States' systems. But the instruments for forcing harmonisation in my opinion are sufficient to expect that everyone else, not just Poland, will adopt regulations. Will everyone make it to January 17th? I don't know. I think we should pay attention to whether we're okay. We're gonna be okay. No one's gonna be able to charge us. And these regulations are not provisions which can in some way be clearly assessed as pro-creditors for Polish or pro-credit creditors for foreign creditors who would secure their claims in Poland, because here is total reciprocity, it works both ways. So that I would answer the senator's first question. And when it comes to jurisdiction, because that's what the senator asked, it's a question relating to... I mean, the answer really comes from the article. 6 of the regulation, the one that forced us to intervene accordingly in the Polish legal order, i.e. nr 655/2014. Art. Six, to be precise, lips. 2 provides:. Independently of paragraph 2. 1 where the debtor is a consumer who has entered into a contract with the creditor for purposes which may be considered to be unrelated to the debtor's professional or economic activity, the jurisdiction to issue a freezing order intended to secure the claim relating to that contract shall have jurisdiction only to the courts of the Member State in which the debtor is resident. This is a non-exceptional rule and, of course, a rule in the Regulation, which is directly applicable in all 28 Member States. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-21-senat-32-6.u8	Thank you very much. If there are no further questions, thank you very much to the Minister. [[Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Justice Łukasz Piebiak: Thank you.]] I'm opening a discussion. You're the only one who signed up for Senator Pociej. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-21-senat-32-6.u9	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I believe in this law. In fact, it's hard to imagine us avoiding her at all. For a very good bill that will certainly improve the exchange and redress in Europe when there are more and more cross-border trade transactions every year. What he was talking about, very inquisitively. I congratulate him once again. Senator Czerwiński, the fact that it will not really be possible to prosecute in this way, only through the Polish courts, and it will not be possible to make such safeguards against consumers, gives absolutely complete protection to people who are not engaged in business activities, therefore they are by definition a weaker party. The only thing we talked about at the committee meeting I'm gonna be allergic to the ministry one more time. The problem is that the human factor can always be a problem. I hope that, in view of what we have been dealing with in recent years, with this scale of problems relating to bailiffs, the ministry will analyse very carefully what is happening and, in the event of something, react quickly if the same problems arise in other situations related to bailiffs' activities. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-21-senat-32-6.u10	Thank you very much, Senator. The discussion is closed. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. We proceed with the examination of item 30 of the sixth agenda: the Law on the principles of avoidance of double taxation and the prevention of tax evasion in respect of taxes on income applied by the Republic of Poland and the territory to which tax law belonging to the jurisdiction of the Minister of Finance of Taiwan applies. The text of the Act is contained in print No 392 and the report of the Commission In print No 392 A. I would like to ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Foreign Affairs and European Union and the Committee on Budget and Public Finance, Senator Arkadiusz Grabowski, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-21-senat-32-6.u11	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Ladies and gentlemen! It has been my honour to present a draft resolution to the High House, which was examined during the joint meeting of the Committee on Foreign Affairs and the European Union and the Committee on Budget and Public Finance. It is a law on the principles of avoidance of double taxation and prevention of tax evasion on income taxes applied by the Republic of Poland and the territory to which tax law belonging to the jurisdiction of the Minister of Finance of Taiwan applies. This is a government submission. The resolution, which is annexed to the agreement, which I will say in a moment, sets out the legal framework on the basis of which the framework for cooperation in the field of mutual taxation is set out. The lack of regulation so far has been an obstacle to developing relations between Poland and the Republic of Taiwan. As far as the agreement is concerned, it is concluded under the OECD Convention on Mutual Tax Regulations and, in the opinion of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, is compatible with European Union law. The annex to the resolution itself, the resolution is quite short, is a form of agreement between two entities: the Warsaw Trade Office in Taipei and Taiwan's Taipei Economic and Cultural Office in Warsaw. Why? Both offices are, so to speak, subordinate to the ministries of foreign affairs of Poland and Taiwan respectively. The form of this agreement is due to the complex legal situation as an entity in Taiwan's international arena and is practiced by the countries of the European Union and even by China, which concluded a similar agreement with Taiwan on 26 August 2016. As far as the content of the agreement is concerned, the Legal Office considers that the agreement does not raise any serious doubts. The only question, the serious doubt raised at the meeting of the Joint Committee, concerns the matter covered by the Rule. 4 of the Act, i.e. the application of the Act, i.e. de facto of the Agreement, from 1 January 2017. Here was a suggestion from the Legislative Office that if there is such a provision in the bill, the law must be published by the end of this year. Any doubts at the committee meeting were clarified by a representative of the Ministry. The resolution was adopted unanimously by all the members of the Joint Committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-21-senat-32-6.u12	Thank you very much, Senator. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the rapporteur's senator. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-21-senat-32-6.u13	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Just a quick question. How many Polish businesses operate in Taiwan? Was this information given at the committee meeting? [[Say the question again.]] How many Polish businesses operate in Taiwan?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-21-senat-32-6.u14	As far as I can recall, it wasn't discussed at the meeting. There were some amounts in terms of trade, economic turnover, but as far as the number of operators is concerned, this data was not reported, as far as I remember.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-21-senat-32-6.u15	If there are no further questions, we thank the senator. The bill was filed by the government. The Minister for Development and Finance has been authorised to present the government's position during parliamentary work. Does a government representative wish to speak on the bill under consideration and present the position of the government? No. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of questioning to a government representative related to this item on the agenda. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? [[I'd like to...]] But you're maliciously... [[Joy in the Chamber]] [[Voice from the room: There is no representative...]] I'm declaring a seven-minute recess until 10:30... [[Mr. Marshal, I withdraw my question.]] Let's get back to it now that Senator Pociej has withdrawn his question. Thank you. I'm opening a discussion. Please take the floor of Senator Dowhan.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-21-senat-32-6.u16	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! In short, I would like to express my satisfaction with the signing of this agreement. It is known that Taiwan is received differently in the world and is not honoured by most countries, but Taiwan has taken a very strong root when it comes to trade with Poland. I was also a member of the Polish-Taiwan group in the previous term. And for four years and the previous ambassador, and the current ambassador, who's been around for, like, a year with a piece, they've been working really hard and they've been pushing for such an agreement to be signed. Most countries, including China, have signed such an agreement, so I was surprised why it takes so long because trade with Taiwan is increasing. We know where Taiwan has built its economic power. But first of all, I would like to highlight the very nice and friendly actions of the Excellency of Taiwan in Poland, for example, for schools and other institutions that need for example. electronic equipment. It's about recent equipment, I don't know if classes, or the whole school, are in electronic plates that slowly enter into teaching. That is why I welcome this agreement, because every meeting and every visit was told that it took so long that this agreement had not been signed for many years. It was such a pain. That's why I'm happy... I can't congratulate anyone at the Ministry because there's no one at the Ministry... But I would like to say that this will certainly contribute to a more open exchange of technological thought and, above all, to economic exchanges between two countries. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-21-senat-32-6.u17	Thank you very much, Senator. The discussion is closed. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. Before I announce a break, I think there'll be messages, right? No. It is I who inform you that the fee meeting is scheduled for 3:00 p.m. in room 217. Dismissed until 1 p.m. After the break, the vote will take place. [[Adjournment from 10 minutes 26 to 14 minutes 40]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-21-senat-32-6.u18	Ladies and gentlemen, I will resume the session. Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators, I cordially invite you... I remind all of you, and remind the staff of the Senate, that after the end of our votes, at 3 p.m. in room 217, which is upstairs, there will be a fee meeting. Cardinals will arrive for the meeting. Kazimierz Nycz. You're very welcome. We proceed with the examination of item 30 of the seventh agenda: a change in the membership of the Senate Committee. I would like to remind you that the proposal of the Rules of Procedure, Ethics and Senators on this matter is included in print No 373. I would ask the rapporteur of the Rules of Procedure, Ethics and Senators' Affairs, Senator Sławomir Rybicki, to present a proposal to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-21-senat-32-6.u19	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The Rules of Procedure, Ethics and Senators' Affairs Committee unanimously adopted the draft resolution at its meeting on 13 December I'll read it. On the change in the membership of the Senate Committee. Senate of the Republic of Poland, pursuant to art. Article 13 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 2 Rules of Procedure of the Senate, elects Senator Jan Rulewski to the Committee on Family, Senior and Social Policy. The resolution shall enter into force on the day of its adoption. The Commission recommends that a resolution be adopted.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-21-senat-32-6.u20	Thank you very much. Would any of your senators like to speak on this matter? I don't hear any questions. We proceed to the vote on the draft resolution tabled by the Rules of Procedure, Ethics and Senators' Affairs on the change in the composition of the Senate Committee. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Well, something's not working... [[Talking in the O.R.]] Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 76 senators voted, 67 were in favour, no one opposed, 9 abstentions. [[Voting No 90]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on a change in the membership of the Senate Committee. We return to the examination of item 30 of the fifth agenda: the Law amending the Civil Procedure Code and certain other laws. The Legislative Commission and the Committee on Human Rights, Rule of Laws and Petitions have presented a draft resolution in which they request the adoption of this law without amendment of Senate print No 384 A. We proceed to the vote on the draft resolution submitted by the committees. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 78 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 91]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the Law amending the Civil Procedure Code and certain other laws. We return to the examination of item 30 of the sixth agenda: the Law on the principles of avoidance of double taxation and the prevention of tax evasion in respect of taxes on income applied by the Republic of Poland and the territory to which tax law belonging to the jurisdiction of the Minister of Finance of Taiwan applies. The Committee on Foreign Affairs and the European Union and the Committee on Budget and Public Finance have presented a draft resolution in which they request the adoption of this law without any amendments to the Senate printing No 392 A. We proceed to the vote on the draft resolution submitted by the committees. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 78 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 92]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the Law on the principles of avoidance of double taxation and the prevention of tax evasion in respect of taxes on income applied by the Republic of Poland and the territory to which tax law belonging to the jurisdiction of the Minister of Finance of Taiwan applies. Is it over? I would like to inform you that the agenda of the thirty-second Senate meeting has been exhausted. I would remind you that the next Senate meeting will be held on 11, 12 and 13 January 2017. The order of this meeting was sent to you by e-mail. I would also like to remind you of the festive meeting, which I had already mentioned earlier, which will be held today at 3:00 p.m. His coming to them announced the cardinals. Kazimierz Nycz. The meeting will be held in room 217. We proceed to senators' statements outside the agenda. I inform you senators that the statements made to the minutes will be included in the official version of the short-term report. Declarations may not last more than 5 minutes. The statement may include matters relating to the implementation of the mandate, but may not relate to matters on the agenda of the current Senate meeting. The Marshal will refuse to accept unsubstantiated statements which cannot be established or which the Senator's pronouncement would not be possible in his own time, i.e. within 5 minutes. There is no debate or discussion on the senator's statement. Are any of your senators... No, there's no...? No one's checking in. We don't have a message? We don't. I would like to inform you that the minutes of the 30th second Senate meeting of the Republic of Poland IX term will be made available to the senators within 30 days of the Senate meeting at the Senate Office, room 255. The second session of the Senate of the Republic of Poland 9th term of office is closed. [[Marshal hits Marshal's staff three times.]] [[End of session at 14 minutes 47]]
