ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-16-sejm-33-1.u1	I'm opening a sitting. [[Marshal hits Marshal's staff three times.]] I would like to call Members Adam Andruszkiewicz, Wojciech Król, Piotr Olszówka and Sylvester Tulayev to the secretaries of today's proceedings. Members Adam Andruszkiewicz and Wojciech Król will be present in the first part of the session. The minutes and the list of speakers will be led by Mr Adam Andruszkiewicz. Messages. Please read the messages.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-16-sejm-33-1.u2	I would like to inform you that today will be the meeting of the Commission: - to the Secret Service at about an hour. 9, - Administration and Home Affairs - at 3 p.m. 10, - for Petitions - at 3 p.m. 10, - Education, Science and Youth - at 3 p.m. 10, - Public Finance - at 3 p.m. 10, - Extraordinary for changes in codification - at 3 p.m. 10, - Rules of Procedure, Parliamentary and Immunity Affairs - at 3 p.m. 11.15. Today there will also be meetings of parliamentary teams: - Parliamentary Group for: Prisons - hour 9, - Parliamentary Group for: Promotion of the Slag - hour. 12, - Parliamentary Group for: Kresów, Kresowian and the Heritage of Eastern Lands of the Old Republic - hour. 12. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-16-sejm-33-1.u3	Thank you very much, sir. At the 32nd meeting of the Sejm, the Sejm did not carry out a third reading of the draft law on the amendment of the Nature Conservation Act and some other laws. Therefore, after obtaining the uniform opinion of the Senior Convention, the Marshal of the Sejm decided to supplement the agenda with a point covering the third reading of this draft law. The committee responsible has submitted a report on the adoption of the Senate on the Act amending certain laws in order to improve the legal environment of entrepreneurs. The report shall be published in the Official Journal of the European Union. Therefore, after obtaining the uniform opinion of the Senior Convention, the Marshal of the Sejm decided to supplement the agenda with a point including the examination of this report. In this case, I propose that the Sejm consent to the application of the article. 54 (1) (a) 5 of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm and in the discussion on this item, he listened to three-minute statements on behalf of clubs and circles. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the proposals. I can't hear you objecting. The Sejm Bureau also proposes that the Sejm should listen to the five-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and the circles in discussions on the other items on the agenda. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. I would like to inform you that, due to the failure of authorised entities to report on current information and questions, these points will not be considered at the current session of the Sejm. The agenda items of the current sitting of the Sejm will be dealt with in accordance with the order adopted by the Sejm Bureau and the Seniors' Convention. Information on this matter is available in the Sejm Information System. The messages have already been read. We proceed with the examination of item 1 of the agenda: Information from the Minister of Agriculture and Rural Development on the implementation of the 2015-2019 programme of activities of the Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development for the period of 18 November 2015 - 17 November 2016 (print No 1077). I ask the Minister for Agriculture and Rural Development, Mr Krzysztof Jurgel, to present the information. Minister, I'm sorry, just one more remark, because we've been scared all morning that we're not sure we're gonna make it by Christmas Eve, but I trust we can make it. [[Joy in the gym.]] [[Voice from the room: 7 hours.]] You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-16-sejm-33-1.u4	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! In fulfilling the constitutional obligation, and in response to the demand of the opposition, which recently does conferences and presents not really in the media, and thus misleads farmers, we present today, as the management of the Ministry of Agriculture, information on the implementation of the programme of activities of the Ministry of Agriculture for the years 2015 and 2019 after the first year of implementation of this programme. By including the position of Minister of Agriculture and Rural Development on 16 November 2015, I knew that the scale of tasks and their difficulties was indeed high. We have drawn up a long list of actions done by PO-PSL to get a full picture of negligence, indolence or, to put it simply, the scandal. Polish agriculture was ignored, which led to a crisis in almost all agricultural markets. The areas of poverty and social exclusion have increased. In addition, there has been a civilizational slowdown in rural areas as a result of the elimination of communications links, post offices, schools, police stations and cultural centres. Our government, like no previous government, has a precisely described agricultural policy consistent with rural policy. We need a lot of civilizational changes in order for the agricultural families to reach a higher standard of living, close to what they are in cities. We are faithful to John Paul's words in this. II, who noted: "Agricultural matters cannot be separated from reforms of the whole economic system, but also everyone feels that this area, not only in our Homeland, requires special protection, cooperation of many sectors and solidarity of all environments, and above all it requires the protection of the free initiative of farmers themselves. We all know how many difficult things are to solve. It must be heard in the country and respected by the farmer's farm voice. The Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development established an action programme for the period 2015-2019 covering the common agricultural policy within the European Union and international cooperation, improving the competitiveness of Polish agriculture and food economy. The programme includes rural development, social policy, the functioning of agricultural institutions and administrations, and education, land management and agricultural property of the State Treasury. The strategic objective of the agricultural policy of Law and Justice is to protect and develop family farms. Law and Justice advocates that family farms dominate the agrarian structure of Poland. They are a good example of the community - they combine elements of work, capital, education, mutual assistance and transfer of religious values and Polish culture. The Constitution of the Republic of Poland emphasizes their fundamental importance. All activities of the Ministry shall implement the principles of the agricultural programme of Law and Justice. Because electoral promises are a commitment to us, we are gradually implementing them. At the beginning of the term of office, the management took an urgent decision to suspend the sale of state land, which was long awaited by farmers. The PO-PSL government did not respond to the protests of farmers demanding fair rules for the acquisition of land from the resources of the Agricultural Property Agency, the cessation of its sales so-called. poles, and thus indirectly into the hands of foreigners and foreign capital. Already at the end of April 2016 the Act on the suspension of the sale of real estate of the Agricultural Property Resources of the State Treasury and on the amendment of certain laws entered into force. Previous legislation was not effective against speculative acquisition of agricultural land. New statutory arrangements for land trading have led to a normalisation of the situation, a halt to price gallops and, as a result, an increase in the availability of agricultural land for farmers. The land, generally speaking, is intended to serve agricultural production, should be owned and cultivated by farmers. For other important social objectives, the necessary investments are not prevented from being legally allocated. Following the electoral failure in autumn 2015, the PO-PSL coalition left an unprepared IT system to handle direct payments, including advances expected by farmers affected by drought. The intervention of the Minister of Agriculture and the intensive, well-organized work of the Agency for Restructuring and Modernization of Agriculture under the new management resulted in the advance payments being paid on time, while the funds were increased, paying instead of PLN 1400 million in total over PLN 3 billion. In view of the difficult situation on the agricultural markets, when farmers were short of money, it was decided to carry out a major financial operation, an accelerated payment of advances on all types of payments of 70% the total amount. By the end of November, about PLN 10 billion was entered into farmers' accounts. Never before has a government of PO-PSL initiated a professional financial operation such as this one. As a result of various causes: erroneous decisions, bad forecasts of EU officials, globalisation of production, food speculation, the Russian embargo, for several years there has been a crisis on almost all agricultural markets. The crisis was most affected by milk and pork production, but it was also affected by cereal producers and fruit planters. We are working systematically to mitigate the effects of the crisis, compensate for the low prices of agricultural products. In view of the difficult situation on the pig meat market last December, at the European Union Council for Agriculture and Fisheries, I pointed out the need to start receiving applications under the private storage aid scheme as soon as possible and to mobilise export refunds for pig meat. I also proposed that legislative action be taken to exempt milk producers from the obligation to pay penalties for exceeding the delivery limits in 2014/2015. This proposal was then dealt with negatively and the preparation of new mechanisms was therefore initiated. In February 2016, I submitted Polish requests for support for pig and milk producers. Getting allies for the Polish position, among others. with the countries of the Visegrad Group and the Weimar Triangle, it led to the adoption by the committee of the so-called. Hogan's July package. In the first half of 2016, we paid almost PLN 300 million from the national budget and the European Union, thus strengthening the markets for milk and pigmeat. Ladies and gentlemen, we cannot talk about rural policy in isolation from the country's overall development model. The main principle of the previous ruling team was the polarisation and diffusion model, which deepened disparities between the city and the village. The Government of Law and Justice has returned to sustainable development policy. Without exaggeration, I can say that for the first time since 1989 agriculture, processing industry and rural development have been placed so high in the hierarchy of tasks of the state. They have a strategic position in the Responsible Development Plan. The main actions will concern the production and social sphere of agriculture, the expansion and modernisation of technical infrastructure, support for entrepreneurship and job creation in rural areas. This will allow for the full integration of small cities, rural areas and family farms into the country's development processes. Putting a comprehensive set of tasks in the Rural Pact in the 5th pillar of the Responsible Development Strategy opens up new promising prospects for improving the quality of life of villagers and smaller cities. Among the projects prepared by the Ministry of Agriculture are among others.: State Food Safety Agency, Polish Food Academy, food platform, support and professionalization of business environment institutions operating in rural areas and small cities, distributed energy in rural areas, infrastructure in rural areas. In fulfilling the electoral promise, the government adopted a draft law on crop and livestock insurance at the end of March 2016. Under the law, the government will allocate over PLN 900 million to supplement the contributions next year. In this way, agricultural insurance They will become cheaper, more accessible and will become more common. Approximately 65% of any insurance will cover the state budget. The problem that affected many farmers was the abuse by Western companies and food chains of their advantage towards suppliers. At the end of July 2016, we sent to the Sejm a draft law on the prevention of unfair exploitation of the contractual advantage in the marketing of agricultural and food products. Price dictation, unjustified charges, no contracts for the delivery of groceries - these are just some manifestations of pathology. The Act arranges for mutual relations between farmers, processing plants and trade. The Office for Competition and Consumer Protection will be equipped with effective tools to combat unfair practices in the marketing of agricultural and food products. The bill will finally enter into force after the President signed it because yesterday the High House was considering the Senate's amendments, which already allow the President to sign it. The Farmers' Cooperatives Act will also contribute to strengthening the farmer's position in the food chain. Proven and popular in Western Europe cooperatives can be an example of how to strengthen the farmer's position in relations with commercial networks, how to seek fair prices for food in the cluster. The Act will encourage the pooling of forces and resources to increase the scale of production, investment, cost reduction or organisation of processing and export. Farmers and consumers will see the implementation of the Law amending certain laws in order to facilitate the sale of food by farmers, which will provide a convenient framework for facilitating the sale of processed agricultural products. This is the green light to launch the sale of food from plant and animal products coming from their own farm. Consumers of healthy food, including traditional and regional products, will gain direct access to the products sought. The draft Act on Agricultural Income Protection Funds provides for the creation of funds that individual farmers will be able to benefit from as well as those in producer groups. The condition for obtaining aid is to show a decrease of less than 30%. The Ministry of Agriculture has prepared an amendment to the Act which allows voluntary labelling by processing plants of products information about the Polish product. This will promote and improve consumer orientation when shopping. The regulations so far have been insufficient and have led to many misunderstandings and even forgery of goods. The labelling of the Polish product indicates not only the place of manufacture but also the ingredients used to produce the final product. We have also developed a programme for the development of the main agricultural markets in Poland for the years 2016-2020, as a concept of long-term action in favour of the national agri-food sector. The programme focuses on nine agricultural markets, i.e. the markets for cereals, rape, pigmeat, beef, poultry, milk and milk products, sugar, fruit and vegetables and tobacco. The draft programme was adopted by the management in October and will be the basis for developing detailed strategies for individual markets. This is our task, one of the main tasks for 2017. For years, Polish food has been gaining more and more recognition in global markets, as evidenced by the growing exports of agri-food products, which in 2015 amounted to around EUR 24 billion. This year's export revenue will be even greater. It should be noted that on the balance sheet of foreign trade in food we obtained a positive balance. Such results would not have been achieved if it had not been for active promotion, business efforts, intensive activities of Polish diplomacy, visits and effectively conducted conversations and the tedious work of veterinary and phytosanitary services. As a result, we have been able to access 27 markets since November 2015. These are among others. Cuba, Japan, Indonesia, El Salvador, Costa Rica, Ukraine, Morocco, Bosnia and Herzegovina, Egypt, Macedonia, China, Turkey, Montenegro, India, Kazakhstan, Côte d'Ivoire, South Africa, Brazil, Saudi Arabia, Algeria, Moldova and Chile. In the near future, we will reform the system of official food control. As of January 2018, the Food Safety Agency will become operational, which will improve the effectiveness of supervision, reduce the nuisance of controls for small and medium-sized enterprises and make more rational use of public funds. To reduce red tape and help farmers really, we will eliminate the Agricultural Property Agency and the Agricultural Market Agency. This law is already addressed to the government meeting, and I think it will be passed on to Parliament in January for consideration. The tasks of these agencies will be taken over by the National Agricultural Support Centre, while the main paying functions of the Agricultural Market Agency will be delegated to the Agency for Restructuring and Modernisation of Agriculture. The changes have already been covered by voivodship agricultural advisory centres, which have been under the responsibility of the Minister for Agriculture and Rural Development since August. The change of dependency is the implementation of long-standing rural demands to improve advice and free them from the impact of local policy. Work is underway on the Rural Pact. It requires extensive consultation, research results and opinions from agricultural authorities, trade unions and industry organisations. We want the village to be an attractive place to work and develop families, with multifunctional agriculture, small and medium entrepreneurship, technical and cultural infrastructure. African swine fever is an urgent problem to solve after the predecessors. The first outbreak was detected in Poland in 2014. The situation was not properly diagnosed and no comprehensive action was taken to stop the spread of the disease. This has increased the scale of the problem and difficulties in the fight against ASF. The Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development under my direction was the initiator of two government specialties to mitigate the consequences ASF: Act on specific requirements related to African swine fever in the territory of the Republic of Poland and Act amending certain laws to facilitate the control of infectious animal diseases. At the beginning of September 2016, the first Act entered into force, which facilitates the development of pig meat from the ASF area. The second includes measures to improve the veterinary inspection activities, including farm and animal control and collection centres. The Veterinary Inspection may issue administrative decisions to an extended extent in order to effectively enforce the protection rules for the control of infectious diseases. In Poland, the strategy for combating ASF, including activities undertaken in cooperation with the Minister of the Environment, relating to the skilful management of the population of wild boars, is beginning to work. The problem that has emerged in recent weeks is the H5N8 flu virus. Work is underway on the elimination of its outbreaks that have emerged. Such detailed information may be communicated to the Sejm next week. Ladies and gentlemen! The Prime Minister of the Republic of Poland, Ms Beata Szydło, at the exposé delivered in the Sejm, stressed the need to listen attentively to the public, to address people in a spirit of dialogue and service. With this in mind, I set up the Social Dialogue Council in April. Its aim is to create a platform for dialogue between the Minister of Agriculture and agricultural organisations, increase the social impact on decision-making processes in the Ministry, joint investigation into best practices in agriculture, rural areas and the agri-food sector. The Council consists of representatives of national industry organisations of the agri-food sector, trade unions of individual farmers, socio-occupational farmers' organisations and representatives of the National Council of Agricultural Chambers. Within the Council there are 10 expert task forces. The Council has worked out and adopted several positions, including: on the "Strategy for responsible development'. It also reviews draft legislation or programming activities on an ongoing basis. Ladies and gentlemen! It's been a year of law and justice. Today I presented a fair account of what we did and what we are going to do. In agriculture, one year's perspective isn't much. Our program of civilizational transformations of the Polish village is spread over many years. The government of law and justice will fulfill their electoral promises, keep its word. We will not stop at work for Poland and prove it by actions, not by words. Detailed information can be found in the study, which is available on the Sejm's website. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-16-sejm-33-1.u5	Thank you very much, Minister. However, these predictions did not work out in the Dragon languages. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. And please take the floor as the first Mr Robert Telus, Parliamentary Club of Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-16-sejm-33-1.u6	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! Gentlemen of Ministers! Mr. Marshal, I'm going to start by saying five minutes isn't enough to present what this government has done for agriculture. Negligence in agriculture has been a long time. What's been going on in agriculture over the last few decades, it's really been... [[Decada is how much?]] ...a situation that's very difficult. And the parties that ruled, and above all one party, who always attributed to the role that in the village is the only party, harmed Polish agriculture. And in order to reverse it now, it takes a long time, and it needs not change in the countryside, but a real revolution. And that's what this government does, that's what Agriculture Minister Krzysztof Jurgel does. During this year he showed that not words, not only electoral promises, not just dreams, but real work, work for days, but, as well as you know, and nights to repair what over these many years have spoiled certain parties that have only harmed agriculture. The basic thing, my dear country, about which I want to tell you at this moment, which has been done, is the protection of Polish land. And don't let anyone tell me that this is a bill that's bad enough that it's a bill that's not important. This is one of the most important laws. It was adopted immediately, because this government found the situation that from 1 May they could take over the Polish land of foreigners. And it had to be secured. [[Voice from the room: And this is a mistake.]] And that's what the government did, that's what the ministry did, a bill was passed, a law that protects the Polish land. And what country we lived in, I'll give you an example. One of the great officers of the Polish People's Party, a man who performed important functions in the country, used state land for many years, without paying rent, without paying rent, without paying taxes, without paying rent. [[Name.]] You owe more than PLN 3 million, ladies and gentlemen. And the state couldn't take that land away from him. This government came, took the land, gave it to farmers, real farmers, and farmers use it. [[Who's that?]] We lived in such a country that there were such activists of the right party who owe millions to the country, and on the other hand we lived in a country that they put them in jail for a candy bar. We'll change that, there won't be any sacred cows. There will be no people who, with only proper party legitimacy, could benefit from our resources, our wealth, our national wealth, destroying this property. Therefore, this law, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, is the most important law that has been prepared and passed this year. She allows us to go further, to go one step further, because the most important thing is the Polish land. Ladies and gentlemen, next item, insurance. Up to now, the state budget has been allocated EUR 150.200 million for insurance. This government introduced that from next year on insurance will be almost a billion zlotys, over 900 million. This is a big leap of civilization, because we know how important insurance is, we know about the great tragedies that farmers experienced because they were often exploited by insurance companies. There will be no longer a choice of risks, only bets will have to cover the package in order for the farmer to be protected. Next thing you know, ladies and gentlemen, what we have been saying in the election campaign all the time - cut the road from field to table. The ruling parties have promised it so far, but they've never done it. We have already passed a bill that talks about retail sales, which shortens this road very much, the way from field to table. And this is very important because we need to know what we eat, we need to know what products we eat. The farmer must also earn money in production, in cultivation. Must be a farmer's job, not some supermarket brokers. Therefore, this government also introduces signs that will be our brand, the Polish brand, characteristic, this is a sign: a Polish product, this is a sign: a GMO-free product. Ladies and gentlemen, the GMO case. We as the Law and Justice have always been for this, [[♪ The bell ♪]] that Polish crops must be free from GMOs. Ladies and gentlemen, today on the committee has been tabled - and tomorrow we will vote in the Sejm - an amendment... [[Tomorrow?]] ...which will also prohibit the marketing of GMO products in Poland. These are real deeds. It's not just promises, it's not dreams, it's not cheating farmers like it's been so far. And that's why, Minister...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-16-sejm-33-1.u7	Mr President, time is running out.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-16-sejm-33-1.u8	Mr. Marshal, I'm finishing up. Minister, we as Law and Justice will of course support the Polish government, the Minister in these activities - in activities that are good for Polish agriculture and for our most important, most important national areas.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-16-sejm-33-1.u9	Thank you. Thank you, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-16-sejm-33-1.u10	Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-16-sejm-33-1.u11	Mr President, time is up, thank you. Mr Kazimierz Plocke, please take the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-16-sejm-33-1.u12	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! Minister! Indeed, with regard to the document, which has 150 pages, very abundant, it will be difficult within 5 minutes, Mr Marshal, to carry out a synthetic analysis of what has been included in this document, all the more so since we are addressing the issue of the functioning of the PO-PSL government in the years 2008 to 2015 and the prospects for 2019 presented by Minister Jurgiel. I would like to say that in this document, which we are analysing, it has been stated that under the PO-PSL regime it was allowed to sell uncontrolled land to foreigners. I would like to say that this argument is false, because from 2001 to 30 April 2013 the control of NIK was carried out by three field branches of the Agricultural Property Agency, in Szczecin, Warsaw and Wrocław. The issue concerned the sale of agricultural land to foreigners. The Supreme Audit Chamber stated in the final conclusions, I quote: Despite emerging media reports and agricultural complaints and protests concerning the purchase of agricultural land by foreigners, the law on the acquisition of real estate by foreigners effectively protects the economic and social interests of the Republic of Poland. Real estate turnover in Poland with the participation of foreigners is subject to effective control by the Minister of Home Affairs and does not pose a threat to national interests - the end of the quote. This case is so important that the public in 2013 and 2015 was informed of the unauthorised acquisition of agricultural property by foreigners on the so-called. columns, which caused a wave of agricultural protests, especially in the West Pomeranian Voivodeship and in front of the Chancellery of the Prime Minister. The question therefore arises as to what was involved in this campaign, because the state authorities agreed on something different than the social side, i.e. the trade unions of farmers. Minister, it would also be worth asking for information on how much land was sold to foreigners under the law, in accordance with the Foreigners Act of 1920, and what sanctions were applied to those who committed bad practices. We'd like to know, because we were fed by the fact that there's a big deal, but we want to know who specifically, by name, was punished for bad practices. Now we know that, in general, it was about preparing a bill to stop selling agricultural property. In our view, this law is harmful to the agricultural sector because it is contrary to the provisions of the Accession Treaty. The country seeks a monopoly on agricultural property, the country limits the free disposal of agricultural land and stiffens the marketing of agricultural land in Poland. I would also like to point out that the document submitted shows that the PO-PSL government has not presented a real programme for Polish agriculture and the Polish countryside. I would like to say, Minister, that this thesis is not true either, because on 25 April 2012, the PO-PSL government adopted the country's sustainable development strategy for 2012-2020 and this strategy is still in force today. This strategy still applies today. I would also like to say that criticism must also be learned and that everything that has been accomplished by the previous government must not be condemned, because it is also false. I wanted to use two indicators. The first indicator relates to expenditure on agriculture from the state budget in the years 2008 to 2015; the second is the volume of exports of agri-food products in the same period, i.e. 2008 to 2015. In the first case, agricultural expenditure developed: 2008 - almost 37 billion, 2016 - almost 54 billion PLN, while exports of food products: 2007-9.9 billion EUR, and 2015 - almost 24 billion EUR. [[But coffee, tea, yes.]] In presenting these indicators, we must also be aware that behind these indicators lies the enormous effort of huge crowds and officials, and scientists, representatives of farmers, local governments, industry organisations, etc. I want to be clear: you can't. [[♪ The bell ♪]] to criticize it and condemn it in a champ. And referring, Mr Marshal, to the last issue, which is the programme presented, I would like to say that this is a set of tasks to be carried out by 2019, and we would like the Minister to supplement this document with the question of the amount of expenditure from the budget to be spent on these tasks. Thank you, Marshal. [[Applause]] [[Bravo, Kaziu.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-16-sejm-33-1.u13	Thank you, sir. Please take the floor of Mr Norbert Kaczmarczyk.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-16-sejm-33-1.u14	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I have the honour to present the position of the Kukiz Club15 on the information of the Minister of Agriculture and Rural Development on the implementation of the Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development 2015-2019 for the period from 18 November 2015 to 17 November 2016. The activities undertaken by the Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development in the last year have often been given the right direction, but the assumptions have not always been in line with practical solutions. One example of this justification is the Act on the shaping of the agricultural system. It contains some errors, which are a gateway for potential buyers of Polish land from outside Poland. Mr Kukiz15 has repeatedly pointed out this problem during the legislative procedure, but this voice has obviously not been taken into account. Another example is the Seeding and Plant Protection Act. At this point it is worth noting one very important detail, namely the unnatural pace of legislative work on the bill. This is a very clear contrast to the numerous projects submitted by the parliamentary club Kukiz.15 It is worth noting that these are really projects that benefit citizens and are well-founded. However, there have often been situations where our projects were simply thrown into the freezer for more specific reasons or have been blocked for a long time in the legislative process. The issue raised in the Direct Selling Act also deserves attention in this context. Both Kukiz and Law and Justice have submitted their proposals on this matter. Our project has been omitted. In fact, projects vary quite seriously. In this respect, it is enough to mention, for example, the tax-free amount in the draft of the governing camp, which is at a dramatically low level of 20,000. zł. There is no doubt that there is also a need to address the issue of the Genetically Modified Feed Act, although in this case it was possible to achieve some degree the compromise that was reached by the adoption of a 2-year moratorium. It is extremely saddening that many of our amendments tabled to various projects remaining in the field of interest of the Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development have been rejected. It is worth noting that they were really beneficial for farmers and the condition of Polish agriculture and were valid. In view of the above, it should be noted that the Ministry has often taken good action, has chosen good directions for its activities, although not always a good method of doing them. The action that deserves a good assessment is to ensure that farmers' payments are paid more quickly. Also, a deeper opening to the Chinese market is in my view an action that deserves a positive assessment. I am delighted that we are opening up Polish agriculture to new markets in the world, because this approach offers new opportunities for development and creates unknown opportunities. Of course, during the course of this year there have also been various issues which are indistinguishable for the condition of Polish agriculture. Unfortunately, the position taken by the Ministry in these cases deserves a definite negative assessment. In this context the problem of CETA and TTIP continues to come back. A lot has already been said about this, including by me and other parliamentarians Kukiz.15 There is no need to repeat these speeches and appeals again. Let it be a simple sentence that CETA and TTIP agreements can pose a fatal threat to the state of Polish agriculture. It is also not good in the cereal sector, because cereals from Ukraine are flooding our market, and it is difficult to identify in this context any concrete steps taken by the Ministry to stop this process. In conclusion, I strongly hope from this point of view that the next year's evaluation of the Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development can be carried out in a positive tone. Together we are able to develop solutions that will create a positive reality in a real way around Polish agriculture and will positively affect the standard of living of our employer. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-16-sejm-33-1.u15	Thank you very much. And Mrs Paulina Hennig-Kloska, please take the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-16-sejm-33-1.u16	Mr. Marshal! Ministers so sincerely smiling! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, [[But we're really smiling, too.]] Indeed, today is a good time to look at what has been happening in agriculture for a year, but also to recall certain electoral promises made to farmers in the election campaign. One of them was a very loud electoral slogan on equalising subsidies for farmers in Poland with subsidies for farmers in other European countries. And I wanted to ask on this occasion, because the Minister didn't say anything about it, what is the status of this promise? It should be recalled that the farmer in Poland receives on average EUR 207 for each hectare, and the farmers in Germany receive approximately EUR 100 more, in Denmark this is the difference of almost 150 thousand. Euros. No restrictions on the movement of resources... [[Member, thousands?]] I'm sorry, 100 and 150 euros, I'm running out of time. The lack of any restrictions on the movement of resources and services makes it increasingly difficult for Polish farmers to concentrate on agricultural markets, and the cost-effectiveness of production is getting lower, so many Polish farmers expect to meet this demand. Earth - much has been said here. The strategic objective of agricultural policy is to protect and develop family farms that combine elements: labour, capital, education, mutual assistance and transfer of religious values and Polish culture. This is an introduction to today's document. But I would like to ask the question: What kind of farms are these? The law on the suspension of the sale of agricultural assets of the Treasury and on the amendment of certain laws simply cemented the development of agricultural holdings in Poland - it must be said directly - and the average area of agricultural holdings in Poland is still just over 10 hectares and for years no one has found a way to solve this problem. For example, in Germany it is 56 ha, Denmark - 63 ha, France - 54 ha, and Canada - 300 ha. Hence the legitimate fear of Polish farmers from competing with farmers, with farms in Canada. If we do not change this fact, we will never reduce the fear of Polish farmers. What's more, you know that 90% farms in Poland are less than 20 hectares and are not commodity holdings. However, how can these family farms try to compete in the agricultural markets? What's the Minister's idea? I would also like to ask: How does the land law affect the development of the scheme? Where and how can young farmers buy land? What is the state of implementation of this programme? There have also been a lot of exposure recently when it comes to agricultural insurance. In the autumn of this year, the crop insurance system run by the Ministry of Agriculture exposed its weakness. Insurance rates are astronomically high. Farmers could not be insured and many insurers did not have access to insurance at all. The banks that received the largest part of the funds were preferred. Changing the law and increasing the amount of aid to more than PLN 800 million without introducing a comprehensive insurance scheme is simply a waste of public funds, because we know that this will not lead to the fact that insurance will be cheaper for farmers, but that more will be earned by insurers. That was the main idea of the bill. How the Minister plans to implement a minimum of 50% insurance requirement in Poland for 8 years farmers receiving area subsidies? This problem is still unsolved. Direct sales. At the beginning of December, Mr. President signed a direct sales bill. Why are the Minister's regulations still not being prepared? Is it true that they will not be prepared by the end of the year at least? Why were we in such a hurry with this bill? You can also ask for a paycheck. You talked about this, about area payments for farmers. You promised to accelerate payments of advances for all farmers of 70% the total amount. Many farmers report that they have not received or received much lower than 70% Paydays. How is this supposed to work? According to what key were decisions made? Who received it and who didn't? What's the payout status today? There are considerable delays in the implementation of the programmes. [[♪ The bell ♪]] modernisation of agriculture and the young farmer, and the situation with avian influenza and ASF, where, as we hear, the laws still do not work and the basic problems are not solved. There's a lot more to be said about it. It is also not true, Minister - it is a contract advantage - that this law will solve any problems in Polish agriculture, because the Minister knows very well that this law does not cover most farmers at all. I think that's basic questions about your earlier speech. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-16-sejm-33-1.u17	Thank you. I'm asking Mr. Mark Sawicki to speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-16-sejm-33-1.u18	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! High Seym! To discuss agriculture after a year of PiS rule, it would take more time. [[Yes, sir.]] Of course, five minutes isn't enough time. The Minister has presented us all with a document which contains the words: our government, like no previous government, has a precisely described and detailed agricultural policy. To be honest, this is exactly what is written in the 2006-2007 document. He keeps repeating himself in all the documents that he puts on Minister Jurgel, and he gives them to us without reflection. Minister, you pay a lot of attention to your predecessors in this document. It's such a good neighborhood advice: don't look back because you're gonna get run over. It would be good, then, to take on the weight you have taken on and to move things forward, not just to deal with considerations. Protecting Polish land, these famous pillars. Have you accounted for the column, the activist, Mr. Cosmala? Do all his children who have purchased or leased land from the Agricultural Property Agency authentically run these farms and are farmers - because I know that they are not, and if so, they are ordinary pillars? Mr Telus raises the question of a PSL activist. Don't be shy, give me names... [[But you know, Minister.]] ...because one case that I've been familiar with, I know that from the very beginning of my arrival at the Ministry of Agriculture, was addressed to the authorities of the state... [[Yeah.]] ...and neither the restructuring agency nor those authorities gave way to it. In fact, it takes some time to recover the land and, as far as I know, this land has been taken from it. [[But by the government of law and justice.]] No. By law enforcement, not by the government, sir. You know these mills grind slowly. [[But the government did.]] That's another line. I think it is worth considering the abolition of penalties for exceeding milk quotas. It's a flag password. We know exactly what happened. That's another line. Aid to the fruit and vegetables sector affected by the Russian embargo, and so strongly by the States over several years in this House, has been criticised. Let me just remind you that for 2 years there was EU aid for buy-out, for charity of fruit and vegetables at more than 300,000. a. For a good change it fell to less than 101 thousand. a. It was also promised, yet the issue of polarisation and diffusion model. I know you're attached to the original documents that functioned in the PO-PSL coalition, but if you look at a strategy that you haven't deleted so far, and Minister Plocke mentioned it, you'll find there an accurate analysis and projection and a proposal for sustainable development. The question of combating ASF disease, which Minister Jurgiel boasted about. It took eight months of waiting, sleeping, watching, and yet you were so critical of what we were doing, keeping the disease 15 km from the border and keeping it in three fires. Then all of a sudden, 23 fires, 160 cases. And Mr Bogucki is lying at the agricultural committee meeting that we have decided to dispose of 35,000. animals of healthy pigs when several thousand were disposed of. Minister, please state in writing what document and how many pieces were disposed of at the time, because it is high time to put a barrier to the lies distributed inside the PiS. I believe in the honesty of the Minister and that the Minister will present such a document to us. And the issue of this alleged nothing-doing in agriculture over a period of eight years. Minister, this document has been drawn up, he is in the Ministry, Agriculture and Rural Areas in the period 2007-2015. I'd like you to take a look at this. [[♪ The bell ♪]] because there all directions and branches of production are mentioned. And there's growth, there's growth. I wish you to maintain the dynamics of growth as set out in this document. Finally, I'd like to say yes. We have opened more than 71 markets outside the EU for export of Polish food products. Some of the directions you've been pursuing. There would be no agreements with China if there hadn't been for at least seven years a year, several times pilgrimages to this great country.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-16-sejm-33-1.u19	Minister, Mr...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-16-sejm-33-1.u20	So I wish you wouldn't spoil what was done, but don't use the rhetoric of looking back. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-16-sejm-33-1.u21	Thank you, sir. Would any of you and your fellow Members like to subscribe to the questions? If not, I find the list of people who are written for questions closed. [[Minister of Agriculture and Rural Development Krzysztof Jurgel: I would like to speak now, Marshal.]] Okay, Minister, of course. It's time for the question to be asked for a minute and a half. But you asked Minister Krzysztof Jurgel to speak. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-16-sejm-33-1.u22	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! First, a few explanations and a lie about what Mr. Sawicki was talking about. Firstly, no programming document was put in place by officials because already in 2003, 2004 an agricultural programme of Law and Justice was established. Then, gentlemen, you were in charge, and since then, those things that are included in the program are up to date. In the eight years you've been talking about, you haven't done a lot of things you promised you'd do. You promised, for example. an assessment of the position of the farmer in the food chain. You have called, Prime Minister Tusk has set up an interministerial team that has worked for three years. You've spent some kind of prayer book in this area, and that's the end of it. We're fulfilling the promises you're talking about. We've prepared a bill that's been passed on contract sales. I've just drawn up a list of promises you've made for eight years, and it's basically 25. During the year we realized 17 of your promises under the program, because these are the needs of Polish agriculture, but gentlemen, you announced, you did not do this. I'm not gonna quote that. It's on the Ministry's website. I'd advise you to read it. Each promise includes concrete actions. These are mostly statutory actions. You promised for eight years that you would consolidate the inspection. The future minister - this is the way it is presented - Mrs.Niedziela has already submitted a draft law to the Sejm, but unfortunately nothing specific has been done in this regard. So I would very much ask, I respect the work of the officials, but believe me, the difference is that we say what the officials are supposed to do, and when you're in charge, the officials say what you're supposed to do. It's such a small difference, but it matters. [[Applause]] Now, a few things. When it comes to milk penalties. The government adopted, in 2013, you adopted such a law within the framework of the common agricultural policy, a legislative package which practically depends on the decision of the European Commission, the national government has nothing to say, everything is in the hands of officials, and there should be such legislation that, in the event of a crisis and a request by the national government, the decision should be positive, only for specific reasons should not be approved. But we've just prepared a 10-year loan program, interest-free, so that this problem too, Minister, has somehow been resolved. When it comes to fruit and vegetables, it's 100,000. He's going to China with the 270 that were in withdrawal. You have to subtract 100, 100 we actually negotiated, but there was no more need, they were not reported to me. In addition, the amount that was negotiated by the States was often used in a manner that was not in line with what was to be achieved. Returning to the fruit and vegetables market, I will remind you that you have spent 7 billion EU money over a period of 2 or 3 years, but you have introduced such a procedure that the Commission raises reservations in most measures. We must make decisions that annul the Marshals' decision and recover funds - otherwise they will be withdrawn from Poland. These are not my opinions, this is the result of the European Commission's audit. As far as opening up markets is concerned, I must say here that your policy, that government and you were active at that time. China was opened because President Andrzej Duda was also involved. There was a visit to China and with us, this process was accelerated. I welcome your actions in terms of promoting and opening up or making agricultural markets available. As for the pillars and the fact that, as you say, there are cases... A number of cases have been addressed to law enforcement. Neither can law enforcement authorities make decisions rashly, opinions and expertise are needed, and these actions, Mr President, are ongoing. I believe they'll be over in a while. As far as the polarizing and diffusion model is concerned, you were talking about strategy. You should have... Your documents are being processed - first by the Ministry of Development, the entire government. This requires a change in the medium-term strategy that will most likely be adopted before Christmas and a completely different model of development. We are committed to sustainable development. Most of the money was spent on big cities, on metropolises... [[Ha, ha, ha.]] ...we reverse this trend and you will receive a strategy of responsible development directed in part to rural areas. There will be clear records, actions, you will be able to see what it looks like. But this is just one element of government's influence on rural areas, agriculture, because every resort, the Ministry of Internal Affairs and Administration opens up new posts, those you've eliminated. Small schools will also be maintained as part of the education programme, and will not be eliminated, as in your governments, unless of 2.5,000. schools have been eliminated. This is a social policy that will lead to the vitality of rural areas. It takes time, but it will be realized. As for the fact that you said that you had implemented this document, it is important to say clearly: the policy you implemented was part of it, because then, unfortunately, you changed it to an unfavourable one, the implementation of the solutions adopted by the Government of Law and Justice, because already in 2006 we adopted the mid-term strategy by 2020 - by 2015, I apologise - and this RDP, which was implemented, was prepared and adopted by the Government of Law and Justice. You have only consumed what was positive by introducing a number of solutions in 2008, amending the Development Policy Law and eliminating the possibility of rural development in infrastructure, particularly social and technical areas. Mr. Plocke spoke a lot about land. NIK controlled the sale of land by foreigners, sir. This is the bill that the Minister of Home Affairs and Administration is implementing. On the other hand, the Agricultural Property Agency Act is an agricultural land law. Mr President, you spoke about numbers - how many poles, how many people illegally bought land. That kind of information is gonna be hard to figure out, because if a thief steals, and there's no evidence, it's just hard to find him. If the D.A. finds him, then he's punished. On the other hand, we stopped these poles. I'm curious, we're judging now... Probably in time those who bought the land as a substitute - they will not sell it to foreign people if we have power, unless you change the law again as you come to power. The effects will be visible in a year, two years, because they're going to have to do something about this land. [[Will there be any questions, Marshal?]] With regard to Mr Kaczmarczyk's speech: what concerns the projects is Parliament's responsibility, we are issuing opinions on those sent by Mr Kaczmarczyk... [[And the chairman of the committee.]] ...and the chairman of the committee, who is from the Kukiz club15. Thank you, Mr President, because as far as legislative relations are concerned, this is where the cooperation of the committee with the government is good. So that when it comes to legislation itself, thank you, although I do not think that other matters that are in the interests of the State should be made public so often, and not necessarily blamed by the Minister for Agriculture. As far as international agreements are concerned, Commissioner, it must be borne in mind that that coalition approved this in 2014. Although I know that it had little influence, because from the information I have, it appears that the government did not see the final text of this agreement with Canada before the European Commission signed it, but only after the signature was passed on. We have made comments to this and we continue to maintain positions that should be beneficial for Polish agriculture. As far as Mrs Hennig-Kloska is concerned, with regard to the levelling of subsidies, the review of the common financial framework is pending by the end of the following year. We present projects there, the position that one of our negotiating objectives is precisely equal conditions of competition, which means, of course, equal subsidies, i.e. the impact on the costs that result from production. As far as price profitability is concerned, Mrs, milk - from what I hear, in different parts of the country, we have information, and I also collect information from farmers - now it is 1,35 PLN, so that this profitability has increased. Of course, there was a time when there were prices of approx. 2 PLN, but this, I hope, will happen. Here it depends on global relations and also on the tasks undertaken. We have a programme, as I said, for all nine basic markets we will be developing detailed programmes. But this must be made clear: We work closely with the environment. As far as milk is concerned, these are two dairy compounds, which before, when I meet, I hear, there was no, they did not want to listen to those to whom this right is directed. As far as the young farmer is concerned, we have opportunities in the range of 27 000, so that's how we are prepared at this stage. 6,000. young farmers have submitted applications. If there is need and interest, we are ready to increase this pool. Insurance will be strengthened next year with mutual societies. We want one entity of the State Treasury to function in this respect. I think it will increase competitiveness and those companies that often set conditions Unacceptable, they will have a competitor who will stabilise prices here. As far as retail sales are concerned, the regulations are, therefore, we have rushed to the law in order to be able to launch the legislative process related to the agreement of regulations, because before the Sejm has passed, it is not possible to formally refer to external agreements or internal drafts of these normative acts. As far as advance payments are concerned, I'm not familiar with the fact that it's some scale, the number of people who didn't get it. There may be isolated cases, but they're explained, and I'm sure... At least until today, no complaint... [[But selectively and spot-on, off-the-line.]] Please, Minister, I am prepared to accept any criticism if it is justified. I'm saying that this isn't something that's felt, and that there are cases that somebody hasn't filed an application yet, or has a case involving a refund of penalties... So that in a nutshell I answered your doubts. Thank you for the comments of the clubs and now, of course, I look forward to any questions. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-16-sejm-33-1.u23	Thank you very much, Minister. Okay, well, let's get to the questions. Let me remind you, the question is one and a half minutes. The first question is asked by Mr Ryszard Wilczyński, the Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-16-sejm-33-1.u24	Mr. Marshal! Gentlemen of Ministers! Ladies and gentlemen! There is a thing we will definitely agree with: Poland is rather resistant to the propaganda of success. Yesterday, Mr. Marshal was a witness, we had a discussion about the labour market, which was conducted in the propaganda convention of success and, to put it mildly, it was not particularly pleasant not to say more bluntly. So I suggest that, through our Polish village, we do not go this way, in addition to dumping pigs, because Minister, I apologize, but the words about ASF are false and unreliable. As a former voivode, I can say from the position of the voivodeship convention, how much energy we've sacrificed, my colleagues have sacrificed, so that this bonfire, like avian flu before, can be mastered and kept in check. Now I would like to move on to one fact which shows the importance of continuing and putting on the development of the process instead of individual interventions, so-called. operations. You have appreciated the project of creating the network of the most interesting villages. Thank you so much for that. Here I would like to emphasise the importance of supporting such initiatives through the National Rural Network. I would be very grateful if the Minister could draw it in one sentence today, but at the same time he showed the prospect of starting funding back from this source, because this initiative is of great importance for the preservation of cultural heritage. [[♪ The bell ♪]] and creates a new quality in rural tourism.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-16-sejm-33-1.u25	Thank you, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-16-sejm-33-1.u26	And thank you very much for appreciating this issue. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-16-sejm-33-1.u27	Thank you, sir. Please take the floor of Mr Mieczysław Kasprzak.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-16-sejm-33-1.u28	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Gentlemen of Ministers! High Izbo! 1.5 minutes is not enough to say about all the damage the PiS government has done in terms of agriculture. [[He didn't. What are you saying?]] We need to sum this up straight. If we're summing up a year, it was a bad year for agriculture. [[Mr...]] Example. The Minister says that next year we will make proposals in the European Union to increase farmers' subsidies. And the election campaign said, "We're going to raise by 50%." aid for farmers. Is that what happened? That's what happened. In the meantime, we'll report. This is ridiculous. But I want to ask you something else. Minister, it has come to light that, unable to cope with African swine fever, you want practically to eliminate completely breeding in small farms, home breeding of pigs. You're just trying to impose such restrictions that you're going to wipe out a completely home-grown pig farm. Is that true and since when do you want to bring it in? That's the information from the Ministry of Agriculture. Do you want to introduce similar restrictions on bird flu? Because here, too, it's getting out of hand and you can't handle it. Farmers are appalled by this, because many farmers still in their farms, even for their own needs, raise pigs, pigs, so I would ask for an explanation here, and if that is not true - it's a denial. That's the information from the Ministry of Agriculture. Thank you very much. [[And silence, even no one applauded.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-16-sejm-33-1.u29	Thank you. Please take the floor of Mr Zbigniew Sosnowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-16-sejm-33-1.u30	Dear Marshal, Dear Minister, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, In the election campaign, you were confusing the farmers' eyes that you would double the amount of EU subsidies. Not anyone else, but it was Minister Jurgiel who told us that this is how he would strive for the Polish village to reach the European level, which would ensure a qualitative jump in the countryside. Minister, where are the double surcharges? When will Polish farmers get them? When's the qualitative leap you promised during the election campaign? Unless, Minister, you consider this qualitative leap to be the quality of transport of animals to the Kujawsko-Pomorskie voivodeship for disposal of African swine fever disease from the protection areas, which has caused a huge rage of Polish farmers. The farmers of Kujaw and Pomerania will never forget this for you. [[Oh...]] Mr Telus, now is the period of retreat, from this speaker we must tell the truth. Therefore, all Poles listen: Mr Telus, please do not lie from this speaker. It was on the initiative of the Polish People's Party in 2015 that the Law on the Protection of the Polish Land was adopted, which was a much better law than the present law and protected the Polish land, and certainly allowed Polish farmers to grow and expand their farms. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-16-sejm-33-1.u31	Thank you. [[Correct, Marshal.]] What? Yes, sir. [[Joy in the Chamber]] [[If I can correct...]] Oh, here you go, in corrigendum mode. [[Voice from the room: There's nothing to straighten out.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-16-sejm-33-1.u32	Thank you. Mr. Marshal, I'm forced to correct. Of course, we're in ad, after retreats. I don't think there's any need to lie here, sir. Of course, the Polish People's Party has promised for many years that it will create such a law. Recently before the elections on the knee it was written such a law, but everyone, even the Members of the Polish People's Party, said that this law is evil, that this law does not safeguard the most important agricultural interest or the greatest Polish interest, which is the Polish land. Mr President, I think it is in this Advent tone that the truth needs to be told. It was a kitch, it was a law that did not secure the Polish land, and only the government of Law and Justice, the government of Beata Szydło, the ministry under the leadership of Minister Jurgiel prepared such a law and today we are protected, the Polish land is secured and that is the most important. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[You know you're lying.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-16-sejm-33-1.u33	Thank you. Mr Jarosław Sachajko will take the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-16-sejm-33-1.u34	Mr. Marshal! Gentlemen of Ministers! High Izbo! I thank the Minister for providing information on the activities and policies of the Ministry in the field of agriculture. Regarding the fact that I am publicizing a lot of things, I am actually publicizing and we see that this sound system has a positive effect. Thank you very much for the fact that my publicity somehow has a positive impact on legislation. I would like to ask the Minister to clarify the measures taken by the Ministry of Agriculture to implement the provisions of the Law on Feed, which we adopted on 4 November, in which we extended the moratorium on the introduction of GMOs into feed for only 2 years. This is not a long time, this is a short time, so I would ask you very much to clarify and give us the concrete measures that will be taken in this short period. It doesn't necessarily have to be so detailed at the moment, which is why I would ask you to put it in writing, because time is short, and we would like to know and make sure that we get there. At the same time, I hold the Minister's word that right now the government is telling officials what to do, not government officials. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-16-sejm-33-1.u35	I will ask Mr Eugenius the Trouble to ask the question.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-16-sejm-33-1.u36	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Gentlemen of Ministers! However, I will put the argument that it is not good in Polish agriculture. But I will also immediately point out that the main culprit is neither the previous government nor the current government. As a practice, as the director of the Institute of Experimental Zootechnics, an establishment subordinate to the Minister, I will say that, above all, this poor situation in Polish agriculture is affected by two basic reasons, that is my opinion. Firstly, unfavorable weather conditions, especially in the last year 2016, ending, freezing and then drought. And the second reason is that there is a complete price expansion on the agricultural markets. These are, in my opinion, two reasons. And I'm basing this thesis on the example of my bet I'm running. Since 2012, we've managed 1000 ha, about the same population of the famous white goose plus sheep. During these five years, the revenue in our plant has dropped by 1/4. The fact that we still have profits is just because 19% We smothered the costs, but not at the expense of the employees to make it clear. In addition, this is the first year when no insurance company, we have already talked about it, has not stood up to tender for the insurance of autumn sowings. ♪ And finally ♪ [[♪ The bell ♪]] My bet didn't get a 70% advance. because there was a doubt that we were an agricultural producer. I'd ask you to intervene in this case, if I may. Question at the end. What mechanisms will be proposed by the government, through the Ministry, but to try to stabilise agricultural income? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-16-sejm-33-1.u37	Thank you, sir. I would like to ask Mr Norbert Kaczmarczyk's question.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-16-sejm-33-1.u38	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I would like to know how much money will be spent on direct payments to farmers in 2017. Will it be, like this year, 70% Those advances? As you know, this is the time in the spring when farmers can invest because they have money. They won't have to borrow to get out in the field, speaking our language. That is why I have a question: How will the case look like in 2017? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-16-sejm-33-1.u39	Thank you. I ask you to ask Arthur Dunin's question.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-16-sejm-33-1.u40	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Briefly. 1.5 minutes, so I'm going to focus more on questions than on polemics with the Minister, which has always been good for us at the agricultural committee. First of all, your slogan: equalizing the direct amount. Whoa! There isn't, there isn't. [[On the platform? Mr...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-16-sejm-33-1.u41	Mr President, I am so sorry, but you are making some strange noises today. [[Joy in the Chamber]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-16-sejm-33-1.u42	What about the prices for agricultural products, the prices for pigs? Here, too, it was bad, and so you shouted, that under the rule of the Civic Platform and the Polish People's Party prices were falling on the head, on the neck. Right now, there's a drama for farmers. What about the next promise that you'll end up with GMOs in Poland? None other than the Minister shall submit a memorandum extending the use of genetically modified soybean by four years. Another bust. Now things are very important, not promises. A little bit about the bill you're so proud of about stopping the sale of agricultural land. I want to tell you, Minister, that farmers are reporting once again, who say they can't buy land from their neighbor because the neighbor doesn't want to sell them land because the land is just cheap. [[Minister of Agriculture and Rural Development Krzysztof Jurgel: No, it is not.]] And right now, he's saying, "Better lay down than I'm gonna sell it." But there's one more important thing, please answer in writing. [[♪ The bell ♪]] How much money will be spent on your programme over the years, on the programme that the Minister presented. I would very much like to ask you to give a thorough presentation of the schedule of expenditure in years for the programme prepared by you. Thank you very much. Thank you, Marshal. I know. You don't thank me. You don't have a habit.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-16-sejm-33-1.u43	It is difficult, sir, to thank you for the performances you gave at the Parliamentary Speaker. I'm just wondering how the people preparing the protocol will write down those sounds you made out of yourself. [[They're gonna write those sounds.]] Please take the floor of Mr Zbigniew Dolata.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-16-sejm-33-1.u44	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! One of the biggest challenges facing Polish agriculture is to ensure protein security. Unfortunately, Poland has been dependent on GM soybean imports for many, many years. This has a specific financial dimension: PLN 4 billion per year. At least some of these measures could remain in the pockets of Polish farmers. And at this point, I would like to thank you for the actions that the agricultural department is taking in this area to ensure protein security. This is mainly about the continuation of the research and development programme for the 2016-2020 period, i.e. 34 million PLN. It was also very important to adopt an amendment to the Direct Payments Act, which provides for a much higher level of support for those crops which will be intended for grain. These actions, I am convinced, will cause a greater supply of grain of plants, Polish native legumes. Now one more step is needed, such a step which will cause interest of feed companies in Polish protein components, because unfortunately they are endings, such terminal terminals of genetically modified soybean importers. [[♪ The bell ♪]] I would like to ask if the Ministry is considering introducing the same mechanism as in the production of biofuels, namely indicative targets which would order feed companies to use Polish protein components. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-16-sejm-33-1.u45	Thank you, sir. And please, Mr Krzysztof Szulowski. I have a huge request to all the ladies and gentlemen of all the clubs who are taking the floor to try to accommodate them in time. We have a very intense agenda today, a lot of votes. I'm asking for discipline. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-16-sejm-33-1.u46	Mr. Marshal! Gentlemen of Ministers! High Izbo! I would like to refer to the Minister for Agriculture and Rural Development's area of activity related to the supervision of research institutes, including particularly the most important ones, which carry out key tasks for your functioning, state research institutes, i.e. PIBs. Here I would particularly like to express my satisfaction that just after taking over the government, on 15 December 2015, the Council of Ministers, because the previous one failed to do so, adopted multi-annual programmes - implemented by the Institute for Fertilization and Soil Science in Puławy and the Institute for Plant Protection in Poznań - and the third consortium programme implemented by three institutes. The implementation of multiannual programmes enables the implementation of biological progress, food safety, environmental protection, biodiversity. They are important for the economy as a whole. On the other hand, they ensure the stability of the activities of the institutes themselves. On the other hand, an important component of the functioning of the institutes is also the grant for the so-called. statutory activities. It is not the Minister of Agriculture and Rural Development who decides about it, but the Minister of Science and Higher Education. Due to concerns that it can be eliminated, this raises concerns, among others. in agricultural institutes, I would like to ask, does the Minister of Agriculture recognise these concerns and dangers regarding the deterioration of the financial conditions of agricultural institutes? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-16-sejm-33-1.u47	Thank you, sir. The question I ask of Mr Jan Krzysztof Ardanowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-16-sejm-33-1.u48	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! The information relates to the first year of our term of office. I am convinced that all these activities that have been undertaken this year will serve agriculture well, as are those planned for the next years of the term of office. Don't worry, Minister, with all the voices of the opposition. These are the voices of desperation, and our caravan must continue its course. I want to touch two cases, asking the Ministry to work on it. One, Mr Dolata spoke about this, is the issue of substitution of feed protein. There are activities not only lobbyist - also very many people who have graduated from agricultural schools are convinced of the irreplaceability of soya. The results of the protein programme have clearly demonstrated that we can be the leader of the European substitution of American soybeans. These directions need to be taken, this is very important. The second is the question of strengthening agricultural income from the sale of processed farm products - an excellent law, expected by society, on agricultural retail trade. It must now be ensured that the conditions which will be set out in the Regulation will, in accordance with the law, apply to the EU Regulation 852, Chapter 3, 2 of the Annex - in all premises which farmers can do so. [[♪ The bell ♪]] the purpose of use. I think this is in line with EU law and that is the right thing to do.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-16-sejm-33-1.u49	Thank you, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-16-sejm-33-1.u50	I wish you success, Minister. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-16-sejm-33-1.u51	Thank you, sir. And Mrs Urszula Pasławska, please take the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-16-sejm-33-1.u52	Dear Marshal, Gentlemen of Ministers! High Izbo! I listened with great attention to the speech of the Minister, who recalled his merit for agriculture. You know, Minister, I come from Warmia and Mazury, it's a voivodeship not too rich, but people remember how PC and AWS Members have eliminated the pegeers, and the effects of this liquidation have so far been felt in Warmia and Mazury. [[Minister of Agriculture and Rural Development Krzysztof Jurgel: PC and AWS? Freedom Union.]] Ladies and gentlemen, let's get to the point. This year was a very difficult year for agriculture, but I would like to address three points. You were silent when you accepted the ceta agreement, the consequences of which we will not feel today, not tomorrow, but probably in a year's time, two years from now. You were silent when you raised your retirement age and kept silent in your discussion about the liquidation of junior high schools in rural areas as well. And in this case, I have a question. Due to the fact that you took a year of compulsory education for children in Poland, including those in rural areas... [[That is not true, Member. That's not true.]] ...how do you want... do you have a plan to develop and support education in rural areas? And second question: What about the buildings, what about the infrastructure in which local authorities invested in rural areas, building and equiping junior high school? Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[They'll be used.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-16-sejm-33-1.u53	Thank you. Mr Mirosław Maliszewski, please ask questions. There's no envoy. In that case, Mr Stefan Rometki.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-16-sejm-33-1.u54	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have a brief question: Can a German farmer living in a German municipality with agricultural land in Poland buy Polish land? If the Minister doesn't answer that question right now, I would ask him to answer me in writing. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-16-sejm-33-1.u55	Thank you. Mrs Skowronska is not here, it is Mr Janusz Cichoń. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-16-sejm-33-1.u56	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I would like to ask how support for Polish agriculture is shaping today. I would like the Minister to tell me what it looks like to evaluate this support using measures that are commonly used in the world, such as: like nominal protection efficiency, i.e. NPC, or EPC, which is an effective protection factor. These are objective measures showing the state's commitment to agricultural protection. It's on one side. On the other hand, I would also like to get information on what the effects of this protectionism are, and best to measure the level of income, i.e. what the income parity looks like, what the income of Polish farmers is in relation to the income of the non-agricultural population. Both information would be worth showing against the background of other countries. I would like you ministers, if you know, to answer the question of what it looks like today with regard to Poland, where we are, and what is the result of this statement. Because unfortunately, I can say, back to Mr Ardanowski's statement: you say that the caravan [[♪ The bell ♪]] It's going on, and it's more like a hearse that says "farming" going on. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-16-sejm-33-1.u57	Mr Marek Matuszewski, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-16-sejm-33-1.u58	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! The governments of Platforms and PSL for 8 years have led to a bad situation in the countryside and worsened the material situation... [[Very bad. Very bad.]] ...farm families. They were governments of great incompetence, lack of prospects for farmers. These are facts. How did PSL and the Agricultural Platform rule? I'll give you an example of a foreign company called Pini, from me, from Kutna. This company was opened by Mr Pawlak, a prominent politician of PSL, in support of other Oligarchs from PSL. High Izbo! This is how farmers are treated throughout Poland, as workers were treated, e.g. Those who add meat. Just go to the websites and check it out. This is your fault and your fault, Minister Sawicki. That's the real deal. What the... [[Voice from the hall: Tusk's Wines.]] ...Mr Jurgiel, I will say this on behalf of Polish farmers: there has not been a minister since 1989, who so loves farmers, cares for farmers. And I'm sure thanks... [[The Minister was already a minister. He's been here before.]] ...to develop agriculture. And the entire management of the Ministry of Agriculture are professionals who know about agriculture, understand them. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] And they're gonna fix the evil that Platform and PSL governments have done. And lastly, Minister, I'd like to ask you, [[♪ The bell ♪]] If you don't mind...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-16-sejm-33-1.u59	Only time has passed, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-16-sejm-33-1.u60	Last sentence, Mr. Marshal, if you'll allow me: How many Polish butcher shops have fallen because of this company's operations? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-16-sejm-33-1.u61	Thank you, sir. Once again, very cordially and warmly, please keep an eye on the time to ask a question. Mr Leszek Galemba. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-16-sejm-33-1.u62	Mr. Marshal! Gentlemen of Ministers! High Izbo! Is it true that agriculture and food production can be improved into a strategic sector of the economy? Do regional policy and rural development form one of the pillars of the Moravian Plan to lift the village from the economic collapse? We protected the Polish land from redemption by the so-called. poles and by heirs. Here, a colleague of mine, Robert Telus, was right that this law on prohibition or sale of land sales did not have good safeguards. The proof is what happened in my district. The day before the introduction of the agricultural minister Krzysztof Jurgel's law on the prohibition of selling Polish land was bought out in such a way, I say, spectacular after 500 ha in my district of Kolski. [[The voice from the hall: They had money, they bought it.]] Entrepreneurs from Warsaw bought 500 ha of land. I'll show you. [[Voice from the room: Piskorski was buying.]] We have stopped the increase in the purchase of the land, which will contribute to the fact that Polish farmers will be able to buy and purchase the land. [[That's what they can't do.]] Is it true that the Direct Selling Act, the Trade Mark Act, the Polish Product, will contribute to improving the profitability of farmers and their families? I'm a farmer, and I know, [[♪ The bell ♪]] that it was a good year of ministry work for the Polish village. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-16-sejm-33-1.u63	Thank you. I ask Mr Paul to ask the question.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-16-sejm-33-1.u64	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Gentlemen of Ministers! Minister! I'd like to get back to the land bill. The fact that foreigners can't buy it, it's okay, it's a good move. The Polish People's Party is absolutely behind this. On the other hand, Minister, you fired the baby with the bath. You promised that the Polish farmer would be able to expand his family farm. Unfortunately, it cannot be done with the Agricultural Market Agency, you have blocked the sale of land for Polish farmers. [[From the Agricultural Property Agency.]] From the Agricultural Property Agency, I'm sorry. You blocked that sale of land. I'd ask you to think a little bit about it. And another thing. And before that, we talked about changing the rules on these 3,000. m2, Therefore that when it comes to the distribution of real estate, the agricultural plot can be divided into a minimum plot of 3,000. m2, and a non-farmer can buy up to 3,000. m2. I have a question, Minister: Have you spoken to the notaries in the meantime, how much problems are there at the moment with the land movement? I think it would be worth meeting with the notaries and talking and, above all, increasing the area of the 3,000. m2, [[♪ The bell ♪]] so that farmers have more of these potential buyers, because the real price of the land has fallen. And here's the rhetoric of the PiS...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-16-sejm-33-1.u65	Thank you, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-16-sejm-33-1.u66	...that's a good thing, because the farmer will buy the land at a lower price, but at the same time he has less wealth. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-16-sejm-33-1.u67	Thank you, sir. I would like to ask Mrs Paulina Hennig-Kloska a question. [[There isn't.]] There isn't. This is Mr Dariusz Bąk.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-16-sejm-33-1.u68	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! In the beginning, I would like to draw attention to a fact which took place in this Chamber, namely the former Minister of Agriculture Mr.Marek Sawicki mentioned here from the Seym Court, using the advantage of this very stand, the public name of the chairman of the strike committee, the protest committee who protested and the purpose was to defend the Polish land, accusing him and his family of being pillars. It's a calumnia, it's a defamation of a person, [[Applause]] Who can't defend herself. Mr. Marshal, I think this should have a finale, and the competent authorities of the Sejm should take care of it. This is an outrage. And now I have a question for the Minister of Agriculture for African swine fever. Is it true that the previous government, when there was African swine fever, blocked wild boars? That's what caused the excessive multiplication. This was in March 2014. The veterinarian, with the consent of the Minister, of course, prohibited the organisation of all hunts. This has caused an excessive number of wild boar populations and has led to further consequences with which the current government is now having major problems. A lot of good is being done by the current government when it comes to African swine fever. There are measures taken, there are assistance measures and please, Minister, that this directory of assistance, which the government is currently in. [[♪ The bell ♪]] he addressed to farmers, he was exposed, if not here in full today, then in writing, please, because all Poland is interested in this problem, and a lot of good government is doing on this issue. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-16-sejm-33-1.u69	Thank you, sir. I would ask you to ask Mr Kazimierz Starowski a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-16-sejm-33-1.u70	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! The Regional Management Board in Białystok has prepared eight large projects on melioration. On the other hand, the PO-PSL government in the financial perspective for the period 2014 and 2020 did not foresee any funding for the melioration. Does the Minister see this problem, and does he intend to make funds available for this task? Second question: Is it true that how the outbreak occurred ASF in Podlasie in 2014, Minister Sawicki didn't allocate any gold to the sanitary wild boars? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-16-sejm-33-1.u71	Mr Marek Sawicki.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-16-sejm-33-1.u72	Mr. Marshal! Minister! Mr Matuszewski! Mr. Fart! You don't have to act as lawyers for your politicians and your Members because they know exactly how to do it, with the Minister. They get their rights in court, and that's the best way. I think Mr. Cosmal, as I say untruthfully, will also benefit from this path. [[Voice from the hall: Ha, ha, ha.]] I would also like to tell Minister Jurgel that he is probably mistaken about the subject of building and editing prayers, because in the Ministry of Agriculture, there is no prayer book that we have not developed. On the other hand, I would like to thank you for fulfilling the 17 promises of the Polish People's Party that you considered that this program was good, needed for farmers, and for the fact that since we failed to implement it in two terms and he was also scheduled for another one, you continued to do so. After all, your program unfortunately in many cases was good in the announcements, but not feasible, and you know it very well. I would also like to ask the Minister when the Polish People's Party apologizes to the Polish People's Party and executes the judgment of the court on the amount of funds for the common agricultural policy for the years 2014 to 2020 because such a judgment of the 2015 court is and would be worthwhile for you to do so. I also want to say that you're wrong when [[♪ The bell ♪]] You say you don't listen to officials. After all, the last two laws: and the Seed Act, and the Farm Insurance Act are exactly the concept of officials, which you adopted as your own and presented to us here in the Seym. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-16-sejm-33-1.u73	Thank you. And Mr Robert Telus.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-16-sejm-33-1.u74	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! Minister! I got a text, it came to my hands, a text about the fulfillment of the promises of PSL, the promises that PSL made for many years to the Polish village... [[It's not for this election.]] ...and which it hasn't realized to this day. Law and Justice implement and save Polish agriculture. Minister, because I have little time, I would ask the Minister to discuss these points, these promises of PSL - they only said, promised, and not realized - so that you could discuss it and say what is done in these subjects, because these are good points and they serve the Polish village. Mr. Marshal, allow me to finally allow myself a little privacy as well. There are young people at the gallery, students of the Secondary School Complex No. 2 in Tomaszów Mazowiecki with the tutor Mrs Halina Fijałkowska, whom I warmly welcome. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-16-sejm-33-1.u75	Thank you. I also join these greetings. And I would like to ask Mrs Dorota's question on Sunday.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-16-sejm-33-1.u76	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Minister, I'm not going to focus on what was promised here, and it wasn't done, what was in the election campaign. Maybe I'll focus on this short question only on what's been done and what I've asked many times. Why did the public consultation bring forward a proposal for a regulation on retail sales, which was intended to concern only processing? The project appeared, went to consultations, to agricultural chambers which absolutely do not understand this regulation, and there are written raw materials, not processing. That's one thing. The cereals and raw materials that the farmer sells in the non-taxed direct sales system are written out. So I ask for a specific answer: What is this regulation and is it written wrongly, or is it an official mistake? Second question. In the subcommittee, we are working a year on the possibility of helping, considering the joint inspection project, and we are still at the starting point. My question: How is the Minister going to speed up this work and establish one position for the Ministry of Agriculture and the Ministry of Health, and end this fight between the Minister of Agriculture and the Minister of Environment and the Minister of Agriculture and the Minister of Health? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-16-sejm-33-1.u77	Thank you. And Mrs Krystyna Skowronska, I would like to ask you a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-16-sejm-33-1.u78	Dear Marshal, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Ministers! Minister, I have two simple but concrete questions. How many countries have you secured from the state budget for a multi-annual expenditure plan from the country's agricultural budget by 2020? There's no such information. We'll ask for it. And the question of one important promise from your election campaign. When are you going to compensate for agricultural subsidies, and how successful are you in this regard? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-16-sejm-33-1.u79	Thank you. In this we have exhausted the list of people who are written down for questions. You asked Minister Krzysztof Jurgel for the floor. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-16-sejm-33-1.u80	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I would just like to remind you, as regards subsidies, because here a number of Members, the Member mentioned the subject, that you have written in EU law by 2020 - there is a table - how many of these subsidies Poland has. It was your agreement, in the vote on this matter, the Polish government supported the solution proposed by the committee. So that there is a review, there are procedures. We report this when it comes to the position of the government - the position is presented - that here is discrimination. In addition, during that term we adopted a resolution of the Sejm, in which we pointed out that three articles of EU regulations were violated in the field of discrimination against Polish entities. We're picking it up. This is diplomacy, it is not easy for 28 countries, but I speak about it wherever these topics are discussed. I will answer briefly, because today, as the Marshal said, there is a Sejm, we have a vote, I will not prolong it, because I could talk about it any longer. Those more important things. KSOW - as far as KSOW is concerned, we changed the law, it was already passed yesterday. Regulations - February, March - it will already be possible to submit applications. With regard to Mr Kasprzak's question, about the activities that are in the ASF area, there is a programme that will be implemented. If the holding does not comply with the bioinsurance rules, it should change the production profile. There will be resources for this, too, from various sources. You will receive a detailed programme, it is at the final stage of approval by the European Commission. All instruments that will be possible will be undertaken. In addition, the Institute of Agricultural Economics and Food Economy has prepared a large study on the possibility of changing the production profile in the eastern and north-eastern areas of Poland, so that it is the advice that we have introduced, within the programme for 2018 will inform farmers and producers about the possibilities of using these programmes. Mr Sosnowski, PSL law on Polish soil. Mr President, I was a member of the subcommittee that worked on this law during that term of office. We have also submitted our project, which has only been completed and adopted during this term of office. Really, if anyone wants to, I can bring it and if I don't, please see on the committee what trade fairs were between POs and PSL in terms of entries in this bill. [[It's true.]] [[Voices from the room: It's true, it's true.]] Well, I'm not lying. [[Joy in the O.R., applause.]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]] [[It's just that there's been some good records, which you're...]] [[♪ The bell ♪]] [[Voice from the room: Relax.]] Mr President, there is not much time here. We were working on it, and in the evening Mr. Kalemba was bringing some amendments - 30, and the next morning quite different - 30. Such changes were probably eight times, and finally Prime Minister Kopacz at some point I think she expressed... a little bit, as it is said, and managed to write it down. But really, this bill of yours was so hollow that any pillar could buy land, believe me. When it comes to action on feed - Mr Sachaiko - it is not possible if someone is seriously talking about it to deal with this problem within two years. For eight years, they haven't done much in this area. [[30 million, Minister.]] In addition, the provisions in the EU Regulations have led to measures within the framework of these 15% they cannot be increased because they serve to maintain production rather than to increase production. We found such a proposal to strengthen seed production, it was accepted. We're also working on the program. Of course, the position of the Sejm is binding on us, there is a law, and we will try to do everything we can to solve this problem. In January or early February, we are doing another seminar on the subject. We invite you today, we will present the possibilities of fulfilling this request, because I realise that in two years' time the government will have to either present that it has done the job or give reasons for failure to do the job. That's why we're gonna work really hard on this. [[Applause]] As far as - Mr Kaczmarczyk - how much for subsidies, this envelope for Poland is approx. 3.5 billion a year, of which for subsidies this year was approx. 14 billion PLN. As far as GMOs are concerned, the programme is being implemented, and I must make it clear. It is not true, as Mr Sawicki said, that it is the officials who direct the laws to the Sejm, that the Polish government directs them. In the next law, which will be updated, in 2001, on micro-organisms, this problem will also be raised. There will be records that will further limit or even eliminate the use of GMOs. This is now regulated in the regulation that I issued in May, because according to the current provisions, the Minister must ban crops on seeds that may harm them. That's what I made in May. As for Mr Dolata's statement, thank you for taking care of this problem, because it is not from now on, it has been a couple of nice years. The Poznań Centre, the Institute - we are working on it, we will certainly continue to use it. As far as research institutes - Mr Szulowski - are concerned - are the concept of Mr Gowin, it is known that one central technological institute is to be established, and those that will remain, ministers, are not to receive subsidies. That's an offer for now. [[We're gonna fight.]] I will urge in the government that the ones that remain at the minister's office, however, be subsidised. Although I must make it clear here that our institutes cannot benefit from EU funds, from innovation. There is a programme called Horizon in which Poland and other countries of Central and Eastern Europe have used the least resources. In this respect, We adopted such a resolution within the Visegrad Group so that a certain pot from the Horizon programme would be allocated and that our institutes would benefit from it. The situation is now that the Institute's staff are involved in relations with institutes from Germany, France, where they participate in programmes, and somehow they cannot draw too much money into the country. This needs to be corrected. Besides, there is now a law in the Sejm on research institutes that will improve the management of these institutes. I think there will be more scope for enforcement at the institute, because it is now that the minister is responsible for the government administration, while the small one has an impact on the functioning of the institute. That's what needs to be changed. As far as Mrs Pasławska is concerned, I would like to remind you that the pegeers destroyed the United People's Party, which was in the coalition in 1989. At that time, there was a coalition with civil committees in which the Freedom Union, now the Civic Platform, ruled. [[No, no.]] And then... AWS hasn't been there yet. And the liberals were still in charge there, the Liberal Democratic Congress. Yeah, well... [[Game in the O.R.]] [[1991 - Act.]] I know you're young, but you have to learn some stories. On the other hand... [[Just like Marek Suski.]] [[And yesterday there was a fee, Minister.]] But I'm just telling the truth. [[Everybody's got their own.]] If I was lying, then... [[Game in the O.R.]] The CET case. I will not repeat myself again, it is also the result of the government's activities. It was signed in 2014. You have raised your retirement age to 67 years, and now you are saying that we have raised your retirement age. We changed from 67 to 60 years. Is that an increase or a reduction? About that... You should already say that to the Polish village we directed the program 500+, a program that will really make the Polish village more lively. Mr. Beida. It is not true that foreigners cannot buy land. They can buy, but here we have the fact that - I am referring to the question - they must live in a given village for a certain period. And that's settled. So that they can buy. The bill is good. As regards the cases that occur, we collect this information by the end of the year, Minister Babalski and the Department will prepare a way to resolve some of these problems. But once again, I stress: spatial planning must return to the Polish village. This new law, i.e. the urban code, will result in simplified procedures for the allocation of parts of agricultural property to construction sites or for individual construction and sales opportunities. Please... These speculations, it's making decisions about the construction conditions at the border of the law that had to end, and that's what we've done. Now we have to draw up a plan, there is no problem, and agricultural land can be used for construction. But land development must also have its order. How many complaints have I had, as a Member, when the warden or... Sorry, there are no wardens anymore. Uncles or mayors made decisions. As for the construction of houses and after the construction, suddenly a visitor from the city said that he smelled of a barn that was standing there, there was animal breeding. The local plan has to do it. That's what we eliminated. We've still got... Mrs. Kloska said something, but I didn't write it down. [[It's okay.]] As far as meliorations are concerned, 260 million is in the budget. This is in the negotiations, because in 2006 we negotiated this, it was PLN 2 billion for consolidations and meliorations. [[Companies 30 million.]] Now it just hasn't been negotiated. We will continue to operate in this area, except that the institution of the Polish Waters, which will take over the melioration, will be under the responsibility of the Minister of the Environment. As far as Minister Sawicki is concerned, I am not going to apologize because I was telling the truth at the time and that version was true. Well, our courts are what they are, otherwise they interpreted. They have that right, and we have to accept that. On the other hand, no one can make me apologize personally, and that is not possible. [[Court of law, justice on our side, self-righteous.]] As far as promises are concerned, these are your promises, often made here in the Chamber, as you were a minister, and other activists, while the agricultural programme as such Polish People's Party did not have, I have never seen that on any website Polish People's Party had a specific programme for Polish agriculture. If that's the case, I'd ask for a delivery. [[Game in the O.R.]] Not the government, but the Polish People's Party. As for this matter that Mrs. Sunday was talking about combining inspections, we will now refer the bill to the Permanent Committee. There was a substantive discussion between the Ministry of Agriculture and the Ministry of Health in the field of competence, but really not on the basis of malice, only experts spoke on specific subjects, there were different interpretations. We have tried and I think we will clarify everything so that the introduction of new solutions will not cause the slightest disruption in the functioning of the food safety system. As far as the regulation is concerned, there are two regulations already prepared. On the other hand, it has been claimed in the press that this law cannot be applied. It will be possible, as it is. with ritual slaughter, the EU regulation can be applied directly to sales rules. [[The regulation concerns raw materials.]] The records that you mentioned are listed in the second annex, I think, must be respected. Our regulation can make it more specific... [[These are raw materials.]] ...but believe me, we will not impose any additional requirements other than those in the EU regulation. [[But the raw materials, Minister, why are the raw materials?]] I'll explain. I don't know that. It went into consultation. The consultation is also for this, Madame, to clarify this. [[But explain.]] As far as funding is concerned, we are working on the programming documents that will be adopted in December and will enable careful preparation. We plan to draw up a financial bill like the American one, so that all actions that will be in relation to agriculture are listed in this law - the multiannual financial plan. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-16-sejm-33-1.u81	Thank you, Minister. The discussion is closed. I propose that the Sejm accept the information of the Minister of Agriculture and Rural Development from the implementation of the Action Programme... [[Objection.]] There's an objection, right? As a motion for rejection has been made, we will proceed to the vote on this proposal in the voting block. High Izbo! Two minutes of technical break. [[Adjournment from 10 a.m. 11 minutes 16 hours 11 min 32]] I'm reopening the session. The Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development has submitted a report on the Senate resolution on the Law amending the Seeding Act and the Plant Protection Act. The report shall be published in the Official Journal of the European Union. Therefore, on the basis of Article. 95f of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm of the Marshals of the Sejm decided to supplement the agenda by a point covering the examination of this report. I propose that the Sejm listen to three minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles in the discussion on this item. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. We proceed with the examination of item 2 of the agenda: Revised report by the Committee on Administration and Home Affairs and the Committee on Social Policy and Family Policy on the Government bill amending the Act on Pension Supply of Police Officers, Internal Security Agency, Intelligence Agency, Military Counterintelligence Service, Military Intelligence Service, Central Anti-corruption Office, Border Guard, Government Protection Office, State Fire and Prison Service and their families (prints Nos 1061 and 1159). I ask Mr Arkadiusz Czartoryski to present a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-16-sejm-33-1.u82	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! Gentlemen of Ministers! High Seym! Revised report by the Committee on Administration and Home Affairs and the Committee on Social and Family Policy on the Government's draft law amending the Act on Pension Supply of Police Officers, Internal Security Agency, Intelligence Agency, Military Counterintelligence Service, Military Intelligence Service, Central Anti-corruption Office, Border Guard Office, Government Protection Office, State Fire and Prison Service and their families, print No. 1061. Bureau of the Sejm on 14 December, in accordance with Rule No. For the purposes of this Regulation, the following definitions shall apply: 3 of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm, again referred the draft law contained in the print report No 1146 to the Committee on Administration and Home Affairs and the Committee on Social Policy and Family Policy in order to draw up an amended report. The Committee on Administration and Home Affairs and the Committee on Social Policy and Family Policy, following the conditions referred to in Article. For the purposes of this Regulation, the following definitions shall apply: 2 (2) of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm, after re-examination of the draft law at its meeting on 15 December, they ask that the High Sejm adopt the attached draft law. Ladies and gentlemen! 15 amendments and minority proposals tabled at the committee meeting did not gain approval of the committee, five amendments were accepted and they were included in the revised report. As regards the amendments contained in the text of the revised report, they relate to the addition of a new Article. 8a, the essence of which is the non-compliance with the law against officers who were short-term servants before 31 July 1990 and who have performed their duties and duties fairly after 12 September 1989. And Amendment 2, that is to say, a change in the basis of size from 0.5 to 0%. the basis for the assessment of the calculated benefit. Amendment 3. This is an amendment that reduces by 10% the basis for the pension for each year of service in the Security Service. Amendment 4 is an amendment which excludes from the rigour of this law, leaving the existing legal status in all those situations that concern officers and their families who died in service. And there's Amendment 5, which kind of makes it more consistent with the general insurance system, with a minimum amount of revalorisation of benefits not less than 10 PLN. As I said, the whole reworked amendment to the bill gained the support of the majority of committees. The committee shall submit a document in the form of a report, recommending its adoption. I would like to remind you that the amendments tabled in the previous consideration have also been included in this document, namely the amendments concerning the exclusion from the rigor of the militia law and the fire department officers who have finished the Academy of Home Affairs and who have not served in the Security Service, and the amendment, which I would like to point out, are also excluded from the rigor of the law all those officers whose service began for the first time not earlier than on 12 September 1989, who first came to the service, briefly speaking, after the establishment of the government of Prime Minister Tadeusz Mazowiecki, and the amendment which excludes from the rigor of this bill also all those officers whose duty to serve was based on the provisions of universal duty of defence, simply taken into service and sent to service without their own will. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-16-sejm-33-1.u83	Thank you, sir. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. Mr Janusz Śniadek, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice, will be the first to speak. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-16-sejm-33-1.u84	Mr. Marshal! Gentlemen of Ministers! High Izbo! How can we know that we are slowly closing the chapter of our history called the Third Republic of Poland? After the round-cloth system ended, in which the former nomenclature, the officers of the repression apparatus were untouchable. Well, it can be seen that, under the Seym, the former Esbecs are gathering in defence of their privileges. But I wanted to stress that this bill is not a retaliation or an act of revenge. This bill is an expression of elementary justice, justice, which should have been done many years ago. It is a disgrace to our country that this injustice has lasted so long. Our homeland, Poland, will cease to be such an unfair mother to many of its children, a country where heroes live in poverty, and their oppressors collect rich pensions. I do not need to remind you that democratic opposition activists and those who are being harassed in the martial law were losing their jobs and, in line with the new pension system, the capital they have worked out is not as large as those who, in the apparatus of oppression and repression, were getting a lot of wages and are therefore still entitled to very high wages. The entire Polish People's Republic was based on the privileges of party apparatus, nomenclature and apparatus of repression, police. All persons working within this system had access to both high wages and various privileges, so-called. The shops behind the yellow curtains. Let me remind you that the SB is a service in which, among other things, they were employed. The assassins of Fr. George Popieluszko, many priests and dozens of other activists. This bill is very strict justice, I'd say, so old-fashioned. But once again, this bill is not an act of retaliation or revenge. Because can we call it retaliation to bring the pension to the average pension amount of PLN 2050? In Poland, half of pensioners receive this pension - PLN 2050 and less. Very many get even less money. And is it, therefore, in any way legitimate to claim or cry that we have heard recently, that one is deprived of the basis of existence, that one cannot live for PLN 2050? Once again, half of Poles live from such revenues. These are their livelihoods, and they must be enough for them. The third reading introduced an amendment giving the Minister the opportunity to withdraw from the strict limits of this law in completely exceptional and justified cases. I was talking about the fact that the harm done to very many Poles, activists of the democratic opposition, were not compensated. And it's probably never gonna be like this. On the other hand, free Poland tries, wherever possible, to make amends to them. Among other things, at the moment is another such step, is the Senate Act, print No 936, consisting of amendments to the Act on anti-communist opposition activists and those repressed extending the scope of benefits, increasing the level of assistance provided to these people, independent of the material criteria, and so far only a small group received them, which met very much [[♪ The bell ♪]] acute economic criteria. I think that, because the budget is a system of combined vessels, those funds that we will gain from the Law reducing Esbec pensions will be used as funds from another pocket as if they were used to improve the existence of persecuted and repressed persons. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I move that this bill be passed. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-16-sejm-33-1.u85	Thank you, sir. And please speak on behalf of Mr Mark Wójcik's Civil Platform Parliamentary Club. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-16-sejm-33-1.u86	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I have the honour to present the position of the Civic Platform club on the revised report of the Committee on Administration and Home Affairs and the Committee on Social Policy and Family Policy on the draft law amending the Act on Pension Supply. High Izbo! It is worth recalling that the Civic Platform in 2009 led to the adoption of a law eliminating pension rights of former Security Service officers and reducing pensions for the period of service in the security bodies of the Polish People's Republic. We have repeatedly assured that if the government's law were to deal with actual dezubekisation, in some way it would improve some of the mechanisms provided for by that law and lead to a situation in which the Esbecs would be covered by these new regulations, we would be happy to support such solutions. On the other hand, the law submitted by the government has nothing to do with dezubecisation. This is a bill aimed at those officers who served in free Poland. The mechanism provided for by this law is very simple. This law largely takes away those pensions that were developed in free Poland after 1990. It is these pensions that will be reduced, that invalidity pensions developed in the 1990s will be reduced, that survivors' pensions after officers who served in free Poland will be reduced under this law. In the course of the discussion, both Members of the opposition and various institutions, such as the Supreme Court, pointed out that the case law of the Constitutional Tribunal in this case is clear, it is not possible to impose sanctions on officers who served in free Poland for a period of service in free Poland. Possible changes may relate to the period before 1990. This is clear from the ruling of the Constitutional Court. This is clear from the opinion of the Supreme Court, from a number of opinions which have been submitted in the course of the parliamentary work of this law. This was also noticed by the Members of the Law and Justice, and it was after your intervention that this project came back to committee. We all hoped that this great injustice, which is in this project, i.e. collecting pensions earned for service in free Poland, for fighting the mob, for fighting criminals in the 1990s, would be removed from this bill. Instead, we have a provision that allows Minister Błaszczak to decide administratively, on the basis of unclear criteria, in principle a free administrative decision to decide who was a good esbek and who was a bad esbek, who is his esbek and who is not. [[Secretary of State in the Ministry of Internal Affairs and Administration Jarosław Zieliński: We did not have our esbeks.]] The Minister will be able to make such an administrative decision now. High Izbo! This bill is underdeveloped. This law contains a catalogue of various types of entities which, in connection with the service, and sometimes even study at a school that used to be a police school, will be subject to the rigor provided for by that law. Sanctions will cover, for example, The entire Office of Government Protection, a service which for 25 years of free Poland, even by the IPN was not considered to be a service of repression apparatus in the times of the Polish People's Republic. At the meeting of the committee from your representative IPN, we learned that the entire Government Security Office is treated as a apparatus of repression and pensions developed by the officials of the Government Security Office will only be reduced because somewhere in the 1950s someone issued instructions that ordered the Government Security Office to treat as a Security Service. For 40 years of the Polish People's Republic, this instruction could have changed several times. It may not have had anything to do with the practice of the Government Protection Office, with the rules that allowed government protection officers to serve and perform their duties, but today these officers will be treated like ubeks. There are a lot of flowers in this bill. Today we are not even able to tell who is subject to this law. According to estimates and correspondence between the President of the IPN and the Minister, it could be up to 200,000. persons, because not only SB officers will be included in this act, but also the listeners of militia schools. This bill is highly unfair, High Izbo. And it hits those officers who fought the mob she spent it on. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Death sentences that had to hide their families from the revenge of the mob in the 1990s and 2000. They're the ones you're gonna be taking away your pensions, not the esbeks. Therefore, High Izbo, we are applying to reject this project at second reading. One more thing. Mr Śniadek spoke here about those who fought the opposition in the years of the Polish People's Republic. We are proposing an amendment that will allow those prosecutors who, like prosecutor Peterowicz, accused the opposition in years of martial law to take their pension away. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-16-sejm-33-1.u87	Thank you. It's been a while. Mr Jerzy Meysztowicz.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-16-sejm-33-1.u88	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! The modern one is in favour of punishing all PRL officers who were clearly serving the totalitarian state, committing crimes and fighting the democratic opposition. Unfortunately, this law does not meet these expectations and leads to non-standard collective responsibility. If the PiS had proposed a law whereby the IPN would have carried out additional research and analysis of documents that could have identified the officers who had misjudged the verification in the 1980s and 1990s and had been deprived of their wrongly received privileges, we would definitely have been in favour of this solution. Thus we have a law that takes away part of the pensions due to those who, after 1990, served free Poland with full dedication and dedication. This law bears the marks of unconstitutionality not only in the opinion of many institutions, organizations, Supreme Courts, but also in the assessment of the Legislative Office of the Sejm. The fact of fraud must also be raised, as the July 2016 draft was submitted for consultation and we are working on an unconsulted November version. Such actions contained in the proposal are also inadmissible due to the judgment of the Constitutional Court of 2010, which made it clear that the remuneration and all benefits to officials employed after 1990, regardless of their previous period of employment, are to be equal. It is amazing that in the catalogue of service institutions that are subject to this law are such as the fire department, the Border Guard, the BOR. The bizarre record of officers protecting the construction of a nuclear power plant in Żarnowiec is also astonishing. This is a vicious treatment of officers who have served and continue to serve independent Poland with risk of health and life, and a clear violation of the constitutional principle of citizen trust in the state. This bill clearly shows the intentions of the PiS to make further divisions in society, playing on emotions. In fact, it's about money that doesn't have the power to cover any more promises. They're pulling money out of the pockets of the insecure ones to recklessly hand it out to their voters, unfortunately without inhibitions using unhealthy emotions. Let the intention of the applicants be demonstrated by the fact that the majority of the PiS Members in the amendment committee rejected, so that the funds saved are transferred to those repressed in the times of the Polish People's Republic. How are we supposed to treat social justice when you differentiate pensions, and you give raises to everyone regardless of the duration of their internship? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-16-sejm-33-1.u89	I ask Mr Adam Snapshot to speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-16-sejm-33-1.u90	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! In good faith, we rejoined the committee. It seemed that the applicants who withdrew this bill to the committee really wanted to improve it. During the parliamentary debate, we raised fundamental objections to this draft law in three areas. First of all, we believe that this law is unfair because it receives funds and pension funds developed in free Poland by officers who fought for good Poland, treats these people unfairly. You can't do that. If you have an agreement with someone, they should keep these agreements to every extent. Secondly, it undermines the trust in you among those officers who are now working in the police force. You can see that very clearly. You heard this at the committee meeting when the present officers of the BOR or the police trade unions, which this law will not cover, spoke. The people who are now working are police officers, they feel that they are dating you for something -- for their work and putting their lives at risk for this country -- and at any time this country may withdraw from their contracts. Thirdly, this law fundamentally undermines the security of Poland, because you do not take into account how many officers equipped with very deep knowledge of various special operations are mistreated by the State, being, in colloquially speaking, kicked by the State. This is a harvest for the alien special forces. Unfortunately, after this committee, we have a deep conviction that this law is even worse because it introduces an element of discretion. This is absolutely absurd, it is some aberration, that now there may be a situation in which General Petelicki, I repeat once again, a person who has really great merits for the state, the creator of the BOR, would have to write to the Minister for his pension to be recognised. Who are you, Minister, to judge the people who really devoted themselves to free Poland, really risked their lives for free Poland to judge whether they were doing it honestly or not? Who are you, Minister? What right do you have? [[♪ The bell ♪]] moral to this? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-16-sejm-33-1.u91	Mr Krzysztof Paszik.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-16-sejm-33-1.u92	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, please. Minister! On behalf of the Parliamentary Club of the Polish People's Party Allow me to present our position on the revised position of the committee on the so-called. a debubbishing bill. It is not true that the privileged time for the PRL's oppressors is running out. It is also not true that PiS-owska debubekization law is a law that will suddenly bring justice after 27 years. Looking at the legislative process over the so-called. The debubecism bill, you can take the opposite impression that it is a law that protects those true oppressors, and does not touch them at all. Who do I mean? Very many times here cited prosecutors of the period of the Polish People's Republic. You'll have to admit, they weren't sanctimonies. At that time, in many cases, the real harm of many, many Poles began with these prosecutors. The question is, why are you leaving them? Do you have any intentions in this regard? They asked you to leave them alone? I don't use the name here on purpose, because that's the rule that we're not gonna use ad personam to move anyone in this respect. [[There's more in the ZSL. We'll get to that. Will you back us up?]] But the question is fundamental. In my previous speech on this issue, I also said that today there is an image of satisfaction in the homes of many of these real abusers who, even for fear of being verified, did not stand before the verification committee at the beginning of the 1990s. I don't think anybody's questioned the credibility and competence of these committees in 27 years. After all, there were opposition representatives, opposition activists from the previous era, the communist opposition. They verified it. Those cowards who didn't even approach verification before this committee at the time haven't been verified, today the hair doesn't fall. And since, Minister, dezubecisation, it's downstairs and to the end. Again, I have a question of why these people will not be affected by this bill. [[Because it's not the bill.]] [[Minister of Internal Affairs and Administration Mariusz Błaszczak: Read the bill.]] Do you have any interest in this, too, I'd like to ask. [[Did you read the minister?]] I repeat: like dezubecisation, it's dezubecation to the end and to the bottom. Then we can talk about this regulation. [[Minister of Internal Affairs and Administration Mariusz Błaszczak: But this is not the bill.]] High Izbo! Minister! At the end of the legislative process. You sensed something was wrong, that you were throwing everyone in one proverbial pot. [[The bag.]] It could be a bag. [[It's a phraseological relationship.]] There was a reflection on firefighters, a reflection on some categories of people who had little to do with the services of the previous period of the Polish People's Republic. But it's just cosmetic. The essence lies in the doubts I have allowed myself to report. These doubts were not resolved in any way at the committee stage, even by the State, introducing this Article. 8a, you're sinking into the legislative process here. Because a good bill is a law that doesn't require discretion, but contains principles that treat everyone justly. [[There's a new verification.]] The Parliamentary Club of the Polish People's Party therefore does not see the possibility of supporting this project and will support the proposal to reject this law at second reading. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[It's horrible.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-16-sejm-33-1.u93	Thank you. Mr Stanisław Huskowski, please take the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-16-sejm-33-1.u94	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Gentlemen of Ministers! I am one of those Members who has no reason to have sympathy or any trace of ties with the former Security Service. A few years of my life, Homeland Security destroyed a little bit. So I do not have the slightest concern for their welfare or compassion. However, this piece of legislation that we are discussing today - the previous speakers have already talked about it - does not apply to the period when the Esbecs were esbeks, in a small part applies to them, taking away 0.7 to 0%. the basis for the pension dimension. But that's not what I want to talk about. He is concerned with the period of work, it is Mr Marek Wójcik who spoke particularly strongly about this and made it clear to those who were once in the Security Service or related services, but who are concerned with the period of their work already for free Poland. There is no dispute about that earlier period, I believe, in this Chamber at all. There's no dispute, you can lower 0.7 to 0. Nobody's gonna shed a tear here. On the other hand, it concerns those who have been positively verified and worked out their pension, serving in free Poland. And this part of the pension that has been worked out since the beginning of free Poland drastically reduces this project and this is the case. Almost all of this, because I'm saying that for this earlier period, it reduces from 0.7 to 0. But here nobody stood up for this solution, only the essence of this whole project, that you are lowering pensions, and that is drastically, to those who have been positively verified, but perhaps a day, perhaps a year, maybe 5 years earlier worked in the SB or in related services. And, of course, for this period, absolutely let them have 0. On the other hand, for the period when they worked for the Polish state, for the free Polish country, after positive verification, taking away their rights, it is a drastic refusal of powers and leaving in the hands of the Minister of Home Affairs whether he considers that someone served well enough for free Poland and thus blurs his previous faults or wrongly served either not well enough or he did not grovel or wrote a request with a request... After all, it is necessary to write a reasoned request to the Minister, and the Minister will probably not talk to such people personally, but through officials. He didn't talk, he was just corresponding with people like that, right? So you have to grovel and exchange your... Service officers are often very honorable. Writing about his merits and asking the Minister to take this into account and to go under the article. 15c hit under article. 15, because they've had such credit, all the credit, it's humiliating for them, it's absolutely humiliating for them. Why are you punishing them? Why are you punishing them? Not to mention that this is obviously an unconstitutional solution. The Constitutional Tribunal, if it existed and does not exist, or exists in a residual form, would obviously repeal such a law. Therefore, these people will have recourse to foreign tribunals, which the tribunals will clearly take into account this proposal. [[Are you the judge of such a tribunal?]] Poland will lose all the processes that will be. [[Minister of Internal Affairs and Administration Mariusz Błaszczak: Do you know the judgments yet?]] Yes, Minister, I know they will be. It's obvious. Minister, you have to have flip-flops in front of you so you don't see it or understand it. What will your propaganda say then? How is it that the Court of Justice in Strasbourg, European tribunals, tell Poland to pay compensation to former ubekom? Please, what a bad Europe, we are right to separate from Europe and separate from Europe because they make us pay for the former ubeks. Ladies and gentlemen! The project is bad, harmful, the project is unfair. It is just an act, Mr Band-Aid, retaliation and revenge. Not what you said. It's an act of retaliation and revenge. For someone for a year or two or five years was an esbek and for the entire subsequent service to free Poland you punish them. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[President of the session includes Deputy Marshal Barbara Dolniak Sejm]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-16-sejm-33-1.u95	Thank you very much, sir. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. And to speak on behalf of the Free and Solidarni Circle, I will ask Mrs Małgorzata Zwierzan. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-16-sejm-33-1.u96	Mrs. Marshal! Gentlemen of Ministers! High Izbo! Mr Huskowski, I would like to address your statement. The Lord says that ex-officers, ex-husbands will be too honored to ask you to show your wonderful accomplishments. I would like to say, Mr President, and to all the Members who are in this Chamber, that our heroes who fought for this free Poland are honorable. [[Applause]] They're not begging tonight. They have less than a thousand golden pensions and even say they're not heroes. When we meet them today, they say: we just did what we thought was right. [[Let's raise their benefits.]] Yeah, benefits, less than a thousand golden pensions. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] [[Voice from the room: Of course.]] [[You should have done it.]] High Izbo! On behalf of the Free and Solidarnia Circle, I present my position on the so-called government project. a debubbishing bill. I have always stressed that in Poland it is necessary to settle with the previous system, to clearly determine who was where the ZOMO happened. It is necessary to honor those who deserve it and to deprive those who supported the criminal system for their personal benefit and, above all, to punish those who have the suffering and blood of Poles on their hands. This bill is one of the elements - and I hope that this is the first step - of this fairly late bill of conscience. It is worth emphasising the fact that the Act treats all servants in the regime equally, regardless of their traineeship. That's very good, because the very essence of gaining privileges was the mere fact of joining criminal formations. It was important to be among the faithful Soviet governors of the guard. [[Jesus.]] I don't want to judge if it's because of the desire to get privileges or worse to serve the Soviets. I've emphasized before, they didn't take unwitting people into these formations. Anyone who, even during the end of the life of the security services, entered their ranks knew that he would serve against the Polish people. No one knew that the result of the round table would be a change of system, and the fact that free Poland allowed former ubekom to continue working in a reformed police force gave them the privilege of early retirement. They didn't have to work in mines, shipyards or construction sites until they were 65 years old. Much has been said about this project. Today, however, we meet again because the government has listened to the demands, some of the demands, and the voices of the opponents of this amendment. Yesterday, the committee examined the amendments resulting from the discussions that had been held so far. Among other things, it was accepted. the proposal to take a special look at the situation of people who, in fact, served in the Security Service, but it was a short service and, serving for free Poland, they deserved in particular. This is not discretion as was raised in the committee. Once again, it should be stressed that the provisions of this amendment do not take away pensions from the Esbeks. They regulate their height. And let those who say it is a punishment be ashamed. Many of those who fought for free Poland cannot even count on such a witness, precisely for dedication, dedication to this fight. The Free and Solidarni Circle fully supports the bill. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-16-sejm-33-1.u97	Thank you very much. And I will ask Mr Janusz Sanocki, a non-member, to speak. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-16-sejm-33-1.u98	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Dear colleagues! I have to start, unfortunately, with a personal thread. I spent a year and a half in prison when I was in martial law. I've been harassed, persecuted. I was the organizer of the Underground Solidarity. I am in favour of judging criminals, esbeks who really committed crimes and served a totalitarian state, taking all pensions to zero, not to average - not to average. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Yes, sir.]] And that's why I'm against this bill, ladies and gentlemen. For many reasons I am against, e.g. for ethical and legal reasons. You can't choose one group from among the officers of that regime that notabene... However, somehow we entered into a contract with this regime at a round table and anything to say was a contract at a time when the Underground Solidarity almost did not exist. What was the next fate, this is another matter. On the other hand, we cannot treat all officers, all who lived in the Polish People's Republic, as coworkers and as a state of occupation, because you would have to give all your senior certificates. [[Bullshit.]] All seniors. Jozek, and you'd be kicked out of college. [[Joy in the Chamber]] [[Bullshit. Bullshit.]] Ladies and gentlemen, dear friends, this is not how you treat it. Why only officers? And where are the judges, the prosecutors, and where are the journalists of the Freedom Soldier, and where are the lecturers of Marxism, Leninism? [[Voice from the room: Yes, sir.]] After all, this problem cannot be resolved in the pension bill, for God's sake. Legally, it raises powerful doubts about what the predecessors said. Ethically, too, but I'll talk about the political aspect. Dear friends of the PiS, I support you in many matters, society has entrusted you with power. Why? There are so many serious systemic problems in Poland that need to be solved. Jury is just a bleeding wound. [[Janusz, we're not neglecting anything.]] The judiciary, the entrepreneurs, the tax system - everything at all. And instead of these systemic serious topics, first we irritate the physiotherapists of everyone who goes out on the streets, then we make a convention bill for no reason why, then we pull Rydz-Śmigły. If you're gonna conflict with the whole society like that, it's gonna be even Mother. God won't help you, really. [[Don't worry about it.]] It's not even the Mother of God to you, Peter, it won't help. Ladies and gentlemen, I am simply against this bill and I ask my colleagues from PiS to reflect, even at the stage of the Senate, because this is a law that does not solve anything with regard to the judgment of the Polish People's Republic, the judgment of these times. I'm in favour of finding... find, start an investigation, because to this day, we don't really know who killed Father George Popieluszka. We still don't know that. And you're going to retire in a way that's so infantile, it's just infantile. I'm sorry, but this bill is a manifestation of some kind of political infantilism. Against. Please withdraw this bill. [[Applause]] [[I didn't think I was gonna give Mr. Sanocki a round of applause.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-16-sejm-33-1.u99	Thank you very much for speaking. Let's get to the questions. Would any of your fellow Members like to join this list? If not, I'm closing the list. And we begin with Mr Józef Brynkus' question from the Kukiz club15. Time - 1 minute. [[Two.]] If you cross, calmly... Go ahead.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-16-sejm-33-1.u100	Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen of the Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! High Izbo! Of course, this law is controversial only in one element - it does not cover all the beneficiaries of the communist system. And that needs to be corrected. [[Applause]] I hope this is simply an example given by Minister Błaszczak to the other ministers who will take care of it. Because I do not understand the defenders of former esbeks, ubeks and not only them, because the apparatus of repression of the People's Republic of Poland was much wider. [[Don't lift a finger at us.]] Before that, you had a different narrative. You said that those who were supposed to be harmed by this bill would snitch and report to other servants. So you've clearly assessed these people as individuals who have this personality potential. I ask you to work in the apparatus of repression of the People's Republic of Poland, even at the window - I know documents, who has seen one such document? - you just had to be fully available, in every way, [[Applause]] cover up blackmail, murder, pedophilia. [[♪ The bell ♪]] These people you're defending? You should defend those who lost their lives then, who are victims, such as the family of Emil Barchański, a 17-year-old murdered from Warsaw. His parents lived in poverty - his father is already dead - and only by means of people of good will did they survive at a minimum of existence. These people you want to spit in the face, and you defend former esbeks, ubeks, even those who just worked by the window because they were vigilant and unambiguously responding to the communist authority? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-16-sejm-33-1.u101	Thank you very much. Another question, Mr Józef Lassota, please, the Civic Platform Club. [[Voice from the hall: What country were they living in, what were they doing?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-16-sejm-33-1.u102	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I have no reason to defend the esbeks either, because I was also treated with prison and other matters... [[Everyone says that...]] ...in turn, Minister, if you consider what it means to be a state, and the government represents this country, you should certainly not be a fraud. I agree with Mr Brynus that there were also people at the window who had to be verified there somehow, I mean, accepted for this job. But since they were then verified positively - it was done by the state - e.g. passport department employees, it cannot be said today that since they later worked in free Poland, they worked in bad will. [[♪ The bell ♪]] It was the country that gave them this opportunity, the state assured them that they would be treated normally, and today this country is cheating them. Minister, don't be the one representing the fraud system. Fraud is not good from the state's point of view. The state should... citizens should have minimum confidence in you, and what do you do? You're just doing that in any situation, you can say that everything is irrelevant because now PiS is in charge. Don't be a fraud. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-16-sejm-33-1.u103	Mrs Małgorzata Płępek will ask another question, please, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-16-sejm-33-1.u104	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Gentlemen of Ministers! This bill is another piece of shit made by the PiS. [[Voice from the room: Nothing new.]] First of all, this law harms a wide range of people who had nothing to do with the security services of the Polish People's Republic and related individuals. It is hypocritical, Mr Bandit, how you said on the committee that these people are the perpetrators and criminals of the SB. You'd be ashamed to say that on the committee. It just means you're all there is to it. I don't mind clearing up the wrongs if they actually had anything to do with what they were accused of. But why is it that this group includes people who, for example, were they in the militia serving as a deputy military service and assigned to officers' schools? [[♪ The bell ♪]] [[Minister of Interior and Administration Mariusz Błaszczak: That is not true.]] Why do soldiers who follow orders get hurt? It's a good thing you guys woke up in time and turned off the firefighters. You are well aware that the case will be brought to court. And I would like to ask you if you have the budget secured in 2017 to make amends for the harm you do to these people. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-16-sejm-33-1.u105	Mr Zbigniew Sosnowski, the club of the Polish People's Party, will ask another question. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-16-sejm-33-1.u106	Dear Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Ladies and gentlemen of the Minister! My questions aren't defending anyone, they're just about creating a good law. The fact that this law is not a true debubbling act has been proven by my colleague, as well as by Mr Sanocki. It's obvious. The fact that this law was written on the knee, in a sloppy way, is evidence of parliamentary work. The entries in each act should be simple, clear and legible. On yesterday's day, the government provided an article. 8a. This is, of course, a discretionary article. Yesterday I asked Minister Zieliński what short-term service means and what it means to carry out duties and duties after 12 September 1989. In response, I heard that it could not be explained and that it could not be written rationally. [[♪ The bell ♪]] I ask the Minister: If something cannot be written rationally, how can it be done rationally? Question two. In Article 2, paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: 5 of the proposed law refers to implementation costs. Of course, I don't argue here, but I want the bill to be true. Minister Zieliński admitted on Tuesday that the provisions of this law relating to these proposed amounts do not include amounts for employees of the Institute of National Remembrance, which must be employed additionally for a period of six months. It's been a long time from Tuesday to now, and the record remains unchanged. Minister, do we really have to adopt laws that have nothing to do with reality? Thank you for your attention. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-16-sejm-33-1.u107	Mr Andrzej Maciejewski, Kukiz Club15. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-16-sejm-33-1.u108	Mrs. Marshal! Gentlemen of Ministers! High Izbo! Because of my age, I have the comfort to talk about it. I can only regret the fact that 26 years had to wait to reach point zero in the assessment of esbecity and posture, of this old system. But when it comes to what happened after 1990, in the bill, ministers, I see a lot of inconsistencies. Because according to what you're proposing, we should consider BOR, the Border Guard, the UOP, the ABW, the CBI and other structures according to your project. This is the first inconsistency. Second inconsistency. Mr. Minister of the Interior turns into a single-person ZUS, a single-person IPN. At the same time, it is not known why the Minister of the Interior should account for former employees of the Home Affairs Department when there is no such dependence in the structures of the Home Affairs Ministry. There is this inconsistency and the lack of this logical coherence. I am talking about very substantive elements and I am paying attention to them. Question: How many people [[♪ The bell ♪]] You're gonna have to hire some more to verify all this? What are the costs? And the question is: Do we have money to compensate for the current bill, which is very defective? 'Cause I'm afraid we're gonna pay a lot, and it might turn out to be scary, and that's what I'm most afraid of...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-16-sejm-33-1.u109	...that these real bugs and esbets will return from zero to 2.6 precisely because of this flaw. Thank you. [[Applause]] Thank you very much, sir. Mr Adam Szłapka, the Modern Club, will ask another question. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-16-sejm-33-1.u110	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Gentlemen of Ministers! I have a very specific question: Why did the Members of the Law and Justice, on the recommendation of perhaps mainly Minister Zieliński, reject yesterday, at the committee meeting, a sensible draft, a sensible proposal for an amendment prepared by the Ministry of Justice, which consisted in a court competent to deal with any complaints of those affected by this law being not only the District Court in Warsaw, but also the courts competent for the place of residence of the victims? The Ministry of Justice explicitly laughed at this bill because otherwise it could not be called, it said explicitly that you had prepared a legal bubel. The Ministry of Justice has admitted that it expects hundreds or thousands of trials for damages on this bill. The question is whether a law should actually be made yes, [[♪ The bell ♪]] that if one of the ministries wants to make a sensible amendment, then Mrs Mazurek, who appeared at the meeting of this committee in the form of a political commissioner and forced Members of Law and Justice, otherwise, forced the Minister of Justice to withdraw this amendment, a sensible amendment which improved this bad and unconstitutional bill. Why do you not want to correct this law - even the amendments made by your government? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-16-sejm-33-1.u111	Thank you very much, sir. The next question will be asked by Mr Jerzy Meysztowicz, the Modern Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-16-sejm-33-1.u112	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! A lot is said that it is only now social justice, equalisation of harm, and I ask: What was the government doing in 1998 and 2002, the government which was led by Marian Krzaklewski, the head of the Solidarity? What was the Olszewski government doing? What was Jarosław Kaczyński's government doing in 2005 and 2007? Excuse me, was it one day, two days of government? No, it was two years. It's okay. It's okay. It's okay. If you can draw up a law like this and push it through in three days, I'm sorry, two years, 2005 and 2007 were enough to take care of it. In addition, there is a great deal of doubt that you are introducing such a great deal of discretion when it comes to excluding certain officers from this bill. For I ask, "Can it be that you ask someone if the father of the nation is Jarosław Kaczyński, and if he says, "Yes, you will shut him down." [[♪ The bell ♪]] And if he says his idol is Lech Walesa, you won't turn it off? [[Voice from the room: Finish it.]] Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-16-sejm-33-1.u113	Mr Mirosław Suchoń, the Modern Club, will ask another question.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-16-sejm-33-1.u114	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I wanted to ask the Minister why you want to punish people, officers for serving for free Poland. Minister, why do you want to punish officers for serving free Poland? These officers you want to punish have risked their lives very often, very often risking their health to protect all of us, our citizens, and you want to punish them for it. This law is incompatible with justice, it does not reflect justice, it is incompatible with the judgment of the Constitutional Tribunal, in which it is said explicitly: it is not lawful to punish officers for serving free Poland. Minister! This bill should be rejected. Therefore, the Posel Club A modern application to reject this law in its entirety. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-16-sejm-33-1.u115	Thank you very much. I would like to ask Mr Tomasz Szymański, the Civic Platform Club, to ask another question. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-16-sejm-33-1.u116	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Gentlemen of Ministers! I am convinced that there is not a single person in this room in favour of maintaining previous pension privileges for the oppressors of the past system. [[As it turns out, they are.]] But I am also surprised after yesterday's committee meeting, Minister, when we considered the key amendment for you, the amendment concerning the insertion of the article. 8a after Article. 8, that you said that the Minister had taken into account the issuing of regulations, but that would be extremely difficult to implement. The issue concerns short - term service before 31 July and the work that has been done properly. The Minister said that he was unable to determine how this should be interpreted. It's supposed to be a right. How would you like to apply the law if you are unable to answer the question yourself, how should it be read and understood by the beneficiaries of these records? On the other hand, because you allow such a situation that officers who put their health and their lives at risk will walk to you on their knees asking them to make a positive decision... [[♪ The bell ♪]] There is also a record of health and life at risk. Every police officer taking an oath vows to take care of human health and the safety of the state at risk of health and life. What's going on here? This is hypocrisy. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-16-sejm-33-1.u117	Thank you very much. The next question will be asked by Mr Jerzy Jachnik, the Kukiz club15, but before you ask it, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-16-sejm-33-1.u118	Mrs. Marshal! Gentlemen of Ministers! High Izbo! I have the first question for Mr Brunette as rapporteur. Mr President, you said that this law is fair. In this context, you mentioned Fr. Jerzy Popiełuszka, so I have this question: Is it fair for the murderers of Fr. They took pensions of 2,000. Evil? Do you think that's fair? Because I don't think they should, they shouldn't have at all. Now I have a question for the Minister, in fact, a dream. Minister, I'd like to see some kind of objective, reliable and real bill come into being, because it's just another piece of shit. Why aren't all public officials, all of them, including judges, prosecutors included in this bill? Have you forgotten that since 1956 all the dirt in Poland has been cleaned by the prosecutor's office and courts? And you're still ignoring them. Next thing you know, it's a matter of directing this project to committee. Why was the justice commission omitted? This should be assessed [[♪ The bell ♪]] The Committee on Justice and Human Rights. The Commission of Justice is not from pushing laws, it is from their assessment from the point of view of human rights. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-16-sejm-33-1.u119	Thank you very much. The next question will be asked by Mr Piotr Kalet, the Law and Justice Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-16-sejm-33-1.u120	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! First line. Perhaps you are actually right about these lawsuits to the European institutions. Maybe we should just say if we call it a bill, that the SBs, the establishment were just criminal organizations. Then it would be arranged. That's another line. Mr Wójcik, I think that, at this difficult time today, at this moment of memories, it is a little embarrassing that a Member from Silesia, a Member from Katowice, is defending the ZOMOs today, the murderers of those people who killed the miners in Uncle. Shame, sir. [[What a vile thing to do!]] [[And at what point did Mr Wójcik say this?]] That's another line. I am very pleased, Mr Paszyk, that as regards matters relating to possible cases relating to prosecutors, to judges, you have declared - and I will watch you - that you will support the fact that this law will also apply to them. [[We are so scared, sir.]] I'm really glad this is where it sounded from and the Platform, the Modern, and the PSL. [[♪ The bell ♪]] That's another line. Mr Snapshot, you are not here. Who are you that you want to give people statues while you're alive? Who are you to wave around here, threatening the minister? I'd just like to remind you that the name of such a gentleman has already been called an airport in a certain place. So? Let's lower the curtain of silence. [[Applause]] [[A knight.]] [[Voice from the Chamber: Mr Kaleta...]] You've got a bad head, too.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-16-sejm-33-1.u121	Mr Szłapka, I answer you the question of who Mr Adam Szłapka is: the same as you, if you have not already noticed. [[Applause]] [[Your marshal didn't hear what Mr Snapshot said.]] I have not given you the floor, sir. The next question will be asked by Mr Krzysztof Mieszkowski, the Modern Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-16-sejm-33-1.u122	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I have this general reflection. Sometimes stupidity knows no bounds. [[Then get off the stand.]] Minister Błaszczak... [[With all due respect, Your Marshal...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-16-sejm-33-1.u123	I, Mr Piotr Kaleta, recall, do not pay your attention yet, and I do not want to do so because I do not have the habit of doing so, but if you allow yourself to make such comments, I will have to do so. You have the right to speak, to speak, but they are obliged to be part of the parliamentary language. I'm asking you very much. Please, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-16-sejm-33-1.u124	High Izbo! I wonder how the Law and Justice understand the continuity of the state, i.e. Citizens who lived and lived before 1989 are not citizens today actually have no right to live. How do you answer that question today? Minister Błaszczak is the host of the post-truth which President Kaczyński gives us. You have created the format of Misiewicz and Piotrowicz who serve your authoritarian Gomułków power. Adam Michnik, Jacek Kuroń, Tadeusz Mazowiecki, Karol Modzelewski, Władysław Frasyniuk, Lech Wałęsa - they set the system of democratic values, not you. [[Applause]] They were multiple victims of the Secret Service. I don't remember them ever appealing to sentiment, revenge or retaliation. Dezubekization is another truth. [[♪ The bell ♪]] But I've got some good news for you: it's time to depisit. [[Applause]] [[Ha, ha, ha!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-16-sejm-33-1.u125	Mr Krzysztof Paszyk, Polish People's Party, another question. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-16-sejm-33-1.u126	Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Gentlemen of Ministers! Minister, you oversee as Minister of the Interior a lot of services. I listen to your statements, to the statements of people from your political background, to your political environment, and I start to have very serious concerns about something very important in terms of security in our country, namely the morale of those officers who care about this security today; listening to this discussion, to such a view, to such an optics in your approach to it. I am especially referring to the BOR, whose representatives in the 1990s did not spare their efforts to ensure security, [[♪ The bell ♪]] often risking health and life. I wanted to ask you if you are concerned that this will have a very negative impact on the morale of the officers. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-16-sejm-33-1.u127	Mr Jan Mosiński, the Law and Justice Club, will ask another question. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-16-sejm-33-1.u128	Mrs. Marshal! Gentlemen of Ministers! High Izbo! As I listen to Mr Meysztowicz's speeches, I find that education reform is absolutely necessary. I don't know where Mr. Meysztowicz ended his story. [[Applause]] along with his colleagues. On the other hand, your marshal, High Izbo, must be made clear about the process of verification, and especially the work in the committee of Minister Kozłowski, because from there it is a misfortune today. It was a pseudoverification, because 3/4 SB officers acquired the right to serve in the State Police and the State Protection Office. And you speak of wickedness. But where is this wickedness here? Vileness is when such an officer, one and the other, in a wicked way, acquires pension rights, far better pension rights than those who have employees in the industrial, budgetary sphere, etc. In the name of what, I ask? In the name of what justice? Is it settled in Magdalence? [[♪ The bell ♪]] [[Because he's putting his life at risk.]] This bill, High Izbo, is finally finished with Poland, and I thank the Minister of Justice for that. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-16-sejm-33-1.u129	Thank you very much. Before giving the floor to the next Member, I wanted to say hello to the representatives of the municipality of Ożarowice. It's a country. [[Applause]] We are very pleased that you would like to visit and meet the Seym from the inside. Enjoy your trip to Warsaw and the pleasure of visiting the Sejm. And we're gonna come up with another question. Mr Wojciech Buczak, the Law and Justice Club, will ask the next question. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-16-sejm-33-1.u130	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! We listen to the statements of the Members of the opposition and hear the same in them as for 27 years: yes, but not necessarily, yes, the communist system should be settled, but... And that's why he's still unaccounted for. Today we have the situation that there is an expectation that one perfect law will correct all the harm that has been done in the communist system, but at the same time in the speeches we have in fact a continuous defense of supposedly harmed officers of SB, Militia and many others. Minister, I have a question: Does this bill actually take, and to zero, pensions to those who have wronged? And is it really a law in which there are records [[♪ The bell ♪]] causing them to be taken unduly for many years of privileged benefits to these officers? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-16-sejm-33-1.u131	Thank you very much. Mr Marek Wójcik, another question. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-16-sejm-33-1.u132	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! A great many myths have grown around this bill. That's why I'd like to ask the Minister if it's true that the murderer of Fr. Jerzy Popiełuszko will not be subject to the rigor of this law, because he does not collect a pension from ZER, he only collects a pension from ZUS, and he will not apply a coefficient to it. 0, only will continue to apply a factor of 1.3. Therefore, I ask you to be careful about what arguments you use, because that is the truth. This pension bill does not affect these actual criminals of the time of the Polish People's Republic. This law is in no way to be touched by the state. But I'd like to ask you about one more situation. The amendments tabled yesterday lead to a 10% deduction for each year of service during the period of the Polish People's Republic. invalidity pensions. Is it possible that someone served, for example? 7 years in the period of the Polish People's Republic, later 15 years in free Poland and passed on to disability pension, serving in the Police in free Poland, and will receive [[♪ The bell ♪]] the disability pension, not the average, but the minimum pension, because the amendment introduced by you does not limit the amount of his invalidity pension in connection with the transition to a disability pension in free Poland to an average pension, but to the lowest one? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-16-sejm-33-1.u133	Thank you very much. Mr Janusz Śniadek, the Law and Justice Club, will ask another question. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-16-sejm-33-1.u134	Mrs. Marshal! Gentlemen of Ministers! High Izbo! I have no doubt - and I will repeat it again - that this law is a law on the collection of undue privileges. In Article 2, paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: 13 The Act is a specification prepared by the Institute of National Remembrance for a whole range of institutions to which this Act applies. My question is this: Is it true that everyone, without exception, all the employees of these institutions have enjoyed enormous privileges at the time in force or in Poland: high wages, access to scarce articles, not available to the rest of society, in these shops behind the yellow curtains, or any special talents? Is it true that these people, due to salaries earned or received at that time, in the times of the Polish People's Republic, today have much higher pensions resulting precisely from the collected larger [[♪ The bell ♪]] initial capital, that this law once again, as I say, we do justice to elementary social justice, aligning their pensions with the average national pension? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-16-sejm-33-1.u135	I would like to ask Mrs Magdalena Kochan, the Civic Platform Club, to ask you another question. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-16-sejm-33-1.u136	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! Minister and Minister! After listening to the discussion, a long, double - during the deliberations of the Social Policy Committee and the Home Affairs Committee, after listening to today's second reading of me, which has repeatedly spoken on matters which it was clear that none of us sitting in this Chamber defends security and oppression officers before 1990, after 1990, we defend police officers... My question is this: Is it not a shame that, instead of defending those who have defended us since 1990, and often before, I will remind you of the operation of Samum, because I will remind you of the mission of the bridge, because I will remind you of the soldiers and [[♪ The bell ♪]] Counterintelligence officers who participated in e.g. under cover of operations in Iraq... Aren't you ashamed, just not ashamed, when police officers are called torturers, and this applies to torturers who have been working in the police since the '90s? Aren't you ashamed? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-16-sejm-33-1.u137	Thank you very much, Member. The last question will be asked by Barbara Dziuk, the Law and Justice Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-16-sejm-33-1.u138	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Honor is when you care about human dignity and proper order. Thank you for this bill, thank you for normalizing the harm that true patriots have suffered. I can only say one thing here in this House. Blessed are those who, having nothing to say, do not put this fact on words. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-16-sejm-33-1.u139	This was not a question, but rather a statement, so I can't thank you for the next question, but the list of speakers was thus exhausted. I ask that the Minister of Home Affairs and Administration Mariusz Błaszczak speak in order to answer the questions raised by Members. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-16-sejm-33-1.u140	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! It was actually very distinctive when the politicians of today's opposition entered the platform and it was good that they said they didn't want to defend the esbeks. It's a good thing they said that, because then it was the opposite of what they were saying. They said the SB officers were men of honor. We've heard that before, they're men of honor. They said they were honest, two days ago, a Member from the Civic Platform, Mrs Navel, talked about it. Today we heard they were hurt. They are harmed because their pensions will not exceed the average pensions of the ZUS system. That's a lot of harm. Yeah, right here at the Sejm, we heard those people who said it was for $2,000. zł will not be able to sustain themselves because they are accustomed to the fact that their monthly income was several times higher, i.e. for 2 thousand. Evil won't be able to hold on. Another said that he was born much later after the war, but he's grateful to the Esbeks for teaching him culture. That's what he said in front of the Seym. He said he was grateful to the Esbeks for teaching him culture. It's such a mentality, they're such people. Who is involved in this bill? This law applies to those who are covered by pension provision implemented by the Ministry of Interior and Administration's Pension Office and therefore does not apply to military, does not apply to prosecutors, does not apply to other officers. This law concerns security officers, and it is indeed worth considering, as Mr Kalet said, that the Security Service should be referred to as a criminal organisation, because it was indeed so. She was, in fact. Indeed, this is a solution worth considering in the legal system in this way to characterize it. The catalogue of posts and functions covered by this law was defined by the Institute of National Remembrance, i.e. by scientists, by specialists in this field. During my first reading, I explained comprehensively what procedures Kiszczak was doing to hide to change the sign to hide to change the name, just to put these officers somewhere so they wouldn't be subject to verification later. But let me remind you that this law does not apply to MO officers, it does not apply to fire officers, it does not apply to police school listeners. However, it concerns... [[It does, Minister.]] Not applicable. If they're on the SB, they're on the SB, and if they're on the militia or... [[No, police schools.]] ...the fire department, it doesn't concern them. It's been clarified. But it does concern the government's security office. The Government Protection Office in 1956 moved from the Public Security Office, which is the equivalent of the later existing KGB, to the MMA. Even in the 1980s, as early as the late 1980s, when Kiszczak was Minister of Interior, BOR was included in the SB. BOR was a member of the SB. Those are the historical facts. These are historical facts, ladies and gentlemen. Verification. Mr Jan Mosiński rightly said that verification was fiction. The verification was just fiction. One of you used the word, they were groveling. They were probably groveling, maybe that's how it went, but it was actually a vending machine. The services were created on the basis of SB. That was the service core. And is that okay? Does this guarantee that these services actually serve the free Republic? That's something to think about. This is a very serious challenge. The amendment was accepted by the joint committees and concerned the possibility of excluding from this law in cases strictly defined, i.e. short-term service before 31 July 1990. Why this day? That's because it was the last day of the Security Service's operation. SB has ceased to exist since 1 August 1990. The exemption also applies to those who have performed their duties and duties fairly after 12 September 1989, in particular at risk of health and life. Why September 12, 1989? Then the Mazowiecki government was appointed. Some people approached the SB for noble reasons, but it was still SB. The SB ceased to exist at the end of July 1990. So it can be said that those who first approached her after September 12, 1989 could indeed have noble motives. Those who joined it after 4 June 1989, it is not entirely clear what their motives were for, because I remind you, those elections were partially free. We didn't know what was gonna happen. What would happen, what would happen, what would happen, what would happen. Ladies and gentlemen, this bill restores elementary justice. This bill is, of course, very late, but that does not mean that it should be abandoned. It cannot be that people who have worked in equal positions only outside the SB have pensions several times lower than those who had privileges then and have privileges today. This has to stop. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-16-sejm-33-1.u141	The discussion is closed. In view of the fact that, at the time of the second reading, the draft amendment was tabled and, in principle, two applications for rejection of the draft law at second reading, I propose that the Sejm re-direct this proposal to the Committee on Administration and Home Affairs and to the Committee on Social Policy and Family Policy in order to present a report. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. We proceed with the examination of item 3 of the agenda: First reading of the government draft law amending the law Rules introducing the law on local government and the law on local staff (print No. 1050). I ask the Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Internal Affairs and Administration of Mr Sebastian Chwałk to present the justification for the bill. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-16-sejm-33-1.u142	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The solutions proposed in the proposed bill aim to adapt the article. 18 to the provisions of the Constitution of the Republic of Poland and to simplify the procedure for appointing members of the National Court of Justice. The National Court of Justice is an appeal body against the decision of the voivodships on the communalisation of property. Legal authorisation currently contained in Article. Article 18 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 3 The Act empowers the President of the Council of Ministers only to appoint the chairman and the members of the committee and to determine the procedure for its operation and has not been adapted to the requirements of the Article. 92. 1 Constitution of the Republic of Poland. The existing provision does not indicate the appropriate form of legislation and does not contain guidelines for authorising the Minister of Home Affairs and Administration to determine the remuneration of the chairman and members of the committee for participating in its work. The draft assumes that issues relating to the operation of the committee and the appointment of its members should be transferred to the level of the law, while not being issued under it by the President of the Council of Ministers. In order to facilitate the procedure for the appointment and dismissal of committee members, it is proposed that the law, specifying the composition of the committee, indicate only the numerical composition, and that the activities related to the appointment and dismissal of the chairman and the members of the committee be transferred to the powers of the minister responsible for public administration. This will simplify the procedure for appointing the members of the committee and the continuity of its work. At the same time, the proposed amendment implies flexibility in the recruitment of committee members, as it gives the opportunity to fill the position immediately in the event of changes in the membership of committee. High Izbo! The draft also assumes that the members of the committee will receive a flat-rate gross monthly remuneration and introduces a statutory delegation to issue a regulation to the Minister responsible for public administration on the remuneration of the members of the committee. Currently, the remuneration for the chairman of the committee is PLN 2285.93 gross per month, and for the members of the committee - 1592.06 gross zloty per month. It is proposed to increase the above remuneration by 20% in view of the disproportionate amount of remuneration in relation to the tasks performed. It must be stressed that the committee is an expert body and that the members of the committee must have the extensive knowledge and experience of the administrative procedure and the communalisation of property necessary for administrative decisions. The proposed increase in remuneration for committee members is also justified by the fact that these amounts have not been raised, have not been regulated since June 2009 and that the amount currently indicated is not appropriate to the activities and responsibilities resulting from the decisions taken. It should be noted that the proposed increase is not excessive and constitutes an appropriate remuneration for the work done. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I am convinced that the solution outlined above will contribute to the improvement of the Commission's administrative procedures, thus speeding up and improving the handling of cases by that authority. Therefore, I ask the High House to adopt a law amending the Law, which introduces the Local Government Act and the Local Government Act. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-16-sejm-33-1.u143	Thank you very much, Minister. And I will ask the next Members representing the parliamentary clubs to speak. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. Please take the floor of Mr Grzegorz Adam Wozniak, Club Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-16-sejm-33-1.u144	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I have the honour on behalf of the club Law and Justice to present a position towards the Act Rules introducing the Local Government Act and the Local Government Act, print no. 1050. The purpose of the proposed amendment is to adapt the article. 18 to the provisions of the Constitution of the Republic of Poland of 2 April 1997 and to simplify, as the Minister said, the procedures for the establishment of the National Court of Justice. The Act as well as the above Regulation of 7 May 1997 entered into force before the date of entry into force of the Constitution of the Republic of Poland of 2 April 1997. On the other hand, these provisions entered into force on 17 October 1997. Article 18 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 3th Act empowers the President of the Council of Ministers only to appoint the chairman and the members of the committee and to determine the procedure for its action. This has not been adapted to the requirements of Article. 92. 1st Constitution of the Republic of Poland. The provision does not indicate the appropriate form of legislation, regulation and does not contain guidelines for authorising the Minister of Home Affairs and Administration to determine the remuneration of the chairman and members of the committee for participating in its work. Accordingly, the proposed amendment to the Article. 18 The aim of the Act is to align the regulations with the provisions of the Constitution of the Republic of Poland by raising the issue of the mode of action of the Commission and appointing its members to the level of the Act, while not giving up the regulation of the President of the Council of Ministers on the basis of it. At the same time, it is proposed to amend the Article. 18 in such a way as to improve the process of appointing committee members. The President and the members of the committee shall appoint and dismiss the Minister responsible for public administration. The committee will be composed of presidents and five members. The creation of a six-member committee will also facilitate the timely handling of cases and improve the efficiency of the committee. In order to facilitate the procedure for the appointment and dismissal of committee members, it is proposed that the law, specifying the composition of the committee, indicate only the numerical composition, and that the activities related to the appointment and dismissal of the chairman and the members of the committee be transferred to the powers of the minister responsible for public administration. At the same time, a procedure is envisaged where the committee cannot rule. In such a situation, the authority competent to rule on the case shall be the minister competent for public administration. In addition, the obligation to convene a full committee meeting at least once a month in order to periodically assess the work of the committee and discuss the problems arising from its case law was waived in the Act. The regulation of this issue should be carried out within the framework of the committee's internal arrangements and should be adapted to the organisation of the work of committee members. Rules for the remuneration of committee members have also been laid down. The members of the committee shall receive a flat-rate gross monthly remuneration. A legislative delegation was introduced to issue a regulation to the Minister responsible for public administration on the remuneration of the members of the committee. The project was also supplemented by provisions on asset statements. The members of the committee shall make a statement on the assets of the minister responsible for public administration who shall analyse the data contained therein. In view of the need to bring the law into line with the provisions of the Constitution of the Republic of Poland and simplify the procedure for appointing members of the National Court of Justice as Parliamentary Club, we request that this law be adopted by the High House. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-16-sejm-33-1.u145	Thank you very much. And please take the floor of Mr Jack Protas, the Civic Platform Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-16-sejm-33-1.u146	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The Civic Platform Parliamentary Club recognises the validity of the submission, the need to proceed over this draft law, as it is really necessary to adapt the provisions introducing the Local Government Act and the Local Workers Act to the provisions enshrined in the Constitution of the Republic of Poland of 1997. This law was adopted on 10 May 1990. Pursuant to that law, a committee was set up as an appeal body against the decisions of the voivodships on the communalisation of property. It's a very important committee, and it's important that she work smoothly and keep up to date. Important, because at a time when so many infrastructure investments are being carried out, especially linear ones, under a special law, sections of the land are transferred to these investments, the persons concerned or expropriated must also be able to appeal to the court. The committee is currently ruling in a three-person formation, because three people have resigned from work in it and no new people have been appointed to replace them. On the other hand, ensuring a six-member committee will indeed improve the functioning of the committee, as it will be able to function simultaneously and to rule on two-to-three-member compositions. The project we are dealing with is a project similar to that which was prepared by the Minister of Administration and Digitalisation in May 2015. Ladies and gentlemen, the Civic Platform Club will of course submit amendments to this law, as we have some doubts, among others. as regards Article. 18a, where the requirements to be met by the members of this committee are recorded - e.g. the candidacy must give the guarantee that the tasks of the committee are properly carried out. I don't know what that means. In addition, there is talk of the need to make property claims. I hope that the Minister will explain to us during the work of the committee why the members of the committee should make these statements. There is also a provision in the article. 3: If the expenditure limit adopted for the financial year is exceeded or threatened, an adjustment mechanism shall be applied to reduce the monthly flat-rate remuneration... etc. I am surprised to note that the appropriations entered in the State budget for the functioning of this committee should be high enough for the committee to be able to function throughout the year; this should not be in such a way as to deduct, reduce the remuneration of the members of the committee. I also believe that the composition of the committee should be set up by the President of the Council of Ministers, because the minister responsible for administration is the governor of the voivodeship and oversees it, so it is difficult to require that he supervises the appeal body, which will examine and take decisions on this matter. Despite these doubts, which we will present at committee meetings, the Civic Platform Parliamentary Club will support the request to refer this project to the committees for further work. We propose that this be the Committee on Administration and Home Affairs and the Committee on Local Government and Regional Policy. Thank you, Marshal.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-16-sejm-33-1.u147	You're welcome. Mr Andrzej Maciejewski, Kukiz Club15. I ask you to speak on behalf of this club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-16-sejm-33-1.u148	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I was honoured to present the position of the Kukiz club15 on the draft printing law no. 1050. Very good that we are tidying up, very good that we are going towards a certain legal order. The Kukiz Club will support further debate in two committees, the Committee on Administration and Home Affairs and the Committee on Territorial Government and Regional Policy. However, at this stage I would like to draw attention to something that has touched me. Well, I lacked the element of consultation with the joint government committee - the local government, because since we have a joint government committee - the local government, it is a pity that the project did not go to the committee, even to listen to the local government. The review of the documents annexed to the Act shows that in fact only the voivodships were consulted, and let us remember that this committee is about to be the body which is to be the appeal authority against the decision of the voivodships. So it turns out the voivods were talking about themselves. We forgot the self-government side, the social side. I believe and hope that this error will be corrected at the stage of committee work, that we will be more open - and the government side, and Parliament - to listen to the social side, as well as to its comments and possible greater involvement on the committee. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-16-sejm-33-1.u149	Thank you very much to Mr Andrzej Maciejewski. And I would like to speak on behalf of Mr Mark Owl's Modern Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-16-sejm-33-1.u150	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! On behalf of the Poselski Club Modern I have the honour to present the position of our club regarding the bill submitted to the High Sejm on amending the Law Rules introducing the Local Government Act and the Local Government Act. As stated in the explanatory memorandum of this law, the aim is to adapt the article. 18 laws to the Constitution and simplify the procedure for appointing members of the National Court of Justice. In the current rules of the members of the committee, the President of the Council of Ministers appointed the Minister of Home Affairs and Administration. The composition of the committee and the way in which cases are dealt with, the rules for convening meetings and matters concerning the organisation of the committee's work and its financing are laid down in the Regulation of the President of the Council of Ministers. Since both the law and the regulation entered into force before the date of entry into force of the Constitution, it is necessary to bring the law into line with the Constitution. What are the positive aspects of the proposed changes? There is no doubt that the article will be taken into account. 92. 1 Constitution, i.e. moving regulation from the level of the regulation to the level of the law. The second element is also the issue of statutory regulation of the remuneration of the National Court of Justice. So far, it's been unregulated. On the other hand, we have, of course, comments on this draft law, which we will be submitting in the course of further work on this law. Undoubtedly, such negative grounds are that the Prime Minister is deprived of his competence to appoint and delegate the members of the Committee, the National Court of Justice. I would remind you that the voivodeships and members of the local review colleges are appointed by the Prime Minister. It seems that this element should be left to the President of the Council of Ministers. The second element. It was decided to define the qualification to be met by a member of the National Court of Justice. It's written in the article. Article 18 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 Four projects. The question is well founded: Why didn't you apply similar provisions, as is the case with the requirements for members of the Boards of Appeal? In the law, we should apply similar regulations if they relate to similar solutions in different laws, while in the case of the law we are talking about, we have a requirement for legal education. In the case of SKOs, they are a Master's degree in law or administration. The same is true of the remark that Mr Protas referred to, which is to give the guarantee of proper performance, whereas in the case of the requirement for SKO, we have the integrity and exercise of full public rights. No doubt such a record would be much more rational. There's not a very clear record of the article. Article 18 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 6 projects constituting new solutions. Art. 2. It can be said that it is a kind of tradition that each law is also used for staff changes. So also in this law we have, so to speak, a provision concerning the Misiewiczs, because on the occasion of the performance of the personnel castle does not assume that the existing members will be able to continue to perform their functions, if they meet the criteria set out, only that they will all be re-elected. Another element is the lack of mechanisms to improve the work of the committee. I mean here... Because let's face it: the main problem is permanent dragging and slowing in making decisions. This is the biggest problem for all self-governments when we are talking about these decision-making issues. It seems to me that a solution could be applied if it is necessary, if only a temporary increase in the number of members of the National Court of Justice, so that there is a possibility, so that we can carry these matters out more efficiently and quickly and so that there is no such delay. This, of course, is a problem that has existed for many years. The Modern Posel Club will be in the process of further work on the bill submitting amendments, especially regarding these points...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-16-sejm-33-1.u151	Thank you, sir. ...that I mentioned. Thank you very much. It is clear to me that Mr Jacek Protas and Mr Andrzej Maciejewski have resigned from their request to refer this project to an additional committee. Yes? Mr Protas, this question to Mr Protas, did you also withdraw your request for referral? [[Yes.]] Okay, thank you very much. In that case... Wait a minute. Polish People's Party, Mr Piotr Zgorzelski, will present his position on behalf of this club. You're welcome. There's no envoy. In that case, Mr Stanisław Huskowski will speak on behalf of the circle of the European Union of Democrats. You're welcome. Is it? That's how we get on the list one by one. Mr Ireneus will have to wait a moment, and in this way...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-16-sejm-33-1.u152	Mrs. Marshal! Dear Members, Minister! The project, which is currently under consideration, takes place its first reading, is well known to me, because its beginnings date back to the previous term of the Sejm and the previous government. The project seems right and necessary to me. On the other hand, as my colleagues have said before me, I have doubts as to whether the Minister of the Interior should indeed appoint members of this committee. Since direct supervision of the activities of the voivodeship, on behalf of the Prime Minister, is exercised by the Minister of Home Affairs and Administration, the Board of Appeal, the Board of Appeal, should be attached to the level above, i.e. it should be established, so to speak, by the President of the Council of Ministers. But our circle will, of course, support this project and will certainly take part in further work. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-16-sejm-33-1.u153	Thank you very much. I would also ask Mr Ireneus to profit from the Free and Solidarnia Circle to speak. I'm sorry about the queue change, but this circle is like the first one on the list in front of you, which is why it's a shift. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-16-sejm-33-1.u154	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Freedom and Solidarnia Circle, I present my position on the draft law amending the Law Rules introducing the Local Government Act and the Local Government Act, print no. 1050. The draft submitted to the session of the Sejm concerns the functioning of the National Court of Justice as an appeal body against the decision of the voivods on the communalisation of property. The purpose of the amendment of the law according to the justification of the project is to adapt the article. 18 to the provisions of the Constitution of the Republic of Poland and to simplify the procedure for appointment of members of that committee. Applicants point out that the current legal arrangements entered into force before the date of entry into force of the Constitution of the Republic of Poland of 2 April 1997. According to Art. 92. 1 The basic law of the Regulation shall be issued by the bodies indicated in the Constitution of the Republic of Poland on the basis of the detailed authorisation provided for in the Act for its implementation. Therefore, it is necessary to amend the law by transferring issues relating to the procedure of the committee and appointing its members to the level of the law, while excluding the President of the Council of Ministers from issuing a regulation under it. The proposed amendment proposes the creation of a six-member committee and the appointment and dismissal of its chairman and members by the minister responsible for public administration, which will certainly improve the work of the committee and improve the timely handling of cases by the committee. The proposal to change the way and rules for the functioning of the committee and its financing should be welcomed, in particular a well-regulated way of resolving appeals against the voivodship's municipal decisions, and the rules for organising the work of the committee. At the same time, flexibility in the recruitment of committee members has been ensured so that positions can be filled immediately in the event of any personal change in the composition of the committee. It is also proposed to regulate where the committee cannot rule on the grounds set out in Article. 24 § 1 in conjunction with Article. 27 § 1 Code of Administrative Procedure. Then the authority competent to rule on the case shall be the minister competent for public administration. Account should also be taken of the opinion of the Public Prosecutor's Office of the State Treasury of the submitted project. It indicates the difficulties of interpretation relating to the transitional period between the functioning of the committee set up under the old regulation and the start of the committee set up under the proposed law. In addition, the opinion points out that no information is available on how the composition of the National Court of Justice will be made public. For the transparency of administrative processes, it seems reasonable to maintain the formula of full availability to the information on which persons are part of this body. It is also necessary to specify the powers held by those appointed in committee. The record that such a person has administrative knowledge is too general. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The Free and Solidarni Circle supports the bill submitted, recognising that it is aimed at formal regulation of important issues for the functioning of the State, while requesting that the project be directed to further work in order to adopt the comments submitted. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-16-sejm-33-1.u155	Thank you very much. No one's on the list. The discussion is closed. Since everyone has shown willingness to work on this project in committee, the Ministry representative will also not speak at this stage, hence closing the discussion. The Marshal of the Sejm, after consulting the Sejm Bureau, proposes that the Sejm refer to the Government's draft law amending the Law Rules introducing the Local Government Act and the Local Government Act 1050 to the Committee on Territorial Government and Regional Policy for consideration. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I do not hear any objection, and two requests for referrals were withdrawn during the first reading. We proceed with the examination of item 4 of the agenda: First reading of the Commission's draft law amending the Law Code of Administrative Procedure (Print No 984). I ask Mrs Magdalena Kochan to present the reasons for the bill.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-16-sejm-33-1.u156	Thank you very much, Marshal. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The draft of this law contained in print No 984 is the reaction of the members of the Committee on Petitions to a petition addressed to the Sejm of the Republic of Poland by the Association of Public Interests, which proposed in its petition to remove from the Code of Administrative Procedure § 4 in Article. 31. The Committee on Petitions has accepted and found this petition to be justified because the same Article paragraph. 31 concerns the obligation to notify the social organisation of the initiation of proceedings concerning another person if the public administration considers that the organisation may be interested in participating in the proceedings on the grounds of its statutory objectives and where the public interest is in favour of this. In all legal opinions that have emerged not only in relation to this petition but also in the comments to the Code of Administrative Procedure, the wording of this paragraph is considered not to be too precise. In fact, it is not known whether the public administration is to notify all social organisations or, by some kind of key, only those which it considers appropriate to notify. In practice, as we know, this paragraph is dead, it is not used, but may be a reason for extending and challenging administrative decisions for formal reasons when the administrative authority fails to comply with this obligation. This clearly prolongs and complicates cases. We therefore considered that we would propose that the High House be removed from the article. 31 § 4 of the Code of Administrative Procedure. It's got a project I was just talking about. By submitting it to the High House, we ask you to accept it. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-16-sejm-33-1.u157	Thank you, Member. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. I ask Mrs Barbara Bartus to speak on behalf of the Law and Justice Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-16-sejm-33-1.u158	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the pleasure and the honour to present the position of my club, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice, in relation to the draft law amending the Code of Administrative Procedure Act. Like the Member who represents the petition committee, she said, this project is the result of the petition of the Perpetual Association. This petition proposed in general other rules of procedure, the accession of the organisation to administrative proceedings. I would say that's how I understood this petition because I read it that the Eternal Society offered a different philosophy at all. But the state, I am not hiding, and based on the opinion of the Sejm Analysis Office, you have accepted from this petition one element which was to be removed from the article. 31 c.p.a. § 4. Here I will allow myself to disagree with the Member that all the opinions on this change are positive, because I have the opinion of the Office for Studies and Analysis of the Supreme Court, which is negative. [[I was not talking about the opinion of the Member.]] It is negative at all for the whole change, but it is important to emphasise first of all that the State, by reason of the deletion of this paragraph, was talking about the removal of the obligation of the public administration. That body should notify the social organisation if it considers that it may be interested in participating in the proceedings because of its statutory objectives and where there is a social interest. All the time in the justification of this project is underlined by the obligation of this body and from this country you have drawn the conclusion that this provision should be repealed. As the Supreme Court points out, the provision we are talking about only empowers the public administration to notify the social organisation of the initiation of proceedings concerning another person if the authority considers that the organisation concerned may be interested in taking part in a particular case, given its statutory objectives and the social interest. It is therefore wrong to convince the authors of the project, namely the petition committee, that the provision which the State proposes to repeal requires the public administration to notify the social organisation of the initiation of an administrative procedure concerning another person. Addressees of the notifications referred to in Article. 31 § 4 k.p.a., but we also have a similar solution in Art. 183 § Nor are they obliged to participate on the rights of the party in matters relating to other persons. It should be stressed that the proposed amendment in the event of its adoption could constitute an important restriction for public administrations, which can now be officially notified by those parties who believe that they would like to participate in this procedure, namely social organisations. This may be a clear restriction for this public administration body, but also a restriction on the general rule which arises from Article. 7 Code of Administrative Procedure that is an obligation for a public administration body to take into account... There is an obligation in every procedure to take account of the social interest, i.e. if there are social organisations that believe that they have an interest in this procedure, it is important that they are able to participate in this procedure. It is also very important that if a public administration informs such a social organisation of the proceedings, this social organisation can be almost certain that it will remain later if it wishes to join, because it is not an obligation for it to be regarded as a party. Given that I've always been, I am, and I think I will, I've often expressed it in my speeches, against such a sampling, [[♪ The bell ♪]] I would like to ask for the rejection of this project at first reading, in the name of my club, the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-16-sejm-33-1.u159	I would ask Mrs Magdalena Kochan to speak on behalf of the Civic Platform Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-16-sejm-33-1.u160	Thank you very much, Marshal. High Izbo! Before referring to my club's position in relation to the proposed bill, I would like to argue with my previous speaker who is proposing that this bill be rejected at first reading. I think the most important reason why this is happening is the rapporteur of the petition committee. I would like to remind you that in the committee of petitions, members of the state of the group are represented in the same proportion as in each of the others, and none of them contributed, did not oppose this project. As regards the substantive side of the matter, I would just like to say that social organisations which are interested in the Statute, which have the scope of the cases before the administrative body, before the administrative court, may continue to proceed with this procedure and to remove them. § 4 of Article 4 of Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 16 February 2011 laying down the rules and general principles concerning mechanisms for control by Member States of the Commission's exercise of implementing powers (OJ L 55, 28.2.2011, p. 1). 31 will not disturb them at all, because their rights in this matter arise from the provisions of § 1, 2, 3 and 5 of the Code of Administrative Procedure cited by me. Due to the lack of precision of the provisions of this § 4, because of the practically non-application of it in administrative practice, my club will support this draft law by asking it to be referred to the committee responsible. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-16-sejm-33-1.u161	Thank you very much, Member. Mr Tomasz Romankowski, the Kukiz club15, will make a statement on behalf of this club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-16-sejm-33-1.u162	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Kukiz Club15, I will present my position on the revision of the Code of Administrative Procedure. The statement will be quite brief, as the draft bill is submitted. I share the observations, above all, of the Supreme Court, which notes an important point, namely that the provision contained in the article. 31 § 4 of the Code of Administrative Procedure is extremely rarely used by public administrations, whereas the proposed amendment substantially limits the possibility for public administration bodies to request social organisations, where the range is very wide, from trade unions to various NGOs, which in a given case, which are pending before a public administration authority, could take the floor in accordance with their statutes. This is why we have great doubts about how to deal with this issue by denying the possibility of asking representatives of social organisations to speak. And it is also surprising that this regulation contained in the article. 2, which refers to the provisions of the law in force. In fact, even if it were this article. 1 in such a shape as I doubt passed, this regulation would still be in force and Article. 2 is basically redundant. Therefore, our great doubts as to the validity of the petition which has been adopted, because it may limit the participation in a general way and, in principle, the possibility of non-governmental organisations participating in the consultation process during the administrative procedure. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-16-sejm-33-1.u163	Thank you very much. Mr Mirosław Pampuch, the Modern Club, is another statement.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-16-sejm-33-1.u164	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Poselski Club I would like to present the position of the club regarding the Commission's draft law amending the Code of Administrative Procedure Act. Unfortunately, I regret to share all the comments that have been made here in relation to this submission, because already in the very justification of this submission at the same time it is said that in the practice of the public administration this provision is dead, there is no information even about the occasional cases of its application, but above you state: The existence of this provision creates a potential basis for questioning administrative decisions for formal reasons, where the administrative authority does not comply with the obligation laid down in Article. Article 31 (4) is replaced by the following: Well, either he's dead, or there's a potential possibility here, and if there's a potential possibility, that means that we've already dealt with this type of case or not. [[No, potential means potential.]] This is such a significant inconsistency in the very justification for this submission. And as here was the speech, this provision of the article. 31 § 4 if you would like this § 4 However, this would significantly reduce the possibility for social organisations to participate in administrative proceedings. Therefore, despite the great respect for the work of the Committee on Petitions, we believe that it would be unreasonable to proceed with this project, although, due to this respect, we will not apply for rejection. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-16-sejm-33-1.u165	Thank you very much. Mr Krzysztof Paszyk, a club of the Polish People's Party. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-16-sejm-33-1.u166	Mrs. Marshal! Dear Members, On behalf of the Polish People's Party Parliamentary Club, I would like to present our position on the Commission proposal for a law amending the Code of Administrative Procedure Act. This proposal concerns the repeal of Article. 31 § 4 imposing an obligation on the public administration to notify the social organisation of the initiation of proceedings concerning another person if that authority considers that the social organisation may be interested in participating in the proceedings on the grounds of its statutory objectives and where the social interest is justified or is the result of a partial implementation of the demands contained in the petition of the Association of Social Interest. The obligation described in the above paragraph remains unclear and is unclear. It is not clear whether this obligation applies to all possible organisations, or whether the circle of these organisations can be freely defined by the administration. The existence of this provision may give rise to questioning administrative decisions for formal reasons where the administrative authority fails to comply with the obligation laid down in Article. 31 § 4 and its application may lead to an unnecessary, substantial extension of the procedure. The authors of the project rightly point out that in the practice of public administration this provision is dead. There is no information on even occasional cases of its use. The condition which the authority must take into account before the notification of the social organisation is the existence of a social interest in that notification. Notification is only possible if the public interest is in favour of notification of social organisations. Social interest is a non-acute concept that is not defined by law. There is also no clear sanction in the event of failure to comply with this obligation. Nor is this institution widely recognised in the case law of the administrative courts, which does not facilitate the interpretation of the rules or the broad and consistent application of it in the practice of administrative authorities. Although this paragraph is not applied and is clearly defective, it should be recalled for what purpose it was introduced. Social organisations play a very important role in a democratic state of law. As community-oriented institutions, they largely complement or verify State action and evaluate it, often critically. One of the privileges of social organisations, through which they can achieve their objectives, is to participate in administrative proceedings - not only as a party to the proceedings, because then they occur, pursuing their own legal interests, but as a participant in the proceedings on the rights of the party, i.e. as an entity interested in the proceedings, but not as a party to the proceedings. Participation in the administrative proceedings of social organisations can and should help citizens to realise their interests and defend their rights. High Izbo! Instead of removing a defectively constructed and in practice non-functioning paragraph, is it not better to replace it with another precisely formulated and fulfilling designer's assumptions? That's the question. It is worth supporting, not weakening civil society and social organisations. A well-functioning institution to notify social organisations of the proceedings being initiated would certainly strengthen the position and capabilities of those organisations and would give them the real opportunity to reveal themselves to the public and to assist them in the proceedings under way. The authors of the project state in the explanatory memorandum that, in justified cases, social organisations wishing to participate in a specific administrative procedure will continue to be able to do so on the basis of the provisions of the Article. Article 31 (1) to (3) and (5) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union is replaced by the following: The question is how is this possible if representatives of social organisations, without being informed of the proceedings, do not know at all about this matter. These are the doubts that arise after reading. Nevertheless, on behalf of the Parliamentary Club of the Polish People's Party, I would like to declare our support for further work on the submitted project. Perhaps these solutions will try to improve in the course of the work. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-16-sejm-33-1.u167	Thank you very much. Four people are on the list of people who want to ask questions. Does anyone else want to ask a question? I'm closing the list. And I will be the first to ask Mrs Małgorzata Płępek, the Civic Platform Club. Please, one minute.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-16-sejm-33-1.u168	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The Commission rejected the association proposal, taking into account only the idea of deletion from the general rule code, as already discussed by the rapporteur. In fact, this change doesn't improve anything, because it's about the K.P.A. rule, which was already dead, as my previous speakers have said. The draft association sought to create an additional possibility, which is to join or initiate proceedings by the social organisation with the agreement of the parties expressed in writing. The draft association also eliminates the absurd requirement for the authority to agree on the presentation of views on the matter by a social organisation which does not participate in the proceedings. So I have a question: What are the reasons why these demands of the association were rejected? Will the committee still be working on this? [[♪ The bell ♪]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-16-sejm-33-1.u169	Mr Mirosław Suchoń. Is he present? No. Mrs Barbara Bartus, Club Law and Justice. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-16-sejm-33-1.u170	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Ministers! (PL) Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and I felt very uncomfortable when you accused me that the only reason you asked me to reject this project was because of you. So I wanted to point out the inconsistencies of the justification itself and ask a question. If, the designers you represent, you state that this provision is dead, on what basis do you at the same time conclude that it can cause a long-term process? Where will this length of proceedings take place if we do not have any proven situation that this provision is applied at all? What would this length of conduct have to do with it? It seems to me that the justification for this project is really not entirely clear. I understand that you wanted to include this petition. [[♪ The bell ♪]] associations, only if this provision is not applied, then what legal interest did the association have in the fact that it requested that this provision be repealed? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-16-sejm-33-1.u171	Thank you very much. Mr Grzegorz Wojciechowski, Club Law and Justice. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-16-sejm-33-1.u172	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Proceedings under the Code of Administrative Procedure These are the procedures in which the citizen is one party and the other is the state: a strong state and a weak citizen. Citizens often join together, join forces to strengthen their position. Often such organisations are created either for certain groups of proceedings, or sometimes even for one specific procedure which will be initiated now or perhaps at some time. In my opinion, however, this provision is needed. The problem arises when there is a question of the party and a demonstration [[♪ The bell ♪]] the legal interest of the party. Isn't that the bigger problem? Thank you very much. Thank you, Marshal. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-16-sejm-33-1.u173	Thank you very much. Mr Krzysztof Paszyk, the club of the Polish People's Party, will ask the last question. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-16-sejm-33-1.u174	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Last and very short question. A lot of doubts about reading this project are raised by the question of a register from which possible organisations would be selected or invited. I would very much ask that the Member representing the applicants develop this issue, how to protect the whole idea from the allegation of poor verification of these organisations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-16-sejm-33-1.u175	The Undersecretary of State has announced that he will not reply, nor will your representative of the applicants, therefore... [[Your marshal, I'm sorry, I didn't know those questions were gonna go that far, from here...]] Come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-16-sejm-33-1.u176	Thank you very much, Marshal. The shortest possible answer. I really don't know what the reasons for making such a decision were, not another. I think that as an applicant, and not a member of the Perpetual Association, I cannot answer them, Madam. On the other hand, I know that the Committee on Petitions, using its powers, always complements its information on petitions not only by reaching into the opinion of the Office for Sejm Analysis, but also by the presence of representatives of ministries who are directly interested in the petition or who are directly affected by the subject matter. That was the case with this petition. Representatives of the Ministry of Justice were present at the meeting. None of them questioned the need for change in this respect. As for the first statement that a citizen is always weaker than a strong state, it is true. And you need to equip a citizen with legal instruments that at least balance his position when he defends himself against bad decisions, or takes care of his interests by requiring decisions that are beneficial to him. And it seems that the provision which allowed social organisations to take part in administrative proceedings is desirable and appropriate, therefore it remains, § 1, 2, 3 and 5 in Article. 31 definitely talk about these rights. Therefore, associations, non-governmental organisations, which are interested in the matter and, moreover, have, in their statutory activities, the subject matter of the cases in question, may take part in this meeting and remove it. § 4 will not interfere with this issue. On the other hand, precise questioning or otherwise: undermining administrative decisions, which is possible where a public administration has not notified non-governmental organisations, seems possible. And this potential is emphasized in our justification as an opportunity, as something we see in the form of a threat in terms of progress and extension of the process of issuing administrative decisions. And since she didn't happen - she didn't because no one used that recipe. Moreover, the register that you asked for from the Polish People's Party is also difficult to agree on. Because whether it's the organisations closest to the administrative court, whether it's a nationwide organisation, whether it's a European organisation, on which particular matter the public administration is supposed to notify. Do all of them from the register, using the register of organisations but also reaching for the register of non-governmental organisations which are not registered, and are with the elderly, in general, and also with the presidents, if this is a city on the rights of the county, does not specify this provision. So the lack of precise wording in this provision, first of all, causes it not to be used, and second of all, it is a potential threat when it comes to dragging the administrative process. In view of the fact that the Committee on Petitions does not in any way presume to have absolute knowledge of the matter, we are referring the bill to the High House asking the committee responsible for resolving these cases, which will either clarify the rule...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-16-sejm-33-1.u177	Madam President, we have a motion for rejection for the time being.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-16-sejm-33-1.u178	...and share our opinion, or think that some of the rejection requests are legitimate. This is no longer the role of the Committee on Petitions, but the role of the committee responsible and the work on this project please. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-16-sejm-33-1.u179	Thank you, Member. The discussion is closed. In the discussion, proposals were made to reject the draft law at first reading. We will proceed to the vote on this proposal in the voting block. We proceed with the examination of item 5 of the agenda: the report by the Extraordinary Commission on the adoption of the Senate on the Act amending certain laws in order to improve the legal environment of entrepreneurs (prints Nos 1157 and 1160). Mrs Anna April, please submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-16-sejm-33-1.u180	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour to present to you a report on the meeting of the Extraordinary Commission on deregulation on the examination of the resolution of the Senate of the Republic, which in accordance with Article. Paragraph 121. 2 The Constitution of the Republic of Poland on 13 December introduced 14 amendments to the text of the Act adopted on 2 December by the High Chamber - the Act amending certain laws in order to improve the legal environment of entrepreneurs. Following consideration of the 14 amendments proposed by the Senate, the Commission adopted them unanimously with no votes against. I would like to stress that all the proposed amendments have also received a positive opinion from the government and the Legislative Office. I would therefore like, on behalf of the Extraordinary Committee on Deregulation, to recommend positively to the High House that all amendments be adopted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-16-sejm-33-1.u181	Thank you very much, Member. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear three minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. As the first to speak, I ask Mr Wojciech Murdzk, Club Law and Justice. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-16-sejm-33-1.u182	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Maybe a little reminder, but it is worth to make these positive things permanent - the fact that the bill amending certain laws in order to improve the legal environment of entrepreneurs is the first package of 33 solutions of over 100, which are designed to rebureaucratize the economy and facilitate the life of entrepreneurs. The aim of the proposed law is to improve the legal conditions for carrying out business activity in Poland. The amendments tabled by the Senate and welcomed by the Extraordinary Commission for Deregulation aim to eliminate interpretation doubts and ensure consistency in terminology. It is worth noting that the result for entrepreneurs is estimated on a yearly basis, in terms of the impact of the Act, at the level of PLN 230 million, as resources saved by simplification of regulations and procedures. The draft was also assessed by around 100 actors during the legislative process. The adoption of the present law is a clear signal encouraging entrepreneurs to cooperate in the continuation of this process, facilitating the functioning of economic life, and this, of course, has an impact on the development of enterprises. In response to the specific problems encountered in the practice of carrying out business activities and indicated by individual entrepreneurs and their organisations, the project introduces deregulation changes in 18 laws to simplify legislation, with a particular emphasis and concern for small and medium-sized enterprises. The amendments aim to reduce the administrative burden associated with the fulfilment of tax obligations, accounting obligations, and the relaxation of labour law requirements. These objectives will be achieved by increasing the current maximum annual income threshold to benefit from flat-rate taxation or the threshold related to full accounting requirements, and by increasing the employment thresholds, which in turn entail certain obligations under labour law. The amendments to these provisions will facilitate the operation of at least a few thousand entrepreneurs and allow significant savings in the area of accounting and legal services for companies, especially small and medium-sized enterprises. Of course, there are long-awaited changes regarding inspection, Construction Law. Like I said, we're changing 18 laws. I think the most important recommendation is the fact that entrepreneurs have already expressed their satisfaction during this legislative work [[♪ The bell ♪]] and readiness to continue this process. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-16-sejm-33-1.u183	Thank you very much, sir. Mrs Joanna Mucha will present her position on behalf of the Civic Platform Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-16-sejm-33-1.u184	Thank you very much, Marshal. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen! I have the honour to present the position of the Civic Platform on the Act amending certain laws in order to improve the legal environment of entrepreneurs, prints no 1157 and 1160. Ladies and gentlemen! The Civic Platform has repeatedly expressed disappointment and dissatisfaction with this law. Indeed, the law, as my previous speaker said, changes as many as 18 other laws governing the conduct of business activity in Poland. However, it could not be said that these are the changes that are most expected by entrepreneurs. Unfortunately, it may be felt that these changes relate to postulates quite accidentally collected, they certainly do not create any systemic, major change, and it is certainly not some breakthrough change. One might ask whether the Ministry led by Prime Minister Morawiecki has set a course at all, all the more so because unfortunately we are dealing with many so-called statements. the non-constitutional centre of power, Mr Kaczyński, concerning entrepreneurs, which poses a great question about the position and attitude of the state towards entrepreneurs. When it comes to these statements, it's the one that's concerned that if someone has money, it means they have money from somewhere. You can answer that from work, sir, from work. This is dividing entrepreneurs into those who are with the government and investing, and those who are against the government and therefore decide that they do not want to earn. But I think it is even more important in the context of the whole change made to entrepreneurs today, from today's Rzeczpospolita, the President of Jarosław Kaczyński. I will quote this statement: "The tendency of some entrepreneurs to switch to the status of renters at a fairly young age is also worrying: 'I've made a living and now I'm taking advantage of life and spending money...'. There will be no repression, although you can imagine taxes on inactive capital, but I do not plan anything like this. Uff - one could say, but unfortunately every such statement by entrepreneurs is very closely observed and unfortunately has a very negative impact on the climate of entrepreneurship in Poland. Ladies and gentlemen, we have a drop in the level of investment, we have a drop in GDP dynamics, we have an increasing uncertainty, we have a hyperactivity of various types of services, we have a 20-year prison risk for VAT errors. This does not create a good climate for entrepreneurship. And, unfortunately, even those changes that are proposed here cannot be called systemic changes. Of course, we will support this bill, because every change, even the smallest, that makes life easier for entrepreneurs will be through the Platform. [[♪ The bell ♪]] supported. On the other hand, we are certainly not going to call a package of what is de facto cosmetics, and we are not going to allow propaganda about entrepreneurship, while reality is completely different. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-16-sejm-33-1.u185	Thank you very much. Mr Jerzy Meysztowicz, Modern Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-16-sejm-33-1.u186	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Seym! I have a problem because I do not know how to assess these proposals, because the Minister had the opportunity to start working on some activities that would make life easier for entrepreneurs, earlier, during another coalition, and now he continues to do so - and that was exactly what I liked - i.e. those who were involved in something were competent, remained and could continue their work. And you can see that this job was taken earlier. On the other hand, as has already been said here, these thirty few changes that you are proposing to start with, this is indeed the result of such outbursts of entrepreneurs. One said it would have to be done, the other said that. On the other hand, there are no such system solutions. I mean, there are individual solutions here that are not controversial, and we think they're going in the right direction. And like Mrs Mucha, so Modern supports all the changes that will seek to improve the legal environment of businesses. On the other hand, we have a dilemma with one thing, namely that the whole programme and plan of responsible development of Prime Minister Morawiecki is as good as possible and goes in the right direction - I will say that the vision of the state, where everything would come out, what was placed there, is very pleasing to me - while the actions of the government and the actions of Members of the Law and Justice go very often in a completely different direction. I want to show it on an example. Well, you say, Prime Minister Morawiecki so claims that you are pursuing this and you see Poland where the micro-entrepreneur becomes a small entrepreneur, small becomes medium, medium - big, and this big one is already an international corporation. I like it very much, Minister, only that as it has to do with the bill, which is very strangely examined at the moment in the deregulation committee, a law which sets out and very detailed rules for the functioning of the pharmacy market in Poland. Not much, this law limits the development of Polish companies, because 90% these companies are Polish capital, and the state, as representatives of the PiS, you propose that such an entrepreneur should have at least four pharmacys. Well, excuse me, if it's going to grow, it's logical, at least I think it'll open the fifth. And yet you forbid him to do so. To sum up, we support all, even the smallest, amendments that make it easier, but we look forward to a comprehensive [[♪ The bell ♪]] and such a condensed design of changes that will concern as large a group of entrepreneurs as possible, not just small pieces. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-16-sejm-33-1.u187	Thank you very much. Mr Jan Łopata. I see he's not here. There is one person on the list of MEPs, Ewa Tomaszewska, who has a question for the representative of the government. I would like to ask you a question. I'm closing the list. Question time - 1 minute.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-16-sejm-33-1.u188	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I would like to ask the representatives of the government. Firstly, does it make sense, and will it really help those who take economic action to make changes, even non-systemic ones, but which work to their advantage and restrict the scope of red tape and other rules that make it difficult for them to live today? And the second question is: Is drugs in retail really just a commodity that should be traded regardless of the effects of their use? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-16-sejm-33-1.u189	Thank you. Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Development Mariusz Haladyj. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-16-sejm-33-1.u190	Mrs. Marshal! Dear Members, I take the question of Mrs Meysztowicz a little bit as a continuation of the question, not a question, but, in principle, a statement by Mr Meysztowicz. System changes are needed, and point changes are needed. If you talk to entrepreneurs, it turns out that most often, in fact, the source of them, I will say so frequently, frustration and irritation are the smallest of all kinds of responsibilities that are unnecessary in their opinion and are, as if not beneficial to the state, e.g. in the case of the collection of information. Therefore, these point changes are also needed, because, as I say, this is what is most affecting the frustration in the daily functioning of these most common companies. Therefore, there will be also point changes as they are here. Although we must not forget that there is one major, systemic change in this law, for example, related to the revision of the tax regime. These are really systemic changes and, at the same time, the Council of Ministers adopted a major systemic amendment to the Code of Administrative Procedure last week - this project is about to go to Parliament - and changes to the recovery of debts. So it's necessary to change things, and that kind of thing. From the very beginning of the discussion that we have on this project, I would not underestimate the need to root out all kinds of absurdities that seem seemingly small, but their sum in carrying out their activities causes exactly what we are talking about when we talk about bureaucracy, because bureaucracy consists of the sum of all kinds of small, unfounded... [[It's absurd.]] ...administrative burdens and there is no other way to fight them than legislative changes. With regard to the question of medicines, I apologise, Madam, I will not answer - I think there should be rather a Minister of Health here. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-16-sejm-33-1.u191	Thank you very much. In that case, the discussion is closed. We will proceed to the vote on the Senate resolution in the voting block. We proceed with the examination of item 6 of the agenda: the report of the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development on the adoption of the Senate on the Act amending the Seed Act and the Plant Protection Act (Prints 1163 and 1164). I ask Mr Jan Duda to present a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-16-sejm-33-1.u192	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour to present to the High House a report by the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development on the Senate's resolution on the Law amending the Seed Act and the Plant Protection Act, print No 1163. At its meeting today, the Commission has examined the amendments of the Senate: Amendment 1 confers competence on the Council of Ministers to introduce a regulation prohibiting the marketing of seed not useful for cultivation or endangering life, health or the environment, Amendment 2 clarifies the application of the existing provisions relating to the withdrawal of authorisations for the issue of passports to plants, plant products or objects which will apply from the date of entry into force of the Act, Amendment 3 sets a deadline for the adoption of a new regulation for 12 months from the date of entry into force of the Act. The Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development recommends that the High House adopt all three Senate amendments. The adoption of amendments terminates the legislative process of a law which, after the President has signed, will allow not only the prohibition of cultivation but also the marketing of genetically modified seeds. The committee's report is contained in print No 1164. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-16-sejm-33-1.u193	Thank you very much. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear three minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. I ask Mr Piotr Pole to speak on behalf of the Law and Justice Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-16-sejm-33-1.u194	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, Law and Justice, I have the honour to present to the High House the position of the club in relation to two prints, Nos 1163 and 1164, concerning the Act amending the Seeding Act and the Plant Protection Act in connection with the resolution of the Senate of the Republic of Poland of 15 December 2016. As the rapporteur put it, as did the whole Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development at the meeting which took place today, she supported the position of the Senate, the Parliamentary Club of Law and Justice welcomes the three proposals put forward by the senators, the proposals that you discussed by the rapporteur. We will vote in favour of these three amendments tabled by the Senate. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-16-sejm-33-1.u195	Thank you very much. The Civic Platform Club and Mrs Dorota Sunday, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-16-sejm-33-1.u196	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I have the honour to present the position of the Civic Platform Club in relation to the changes that were presented to us at the committee's meeting on the Seed and Plant Protection Act. This is a post after the Senate passed the bill. These are changes in the direction of a marketing ban; these are changes in the possibility of a regulation prohibiting the marketing of GMO seed. This is a change in our view quite cosmetic and problematic, because the government's position on this amendment is negative. The position of the Government is the same as that of the amendment tabled during the session of the Sejm. We believe that requiring notification of this change will result in Poland having a claim, which already took place in 2009. We are therefore proposing to re-examine such legal solutions, to reflect on them, because they are nevertheless not in line with the Treaty provisions. The Civic Platform Club will abstain from voting.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-16-sejm-33-1.u197	Mr Marek Sawicki, club of the Polish People's Party. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-16-sejm-33-1.u198	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! This morning at an hour. 9 Minister Jurgel said that the officials would not bow down, that they would boldly and clearly introduce their own solutions, and as I remember, this Seed Act, although in the same version, 5 years ago, raised deep concerns not only about the PiS club, but above all also about Minister Krzysztof Jurgel, who thought that these were the gateway wide open to the entry of GMOs into Poland. So at this point in time, when there are some concerns about the possible non-compliance of the amendment with European law, and this is shown by the officials of the Ministry of Agriculture, I nevertheless believe in Minister Jurgiel that we will not bow down to officials at this moment, and I am in favour of supporting these amendments. At the same time, I would like to draw attention to the fact that the ceta agreement is very closely correlated with this law. And only part of this agreement, from the Canadian report, not the Polish report: The biotechnology and feed industry made it clear that it sees TTIP and CETA as an opportunity to speed up the authorisation process of GMOs and centralise decision-making in this area. Even before the start of formal TTIP negotiations, the European Commission, under pressure from lobbyists, began to weaken the legislation on biotechnology. The European zero tolerance policy was relaxed in 2010. So I would like to point out that this determination of the PiS regarding the total ban on GMOs expressed in the document does not fully match the previous opinion and assessment of Minister Jurgiel. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-16-sejm-33-1.u199	Thank you very much. Mr Jarosław Sachajko, Kukiz Club15. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-16-sejm-33-1.u200	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! On behalf of the Kukiz Club15, I am pleased to present my position on the Senate resolution on the Law amending the Seeding Act and the Plant Protection Act. The Senate resolution introduces an amendment proposed by Kukiz15 at the work stage of the Sejm's agricultural committee, unfortunately MEPs have succumbed to government pressure and the amendment has been rejected. It is good that senators are more prudent than Members. The seed law of 9 November 2012, adopted under the PO-PSL coalition, replaced the 2003 law. One of the most important amendments to the 2012 Act was the deletion of provisions prohibiting the marketing of GMO seed from the new law. In the amendment of the law drawn up by the current government, the provisions restoring previous regulations were also omitted, although Law and Justice repeatedly declared that it fully opposed the presence of GMOs in Poland. While working on the law in the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development, I have tabled amendments several times to restore the ban on the marketing of genetically modified seed, but each time they met with the standard excuse of the government: the Union does not allow. However, it turned out in the Senate that there were appropriate possibilities and that the Senators of PiS had tabled an amendment which grants the Minister of Agriculture the possibility to issue a regulation prohibiting the marketing of seed of certain varieties. This is a step in the right direction, but there is a doubt that such a regulation is optional. Promises must be kept, and I trust that the Minister of Agriculture is also of the opinion. Today, the impact of GMOs on the human body is not fully known. In my opinion, if there is any suspicion that plants or food of GMOs may pose a risk to human health or the environment, we have a duty to protect us and future generations from this threat by all means. This thought, I ask you to bear in mind when working on the next GMO legislation that we will be dealing with next year. The Kukiz Club15 will support this bill. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-16-sejm-33-1.u201	Thank you very much. Four people are on the list of people who want to ask questions. No one else is checking in. I'm closing the list. Time - 1 minute. Mr Jan Krzysztof Ardanowski, Club Law and Justice. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-16-sejm-33-1.u202	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! This Senate amendment is finalizing work on the Seed Act. We give, of which I am very pleased, prerogatives of the Polish authorities to be more based on their own understanding, on their own research, on their own beliefs regarding the admission of different species and varieties to cultivation in Poland. This amendment comes down to that. It does not only concern GMO plants, but also other plants that could pose a threat to animal or human health, which could in an absolutely harmful way affect biodiversity, which is not suited to Polish agricultural conditions. This is a very good amendment and gives the government the right tools. My question to the Minister - I will ask for an answer in writing. Is the State Plant Protection and Seed Inspection and Ministry prepared to control and comply with those rules which will be issued on the basis of [[♪ The bell ♪]] This bill? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-16-sejm-33-1.u203	Thank you very much, sir. Mr Marek Sawicki, club of the Polish People's Party.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-16-sejm-33-1.u204	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! I have a question: Is it true that in a situation where the European Union has expressed its will to agree to the voluntary publication of GMO-free countries and to notify such accessions, Poland has notified such an accession and when, who has done so? And the second question: Is this basic law on genetically modified organisms, hosted by the Minister of the Environment, finalized when it appears in the Seym and what is its approximate shape? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-16-sejm-33-1.u205	Thank you very much. Mrs Dorota Sunday, the Civic Platform Club, another question. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-16-sejm-33-1.u206	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! My question will, of course, be maintained in a similar way as Mr Sawicki's question. I would like the Minister to explain to us whether this legislative delegation is telling us that the Minister of Agriculture will issue such a regulation prohibiting the marketing of GMO seeds or can only issue them. That's one thing. And is it true that, in this House, we have extended the period for the use of GMOs in feedingstuffs and in many other places, so the GMO issue should be dealt with in a large bill submitted by the Minister of the Environment. And one more question: Will the Ministry apply or will it pressure the Ministry of the Environment to apply for the government's framework position on GMOs, the position of the Council of Ministers?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-16-sejm-33-1.u207	Thank you very much. Mr Jarosław Sachajko, Kukiz Club15, will ask the last question. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-16-sejm-33-1.u208	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Here, maybe helping the Minister: the word "maybe" is clear. I refer to what Mrs Dorota Sunday asked. Maybe it means he's not obliged, unfortunately. My question, however, concerns the earlier speech by Mrs Niedziela, who spoke about penalties and threatened us with some penalties from the European Union. [[I didn't scare you. I asked.]] If, according to today's Senate amendments, it was said that this regulation would be notified, then is there really such a danger, because if we send the regulation for notification first, it will only start to work after returning to Poland after notification, so I do not see this threat here. However, if that were the case, I would ask for appropriate information. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-16-sejm-33-1.u209	According to the information received, all Members addressed their questions to the Ministry, and I would therefore ask the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development, Ms Ewa Lech, for an answer. [[Members of the Poselski Club hold cards with the inscription: #FreeMediawSejm]] [[Your marshal, there's some confusion.]] [[Voice from the Chamber: Meeting is underway.]] [[Voice from the courtroom, Marshal...]] Members, please take your seats and allow the Minister to answer. Please take your seats in the Parliamentary benches. [[Member Dorota Arciszewska-Mielewczyk: This is not a circus.]] I ask the Minister to respond.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-16-sejm-33-1.u210	Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I'll try to answer that. Mr Ardanowski is asking for a written reply and, of course, will receive a written reply. Minister Sawicki asks if Poland has declared freedom from GMO cultivation. Yes, she reported in 2013, I'm sorry, in 2015, and in accordance with the March decision of this year we are one of 18 countries in which there is a ban on GMO cultivation. Mrs Niedziela's question is whether this legislative delegation means that this regulation can be issued and must not be issued. [[Game in the O.R., bell ringing.]] The answer is simple. If there is a record: it can, it means it is optional. Mrs Niedziela's second question. Will Poland maintain the government's framework position on GMOs? Of course, we still believe that Poland will strive to make it a GMO-free country. And Mr Sachaika's question. [[It was about the danger of notification.]] Uh-huh. When it comes to notification, it's hard to say. It's hard to say if we're being punished or not, that depends on the procedure. I can't say that. But I would like to say about the regulation, which may be issued, that this regulation will not be issued - if it is issued by the Minister of Agriculture - but it is a regulation of the Council of Ministers. It's just a correction. On the other hand, regarding the conduct and punishment of Poland, unfortunately... [[But it will be?]] Maybe. I mean, we hope that these matters will be governed by the Micro-organisms and genetically modified organisms Act. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-16-sejm-33-1.u211	Thank you very much. I'm declaring a time-out. 2.30 p.m. [[Adjournment from 10 a.m. 14 mins 21 hours 14 min 40]] I'm reopening the session. The competent committees have submitted additional reports on draft laws: - amending the Law on Research Institutes, - amending the Civil Procedure Code Act, [[Game in the O.R., bell ringing.]] - amending the Act on Pension Supply to Police Officers, Internal Security Agency, Intelligence Agency, Military Counterintelligence Service, Military Intelligence Service, Central Anti-corruption Office, Border Guard, Government Protection Office, State Fire and Prison Service and their families. The reports shall, as appropriate, be printed in No 1155-A, 1084-A and 1159-A. [[Game in the O.R., bell ringing.]] Gentlemen, a few days of heated discussions and we still need... Therefore, after obtaining the uniform opinion of the Seniors Convention, I decided to supplement the agenda with points covering the third reading of these draft laws. The Sejm Bureau, in agreement with the Seniors' Convention, submitted a draft resolution on the celebration of the 35th anniversary of the tragic events of December in the Coal Mine. The project is print number 1174. Therefore, after obtaining the uniform opinion of the Seniors Convention, I decided to supplement the agenda by a point covering the examination of this project. I propose that the Sejm consent to the application of the article. 51 (1) of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm. I can't hear you objecting. We proceed with the examination of item 11 of the agenda: the draft resolution presented by the Sejm Bureau on the celebration of the 35th anniversary of the tragic events of December in the Coal Mine - WUJEK (Print No 1174). Allow me to read the draft resolution. [[The Gathered Rise Up]] The resolution of the Polish Sejm on the celebration of the 35th anniversary of the tragic events of December in the Coal Mine Thirty-five years ago, the protesting miners of the Coal Coal Mine 'Uncle' in Katowice Special ZOMO Pluto and the Citizen Militia used heavy ammunition. In this bloody and brutal way the communist authorities then decided to stop the strike against the introduction of martial law, as well as the arrest of the chairman of the NSZZ 'Solidarity' Works Commission KWK 'Uncle'. As a result, six miners were killed at the scene: Józef Czekalski, Józef Giza, Ryszard Gzik, Bogusław Kopczak, Zbigniew Wilk and Zenon Zając. In the following days, Andrzej Pelka, Joachim Gnida and Jan Stawisiński died in hospitals from wounds. As a result of the brutal pacification of 21 miners were badly wounded. Against the most active participants in the strike, the communist authorities have brought political trials, condemning many of them to a long-term prison. The Sejm of the Republic of Poland, bearing in mind those tragic events, pays tribute to the fallen miners and all the victims of martial law, and expresses the highest respect for their courage and dedication. [[Applause]] I ask Members to adopt a resolution by acclamation. Thank you. I understand the Sejm has passed a resolution. We proceed with the examination of item 7 on the agenda: Report from the Committee on Public Finance on the Government's draft budget law for 2017 (prints 881, 1094 and 1094-A) - third reading. I would like to ask Mr Sasino to present an additional report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-16-sejm-33-1.u212	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On 13 December 2016, a second reading of the draft budget law for 2017 took place at the plenary session of the Sejm. During the second reading, a proposal was made to reject the draft and 110 amendments, including 1 amendment to the text section and 109 to the tabular section. The Public Finance Commission considered this proposal and amendments at its meeting on 14 December 2016. The Commission proposes that the Sejm adopt 12 amendments. According to the numbering contained in the additional committee report, print 1094-A, these are amendments 1, 35, 48., 65., 68., 69., 70., 94, 95., 104., 105. and 110. At the same time, the committee proposes that the Sejm reject the proposal to reject the draft budget law and the remaining 98 amendments. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-16-sejm-33-1.u213	Thank you, sir. I would like to inform the High House that you have now come forward with formal proposals. Member Joanna Scheuring-Wielgus, Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-16-sejm-33-1.u214	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Honourable Members! According to Art. 184 Rules of Procedure I would like to make a request for a break so that we can give a big round of applause to all journalists for their work, which they have been able to do here in the Sejm with dignity over the past years. [[Applause]] [[Members of the Civic Platform Parliamentary Club, the Kukiz Posel Club15, the Modern Posel Club and the Polish People's Party Parliamentary Club rise up, long-term applause. Members of the Poselski Club Modern show postcards with the inscription: #FreeMediawSejm]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-16-sejm-33-1.u215	Thank you, Commissioner, but this was not a formal proposal. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that I am now treating you as a violation of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm. [[Members of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice chant: Thank you! Thank you! Thank you!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-16-sejm-33-1.u216	Mr. Marshal... [[Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-16-sejm-33-1.u217	Madam President, for the second time, please do not abuse my kindness so that I may... No, it's not a formal conclusion. Please leave the podium. Mr Jan Grabiec, Civic Platform, has a voice. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] Ladies and gentlemen, please... [[Mr. Marshal, can we get a formal motion now?]] Yes, of course.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-16-sejm-33-1.u218	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! On the basis of the article. 184 Rules of Procedure of the Sejm I ask for an adjournment and a convocation of the Senior Convention. I would also ask you to provide information by your marshal about restricting the access of journalists to the Sejm. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-16-sejm-33-1.u219	I also cannot accept your proposal as a formal proposal, Mr President, so please leave the speaker. [[But he hasn't finished yet.]] Please leave the podium. The formal proposal shall be submitted by Mr Sławomir Nitras. [[Request for a break and convening the Convention.]] I am warning you, as I said yesterday, that if you use the formal proposal in this way, in order not to be in the form of a formal proposal, I will believe that this is a form of disruption to the proceedings of the Sejm. [[Mr. Marshal...]] Thank you, sir. Member Sławomir Nitras with formal application. I'm just reminding you that this is supposed to be a formal conclusion.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-16-sejm-33-1.u220	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I shall make a formal application and on the basis of Article. 184 I ask you, Mr Marshal, for the interruption necessary to complete the agenda for the resolution tabled by the Civic Platform Parliamentary Club, which obliges you to hold a debate in the Sejm before the changes you have planned regarding the presence of journalists in the Sejm.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-16-sejm-33-1.u221	Mr President, this is not a formal proposal either.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-16-sejm-33-1.u222	You have no right on behalf of the Sejm...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-16-sejm-33-1.u223	Mr... [[Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-16-sejm-33-1.u224	...make your own decisions on this matter. The Sejm has the right to comment on this matter. The Seym is not an addition to Marshal Kuchciński. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-16-sejm-33-1.u225	A formal application may only apply to... [[Voice from the room: scandal!]] ...the matters on the agenda. I would like to point out to you that you are once again interfering with the Sejm's deliberations. Mr President, on the basis of the article. Point (c) of the first subparagraph is replaced by the following: 3 I call you to order. Mr President, I would like to call you back to order and on the basis of Article. Point (c) of the first subparagraph is replaced by the following: 4 I would like to state that you are preventing proceedings from taking place in this way. That's a triple recidivism. [[Joy in the O.R., applause.]] [[Voice from the room: Recruited.]] We therefore proceed to the vote. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Just listen, so you don't tell me something's not working later. The Commission calls for the adoption of the draft law contained in the report in print No 1094. The Commission also presents minority proposals as well as an additional report to reject the draft law in its entirety and the amendment. First of all, I will put to the vote a motion to reject the draft law in its entirety. The Commission requests that this request be rejected. Its adoption will render the remaining proposals futile. Questions are asked by Members. The time for questioning is 1 minute. The question is asked by Mrs Isabel Leszczyn, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-16-sejm-33-1.u226	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! Prime Minister! Journalists have to stay in the Seym. [[Applause]] Besides, it seems that you do not realise that the Minister of Finance has submitted to the High House a draft budget law which has nothing to do with reality. In the budget we have fictional data describing some non-existent economy. In addition, in justifying this fiction and the dramatic economic downturn, Prime Minister Morawiecki invents economic phenomena that do not exist: the macroeconomic minicycle and the slowdown in Germany. Germany is growing faster this year than last year, and Poland is developing backwards. And these are Eurostat data. And for a year in the government, the Prime Minister of Polish Treasury Bonds became the worst in Europe. High Izbo! The only sensible solution that will allow the High Sejm not to hover [[♪ The bell ♪]] In the fumes of absurdity, like the government of Beata Szydło...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-16-sejm-33-1.u227	Thank you, Commissioner, but I have not heard the question. Mrs...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-16-sejm-33-1.u228	...is voting in favour of the citizens' platform's proposal... [[Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off]] [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-16-sejm-33-1.u229	Thank you very much. That wasn't a question. Mr Paulina Hennig-Kloska, the Modern Club, has the floor. Please leave the podium. And I ask you to ask questions, not make statements.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-16-sejm-33-1.u230	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Two months ago, I said this budget was a carousel of wishful thinking. Over-tax revenues, over-the-counter GDP, questionable inflation, a wishful thinking rate of investment growth. But the worst part is, this merry-go-round... [[We weren't ordered to shoot.]] ...in these two months, it has dramatically accelerated and more and more cars are falling out of it, and reality is increasingly missing what you have written down in the budget bill. In the election campaign you talked about 50 billion people who were going to lie on the ground, all you had to do was bend over for them, and today you had to fire the finance minister because he couldn't tax the Poles so that they wouldn't notice. What's worse, you don't learn from your mistakes, from your own mistakes and calculations. You're so nervous about looking for money, you're making these mistakes bigger and bigger and you're gonna do, you're gonna make more and you're gonna turn yourself in. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-16-sejm-33-1.u231	It was not a form of question either, Commissioner. However, I urge you to say that you behave and act in accordance with the rules of the Sejm, which the Sejm itself has adopted. The rapporteur for the committee will now speak, Mr Jacek Sasin.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-16-sejm-33-1.u232	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! In view of these speeches that have just taken place, I would like to quote the data to you, because if there are allegations that this budget is supposed to be an unrealistic budget, which is based, I repeat here these opinions which have just been submitted on some imaginary data, I would like to say that this is a great accusation which you, Mrs President, have now brought against the European Commission, because it is the European Commission in its forecasts that points out and provides the figures that are in line with what is stated in the draft budget of the State. As regards growth in 2017, the European Commission is forecasting to be 3.4% and this will continue to be one of the highest growth rates in the European Union, much higher than the European average, the European Union and the euro area average. [[She's always been taller for eight years.]] The European Commission predicts only four countries: Ireland, Luxembourg, Malta and Romania at a higher rate of economic growth than in Poland. So Poland will continue to be the leader next year in terms of growth. As far as the other figures in the budget are concerned, these projections are also consistent with the assumptions made by the European Commission. As far as inflation is concerned, the European Commission envisages inflation at 1.3%. It also points out that Poland will be the country where one of the highest levels of investment in the European Union will be. The level of investment envisaged by the Commission is 3,7% and this is higher than the European average and the euro area average. That's what it looks like, ladies and gentlemen, isn't it? I propose that with such an important document as the state budget, we run away from propaganda and rely on hard data. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-16-sejm-33-1.u233	Please. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the motion to reject the bill in its entirety will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 421 Members voted. 180 voted against - 236, 5 Members abstained. The Sejm's motion is denied. I would like to inform you that the Senior Convention has given a positive opinion on the proposal to read descriptions of minority proposals and amendments in the summary version. Amendment 48. Let's move on to the first amendment. This amendment is linked to 69. amendment. We will vote on them together. The Commission proposes that they be adopted. The question will be asked by Paulina Hennig-Kloska, a modern club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-16-sejm-33-1.u234	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Unfortunately, Mr President has provoked me and I must answer. I understand that you have not noticed that the economy not only slows down, but has practically slowed down. I understand that Hungary is a role model for you, but today Hungary is also developing at a very slow pace. If Mr President hasn't noticed, I would like to quote that the budget for this year is set to 3.6%. GDP growth, and the third quarter was 2%... [[Voice from the room: Question.]] ...and for the next quarter an increase in gross domestic product is expected to be below 2%. [[About the budget, it's just Pihowicz's job.]] In the third quarter investments are -7.7% year to year. And it is not true what Prime Minister Morawiecki said, that this is due to local governments, because local governments...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-16-sejm-33-1.u235	But, Madam, the amendment concerns police posts.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-16-sejm-33-1.u236	...for this drop only accounts for 3%, and up to 5% - private investment. And it's all yours because...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-16-sejm-33-1.u237	Madame, you are not saying anything about it.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-16-sejm-33-1.u238	...lost investors, they don't have... [[Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off, applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-16-sejm-33-1.u239	Madam, the amendment concerns, I remind you, 103 370 police posts, so please speak up because I will have to... [[Mr. Marshal, one sentence.]] But, sir, that was a statement. Not about the subject and not about the point. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of Amendments 1 and 69. He'll want to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 422 Members voted. 375 voted against - 24, 23 abstained. The Sejm accepted the amendments. Minority requests from 1 to 86 and amendments from 2 to 38 were reported in Annex 1 containing the revenue plan of the State budget in 2017. We are moving to the examination of the first minority request. The question is asked by Mr Blazej Parda, Kukiz club15.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-16-sejm-33-1.u240	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! This Kukiz15 amendment is an amendment increasing the tax-free amount for all citizens. [[Applause]] We have indicated the source of funding, among others. payments from the NBP's profit. We already know that they could be 10 billion, we're increasing by 2.5, and that's mainly because of the turbulence in the market, because of instability. These profits can be allocated, among others. For this. We also increased the dividend payments. If you have employed top-class specialists in the Treasury companies, why should these profits be twice as small next year? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-16-sejm-33-1.u241	Please. Mr Jan Grabiec, Civic Platform, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-16-sejm-33-1.u242	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! Journalists must stay in the Sejm because it is written in the Polish Constitution. [[Applause]] [[Bravo!]] Art. 61 of the Constitution states that a citizen has the right to obtain information about the activities of public authorities. [[What does this have to do with the budget?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-16-sejm-33-1.u243	Mr President, please refer to the minority proposal.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-16-sejm-33-1.u244	This right includes, in particular, access to documents...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-16-sejm-33-1.u245	Mr President, please refer to the first minority proposal.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-16-sejm-33-1.u246	...and admission to the meetings of the public authorities of the general election...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-16-sejm-33-1.u247	I would like to point out to you that you are interfering with the House's deliberations.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-16-sejm-33-1.u248	...with the possibility of recording sound or image. Mr. Marshal, I would like to point out that our handwriting...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-16-sejm-33-1.u249	On the basis of the article. Point (c) of the first subparagraph is replaced by the following: 3 Rules of Procedure of the Sejm...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-16-sejm-33-1.u250	...to release four-handed voting records...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-16-sejm-33-1.u251	...I'm calling you into order because I think you're deliberately saying no about it.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-16-sejm-33-1.u252	...from this House, April, when the Members voted for four hands...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-16-sejm-33-1.u253	On the basis of the article. Point (c) of the first subparagraph is replaced by the following: Four, I'm calling you in order, and I'm saying...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-16-sejm-33-1.u254	You've sealed the tapes. And just the press footage...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-16-sejm-33-1.u255	...that you're preventing the proceedings from being held.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-16-sejm-33-1.u256	...only media footage... [[Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-16-sejm-33-1.u257	Mr President, please leave the speaker. I'm saying you're preventing the proceedings from being held. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the first minority request will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 425 Members voted. 194 voted against - 230, 1 Member abstained. The Sejm rejected the minority's motion. Let's move on to the second amendment. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. The question is asked by Mr Jacek Protas, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-16-sejm-33-1.u258	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I also think that journalists need to stay... [[Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-16-sejm-33-1.u259	Mr President, I would like to point out to you that this is how you join Members who are trying to introduce obstruction in the Sejm and disrupt the Sejm's deliberations. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] [[Voice from the room: What is it?]] We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of Amendment 2, will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 420 Members voted. 184 voted against - 235, 1 Member abstained. The Sejm rejected the amendment. Let's move on to the third amendment. The Commission requests that it be rejected. Mr Krystyna Skowrońska, the Civic Platform Club, has the floor. Let me just remind you, Madame, that we should refer to the third amendment in the form of a question. [[But don't remind me.]] [[You won't shut our mouths.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-16-sejm-33-1.u260	Of course, Mr. Marshal. I would like to say that we have tabled an amendment to support the programme of living for young people with PLN 1 billion, because seven hundred and a few million is not enough. Last year, the money for support ended in March. In recent years 1,100 thousand have been built. Apartments, of which 250,000. supported by family programmes on their own and living for young people, as well as 10 200 social housing and 4200 communal apartments were built. I would like to say that 192 360 credits have been granted. I would like you to know that there is a need to support young people. And the journalists must stay in the Seym. [[Applause]] [[Voices from the room: Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-16-sejm-33-1.u261	Thank you, Member. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of Amendment 3, will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 423 Members voted. 188 voted against - 233, 2 abstained. The Sejm rejected the amendment. Let's move on to the fourth amendment. The Commission requests that it be rejected. The question is raised by Krystyna Szumilas, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-16-sejm-33-1.u262	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Members of the Law and Justice passed the draft law on education through the Sejm. Probably today the senators will vote it without reflection, without amendment. Encouraging local authorities to bear the costs of the reform. They do not have money for this, education subsidies do not increase, subsidies do not increase, so we propose to create a reserve for the preparation of the reform of 900 million PLN. I hope you will support this. And the journalists must stay in the Seym. [[Applause]] [[Voices from the room: Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-16-sejm-33-1.u263	Thank you, Member. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of Amendment 4 will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 419 Members voted. 188 voted against - 230, 1 member abstained. I state that the Sejm has rejected the amendment. Let's move on to the 5th amendment. The Commission requests that it be rejected. The question is asked by Mr Włodzimierz Nykiel, Civic Platform. [[Voice from the room: He's gone.]] [[Margaret Kidawa-Błońska: It is, it is.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-16-sejm-33-1.u264	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I'm asking you a question. Because this is about increasing resources for the National Science Centre and the National Centre for Research and Development, my question is: Is it true that spending on research in Poland does not reach even half of the EU average? Is it true that the number of employees in R&D in Poland as a percentage of all employees does not reach even half of the EU average? Second point. Journalists have to stay in the Seym. [[Applause]] [[Voices from the room: Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-16-sejm-33-1.u265	Thank you, sir. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of Amendment 5 will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 427 Members voted. Two Members abstained in the vote 192 against - 233. The Sejm rejected the amendment. Let's move on to the 6th amendment. The Commission requests that it be rejected. The question will be asked by Lidia Gądek, the Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-16-sejm-33-1.u266	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Prime Minister! Saving human health and life should be a priority for every government, and I think it is for this government, too. That's why I have two questions. First of all, is it true that the voivods have applied for increased funding for their medical rescue budgets? We respond to this amendment by applying for PLN 500 million for each of the voivode's budgets. My second question: Shouldn't journalists stay in the Seym? [[Applause]] [[Voices from the room: Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-16-sejm-33-1.u267	The first question is to the government, the second question is to the Marshal of the Sejm. The Marshal of the Sejm, through the law firm, gave all of you an answer earlier. [[Do you always talk about yourself in the third person?]] We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of Amendment 6, will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 429 Members voted. One Member abstained from voting 192 against - 236. The Sejm rejected the amendment. Let's move on to the 7th amendment. The Commission requests that it be rejected. Ms Genowefa Tokarska, Polish People's Party, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-16-sejm-33-1.u268	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The amendment concerns an increase in the general subsidy by PLN 500 million. This is to fund local government units for compensation for lost income after the introduction of a higher tax-free amount. The government informed us that for this reason there would be a loss of about PLN 1 billion. 50% This is compensation for local governments. Just hand it over and don't leave the local authorities without supplementing it. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: What about journalists?]] [[Journalists should stay in the Seym.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-16-sejm-33-1.u269	Thank you very much, Member. Minister Majszczyk wants to answer. There you go, Deputy Minister of Finance, Mrs. Hanna Majszczyk. [[And Minister Majszczyk must remain in the government.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-16-sejm-33-1.u270	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The change in the tax-free amount of personal income tax does not foresee financial consequences for 2017, and therefore there will also be no financial consequences for local governments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-16-sejm-33-1.u271	Thank you, Minister. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of Amendment 7, will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 428 Members voted. 191 voted against - 236, 1 Member abstained. The Sejm rejected the amendment. We move on to the second minority request. The question will be asked by Witold Zembaczyński, the Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-16-sejm-33-1.u272	Thank you. Dear Marshal, High Izbo! [[Member hangs a note on the speaker with the inscription: #FreeMediawSejm]] The amendment concerns road investments in Opole region. It's about the construction of the Niemodlin ring road. Today, the people are protesting, demanding this investment. By the way, when I look at these amendments, I notice a huge budget flaw, because it does not include a certain expenditure. It's about buying a huge tarp to cover the Sejm from the public. I also do not see here a record of buying black curtains so that voters cannot see what Members of the Sejm are doing.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-16-sejm-33-1.u273	Mr President, your question does not concern the second minority proposal. [[Voice from the hall: We are not afraid.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-16-sejm-33-1.u274	I don't see any money to buy black glasses either... [[The Marshal shuts off the microphone, the movement in the courtroom.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-16-sejm-33-1.u275	Thank you, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-16-sejm-33-1.u276	...so that their flashes don't blind them. I also believe that the Sejm should be open.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-16-sejm-33-1.u277	I draw your attention to the fact that you don't perform like this. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among the ladies and gentlemen of the House is in favour of the second minority request will want to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 379 Members voted. 163 voted against - 215, 1 member abstained. The Sejm's motion is denied. Let's move on to the 8th amendment. The Commission requests that it be rejected. The question will be asked by Mr Krystian Jarubas, the Polish People's Party.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-16-sejm-33-1.u278	Dear Marshal, Prime Minister! High Izbo! [[Member hangs a note on the speaker with the inscription: #FreeMediawSejm, applause, glow in the hall, bell]] My question concerns the 8th amendment of the PSL. This amendment aims to increase tax revenue by PLN 374 million to increase the availability of pre-school education. It's a very important amendment. Mr. Marshal! I do not know if Minister Zalewska has already determined what amount will be allocated to education reform. I would very much like to know in this pre-Christmas period what Poles are waiting for, how and how we will take this money for this education reform. And the next question is from the press, Mr. Marshal... [[Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-16-sejm-33-1.u279	That doesn't really apply to this amendment. Thank you, sir. [[Joy in the O.R., applause.]] We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of Amendment 8, will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 417 Members voted. The vote was 190, against 225, with 2 abstentions. The Sejm rejected the amendment. We move on to the third minority request. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]] [[Ooh, bravo!]] [[On the platform and on the benches of the Poselski Club Modern there are cards with the inscription: #FreeMediawSejm]] We move on to the third minority request. [[Game in the O.R.]] [[Mr. Marshal, exclude this card from the proceedings.]] [[Joy in the O.R., applause.]] The question is asked by Michał Szczerba, the Civic Platform Club. Mr Nitras once again urges him not to shout. [[The Sejm clerk removes the card from the podium, the movement in the courtroom]] [[Voices from the room: Ooh...]] [[Voice from the room: We've got another one!]] [[Mr Szczerba hangs a note on the speaker with the inscription: #FreeMediawSejm, excitement, joy in the hall, applause]] I would like to inform you that you are disturbing the session of the Sejm. On the basis of the article. Point (c) of the first subparagraph is replaced by the following: 3 I call you to order. [[Some Members chant: Free media! Free media! Free media!]] So take off the card and ask the question. There you go. [[Game in the O.R.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-16-sejm-33-1.u280	I can't hear you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-16-sejm-33-1.u281	Your time has begun.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-16-sejm-33-1.u282	I can't hear you...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-16-sejm-33-1.u283	Mr President, I would like to call you back to order and on the basis of Article. Point (c) of the first subparagraph is replaced by the following: 4 I would like to state that you are preventing the proceedings from being held.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-16-sejm-33-1.u284	I can't hear you, Marshal. Mr. Marshal Dear! [[Joy in the O.R., applause.]] Music eases customs. That's why Warsaw is... [[Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-16-sejm-33-1.u285	Mr President, once again, I would like to say that you are preventing the deliberations from being held...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-16-sejm-33-1.u286	...not just the capital of Poland.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-16-sejm-33-1.u287	...and on the basis of Article. Point (c) of the first subparagraph is replaced by the following: 4...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-16-sejm-33-1.u288	This amendment concerns the construction of the music center.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-16-sejm-33-1.u289	Mr President, you are still preventing the deliberations from taking place. On the basis of the article. Point (c) of the first subparagraph is replaced by the following: Five, I'm making a decision to exclude you from the Sejm. [[Touchdown, applause]] In accordance with the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm, leave the sitting room. I'm ordering a recess, 10 minutes. [[Adjournment from 10 a.m. 15 minutes 13 hours 15 min 32]] I'm reopening the session. [[Members of the opposition, holding the postcards with the inscription: #FreeMedia in the Seym, block the speaker and chant: Bring back the envoy! Bring back the envoy! Bring back the envoy!]] We continue to consider item 7 of the agenda. [[♪ The bell ♪]] We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 3rd minority request will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? [[Thrilling in the courtroom, chanting, "Return the messenger!" Bring back the envoy! Bring back the envoy! ♪ The bell ♪]] 264 Members voted. Sixty votes against - 201, three Members abstained. I state that the Sejm's motion has been rejected. [[Speech Off the Microphone]] [[The voice in the room:...is a needlessly burning.]] Let's move on to point 4... Let's move on to the fourth minority request. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among the ladies and gentlemen of the House is in favour of the 4th minority request will want to raise his hand and press the button. [[Voice from the room:...give him a chance until next time.]] Who's against it? Who's holding back? [[Game in the O.R.]] [[...but as Kukiz, 15 I want to bring...]] [[Voice from the courtroom: Mr. Marshal, you have not allowed me to speak.]] [[Members of the opposition chant: Democracy! Democracy! Democracy!]] We'll proceed with the vote. Who among the ladies and gentlemen of the House is in favour of the 4th minority request will want to raise his hand and press the button. [[Voice from the room: Mr. Marshal. You didn't let me speak. I'd be...]] Who's against it? Who's holding back? [[Wait a minute.]] [[Members of the opposition chant: Free media! Free media! Free media!]] I'm reading the results of the 13th vote. It's about the fourth minority request. It voted in favour of 56 Members against - 227, 4 Members abstained. I state that the Sejm's motion has been rejected. [[Applause]] [[The voice from the room:...is still reporting that...]] Let's move on to the ninth amendment. [[The voice from the room:...is history. And how are you gonna be... on the history cards? Come on, you've made a mistake.]] The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of Amendment 9, will want to raise your hand and press the button. [[A voice from the room: Well, Mr. Marshal. You're breaking the rules.]] Who's against it? Who's holding back? [[Mr. Marshal, what are you doing?]] [[Voice in the O.R.: It's not working.]] 275 Members voted. 42 voted against - 229, with 4 abstentions. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Well, voting machines don't work. What are you doing, marshal?]] I state that the Sejm has rejected the amendment. I'm pointing out to you that right now You're making it impossible for me to sit down, disturbing the Sejm's deliberations. Please step aside and allow me to conduct my deliberations. [[Members of the opposition are blocking the speaker and singing the national anthem]] [[Voice from the hall: But there is a phrase that please step away from the platform...]] I draw your attention again... [[Mr. Marshal, I volunteered to speak.]] ...that you're interfering with the House's deliberations. [[I volunteered to speak.]] [[The voice from the courtroom: But, Marshal, I wanted to speak, and you made it impossible for me.]] Mr President, on the basis of the article. 175... [[Sure. In helmets, in helmets...]] ...pt. 3 I call you to order. [[Voice from the room: Mr. Marshal, we don't have a card working.]] [[In helmets and batons.]] Mr... [[Voice from the Chamber: Resume vote. The cards don't work.]] ...I'm returning to you... [[The cards don't work. There's no way...]] [[Voice from the room: Take out my card. Take out the cards.]] [[I signed up for the vote.]] [[Voice from the room: Mr. Marshal...]] [[Voice from the room: The speaker is blocked, cannot be asked to resume the vote...]] [[You gotta be kidding me.]] I call you to order, and I find that you are preventing your deliberations from being held. [[Voice from the room: But, Marshal Kuchciński...]] [[Voice in the hall: That's what you're preventing, because we don't have automatic voting machines working.]] [[Voice from the room: Take a look at what you're doing.]] [[Voice from the hall: Mr. Marshal, I volunteered to speak.]] [[Voice from the room: I have a question.]] [[Voice from the room: What are you doing?]] [[Voice from the room: Mr. Marshal, I volunteered...]] I'm calling a 10-minute break. [[Adjournment from 10 a.m. 13 min 36 hours 15 min 41]] I'm reopening the session. Proceed with point 7. Let's move on to the 5th minority request. We'll proceed with the vote. [[Members chant, "Return the messenger!" Bring back the envoy! Bring back the envoy!]] Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 5th minority request will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 190 Members voted. 16 votes against - 172 abstentions. [[Applause]] [[Voices from the hall: Ooh!]] [[Members of the opposition are blocking the speaker.]] I have to adjourn because there's no quorum. [[Members chant: Democracy! Democracy! Democracy!]] [[Voices from the room: Bravo!]] [[Voices from the hall: No quorum! There's no quorum! There's no quorum!]] I'm calling a 15-minute break. [[Adjournment from 10 a.m. 15 min. 42 hours 21 min 40]] I'm reopening the session. In view of the impossibility of voting by means of a counting device pursuant to Article. Article 4 (1) (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 3rd Rules of Procedure of the Sejm I am ordering a vote by raising my hand and calculating the votes by Members of the Secretaries. I apologise, all of you, for these shortcomings. [[Voice from the room: You're welcome.]] [[Voice from the room: We can do this.]] In order to facilitate voting, the room will be divided into ten sectors. In each of them, the votes will be counted by the secretary appointed by me. For the calculation of the votes, I call the following secretaries: Piotr Łukasz Babiarz - sector 1, Elżbieta Borowska - sector 2, Marcin Duszka - sector 3, Małgorzata Golinska - sector 4, Krzysztof Kubow - sector 5, Daniel Milewski - sector 6, Piotr Olszówka - sector 7, Łukasz Schreiber - sector 8, Artur Sobonia - sector 9, Krystian Jarubasa - sector 10. I ask Members of the Secretaries to approach the Presidency table in order to collect the minutes of the vote... [[Mr. Marshal, formal motion.]] ...and then to take up seats in designated sectors. At the same time, in the Committee of Scrutinies, I am calling the secretaries Agata Borowiec and Sylvester Tulayev. [[Mr. Marshal, formal motion. Would you kindly listen to what I'm asking?]] We're going through... [[Formal conclusion, Mr. Marshal. You don't let Members in. There are Members who would like to come in.]] [[Voice from the room: Quiet!]] [[Voice from the courtroom: Mr. Marshal, it turns out...]] Let's move on to the vote. Please... [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] Members of the Secretaries are on the scene, aren't they? I ask you, ladies and gentlemen, to keep your hands raised during the vote for a period of time allowing for the calculation of votes. Are the Members of the Secretaries ready? [[Voice from the room: Yes.]] Thank you. Speakers of the Secretaries, please add your voice to the assigned sector. We continue to consider item 7 of the Public Finance Commission's report on the government draft budget law for 2017 - third reading. [[Formal conclusion.]] I would like to inform you that the chairman of the Committee on Public Finances, Mr Jacek Sasin, has made a formal application under Article. Paragraph 184. Paragraph 3 (9) of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm to change the way in which the votes are held by voting in favour of the joint amendments approved by the committee, as well as the total vote of minority proposals and the negative amendments. Consequently, the Sejm Bureau, after consulting the Rules of Procedure, Parliamentary and Immunity Affairs Committee, adopted a resolution on the interpretation of the Rule. Paragraph 184. Paragraph 3 (9) of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm, which reads as follows: A change in the conduct of voting may also consist in the total vote of amendments on the basis of requests for acceptance or rejection made by committees in an additional report, and minority proposals in the committee's report should also be considered as amendments to the rejection request. This means, ma'am, that the proposal made by Mr Sasin complies with the formal requirements and is subject to resolution by the Sejm. Then we shall proceed to the vote... [[Formal objection, Mr. Marshal. That's breaking the law. You're not the Seym.]] ...on this motion. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the formal request made by Mr Sasin to change the way the vote is carried out will want to raise his hand and press the button. I apologize for taking so long to count votes, but these are the circumstances. I remind you that at the moment we are holding a voting procedure, voting in favour, of course, of course, of the formal proposal. Yeah, and there's votes counted? Okay, thank you. [[About the formal issue, Mr. Marshal. I'd like to ask for your vote.]] Whoever opposes this motion, raise your hand. Whoever abstained, raise your hand. I'll give you the results of the vote in a minute. I now pronounce the results of the vote. 237 Members took part in the vote. 235 Members voted against - 2 and no one abstained. I state that the Sejm has accepted the motion. [[Applause]] [[Formal conclusion, Mr. Marshal.]] High Seym! According to the formal proposal voted, we are going from 5 to 242 and amendments 10 to 34, 36 to 47, 49 to 64, 66 and 67, 71 to 93, 96 to 103, and 106 to 109. [[Objection, Marshal.]] [[We object.]] The Commission requests that these amendments be rejected. We'll proceed with the vote. [[The votes are counted for the bumps.]] [[Voice from the room: The fly does not sit down.]] Who among the ladies and gentlemen is in favour of the above. Minority requests and corrections, he will raise his hand and press the button. [[Voice from the room: Illegal! Illegal! Illegal!]] [[There's no way to speak here.]] [[We're filing a formal motion.]] [[You don't have a quorum. I move for a statement of the quarts.]] Votes for the count. Yes? If you're against it, raise your hand up. [[Voices from the O.R.: Illegal! Illegal! Illegal!]] At the moment, I ask you to raise the hand of Members who abstain from voting. [[Voices from the O.R.: Illegal! Illegal! Illegal!]] I can't see. I now pronounce the results of the vote. 236 Members took part in the vote. Nobody voted against 236, no one abstained. I state that the Sejm has rejected the proposals. [[Applause]] [[Voices from the O.R.: Illegal! Illegal! Illegal!]] [[Go to Novgorodska.]] May I have your attention, please? [[This isn't Novgorod. In Novgorodska, make a Seym.]] I would like to inform you that we are carrying out a formal application that was voted out at the beginning. Those of you who shout, please keep quiet. [[Voice from the Chamber: Threatening Members.]] We will vote on other formal proposals after the implementation of this formal proposal, which the High House has adopted. [[Voice from the room: Illegal! Illegal! Illegal!]] We proceed with the examination of amendments 35, 65, 68, 70, 94 and 95, 104 and 105 and 110. The Commission proposes that they be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of this. fixes, he wants to raise his hand and press the button. We voted in favour. Now I ask you to raise the hands of those Members who are against it. Whoever opposes these amendments, please raise your hand. [[Game in the O.R.]] Whoever abstained, raise your hand. I now pronounce the results of the vote. 237 Members took part in the vote. 235 voted against - 2 no one abstained. I state that the Sejm has accepted the amendments. [[Thrilling applause]] [[Voices from the room: Bravo!]] We proceed with the vote on the entire bill. [[Paulin Hennig-Kloska: There is information that Members do not vote here.]] Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting in full the draft law in print no. 1094, along with the amendments adopted, will be willing to raise his hand. [[Paulin Hennig-Kloska: You do not allow Members to come in. Who's the secretary of the sitting?]] If you're against it, raise your hand. [[Paulin Hennig-Kloska: Please let me through.]] Whoever abstained, raise your hand. [[Member Paulin Hennig-Kloska: You are setting up a false state to obtain a quorum.]] I give the results of the vote on the entire draft budget law. 236 Members took part in the vote. 234 Members voted against - 2 and no one abstained. [[Applause, the gathered get up]] [[Members chant: Democracy! Democracy! Democracy!]] I inform you that the Sejm has passed a budget bill for 2017. [[Applause]] [[Voices from the room: Bravo!]] The adoption of certain amendments will result in appropriate amendments to other provisions and annexes to the Act. I would also like to inform the High House that, as regards the information given to the Minister for Agriculture and Rural Development on the implementation of the 2015-2019 programme of activities of the Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development for the period of 18 November 2015 - 17 November 2016, we will vote at the next session of the Sejm. We are returning to the review of item 2 of the agenda: Revised report by the Committee on Administration and Home Affairs and the Committee on Social Policy and Family Policy on a draft law amending the Act on Pension Supply of Police Officers, Internal Security Agency, Intelligence Agency, Military Counterintelligence Service, Military Intelligence Service, Central Anti-corruption Office, Border Guard, Government Protection Office, State Fire and Prison Service and their families. We proceed to the third reading. The additional committee report is in print No 1159-A. I ask Mr Arkadiusz Czartoryski to present an additional report to the committee. [[Voice from the room: Briefly.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-16-sejm-33-1.u290	The joint committees today considered two minority requests to reject the project in its entirety and negatively recommend both these proposals and three amendments, which have been voted jointly, which have also not been recommended by the committee. The committees are asking for the bill to be adopted. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-16-sejm-33-1.u291	Thank you, sir. As stated by the Member, as the committees also present minority proposals, I will put the proposals to the vote first of all to reject the draft law in its entirety. I would like to remind you that the committees are asking for the rejection of these requests. Their adoption will render the remaining proposals futile. We proceed with the vote on the motion to reject the draft law in its entirety. Who among the ladies and gentlemen of the House is in favour of the motion to reject the bill in its entirety, would like to raise his hand and press... [[Joy in the Chamber]] No pressure, it's about the hand itself. [[Joy in the Chamber]] If you're against it, raise your hand. Whoever abstained, raise your hand. I now pronounce the results of the vote. [[Mr Grabec also voted. So he voted, he went all the way to the chair.]] 236 Members took part in the vote. Nobody voted against, 235 Members voted against, one Member abstained. I find that the Sejm has rejected its conclusions. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]] I propose on the basis of an article. Paragraph 184. 3 point 9 of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm to change the way in which the joint vote on the amendments voted positively by the committee and the total vote on minority proposals and the amendments which were negative. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. We move on to the consideration of amendments 1 to 3 and minority proposals 1 to 15. The committees are asking for their rejection. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting amendments 1 to 3 and minority proposals from 1 to 15 will want to raise your hand and press the button, [[Joy in the Chamber]] I'm sorry, he's gonna raise his hand. If you're against it, raise your hand. Whoever abstained, raise your hand. Mrs Elżbieta Borowska, secretary of sector two, is invited. I now pronounce the results of the vote. 236 Members took part in the vote. No one voted against, 234 Members voted against, two Members abstained. I state that the Sejm has rejected proposals and amendments. We proceed with the vote on the entire bill. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting the draft law as a whole in print no. 1159, will want to raise your hand. If you're against it, raise your hand. Whoever abstained, raise your hand. I declare the results of the vote on the entire bill. 236 Members took part in the vote. 235 Members voted in favour, no one voted against, one Member abstained. I state that the Sejm has passed a law amending the Act on Pension Provision of Police Officers, Internal Security Agency, Intelligence Agency, Military Counterintelligence Service, Military Intelligence Service, Central Anti-corruption Office, Border Guard, Government Protection Office, State Fire and Prison Service and their families. [[Thrilling applause]] [[Members get up and chant, "Away with the commune!" Down with the commune! Down with the commune! Solidarity! Solidarity! Solidarity!, some Members show the sign "V"]] [[The gathered sing the national anthem]] Thank you very much. The Sejm passed a law on amending the Act on retirement provision of officers, whose title I had previously read. [[Applause]] I would like to inform you that we will return to item 4 of the agenda, i.e. to the motion for rejection at first reading of the draft law amending the Code of Administrative Procedure Act, at the next meeting of the Sejm. We are returning to the examination of item 5 of the agenda: the report by the Extraordinary Commission on the adoption of the Senate on the Act amending certain laws in order to improve the legal environment of entrepreneurs. I remind you that the Sejm rejects the Senate's amendments by an absolute majority in the presence of at least half of the statutory number of Members. If the Sejm does not reject the Senate amendment, it shall be deemed accepted. I propose on the basis of an article. 54 (1) (a) 6 Rules of Procedure of the Sejm, together with interpretation, so that the Sejm can vote jointly on all amendments of the Senate. If I do not hear opposition, I will understand that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. We are voting on the Senate amendments from 1st to 14th. We will vote on them together. The Commission proposes that they be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the Senate's amendments from 1st to 14th would like to raise his hand. If you're against it, raise your hand. Whoever held off, raise your hand. [[Let me through. I want to move forward.]] [[The voice from the room: For fuck's sake.]] [[I'm showing my ID. As a Member, I have the right to be in the Parliament.]] [[Voice from the room: You are.]] [[That's where the seats are.]] [[I want to wait politely, I have the right.]] I'll give you the results of the vote. 236 Members took part in the vote. The absolute majority is 118. No one voted against, 234 Members voted against, two Members abstained. I state that the Sejm has accepted the amendments. [[Applause]] [[The vote is over, and I want to move on to a formal matter.]] [[Voice from the courtroom: Do you want to hug the marshal?]] [[Mr. Marshal, the vote is over. I'd like to pass.]] At this we have concluded the examination of the Senate resolution on the Act amending certain laws in order to improve the legal environment of entrepreneurs. We are returning to the examination of item 6 of the agenda: the report of the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development on the adoption of the Senate on the Act amending the Seed Act and the Plant Protection Act. We will vote in accordance with the principles applied in the previous item on the agenda. I propose on the basis of an article. 54 (1) (a) 6 Rules of Procedure of the Sejm, together with interpretation, so that the Sejm can vote jointly on all amendments of the Senate. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. We move to vote on the Senate amendments from 1st to 3rd. We will vote on them together. The Commission proposes that they be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the amendments from 1 to 3 would like to raise their hand. If you're against it, raise your hand. Whoever abstained, raise your hand. High Seym! I now pronounce the results of the vote. 236 Members took part in the vote. The absolute majority is 118. Nobody voted against, 233 Members voted against, 3 Members abstained. I state that the Sejm has accepted the amendments. At this we have concluded the examination of the Senate resolution on the Act amending the Seeding Act and the Plant Protection Act. We proceed with the examination of item 8 of the agenda: Report from the Committee on Education, Science and Youth on the draft law amending the Law on Research Institutes (prints No. 995, 1155 and 1155-A) - third reading. I ask Mrs Lydia Burzyńska to present an additional report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-16-sejm-33-1.u292	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! During the second reading of the parliamentary draft law amending the Law on Research Institutes, print No. 995, two applications for rejection were submitted in full and one amendment. At the meeting of the Education, Science and Youth Committee on 16 December this year. The committee has examined the proposals together with the amendment and presents the results of its work in print No 1155-A. The requests for rejection of the parliamentary draft were not accepted and the amendment was negative. The Commission asks the High Sejm to reject the proposals and to amend and adopt the law. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-16-sejm-33-1.u293	Thank you, Member. Let me remind you that we will be voting on the draft Act No 1155 and on amendments and proposals. In the first place, I will put to the vote proposals to reject the draft law in its entirety. The Commission requests that these proposals be rejected. Their adoption will render the remaining proposals futile. We proceed with the vote on the motion to reject the draft law in its entirety. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the motion to reject the bill in its entirety would like to raise their hand. If you're against it, raise your hand. Whoever abstained, raise your hand. I now pronounce the results of the vote. 236 Members took part in the vote. No one voted against, 234 Members voted against, two Members abstained. I find that the Sejm has rejected its conclusions. I propose on the basis of an article. Paragraph 184. Paragraph 3 (9) of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm changes in the way in which the votes are held by a total vote of the amendments approved by the committee, as well as the total vote of the minority proposals and the negative amendments. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. We move on to the examination of minority proposals from 1 to 4 and amendments. The Commission requests that they be rejected. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of accepting minority proposals from 1 to 4 and the amendment would like to raise your hand. If you're against it, raise your hand. Whoever held off, raise your hand. I'll give you the results of the vote. 236 Members took part in the vote. No one voted against, 232 Members voted against, and four Members abstained. The Sejm rejected the offer. We proceed with the vote on the entire bill. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting the draft law as a whole in print no. 1155, would like to raise your hand. If you're against it, raise your hand. Whoever abstained, raise your hand. I'll give you the results of the vote. 236 Members took part in the vote. 232 Members voted in favour, no one voted against, four Members abstained. I state that the Sejm passed a law on amending the Law on Research Institutes and the Law on Geological and Mining Law. At the same time, I am informing you - because some of you are asking about the letters - that the attendance lists have been written in a small smoking shop since this morning and that you must sign them, who has not yet submitted them. We proceed with the examination of item 9 of the agenda: The Extraordinary Commission's report on the government draft law amending the Civil Procedure Code (prints 932, 1084 and 1084-A) - third reading. I ask Mr Arkadiusz Mularczyk to present an additional report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-16-sejm-33-1.u294	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour to present an additional report from the Extraordinary Commission on the government draft law amending the Code of Civil Procedure Act. Two amendments were tabled at second reading. They're being examined by the Commission. After the discussion, the committee proposes to reject the amendments and adopt the proposed bill. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-16-sejm-33-1.u295	Thank you, sir. As we have heard, the committee requests the adoption of a draft law from print no. 1084. By presenting the amendments in the additional report, it recommends that they be rejected. We will vote on these amendments first. In the first amendment, applicants propose a different wording of Article. 408 Civil Procedure Code Act. Amendment 2 is linked to it. We will vote on them together. Let me remind you that the committee is asking for their rejection. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of Amendments 1 and 2, will want to raise your hand and press the button. [[Voice from the room: Navy button.]] If you're against it, raise your hand, actually no more buttons. Whoever abstained, raise your hand. I'll give you the results of the vote. 236 Members took part in the vote. No one voted against, 234 Members voted against, two Members abstained. I state that the Sejm has rejected the amendments. We proceed with the vote on the entire bill. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting the bill as a whole in print 1084, would like to raise your hand. If you're against it, raise your hand. Whoever abstained, raise your hand. I'll give you the results of the vote. 236 Members took part in the vote. 234 Members voted in favour, no one voted against, two Members abstained. I state that the Sejm has passed a law amending the Code of Civil Procedure Act. We proceed with the examination of item 10 of the agenda: the report of the Committee on the Environment, Natural Resources and Forestry on the draft law amending the Nature Conservation Act and some other laws (prints Nos 1143 and 1148) - third reading. The Commission calls for the adoption of the draft Print Act No 1148. The Commission also presents minority proposals. In the discussion, a motion was made to reject the draft law in its entirety, which I will put to the vote first. The adoption of this proposal will render the remaining proposals futile. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the motion to reject the bill in its entirety, will raise your hand and press... no pressure. [[Joy in the Chamber]] Raise your hand. [[Game in the O.R.]] If you're against it, raise your hand. Whoever abstained, raise your hand. I now pronounce the results of the vote. 236 Members took part in the vote. Nobody voted for, all voted against - 236 Members. I state that the Sejm's motion has been rejected. In the 1st minority proposal to Article. 14b of the Law on Forests, the applicant proposes to delete paragraph 14b. 3. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the first minority proposal will be willing to raise his hand. If you're against it, raise your hand. Whoever abstained, raise your hand. I now pronounce the results of the vote. 236 Members took part in the vote. No one voted against, 234 Members voted against, two Members abstained. I state that the Sejm has rejected the minority's motion. In the second minority application, the applicant shall propose to delete Article. 3 draft amending act. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the second minority proposal will be willing to raise his hand. Who's against it? Whoever abstained, raise your hand. [[There's a blocked passage.]] I'm declaring the results. [[This is a disgrace.]] 236 Members took part in the vote. One Member voted against 233 Members and 2 Members abstained. I state that the Sejm has rejected the minority's motion. We proceed with the vote on the entire bill. [[Statement, Marshal.]] Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting the draft law as a whole in print no. 1148, will want to raise your hand. If you're against it, raise your hand. Whoever abstained, raise your hand. I'm declaring the results. 236 Members took part in the vote. Everyone voted in favour. The Sejm unanimously passed a law amending the Nature Conservation Act and the Forest Act. [[Applause]] High Seym! The committee responsible has submitted reports on the Senate resolutions on the laws on the rules for the management of state property, as well as the provisions introducing the Law on the rules for the management of state property. The reports shall be printed in 1177 and 1178 respectively. At the meeting of the Seniors Convention, objections were raised to the completion of the agenda for consideration of these reports. These are, according to art. The Commission shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on I will put these items to the vote in turn to complete the agenda. Let me remind you that according to the article. The Commission shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 108 The adoption of the proposal to supplement the agenda will mean that the Sejm has agreed to the application of the Article. 54 (1) (a) 5 Rules of Procedure of the Sejm. We proceed with the vote on print report 1177. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of supplementing the agenda with the following point: The report of the Committee on Energy and the Treasury on the Senate's resolution on the Law on the Rules for the Management of State Property, Nos 1175 and 1177, would like to raise its hand. If you're against it, raise your hand. Whoever abstained, raise your hand. I'll give you the results of the vote. 236 Members took part in the vote. 234 Members voted against - 2 and no one abstained. I find the Sejm has accepted the offer. We proceed with the vote on print report 1178. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of supplementing the agenda with the following point: Report from the Commission for Energy and the Treasury on the Senate's resolution on the Law Rules introducing the Law on the Rules for the Management of State Property, Nos 1176 and 1178, will want to raise his hand. If you're against it, raise your hand. Whoever abstained, raise your hand. Thank you. I can't see. I mean, it doesn't matter if I see it or not. Thank you very much. I'll give you the results of the vote. 237 Members took part in the vote. 234 Members voted against - 2, 1 Member abstained. I find the Sejm has accepted the offer. We proceed with the examination of item 12 of the agenda: Report from the Commission for Energy and the Treasury on the adoption of the Senate on the Law on the Principles for the Management of State Property (Prints 1175 and 1177). I ask Mr Wojciech Zubowski to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-16-sejm-33-1.u296	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! The Energy and Treasury Commission today discussed at its meeting the amendments tabled to the Law on the Principles for the Management of State Property, print No 1175. The Commission recommends adopting Amendments 1, 2, 3 and 4, rejecting Amendment 5 and adopting Amendments 6 and 7. That's all. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-16-sejm-33-1.u297	Thank you, sir. Would any of you and your fellow Members like to speak on the Senate amendments? No one's checking in. I remind you that the Sejm rejects the Senate's amendments by an absolute majority in the presence of at least half of the statutory number of Members. If the Sejm does not reject the Senate amendment, it shall be deemed accepted. On the agenda items on the examination of the Senate amendments, we will vote on the proposals to reject the Senate amendments. I propose on the basis of an article. 54 (1) (a) 6 Rules of Procedure of the Sejm, together with an interpretation, so that the Sejm jointly votes on the amendments of the Senate approved by the committee, and in a separate vote on the amendment adopted by the committee negative. If I do not hear opposition, I will understand that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. We are voting on the amendments to Senate 1, 2, 3, 4, 6, and 7. We will vote on these amendments together. Let me remind you that the committee is requesting their admission. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is against Amendments 1, 2, 3, 4, 6, and 7, will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Whoever abstained, raise your hand. I now pronounce the results of the vote. 236 Members took part in the vote. The absolute majority is 118. Nobody voted against, 234 Members voted against, two Members abstained. I state that the Sejm has accepted the amendments. We move to the vote on Amendment 5. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of rejecting the amendment would like to raise their hand. [[I wanted to get through, and I can't, because I'm being held back by the deputy chief of the Secret Service of the mustache.]] [[Voice from the room: This is democracy in the release of special forces.]] If you're against it, raise your hand. Whoever abstained, raise your hand. I now pronounce the results of the vote. 237 Members took part in the vote. The absolute majority is 119. 235 Members voted in favour, no one voted against, two Members abstained. I state that the Sejm has rejected the amendment. We proceed with the examination of item 13. of the agenda: Report from the Commission for Energy and the Treasury on the adoption of the Senate on the Law Provisions introducing the Law on the Principles for the Management of State Property (Prints 1176 and 1178). I ask Mr Wojciech Zubowski to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-16-sejm-33-1.u298	Mr. Marshal! The Committee on Energy and the Treasury at its meeting today considered the amendments proposed by the Senate and recommended that all amendments proposed by the Higher House be adopted. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-16-sejm-33-1.u299	Thank you, sir. Would any of your fellow Members like to speak on the Senate amendments? I can't see, I can't hear. We'll proceed with the vote. We will vote in accordance with the principles applied in the previous item on the agenda. I propose on the basis of an article. 54 (1) (a) 6 Rules of Procedure of the Sejm, together with an interpretation, so that the Sejm can vote on all amendments together. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. We are voting on the Senate amendments from 1st to 16th. We will vote on these amendments together. The Commission proposes that these amendments be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among the ladies and gentlemen of the House is against amendments 1 to 16 would like to raise his hand and press... the hand itself. [[Joy in the Chamber]] If you're against it, raise your hand. Whoever abstained, raise your hand. I now pronounce the results of the vote. 236 Members took part in the vote. The absolute majority is 118. No one voted against, 234 voted against, two Members abstained. I state that the Sejm has accepted the amendments. At this we have concluded the examination of the Senate resolution on the Law of Laws introducing a law on the rules for the management of state property.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-16-sejm-33-1.u300	In memory of the miners - victims of the pacification of KWK, who died on 16 December 1981. In memory of the greatest tragedy of martial law, the greatest crime against the nation, because this memory puts their courage and heroism in the way of our freedom, for which we thank. Hello and praise the heroes! Today we celebrate the 35th anniversary of the pacification of the mine, during which nine miners protesting against the introduction of martial law died from the militia's bullets and the ZOMO. It's an important anniversary to perpetuate both the heroic act of miners and the courage of many other people affected by the repression of martial law. It is an important anniversary that perpetuates heroism and sacrifice for the good of the country and for the good of the citizens in the name of the truth. At night, from 12 to 13 December 1981, martial law was introduced in Poland. Basic civil rights have been limited to Poles. As a result of repression, about 100 Poles died, more than 10 thousand were arrested or interned. Poles. On 13 December 1981, the miners of the Uncle threatened to demand the release of Jan Ludwiczak, the head of the plant .Solidarity, the leader and activist who was arrested on the night of 12 to 13 December. During the following days, they formulated their demands, demanding, among others. the abolition of martial law. They demanded the release from prison of all interned and the restoration of the activity of Solidarity and respect for the Jastrzębski Agreement. The negotiations of the strikers with the authorities have not been successful. On December 15, the strikers began to hear that the militia and the military had pacified some of the strikers. On 16 December, militia troops supported by tanks and armored vehicles of the army, which forced the mining wall, entered the mine area, where there were already about 3,000 strikes. miners. A crowd of women, young people, and children gathered around. The strikers were sent by military officials to persuade them to surrender. The proposal was rejected. Then, at 16 degrees cold, water cannons were used to drive people around the plant. The militia also attacked them with tearing gases and smoke candles. During the storming of the plant, a special ZOMO platoon was introduced into the action, shots fired. Six miners were killed: Joseph, Krzysztof, Ryszard, Bogusław, Zbigniew, Zenon. One, Andrew, died hours after the surgery. Two more, John and Joachim, 21 miners were injured in January 1982. Counting over 30 m cross - monument commemorating defenseless miners who died during the attack of the troops of the People's Army of Poland and the Motorized Departures of the Civic Militia [[ZOMO]] He talks about those for whom December 16 was the last day of his life. It was a day because of which: Józef Czekalski will never build a house again and will never fulfill his family's dreams, including his 17-year-old daughter. A miner. It's 48 years old. He got shot in the heart. Krzysztof Giza will never sing again and never get the sounds out of his guitar. A mining carpenter. Twenty-four years Bachelor. First he was shot in the hand, killed by bullets in the neck and chest. Joachim Gnida will never take a little girl on his hand again, he will never hug his wife. A miner. It's 28 years old. The bullet flew in from the left, near the temple. He died in the hospital a month after he got hurt. Richard Gzik will never wipe the tears off his daughter's face again, he will never soothe the suffering of his loved ones. A miner. Thirty-five years The bullet hit him in the head. Bogusław Kopczak will never teach his little girl to love poems again, he will not smell his baby. Employee unskilled. It's 28 years old. The bullet went through the abdomen, shattered the liver. Andrzej Pełka will never be a fiancé, a husband, a father, and will forever remain the youngest among the victims, a child crying out, "Save, Mama! A physical worker. 19 years old. Bachelor. He died a few hours after the gunshot wound. Jan Stawisiński will never hug his sick father again and kiss his mother's worked hands on whom he died - to be with his son, she came from Koszalin and took up her job as a living room at the hospital in Ochojc. Younger miner. It's 21 years old. Bachelor. The bullet's stuck in the head. He died on January 24th without regaining consciousness. Zbigniew Wolf will never soothe the crying of his little orphans again. A miner. It's 30 years old. He was from Tarnobrzeski. Zenon the Hare will never hear again: Zenek, go home, come back to us! A locksmith. 22 years old. Bachelor. The events of 16 December 1981 are a warning for the future, but at the same time they are a value shaping the contemporary awareness of our nation, free and solidarity, believing in ideals. The secret of freedom lies in courage - that is why we are proud of our relentless, tireless and invincible heroes who gave their lives in the name of love for their homeland - for us and for us! Today, I pay tribute to those who have fallen - to my colleagues - to the miners from the mine, their families and friends. Hello their memory!
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-16-sejm-33-1.u301	46 years ago, the inhabitants of the Polish Coast went out on the streets demanding freedom and bread. Poland ruled by communist dictators from Moscow was experiencing another economic crisis, society was living in poverty, and the only thing flourishing was the communist propaganda of self-adoration of the Gomula team and friendship with the Soviet Union. The Communist dignitaries, instead of saving the destructive country, and allowing people a decent life, directed tanks, helicopters, massed troops and militias against them to brutally pacify the correct demands of Poles. On behalf of the highest party and state authorities, party activists and military and security officers, instead of trying to dialogue, have prepared a brutal ambush for workers. The promise that they could easily go to work on the next day led thousands of people directly under the barrels prepared for the brutal trial of the pretorians of hostile Poland ideology. Death victims died, many people were wounded, thousands were brutally repressed, fired from work and deprived of the basics of existence and a sense of minimum social security. Some were broken not only by life but also by character. This was the case with people working in Poland, with working class, power calling itself popular and ruling supposedly on behalf of the working class. Tragic events, strikes in defence of the dignity of people at work and freedom of citizens took place at the end of 1970 and at the beginning of 1971 also in many other places of Poland. All have been pacified by force methods or by the operational work of the communist authorities of security. Power and its privileges and benefits were as important to the communists as ever than the dignity of the people of work and the freedom of the citizens. On the anniversary of the tragic events of December 70, we pay tribute to the workers of the Coast and to all those who had the courage to face the armored power of communist invaders, those who, determined by the oppression they had hoped to see the morning of freedom for Poles in the midst of the night of communist captivity. We face the dead and the murdered, and we honor all the victims of the anti-human system. We thank you for this breakup, which sustains the spirit of Poles for years to come, despite the brutal pacification by the Moscow agent. The truth about those events also requires telling the truth about their perpetrators. They were criminals, and they were traitors who over Poland loved serving the enemy empire. They can't sit on the defendants' bench today, but there's nothing in front of the history tribunal to defend themselves. Praise the heroes!
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-16-sejm-33-1.u302	On this we exhausted the agenda of the 33rd meeting of the Sejm of the Republic of Poland. [[The gathered get up, the stormy applause]] [[Voices from the room: Bravo!]] Information about the impact of the interpellation, queries and answers to them is available in the Sejm Information System. This concludes the 33rd session of the Sejm of the Republic of Poland. The minutes of the sitting will be submitted to the Secretariat of the Sejm. The agenda of the 34th session of the Sejm, convened on 11 and 12 and 13 January 2017, was delivered to the ladies and gentlemen. We're adjourned. [[Applause]] [[Marshal hits Marshal's staff three times.]] [[Voices from the room: Bravo!]] [[The meeting is adjourned at 3 p.m. 23 min 24]]
