ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-18-senat-27-3.u1	Resume session. I ask the senators of the secretaries to take their seats at the president's table. Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators, on 9 October 2016, Andrzej Wajda, Senator of the First term, member of the Committee on Culture, Media, Science and Education, and the Committee on Immigration and Poles Abroad died. He was an outstanding film and theatre director, one of the creators of the Polish film school. In 2000 he received an honorary Oscar for his entire work. He was awarded the Order of the White Eagle. Please rise and celebrate with a minute of silence Senator Andrzej Wajda's memory. [[Give him eternal rest, Lord.]] [[The gathered answer, "Let eternal light shine upon him."]] [[May he rest in eternal peace.]] [[The assembled answer: Amen.]] [[It will remain in our memory.]] Thank you very much. The Senators, on 6 October this year during the examination of paragraph seven: information about the significant problems arising from the activities and case-law of the Constitutional Tribunal in 2015 was submitted by Senator Jan Maria Jackowski for a formal request to order an adjournment until 19 October this year until 10 a.m. Senators Jerzy Fedorowicz, Jan Rulewski and Jadwiga Rotnicka objected to this request. A technical interruption has been ordered, followed by a vote on Senator Jackowski's motion. Senator Jan Rulewski withdrew his objection following the reopening of the session. However, you did not withdraw Senator Jerzy Fedorowicz and Senator Jadwiga Rotnicka. Therefore, a vote should be taken on the formal proposal of Senator Jan Maria Jackowski. However, the Speaker's Marshal announced an adjournment until 20 October this year. Therefore, on the basis of Article. Article 8 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 paragraphs 1, 7 and 9 of the Senate's Rules of Procedure, I have decided to shorten the rest to this day. Mr. and Mrs. Senators, we are voting on the motion... Mr. Senator Jackowski. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-18-senat-27-3.u2	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I would like to withdraw my request for a recess by 19 October to 10.00 p.m., because it is pointless at the moment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-18-senat-27-3.u3	Thank you very much. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, we are returning to the examination of item seven of the agenda: information on the significant problems arising from the activities and case law of the Constitutional Tribunal in 2015. Before the break, we heard information from the President of the Constitutional Tribunal. We will now begin to ask questions to the President of the Constitutional Tribunal, Professor Andrzej Rzepliński. Would any of your senators like to ask the President of the Constitutional Tribunal, Mr Andrzej Rzepliński? Mr... [[Voice from the room: Rulewski first.]] That's right, Senator Rulewski first. There you go. And your president, in that case, would you like to join me in the podium? [[Talking in the O.R.]] Mr. President, we're waiting for you. Excuse me, sir, but Senator Rulewski won't start asking a question until you're at the podium. [[If you don't mind, Mr. Marshal...]] No, you can't, because Senator Rulewski has a question... [[There's been a list made before, and I don't know if it's valid. I'm sorry, but...]] I don't know. It's the secretary... I don't know. She may apply, but she has to be here, and I don't see her. I suggest that you senators... Those senators who wish to speak will certainly speak. Who wants to speak? Do you want one? [[Yeah, in order.]] Then you're welcome to sign up. You're welcome, Senator Rulewski. I remind you of the time to ask questions 1 minute. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-18-senat-27-3.u4	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Mr President, you and the entire Court have been working for a very long time, the current term of office. After all these years of exercising your outstanding and honorable function, how do you feel about respect for human rights in Poland, the state of law in general? What are your prospects? I am asking you about these perspectives in the context of the opinion you are going to make.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-18-senat-27-3.u5	Good. Thank you very much. Mr. Senator Klich. You're welcome. I am merely reminding you that the point which is currently under consideration concerns information on the relevant problems arising from the activities and case law of the Constitutional Tribunal in 2015. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-18-senat-27-3.u6	Mr President, the opposition in both the Sejm and the Senate referred very critically to the recent amendment of the Constitutional Court Act. The Venice Commission issued a ruling on this matter last week. I would like you to present to us this opinion of the Venice Commission is probably not well known to the Polish people At which points this position agrees and at which points it is not in line with critical opinions in relation to the Constitutional Court Act. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-18-senat-27-3.u7	Thank you very much. I'd really like to ask you ladies and gentlemen of the senators. Senator Klich, too. To read to themselves what is on the agenda for this item. I don't think you've read it, but... You have the right not to understand. In this case, I would like to remind everyone of the important problems arising from the activities and case law of the Constitutional Tribunal in 2015. Senator Zientarski. You're welcome. The president will answer the questions. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-18-senat-27-3.u8	Mr President, there are, in my opinion, reports of too little pressure on judges to work, especially in recent years, i.e. in 2015, because we are discussing this period today, according to the order of our deliberations. I'd like you to try to remind everyone. Of course this is in the report, but this is a good opportunity, because today we have as extensive a quorum as at that time the issue of workload, the number of things of all kinds, etc. in relation to previous years. I'm not asking for details. Thank you very much. [[The meeting is chaired by Deputy Marshal Grzegorz Czelej]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-18-senat-27-3.u9	Mr. President, please answer me.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-18-senat-27-3.u10	Mr. Marshal! High Senate! Senator Rulewski's question about the state of compliance with human rights, rights and human freedom in Poland, and about the assessment of the state of legislation in Poland. As regards the state of respect for human rights and freedoms in Poland, I, as a constitutional judge, judge this state from the point of view of the constitutional problem which has been presented in a specific case. From this perspective, which I think you mean to the senator, it is difficult for me to say at this point, because we would need to take into account, in turn, the catalogue of our constitution, the catalogue of the European Convention on Human Rights, the catalogue of the Charter of Fundamental Rights of the European Union, to a large extent, these catalogues overlap. The catalogue of the International Covenant on Personal and Political Rights or the catalogue of the UN's International Covenant on Economic, Social and Cultural Rights and on whether the state of respect for these individual rights and freedoms is changing, and if so, whether it is going in a better or worse direction. My sense as a citizen is that, with regard to these fundamental personal and political rights, political and personal freedoms, it is difficult to tell whether there has been a situation during 2015 I don't have a barometer like that. An improvement or deterioration has occurred. This translates into the fact that I do not believe that there is any clear change last year, which should be made from the perspective of the President of the Constitutional Tribunal. With regard to the state of law in Poland, it is clear that the legislative procedure itself in Poland has undergone significant changes, important from the point of view of the standards set by the Constitutional Tribunal over 30 years. I think from this perspective, it's worse in the last few months, mainly because... every bill is important. A law amending only one provision in some other law is also important from the perspective of what this legislative procedure looks like. There's no doubt... I am not even referring to the laws governing the status of the Constitutional Tribunal, its organisation and procedure, but also to other laws, which are particularly pointed out by those who, in the last several months... This also applies to the final phase of the work of the VII-term Sejm and the VIII-term Senate, but also to the VIII-term Sejm and the IX-term Senate. The proposals submitted by eligible applicants very often repeat arguments indicating that the draft laws are not sufficiently prepared, not as we should expect, also as regards the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm or the Senate itself. The way these matters are dealt with does not guarantee respect for democratic rules in legislative proceedings, i.e. respect for the work of the previous parliament and the current term of office. and respect for the rights of minorities. I am referring to the rights of the opposition by translating this into the terms of parliament. Unfortunately, this is reflected in the applicants' arguments. The law written quickly cannot be a good law, and it is not a matter of bad or good will of parliamentarians. It's just a rush to make laws when there's no sudden national need when things don't fall apart... Well, I don't want to talk about a situation where foreign troops are approaching the borders of our homeland anymore. Nothing happened that would justify such a rapid acceleration. And it's recorded. Each of the ladies and gentlemen of the senators can read the contents of the charges. Let us remember that the institution of the motion of a group of Members or a group of senators is always an effective tool for the parliamentary opposition, both in previous terms and in this term. It is clear that from this point of view every constitutional court upholds the rights of minorities, those parliamentary minorities. That's his obvious job. That is why we must take into account such arguments put forward by the applicants. Hence my knowledge of this subject and hence the answer to Senator Rulewski's second question. As for the question of Senator Klich and the opinion of the Venice Commission, I will say that I, of course, know the content of this opinion, but I do not have it here with me. And to discuss it, I'd have to have it in my briefcase. On 30 September, the committee voted on the content of this opinion. This is an opinion issued on behalf of the Secretary-General of the Council of Europe. It includes a draft law, the law itself, to a certain extent it also covers the content of the judgment of the Constitutional Tribunal on the Constitutional Tribunal Act in force from 14 August, adopted by the Sejm on 22 July. This is undoubtedly a critical opinion, but I do not want to talk about details, because this also applies to issues already very advanced 2016. Ah, Senator Klich also asked about the points in which this opinion is in line with the judgment of the Constitutional Tribunal. Some of them are compatible. Only that the Court worked regardless of whether the Secretary-General of the Council of Europe ordered the committee to prepare an opinion or not, whether it would work or not at that time. The Court gives its judgment regardless of such actions by bodies wholly independent of the Court and the Court is not dependent on them. Similarities are due to the obvious process of assessing and comparing a controlled act with models, in the case of the Constitutional Tribunal with our constitution, in the case of the Venice Commission with the European Convention on Human Rights and with the rules adopted and both tough and soft law of the Council of Europe, the institutions, as we know, which have existed since 1950. Senator Ziientarski's question was a question of rumors about a small burden on judges on cases they have in their papers. I don't know these rumors at all, but I'm sure it's that the average burden on the judge on matters that are particularly important to each of us, i.e. by judgments of the Constitutional Tribunal, I do not want to say that it places us in the upper half, in the lower half or in the middle, when we compare it with constitutional courts in other EU countries, but it just so happens, perhaps this is the logic of controlling constitutionality in courts Also in the Supreme Court of the United States, but let us limit ourselves only to Europe On average, the constitutional courts or the Supreme Courts, which have powers to control the constitutionality of the law, issue about 60 judgments. It also depends on years. It is not that there are on average 60 cases with us; there have already been much more, because 85 cases completed. There were 62 cases last year, taking into account some slowing down in mid-November and December. And in the previous year, in 2014, there were 65 sentences. The burden, which finds its expression the most powerful, the most clear and the most interesting citizens, but also the sounds such as parliaments, is expressed by such a number of judgments. Preparing for a judgment of one case involving... Let's remember that it's not like... is it an eligible applicant, e.g. a group of senators, whether a court ruling in a case having doubts as to the constitutionality of the provision on which the decision is based, whether a citizen or a legal person having doubts as to whether the provision giving rise to a final judgment or a final administrative decision was compatible with the Constitution... And this trial is just beginning. We have to wait for... there's no complaint here, blamed, that's a statement of fact, that's obvious. The better the positions of all entitled and under the law of obliged participants in the proceedings are prepared, the more in-depth they are Both critical and condoning the content of the contested provisions The more polemic they are towards each other, the better it is for the final result. The proceedings before the Constitutional Tribunal which control the constitutionality of the contested standard are written proceedings and the Court must expect to receive posts. The task of the President of the Constitutional Tribunal is, after returning to the 1997 Act in this respect, because during the one-year period it was not a full year in total. The validity of the Act of 25 June 2015 was the task of the chairman of the formation of the ruling in the case of... The word "running" would be inappropriate. It is the task of the President of the Court to remind those obliged to make their views known that the time has passed. That's usually 60 days, two months. Sometimes, at the request of a party to proceedings, the President of the Court of Justice or the President of the Court extends this term, because this is a form of dialogue between the authorities within the framework of the already undertaken, ongoing constitutional review. We must also bear in mind that, in the case of constitutional complaint cases, this procedure starts much earlier. Sometimes on the basis of the provisions of the June Act, very rational in terms of speed of handling, without any cost for the quality of the substantive handling of the matter in the initial phase... We reached such a point, and perhaps it could no longer have been shorter, that the average time for the three-member single-instance squad to handle the complaint was 3 months, but always three-members. It was a four-fold shorter term. We returned to the state before 30 August 2015. There's a two-way procedure: one judge first, then... The applicant shall be entitled to a complaint against the order refusing to refer the case to a substantive examination. It happens, of course, that the judge decides in a single instance to refer the case to a substantive examination. Then a certain probability of error, which results in the proceedings before the Court, already in substance, ending in remission, is greater. 3 judges ruling at first instance gave much stronger guarantees that this decision would indeed be a stand-alone decision; i.e. in this preliminary phase it was not taken by 1 judge and 3 judges. It should also be borne in mind that such a case must also be dealt with by a lawyer or legal counsel who has submitted a complaint, requesting additions. Anyway, it's a lot like that when it comes to early-stage errands... It's different, for example. with a proposal from a group of senators or a group of Members. Parliamentarians have benefited from technical assistance from outstanding lawyers, parliamentary legislators and these proposals have raised no doubt from the outset as to what is contested, what arguments are behind this and what standards the applicant is presenting. In the case of questions of the courts it happens Not in every case and I won't say that very often The need to correspond with the court in order to clarify, first of all, the arguments for the fact that the contested provision will be the basis for the decision on the case. Remember, too, in this case, time counts. That, with regard to the legal question of the court, is there any defendant or reason, or any participant in the proceedings, which, of course, usually counts on it, since the court disputes the provision that the Court will rule on the non-constitutionality of that provision. Of course, the decision is another matter. Of course, these cases, especially constitutional complaints, are more important than all other cases that affect the Constitutional Court. I've been giving the senators and senators the details. Last year, in 2015, there were 623 cases, one out of ten of which ended in a final judgment. The rest for all kinds of reasons... It's mostly about complaints. Each tenth of the action shall be referred to the Constitutional Tribunal for a substantive examination. Isn't that enough? I don't think it's because... because I'm the one who can directly evaluate it, because it's all the documents that come to me first, and I know. Of course this must also be divided by the number of judges How many documents are to be read, to be analysed. Documents shall also be produced even during constitutional review, documents drawn up by the Bureau of Analysis at the request of the President of the Court or at the direction of the President of the formation of the Tribunal, which are valid for the decision. Usually these are cross-cutting studies, very important. They take time, too. It's not about getting a document within the hour that's gonna support a line that's already drawn up, because eventually it might turn out to be different... We take this very seriously. And then the next approximations... Aha, the Judge-Rapporteur is still preparing material for reading to the judges of the court. In the last case in which I set out the hearing at the beginning of November, a very important issue concerning the dignity of the human person and the personal rights guaranteed by the Constitution, the Judge-Rapporteur prepared a whole package of scientific articles to read. We need to get to know that, too. You can say, and it's naturally a truism that the judge, especially the Judge Rapporteur, and there are such things that all the judges in the squad are walking around with this case all day long... That doesn't mean they're not doing anything else 24 hours a day, they're just thinking about it, but she's stuck in it. He's still stuck a while after his sentence. Especially when the case is very difficult, very important, very bearable in public. The trial is also extremely incriminating. You could say, "Well, what's a trial?" Two hours, nothing. They come out, they sit down, they listen, they go to the meeting room, they take the final decision, they come back, they announce, the case is fried. That's not true. That's not the case, especially today. This is not the case when the President of the Council of Ministers does not so much refuse to publish, publish judgments, as it does per facta concernentia. He doesn't announce, and that's it. It matters. The judge can't think about what I'm gonna do or how hard I'm gonna do, and they're not gonna announce it anyway. If the judge thought that for a second, he's no longer a constitutional judge, because somewhere else it's decided to work on the case at all. Is that mentally incriminating? Yes, of course. We must add this to the burdens typical of the final outcome of the work of the constitutional court, including the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Poland. 60 cases a year. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-18-senat-27-3.u11	Thank you very much. In order, I ask you a question. Senator Fedorovich.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-18-senat-27-3.u12	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Mr. President! This is a very important moment for Polish democracy, this time, i.e. almost a year ago, when this tension is connected with the Constitutional Tribunal. Without going into detail, it causes a lack of confidence of citizens in politicians at all. The proof of this is, for example, that there was no quorum at all at the adoption of the report, there were only two people from the governing coalition. This is not good for Poland, which is why I do not want to talk about it anymore, because for people who read and for people who are intelligent it is obvious. Then answer me two questions for now. First: as a long-standing judge and lawyer, and a judge of the Constitutional Tribunal, and his President, do you know in the history of modern democracy any case of such a lack of trust as at the moment the authority is showing to the Constitutional Court, which should be, is the most important tool for the purity of democracy? And the second question, detailed, and that's the question I'm asking on behalf of the judges. There was a case where the Minister of Justice allowed himself to move, to lower the rank of one judge, because it was considered that she was ill-prepared to investigate a lady who, under the influence of drugs or mental disorders, caused an accident, and it turned out that it was not true. But there was something about the subtext that the Minister of Justice once received a sentence from that judge to pay the fine. Such a thing is not acceptable at all in any way of thinking about justice. But tell me one thing: to whom should such a judge appeal? Tell that, Mr. President, to me, to a senator who is not a lawyer and speaks on behalf of the citizens. To whom is such an injured great person, a lawyer, supposed to appeal in a situation where something so curiosity arises? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-18-senat-27-3.u13	Thank you very much. Senator Dowhan. Ask me a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-18-senat-27-3.u14	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. First of all, I would like to express my admiration, Mr President, and thank you for continuing so faithfully to uphold the Constitution and to bear the blows that come from different sides. Me and many citizens are admired. And my question is this. Recently, former President Aleksander Kwasniewski said this: I treat the adoption of the Constitution for the first time in Polish history as a national referendum as a huge event, so I look very badly and critically at everything that storms this constitution and undermines it. Do you agree with those words? Is there anything more you can say about this? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-18-senat-27-3.u15	Thank you. And Mr. Senator Augustine. I'm asking you a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-18-senat-27-3.u16	Mr President, perhaps unintentionally, but you have grown up to be a great authority as a defender of the fundamentals of Polish constitutional order and thus of Polish democracy. And that's why I'm glad we have the opportunity to talk to you today. Here's my question. From the point of view of your current term of office, 'Cause we thanked you at the last meeting just for this long-term job, so good work. What would you like, as yours, to say so, to take account of what happened last year, this year, but also in previous years, to tell us, this House, which is particularly proud to be involved in the execution of the judgments of the Constitutional Tribunal? In short, what should be done to enable the Court to function well and strengthen it so that its judgments are actually not only published, but above all in time and properly implemented into legal order? Because here in the Senate, we're trying to make up for some lack of other authorities. But I don't think it should be like this. What would be your message to us senators on this matter?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-18-senat-27-3.u17	Thank you very much. You're welcome, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-18-senat-27-3.u18	Senator Fedorovich's question of trust... Each authority, including in particular every authority of the past constitutions, and this body, which is collective, individual... In the case of the President of the Constitutional Tribunal, this is both. I am the judge of judgment and I am the President of the Court of Justice One and the other function is mentioned in the Constitution. And to some extent there is a third function, namely I am a member of the General Assembly of Judges of the Constitutional Tribunal. All the years that CBOS surveyed You can check it out. The Court's confidence in the word "supported" oscillated between 46% a 39%. Someone's gonna say it's under 50%. This is more than 2/3 of those who have expressed themselves in substance, i.e. answered the question either that they support or do not support that they are either in favour or against. The others were those who didn't have an opinion. And that's how you have to see it. Those who didn't have an opinion were, depending on the survey, some 22,27%. And here it wasn't really changing... Over the years, there have been clear fluctuations of 1/2% in individual quarters, but this result has always meant that half of Poles, those who register in their own knowledge that there is a constitutional court, those who, even if they register it, are honest enough respondents that if they have no opinion, they say: 'I have no opinion...' This made it hard to say that more than 2/3 of Poles accept the results of the Court's work. Now it's really down to 26%. I am very sorry to read that this is the case, I am very sorry, because the quality of the Court's work has not fallen, but the spilling heyterism and digging of powerful anti-tank trenches dividing the nation is working. What can I do about it, and what can the judges do about it? Nothing. We're vulnerable to this. Yes, sir. That's, you could say... I don't even have the strength to read what it looks like with other constitutional authorities, whether this post is growing or falling or maintaining. For me this result is a very good barometer of Poles' trust in you. If this is the way the constitutional court and its judges are treated, if, speaking of its judgments, such words are used for journalists in the parliamentary corridors, then it is hard to expect that... And if we consider that politicians or parliamentarians have access to people every day... We do not drive around Poland and do not gather at any political meetings, in rallies which are natural and natural in the case of democracy, we do not call for support there, we do not explain it, because naturally, apart from everything else, it could not be done. We're, like, out of this kind of thing at all. So it can be said that this result or these results from the last few quarters are a barometer not only about trust, but also about the attitude of Poles towards their own country. I repeat: there is no deterioration in the quality of the Court's ruling, none, although we usually work in very difficult conditions. So what? That's not gonna happen. We also need to remember that... and that doesn't translate into whether the Court's acceptance level is rising or falling or not. Like in the last few months. People don't read our judgments. They are long, written in hermetic language, although constantly me, but also other judges After all, as a rule law professors, every day lecturers at universities, often fascinating lecturers... But there's nothing we can do about it. The sentences must be written in such a language. They're long, some say they're too long. Well, there are different ways of writing judgments, there are constitutional courts that write them shorter, but there are also those that write them on more or less as many pages as the average judgment of the Constitutional Tribunal takes. However, the fundamental difference is that there are judgments in our cases that concern all citizens and, more often, millions of our fellow citizens, especially in the area of social security rights. Many times during these six years, when I was president of the Constitutional Tribunal, I spoke about this. And it just so happens that in my wallet as rapporteur for social security matters, those for whom the model of constitutional control is Art. 67... And it says this: "Citizen is entitled to social security in the event of incapacity for work due to illness or disability and after retirement age." The scope and forms of social security are defined by law. From the beginning, more or less since this provision was formulated Even before the National Assembly passed the Constitution and the people adopted it in a referendum, the Court's caselaw shaped the content of this provision. And today we've had this recipe for almost 20 years. The scope and forms of social security are defined by the law, which is at the same time the subject of a ruling which affects the issue of social trust. The issue of social security is a matter of social trust. It is a matter of freedom from fear of poverty, from poverty, from oblivion, from exclusion. And these things are particularly difficult, because there are many poor people. I don't say it as a socialist out of conviction, because I don't have socialist beliefs about these issues. I say this as a constitutional judge who has to deal with this problem in very many cases and then, sometimes with a copper forehead, has to go to trial and as rapporteur justify why the Court has ruled so and not otherwise. To this day, I remember and I won't forget the motion... That was three conclusions, and one of them fell to me. Each proposal was submitted by a different union centre. It was after the 2009 law on so-called. Cross-border pensions. And you had to go out in the O.R. and explain to these people. And they weren't bureaucrats living on the house, and in those cases they were, you know, race unionists. Only some of them will continue to enjoy the privilege of losing the health of their profession, as decided by the legislator, and some of them have lost it. Examination of whether the legislator is particularly in the Sejm, but also here in the Senate It was difficult enough to bend over the fate of tens of thousands of people in very different professional sections. It can also translate into whether the Constitutional Tribunal in their view is an organ which serves them well or which does not serve them well. And let us bear in mind that the Court shall only rule on application when there is a legal question of the court or when there is an action. He never controls any ex-officio recipe. In this respect, however, it is probably worse in the case of common courts, because there is usually 50% is satisfied, 50% dissatisfied. [[Voice from the room: Yes.]] Someone wins, somebody loses a case. That's the nature of things. As far as lowering your rank as a judge is concerned, I would refer to the fact that as a judge, I can't give legal advice. If I can't give them to the nearest person, then it's hard for me to give them, you can say, purely counseling, what should be done in such a case, judge. I think the judge can handle it. Now, as for the questions of Senators Dowhan and Augustine, who are strongly connected... I was asked yesterday by a journalist from public television, what it would look like on December 19th. The last day I'll be an active constitutional judge. I said that if I had a wish, I didn't say, "Dream," I would like it to be very cool, as it was for the second half of December, so that there would be beautiful weather and a lot of snow. And that's enough for me to be happy with. And I'm sure it's gonna be very different. It's going to be spit, 5 degrees of heat, and it's going to rain. [[It's not gonna be like that, Mr. President.]] But that doesn't mean I'm gonna grieve for it. I love it raining, and I love it raining in the fall. That's the climate we live in. And that's beautiful. [[Luckily, it's not in our power.]] Yes. [[Voice from the room: It's not even in the power of the president.]] And mine, too. What can be done to enable the Constitutional Tribunal to function well? What's my message here? I think no one would really lose face and we'd get out of a wedge like this... Because by nature we tend to say that to me either he did it to me or he did it to me even more, and he did it to me even more. This is not a procedure that can be regarded as a state procedure, which is also respected by other parties who are friends with us. The answer is the simplest, but of course the hardest one can imagine. The Constitution must be respected. You have to invite 3 elected judges selected in accordance with the Constitution a year ago, 8 October to collect their vows. And you have to consider it obvious that it's obvious that today is October 18th, the announcement of judgments. This is extremely, extremely important, extremely important for the quality of our country. There is no country, there is no economy, there is no society, there is nothing if there is no law. There is no right, if there is a refusal, not in writing, to pronounce judgments, which results directly from the Constitution, and even if it were not, it would be obvious. That's what the Court is for, to control the law. If it states that the contested provision is constitutionally compatible, it is. Theoretically, there is no change in the legal system, but it is practically because it confirms that the provision adopted by Parliament... There is additional confirmation that the provision is in line with the Constitution, which could be of relevance to the legislator in adopting similar rules governing a similar sphere. This means that the Court's statement, taken with Parliament, because it is always with Parliament... Lately, unfortunately, it's not okay. The Attorney General is betting on certain trials, and there are no representatives of the Sejm, although we need them very much. We really need them very much, also when they defend previously adopted in the form of a position or decision of the Sejm. After all, how many times did the MP... It's not like this when it's a group of Members. It is known that then Members question the rule, are negative towards it, or when there is a request from a group of senators. But sometimes the Member comes to the Court as a representative of the Marshal, the resolution of the Legislative Commission is such a provision is in accordance with the Constitution, but the Member himself This is due to the body's speech, and you can also see it during the hearing. He is not in favour of this provision. At the time, he makes a fair argument to the Sejm, but at the end he usually says: I really do have a different opinion on this subject personally, although naturally I continue to support the Sejm's position. This is, in my opinion, an excellent example of good democratic dialogue, dialogue on the quality of the law. Let us return to this dialogue in line with the wording of the Article. 1 our constitution, which is not as complicated as Art. 67: Rzeczpospolita Poland is the common good of all citizens. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-18-senat-27-3.u19	Thank you very much. Mr. Senator Rulewski. Ask me a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-18-senat-27-3.u20	Mr President, on page 32 of the section on the protection of democratic officers of the rule of law, quoting the 2015 judgment, because this is the report, you stress that there are no effective mechanisms to protect the independence of the judge. You continue to state that the level of protection of officers, especially the justice system, against insults is not sufficient. The question is: should not boycott by the rulers, by public television insults of the tent town in front of the Supreme Court, in which the prosecutor is threatened, in which criminal sanctions are called, as an example of the limitation of the judicial authority in Poland? Don't you think it's evidence that the D.A.'s office doesn't allow this kind of situation?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-18-senat-27-3.u21	Thank you very much. Senator Rybicki. Ask me a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-18-senat-27-3.u22	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Mr. President, among the many judgments of the Constitutional Court... A large part of them referred to fundamental human and citizen rights. Despite the deteriorating operating conditions, the Court also upholds civil rights and freedoms. If the President were to mention some of the most important decisions that concern this area, civil rights and freedoms...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-18-senat-27-3.u23	Thank you very much. Mr. Senator Klich. Ask me a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-18-senat-27-3.u24	Mr. President, you answered a question I haven't asked yet because I wanted to ask it in the second place. I would now like to ask you to assess those cases which the opposition in both the Seym and the Senate, as well as on the streets, raises as another attempt to paralyze the work of the Constitutional Tribunal. I am referring to the law which was the subject of our deliberations in July and which the Constitutional Tribunal found mostly incompatible with the Constitution of the Republic of Poland. I would like you to remind us of the position of the Constitutional Tribunal on the three issues that we have raised with great concern from this speaker. Firstly, what was the position on the principle of the chronology of proceedings, which, to some extent, was limited in relation to the previous version of the law? Secondly, what was the position on a very high quorum in case of judgment? It has been reduced from 13 to 11 judges But it's still very high. And thirdly, what was the position on what we thought was absolutely unconstitutional, because it was incompatible with the basic law, namely the need for the President of the Constitutional Tribunal to ask the President of the Council of Ministers to publish the judgments of the Constitutional Tribunal? I would like you to remind us of the position of the Constitutional Tribunal in this case, because I feel that many have forgotten this. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-18-senat-27-3.u25	Thank you very much. Mr. President, you're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-18-senat-27-3.u26	Senator Rulewski's question. In order for me to be able to comment, I would need to know the results of some reliable research on this subject, and I have not read such studies. Is that inaction? It is, yeah. Three weeks ago... In the book for Professor Bojarski, Rector of the University of Wrocław and outstanding Polish lawyer, two authors Both are called Kulesza; the father and son wrote a very interesting article about the judgments of the courts which ruled in matters of personal dignity violations of various types of public officers, including the most important officer, the President of the Republic. The Court has ruled several times on the offence of the President and the Office itself. He stated that the rules of the Penal Code, which protect the President's personal dignity, as well as the dignity of the President of the Republic, were critical of these judgments. This isn't about the President's office, although on one matter... hey, with his computer, he called to kill the last president. But it was also shaped or, above all, in the prosecution's office, such a doctrine of hard skin, thick skin. That's what's going on with me, too. Dismissal of proceedings, refusal to initiate proceedings Because a public official has to be able to handle more. I can do it, and it doesn't matter to me at all, but it's about office. If the Constitutional Tribunal provided for the existence of such a body as the President of the Tribunal and another body of the Constitutional Tribunal, the vice-president of the Constitutional Tribunal, and if not only in this huge, vast web cloud, but on a daily basis it is expressed in different ways... This isn't about someone being negative about an organ. It is primarily about such direct threats, but also the threats made publicly to the liquidation of some office, just like that, even though it is confounded in the constitution and it is known that it is impossible without a change of constitution. And there are institutions. Imagine someone coming up with the idea of liquidating the Sejm. Well, why would the Seym... If the entire National Assembly, 460 Members and 100 Senators had voted in favour of this, and there was no alternative, simply liquidation, would we consider that, with such a majority, it is in line with the Constitution? Wouldn't we consider it demolishing Poland as a state? Of course we would. But if this is addressed to some entities or to the whole body, including the constitutional body, and practically nothing is happening, it has an impact on how society evaluates the state. And practically, there's no response to that kind of action. So from this point of view, it's inaction. We're gonna do it. I am thinking of the Constitutional Tribunal in our information about the significant problems arising from the activities and case law of the Constitutional Tribunal in 2015, as the senator noted, described on page 32, and there is no unnecessary word here, there is no publicist here. This is also the result of our observation in matters that affect us. Senator Rybicki has asked for some of the most important decisions. In this information, I quoted such judgments. Someone was talking about it in public today, so I think I'm going to start with what we're writing about in our information, but here I'd like to emphasize in particular It is about the importance of judgment for all of us, for the quality of our public administration, for citizens' trust in the law, but also in its institutions. Importance of the judgment in Case K 46/13. The judgment in this case was delivered on 12 May 2015 in a five-member composition. The subject matter of this case was a very important article in the Code of Administrative Procedure, Article. 156 §2. This was the case, but above all it was shaped by the case law of the administrative courts, that there were no restrictions at the time of the decision to annul a decision taken in gross violation of the law. The decision could have been issued in gross violation of the law, issued in the 1940s. And it's not just the decisions of the known authorities, it's the ordinary county or municipal offices that existed back then. Also in all subsequent years, also twenty years ago, that is, a long time ago. I stress, with a gross violation of the law. And there were decisions made with a gross violation of the law. If anyone interested in touching this decision There's nothing wrong with people being interested in it. It will dig into such a decision, and it will put forward arguments that this decision is a gross violation of the legal order, and that, with such a form of provision and with such a form of case law, this means that the court will repeal the decision taken, I do not know, in 1963. The administrative court's repealing it because there's no doubt that no one's pulling the law here. Only that we have the feeling that something is wrong, that the second or third generation is already alive, and it turns out that the legal situation has been unclear for so long and this gross violation of the law is emanating for subsequent generations. Looks like time doesn't matter. This allowed such decisions to be overturned, among others. in matters of reprivatization. The Court could rule on this provision when the case was brought before the Court, in this case the Ombudsman's request in 2013. In its judgment, the Constitutional Tribunal stated this: the absence of a time limit for annulment of decisions taken over a considerable period of time is incompatible with the Article. 2nd Constitution, and this article states that the Republic of Poland is a democratic legal state that implements the principles of social justice. It therefore concluded that it was contrary to the Article. 2 Constitution, with a basic principle, with one of the foundations of our constitutional democracy: with the rule of law. That's what the Court said. Unfortunately, it's been a year and a half, and Parliament hasn't responded. There's no law to implement it. This sentence was, of course, pronounced immediately. The legislator should fix the period of time in which the Court of Justice may annul. The Court naturally has no legislative authority, so it has not decided what the period is to be, whether it is to be. Ten years. Of course, we are able to understand that if a decision was taken with a gross violation of the law, and so a crime could also be involved, then such an internal sense of justice suggests that after 3 years we cannot accept that nothing happened. Yes, there was a crime, some fatal error of the organ that made the final decision, but we're still supposed to respect that. In any event, the Court has not determined whether it is meant to be. Ten years, because it went beyond his judicial authority on this matter. So much for this case. It's mine, of course, but not just mine, because it's also the president of Biernat, so it's such an inter-subjective choice of the most important things. We judges know where the most important decisions have been given, and they are also relevant when some judges write separate sentences. As a rule, a separate sentence raises to a certain extent the value of the settlement, because it shows the essence of the constitutional dispute, the essence of the constitutional problem in a given case. I have four sentences here, so if you have patience... It's on one side, it's a shortcut. Last year's most important decisions relating to freedom and human rights and the citizen are undoubtedly a judgment on a conscience clause for doctors. The Court points out that man cannot be forced to act contrary to his own conscience. This also applies to so-called "protected doctors'. a clause of conscience, a right not to take action ordered by law, but contrary to the conscience of a doctor. At the same time, the Court points out that the public authorities are constitutionally obliged to organise a system of medicinal products so that all public and guaranteed health benefits are available, including those which object to the conscience of some doctors. Second sentence... The previous one is dated 7 October 2015 and the one I will now briefly mention from 28 October last year. With regard to the freedom of human rights and the citizen, it is very important what I have already said, namely freedom from poverty, poverty and the feeling that you are in a loop. Because even if a man like that has inner strength, he can't get out of it. In this case, in Case K 21/14, the Court explained that the Constitution requires the protection of the minimum existence of citizens and that the legislator should therefore create tax regulations so that the obligation to pay taxes does not lead to the poverty of citizens. The tax-free amount cannot be maintained for many years at a constant and unverified level in isolation from the legislation setting the poverty line. By the way, the deadline for the execution of this judgment is soon 30 November. We have outstanding tribute law specialists, but no one really knows what will happen after 30 November if there is no legislative response. Among the judgments having an undeniable impact on the respect of constitutional freedoms and rights are the judgment on the bank's enforcement title. As stressed by the Court, the constitutional principle of equality requires equal treatment between the creditor and the debtor. None of them should therefore be granted powers which would constitute an unjustified advantage or which would be excessively vulnerable to the other party. In the Court's view, such an unjustified advantage was the bank's enforcement title, which allowed the bank to become in a court of its own accord with the client of the judge. And the last example of a ruling that we believe is important from the point of view of fundamental rights and freedoms is a matter of political freedom. It was an important decision on freedom of association. The Court found, inter alia, that the constitutional freedom of association in a trade union must also be granted to workers not only in the same sense as the law, but also to workers within the constitutional meaning of the law, i.e. not only to workers engaged in employment under a contract of employment, but not on the basis of contract-order or contract of employment. These contracts are quite ugly called in the common language, I will not quote that name. The Court found that workers employed under such contracts must have the right to join trade unions and to fight together for what they consider relevant in relation to their status as workers. Now I'm missing a card with more questions... There it is. As for the July 22 and the judgment of August 11th, you will forgive me, but the bill is evidently from this year and the judgment is evidently from this year, from the second half, so I would not like to speak about... certain things were obvious. Surely the President of the Court cannot apply for a judgment when the Constitution decides this. Every time I break the constitution, if I kindly ask for a judgment, but it has happened; legislators have such missteps. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-18-senat-27-3.u27	Thank you very much. I'd like to ask you a question, Senator Nutchowska.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-18-senat-27-3.u28	Mr. Marshal! Mr. President! High Izbo! I would like to ask two questions about the Constitutional Court and, in fact, the Constitutional Court laws. The first question concerns June 2015. Is it true that the President was involved in work on the Constitutional Court Act? The second question concerns December. The principle is that if the bill was passed by the Sejm, adopted by the Senate and signed by the President, it is a law whereby the Constitutional Tribunal should proceed and then annul it. Why was it different in December?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-18-senat-27-3.u29	Thank you very much. Senator Gazweda. Ask me a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-18-senat-27-3.u30	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Mr. President! As an argument in today's discussion, you have literally said that the speed of proceding is the cause of bad law, unless the cause of this speed is war. Of course, I will not argue here, because this is not what we are dealing with, but you are not referring to the substantive aspects arising from the decisions of the Constitutional Tribunal, but only to the tempo. Often such a pace, rapid proceding can be good and not necessarily compromise the quality of the law. This is an astonishing statement to me in the mouth of the President of the Constitutional Tribunal himself, especially since understanding the scope of today's procedated agenda for me is quite simple and obvious. I have a question: why and on what legal basis did you fire the President of the Group of the Constitutional Tribunal? Is it because, as one of the prominent professors of law in a non-political, but merely substantive way, he referred to the defectively adopted law of 25 June last year? Was the appeal of Professor Kamil Zaradkiewicz, an expert on case law, not the reason for the problems arising from the case law of the Constitutional Tribunal itself? After all, he held a very important role in the administration of the Constitutional Tribunal, in this administration, of which the President was also gracious in the discussion. Listening to my previous speakers, who are so concerned about whether your judge, wronged, can handle it, and the president here was kind enough to say that as a lawyer, he cannot speak... I would also like to say that the debate does not cover this at all, and my predecessors at this point have not asked on behalf of thousands of victims of justice, by some judges who are taking... faulty or unfair judgments. I say some, because I know many very distinguished and righteous judges. I would like to ask, Mr President, what action you have taken to resolve the significant problems arising from the case law and the activities of the Constitutional Tribunal in 2015, in addition to, in my opinion, undoubtedly a major commitment to a dispute that is not contentious and certainly a political dispute. The Constitutional Tribunal, in my opinion, should uphold good law and not be an extra-essential instrument of political pressure.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-18-senat-27-3.u31	Thank you very much. Senator Rybicki. Ask me a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-18-senat-27-3.u32	Thank you very much. Before I ask you a question, I would like to ask Senator Orzechowska whether the senator knows that in the work on the Constitutional Tribunal Act, which was requested by the President of the Republic, the Parliamentary Club That's à speaking of questions, senator. Now, Mr. President, a question. Yesterday I had the privilege of attending part of the celebration of the 30th anniversary The Constitutional Tribunal, during which your counterparts, the Presidents of constitutional courts from many European countries, expressed their highest appreciation for the Court's judicial achievements, the role played by the Constitutional Tribunal in the formation of the other Central and Eastern European countries as a model, a reference point. If you would like to say how the current situation of the Constitutional Tribunal in Poland may have implications for cooperation between the Constitutional Tribunals and for assessing the state of democracy in Poland by constitutional courts and other international institutions in Europe and the world. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-18-senat-27-3.u33	Thank you very much. We are in the procedure of asking questions to the President, so I ask the President to answer questions.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-18-senat-27-3.u34	Thank you. Senator Orzechowska. Mrs. Senator, I have been involved in the work of a new, modern law such as that of 10, 15 years old, with other constitutional courts since December 2010, since the President's appointment as President. This work lasted, as it turns out, for almost five years, so it wasn't written on the knee. On the contrary, I felt that Parliament was simply falling asleep over this bill, that it did not see its meaning. I understand that this concerns June 2015. I did not participate in the sense that as I received... And I received every joint meeting of the Parliamentary, Legislative and Justice and Human Rights Committee... One was chaired, as I recall, by Mrs Rzeczyk, and the other was chaired by a Member... now I can't remember the name. And as guests naturally... I do not have to tell you this, you know very well that the guest is invited to a committee meeting so that... Because if a Member or Senator wants to ask a question, he asks them, and the content of the answer, the information given by the guest can affect the content of the vote, but maybe... It doesn't usually have any influence. So we were no longer in this phase asked about anything, my participation was, you might say, purely representative. If I was... I wouldn't deny it, of course. But it wasn't. And I'm sorry it wasn't there. From both the then governing and opposition clubs... And I repeat: it was a very good, modern bill, it is a pity that it is no longer there, that it was repealed by the Act of 22 June. You're asking me why I ignored the fact that the Sejm and the Senate passed, the president signed... First of all, it's not just for me. But of course I take full responsibility. These were laws that prevented any procession. How could you process when you couldn't process? Well, either one or the other. And only then can I get an annulment... Well, ask any lawyer in Europe. Anyway, I'm not saying that the Constitutional Judge in Europe anymore. How you can process when you can't process. I don't get it. [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[Oh, God, God, some of you are carrying on.]] I criticized the pace of the procedure. Yes, it is sometimes quite unreasonable from the point of view of the quality of the final result. After all, we must all care that the quality of our laws is as high as possible. As far as Professor Zaradkiewicz is concerned, Senator, he has lost the trust of all the judges. Everyone voted that way. Not to my question, to the question of one of the judges. I'm not gonna tell you here, either, why. But if someone lost their trust... And trust is absolutely the most important issue in constitutional court. We don't discuss there, we don't conspire, we don't do anything illegal. We're just discussing the projects. We also have the opinions of our colleagues in the analysis team and we must have 100% confidence in them, just as they must have 100% confidence in us. Since all the constitutional judges said we didn't trust Professor Zaradkiewicz, the decision was obvious. Except Professor Zaradkiewicz was offered to be an assistant, first mine and then one of the judges. Being a judge's assistant by a lawyer is extremely honorable. Extremely. Such a lawyer has a direct involvement... working with the judge on the draft decision. There is no lawyer, who is the director of the team, because he is far from preparing, from work, sometimes hard work on the draft decision. Professor Zaradkiewicz did not take this position. It wasn't just that he was removed. No, he got an offer, a very good one, that he could just prove himself. And he didn't give any guarantee of loyalty to the Court, none at all. Someone's gonna ask, does that mean the judge's assistant can be disloyal? However, the threat of disloyalty of the assistant compared to the threat of disloyalty of the director of the office is another threat. And that's the decision I made. She will be examined by the labour court, Mr. Zaradkiewicz presented this dispute before the court. I'm not gonna run for court, because that would be at least not elegant. Very easily, Mr. Senator, we use the words: thousands of those who have been injured by the courts. There are 15 million cases or 16 million, as the statistics say. Could there be a mistake? It could happen. But let's remember that court proceedings and the constitution make it so. It's a two-way street. Read the constitution. Since it's two-instant, of course, the dispute is moving to a higher court. If there is a significant problem in the case, the dispute is transferred to the cassation court, to the Supreme Court. In spite of the safeguards, the transparency of the hearing, the fairness of the proceedings, can it happen that the court will make a mistake? Of course he can. But speaking by Members or Senators to people doesn't work; this is one bunch, a group of guys... That's not true. How are they? Do the judges say anything publicly about representatives of other constitutional authorities in such a language? Are they even talking about them? No. So I'd even agree... There were a thousand victims in 15 million cases, and you could say a thousand too many. But if necessary, there is still an institution to resume the proceedings. If necessary If that right was the cause of the damage, the citizen's injury There is still control of the constitutionality of the law. The senator asked me what actions I had taken as president in order to improve the activities of the courts. My powers in this area are none. That's right. I am responsible for improving the work of judges of the Constitutional Tribunal, only and until. I am proud that the judges have presented my candidacy to the President who has appointed me president. I can say that in these six years we have done a lot together, also thanks to my initiatives. In almost all respects, it is a court of law in terms of quality of work. It's better. Now what you've seen, Senator Rybicki. That's what happened. Both of the largest parliamentary clubs in the last term took an active part in the work on the foundations of the bill, which constitutional judges... Because it wasn't Rzepliński's project, it was the project of all constitutional judges. I signed it and took responsibility for it, so I'm not saying it was a draft of the Constitutional Tribunal, but our lawyers were also involved in the work on it. Not only did I expect this, but I organized it in such a way that every word of this law should be properly discussed, checked from every point of view, not just about the constitutional compatibility. Did we make it all? Was everyone happy? For example, in this intra-tribunal work, I fell because I presented a very important, in my opinion, chapter governing a very important institution for the judiciary, but the judges convinced me that it was still too early to move on. Let's do what's very good in this bill, let it start functioning, there will be time and eventually this chapter will be added. What are the implications of the Constitutional Tribunal's state in the case of broadly understood international cases? As for our constitutional court relations with other courts, sometimes I feel a little weird. Almost 3 years ago, in cooperation with the Presidents of the Constitutional Courts of Austria and Germany and Lithuania and Ukraine, I organized such a research mission. We talked to all the important Ukrainian officials, including President Poroshenka. Our task was to stabilise the situation around the Constitutional Court of Ukraine. Our success was halfway, but it was. At the ceremony which the Court organized in Gdańsk on the occasion of the 30th anniversary was the President of the Ukrainian court, a prominent Ukrainian lawyer, Professor Yuri Baulin. He says to me, "You see, Andrew, I absolutely didn't see that coming." And he says: but I am ready to do everything possible to make the Polish constitutional court a model for us again. I'm not a specialist, so I'm not gonna tell you if it translates into economics or anything. This is not the subject of information from the Constitutional Court, so I will stop there. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-18-senat-27-3.u35	Thank you very much. Senator Orzechowska. You're welcome. [[Excuse me, but I'm in correction mode. Mr. President misunderstood my statement.]] You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-18-senat-27-3.u36	Mr. President, I, speaking of thousands of victims of justice, did not at any time call for judges to be slandered in any way or to use any bad word against judges. Absolutely not out of my mouth, so I would ask, Mr. President, to consider it here. And in your second speech... You've misunderstood or maybe you haven't heard. But I understand that a large number of questions can cause this. I asked you what action you had taken, Mr President, to solve the important problems arising from the case law and the activities of the Constitutional Tribunal, not the courts. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-18-senat-27-3.u37	Speaking of which, may I ask the president? [[President of the Constitutional Tribunal Andrzej Rzepliński: If possible, then...]] Yes, yes, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-18-senat-27-3.u38	If the first issue was a misunderstanding, of course it was a misunderstanding. As far as the second is concerned, no action can be taken, because the Court's next actions are further cases which are affecting, and subsequent compositions which are starting to deal with the proposal, the legal question or the complaint and to issue decisions. Mr. Senator, we're dealing with outstanding lawyers. Every judge is an outstanding lawyer. The President of the Constitutional Tribunal is not the head of the primary school. This is completely different. What else is his work and his tasks?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-18-senat-27-3.u39	Let's move on to another series of questions. Senator Orzechowska. Ask me a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-18-senat-27-3.u40	Mr. President, allow me to refer to the quotations from your statement. The first one is fresh, with answers to my question: how can you process, how can you not process? Then explain to me how you can rule on the non-compliance of the law with the Constitution during this process-non-Procedition and ask for the publication of this ruling. I can't understand it. And the other thing. Three years ago in the media, you said beautiful words: my God, what if the judgments of the Court were predictable? That would actually be a problem, and the Court would probably be unnecessary, because perhaps some vending machine would pass judgments. Recently, in several cases, we have seen the situation that the Court has worked and before the sitting and the ruling of judgments in the media there have already been judgments, little of that, they have been in line with what was being done at the hearing and was the judgment of the Court. Explain to me: how was that possible?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-18-senat-27-3.u41	Thank you very much. Senator Blackbay. Ask me a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-18-senat-27-3.u42	Mr President, last year there was an article, an interview with Mr Piotrowicz, who said that you sought the help of the President of the Austrian Constitutional Court, Professor Gerhart Holzinger. It's like you're... I know the answer to that, but could you once again quote this, how does this approach your function? That's the first question. Two. In December 2015, the President said: The Constitutional Tribunal in Poland has enough internal power to defend its distinctness and independence. Could you comment on whether enough of this separation, independence and strength exists in the Court and with the President? And one last question. Mr President, are you familiar with the history of constitutional tribunals in Europe and in the world with cases of this kind of treatment of constitutional tribunal like by a majority of governments in Poland?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-18-senat-27-3.u43	Thank you. Senator Ambrosik. Ask me a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-18-senat-27-3.u44	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Mr. President, I'd like to ask you a question about the judgment you mentioned. The signature of Act P 46/13 is about the possibility of touching administrative decisions issued with a gross violation of the law. Mr President, why does the Court in this judgment decide on the non-constitutionality of a provision which refers to the possibility of moving administrative decisions when negative positions, opinions on this matter have been delivered by the Attorney General and the Marshal of the Sejm? Don't you think, Mr. President, that the amendment of the C.P.A. in this respect will lead to the Petrification of lawlessness in Poland?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-18-senat-27-3.u45	Please answer these questions.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-18-senat-27-3.u46	Senator Orzechowska's questions. Well, Senator, I highly recommend reading the judgment in case K 47/15. It's all written in there. In a situation before which the Court was brought before a law adopted on the night of 28 December, Parliament actually prevented the Court from ruling. However, since the Constitution states that constitutional judges are subject only to the Constitution, the Court's task is to control the constitutionality of the law, the laws of the law of the Constitution, and this naturally also includes a law governing the organisation and procedure of the Court of Justice. This was decided directly on the basis of the Constitution. The judgment is final, universally binding and subject to publication. So I didn't ask for anything. It's a constitution. If you can use such a word He's asking for it. And that comes directly from the Constitution. Is it possible to predict sentences because the media are publishing something before...? Here again I recommend a very careful reading of the sentence, or stolen by someone from the outside, by a hacker because it appeared on the website of a portal known from... well, let's say, from a critical approach to the Court Or carried out by someone. There's an investigation going on in this case, so I'm not gonna talk about it. However, since the content of what has been made public is well known and known to the Constitutional Tribunal's judgment in Case K 47/15, I order the senator to read carefully and compare these two documents. They're not the same, I assure you, senator, there are many differences. Not because we knew, because we found out after A lot of differences that have nothing to do with what was written in the project of 29 February. This does not mean that the entire parts of the material are the same, where the main issues were concerned, there are important differences. So this clearly disgusting act It's disgusting both in this case if it was done from outside and inside. It had no impact on the content of the decision. None. No one knew what the Court was gonna say. That's the truth. The Court is working on the verdict to the very end, after the meeting. Recently, in a case where I was a member of the ruling board, we were arguing over every word until the end. Senator Czarnobaj's questions. I don't understand the first question. I do not know what Mr Stanisław Piotrowicz said in 2015, I would have to know her in order to... Separateness and independence. How is it elsewhere, ladies and gentlemen? Between authorities, including constitutional authorities, sometimes there are tensions, they have a certain... The way it looks in us and, unfortunately, how it has looked over the last 10 years in several Central European countries, has nothing to do with what is also happening in countries with established democracy or constitutional democracy. It happens that politicians are dissatisfied with convictions and use concepts like President François Mitterand recently. And what does that say? Yeah, about how he doesn't like the sentence. When I was rapporteur on the one-year change in the valorisation of pensions, with a percentage per quota And the case was brought before the Court by the then President, Mr Komorowski It really wasn't satisfied with the judgment. I know because I was the rapporteur on the case. But it didn't translate into anything. You could just say that the president lost the case to the Court. So what? Well, he was dissatisfied, but the Court ruled. Then it turned out that one of the parties even wanted to include in the Constitution a permanent, that the valorization of pensions should be a quota, because it ensures greater internal justice. We only ruled for one year. And the valorization was non-interest and the amount; each pensioner got 70 zlotys. And we said that... you have to read all this judgment, including a very long justification, where the Court took into account... I was the rapporteur, but it was the judgment of the entire Constitutional Court, handed down after many disputes that were among us. Please read this sentence. It makes it easier to understand how hard it is to determine how difficult it is and how responsible it is. Now it's about this flagrant violation of the law. The Attorney General and the Sejm had a different position. It happens. Not so often, but it happens that all legal participants have a different opinion than someone who questions That is, the applicant, the court or the complainant. Prosecutor, Sejm, President of the Council of Ministers and others called to participate, e.g. The Minister responsible for the administration concerned shall defend the provision and the Court shall rule in accordance with the conclusion that the provision is non-constitutional. That's because he came to that conclusion. And you have to respect that, too. It's the Sejm's job now to decide... Someone said today that this is proof that the Court was involved in these pathologies of reprivatization. Yeah, well, that sentence just proves something else. He's cut through all the possibilities... This provision allowed, in some cases, for a decision taken with a manifest violation of the law to be touched by a decision taken very, very long ago. The court was guided by... Well, I wasn't exactly the judge on the case. The Court was guided by the fact that we cannot maintain a state in which people feel that practically no final judgment, no final decision will ever be made, even after several decades... If she has a flaw, she won't have the advantage of a last resort. It can be touched precisely because of this gross violation of the law. It gives rise to a feeling of uncertainty, anomaly. You don't know exactly what law is in force. We must respect the presumption that judgments and orders of the courts must be respected. Like I said, there's an institution to reopen the proceedings. It is precisely those cases where there is a gross violation of the law. The time that flows, and the legal relations that have sometimes developed for several generations, must be respected, otherwise the consequences for citizens' confidence in the state and the law are fatal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-18-senat-27-3.u47	Now I'm asking you to ask Senator Flork's question.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-18-senat-27-3.u48	Mr President, the report shows a growing number of cases every year. In 2015 they also arrived in relation to 2016. That was the case in the previous years. Could you say, on the basis of your experience last year, whether, in view of this change in the Law of 22 July this year, the determination of a time limit in the order of influence may facilitate the procedure of the Constitutional Tribunal, make it more difficult, and may paralyze? What kind of experience do you have in this area... The number of cases per year is increasing. How do you foresee the possible consequences of setting these deadlines according to the order of impact of the cases? Except in those six cases which are listed in the Act, the most important, most important for the Constitutional Tribunal... Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-18-senat-27-3.u49	Thank you. Mr. Senator Jackowski. Ask me a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-18-senat-27-3.u50	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. Mr President, I have a question as to whether there are any situations in the Constitutional Court that would be the hallmarks of acts of mobbing. I'm asking because I read the interview with the judge of the Constitutional Tribunal, Julia Przyłębska. This statement shows that this type of practice is being applied to it. I'd like to ask you to comment on this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-18-senat-27-3.u51	Thank you. Mr. Senator Czerwinski. Ask me a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-18-senat-27-3.u52	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Mr. President! Two short questions. The first concerns a strict report. Point 8 states that the constitutional crisis has continued since 23 October 2015. [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[Quiet, please.]] Is it really so, Mr President, that this crisis began in October 2015 or earlier? In particular, I mean whether it was not so that on 12 May, 2 days after the announcement of the results of the first round of elections for the President of the Republic, when it was known that the Civic Platform could lose power, this famous provision was added to the new Constitutional Court Act at the meeting of the Joint Parliamentary Committee. 135a, who really trashed this bill and all the rules you spoke so beautifully about here, the Constitutional Tribunal rules. It was just a jump to the stations. And you and Mr Biernat were present at this committee meeting and you didn't say anything, you didn't even care about that rule. Unfortunately, you knew this earlier, as the e-mails published in the press show, and in some ways you did not warn the public that something like this was possible. How does this apply to the principle of judicial independence, as set out in the Constitution, that judges of the Constitutional Tribunal cannot conduct public activities incompatible with the principles of the independence of courts and the independence of judges? Let's put it in quotes. Was it in line with these principles to cover such a leap towards the position of Members of the Platform? And that's the first question. The second question concerns the judgment of 3 December which assessed this provision. This judgment is of a broad nature with regard to this provision, but in conjunction with the occurrence of that provision, it causes such a situation that this judgment really refers to the facts. After all, the Constitutional Tribunal should not comment on the facts. It should be a court of law, a court of standards, a court of law. To bring about such a situation, in the judgment, the Constitutional Court states that these two judges have been elected in breach of the Constitution, and these three, in accordance with the Constitution, are contrary to this fundamental principle. Explain to me this contradiction.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-18-senat-27-3.u53	Thank you very much. Mr. President, please respond.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-18-senat-27-3.u54	As for the order of influence of cases, I mentioned this in the summary of my information on October 6th, so I'm just going to repeat what I said then. I said this: the legislator, I mean every legislator, not just the Sejm VIII of the term of office or the Senate IX of the term of office. It may not order the Constitutional Court to deal with matters according to the order of influence. This would result in the speed of dealing with cases being subject to entirely random circumstances. Both cases which are relatively simple to settle and cases with a very high degree of complexity are brought to the Court. It is obvious that it takes less time to recognize the former than to recognize the latter. The obligation to wait in a simple case is only irrational because it has come after a case which requires longer work by the Court. The Constitution itself knows the concept of an urgent bill. The same applies to the setting of the earliest admissible time limits in isolation from whether the Court is already ready to decide. The imposition of a rigid procedure for the examination of cases by the Court is a violation of the principle of independence and separation of the judicial authority. The role of the legislator is to create optimal conditions of judgment, not to control the stream of cases affecting the Court. In other words, a rational legislator is to prepare a law to the Court, not its rules of procedure. About Senator Jackowski's question about the mobbing of Judge Przyłębska... not true. That's not true, that's all. I haven't read this text, and I certainly won't read it, because I hardly read the publicist anymore, regardless of where it's from. I don't have time for this. So how did the senator use the concept of "mobbing"? I mean, really... Mr. Senator Czerwinski. The crisis has been going on since October 2015, which, according to the senator, is not true. Senator says it's May. You used a very offensive concept, Senator, to jump into positions. What kind of job job could the President of the Court or the Vice President do? What jump to your stations? Why do you use that term? I don't get it at all. Maybe about how the work was done, and about the fact that it was definitely not the work taken after the first round of the presidential election, I will ask the Vice President of the Court, Professor Biernat... Otherwise, I'd have to send the senator back... I do not know if there is Internet access here, but we could upload the Court's communication where, on the basis of parliamentary documents, not information taken from the ceiling, not rumors, not speeches, not from haters, there is a step by step presentation of the procedure for the adoption of the Act of 25 June 2015. If possible, please, Mr Marshal, to download the text of the communication from the Constitutional Tribunal and we will all get acquainted with it. [[We don't have that kind of technical ability.]] It's a pretty long document. [[I propose that the President answer this question in writing.]] Good. We will send you the text of this message. It's long, but not that long... As regards the judgment of 3 December 2015, Mr Senator, please note that the Court has made a decision to temporarily secure the proceedings in the case and that position was directed to the Marshal of the Sejm to wait until the known date, announced, also known to the Sejm, because it was known that on 3 December at 9.00 a hearing will begin before the Constitutional Tribunal in Case K 34/15. Did the Court rule on the facts in this case? No, he was ruling on the law. Repetitive facts, the purpose of which is to change the constitution, become the legal norm, which is subject to... There is no rule of law in our order, neither in the French, English, Swedish, German, nor in any other law that would be excluded from constitutional control. Otherwise, we'd have two separate legal orders. There's only one legal order. It was a statement about the law, about the legal standard, which was shaped as a result of resolutions adopted by the High Sejm. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-18-senat-27-3.u55	You're still Senator Jackowski. Yes? Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-18-senat-27-3.u56	Thank you very much. If the president doesn't know that line... [[Voice from the room: Break.]] [[It's time for reconnaissance.]] ...and this text, in my opinion, is moving and would require respect for the Constitutional Tribunal and the person of the President of any comment, and I will ask you this question. Are there practices in the Constitutional Court that may be marked by something called mobbing? I am asking this question because I will quote you from an interview with the judge of the Constitutional Tribunal, judge Julia Przyłębska, who in the weekly network last week says... [[Joy in the Chamber]] [[Voices from the hall: Oh, oh, oh!]] [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[Quiet, please.]] I quote the words of Judge Julia Przyłębska: "I also deal with the frequent lack of ordinary culture, which does not exist in the normal world of pressure. I'm feeling a lot of discomfort, I'm feeling a lot of injustice and a lot of bad things. I would ask the President to comment on those words. Thank you. [[Where's the mobbing?]] [[Talking in the O.R.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-18-senat-27-3.u57	Quiet, please. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-18-senat-27-3.u58	Senator, judge Przyłębska, one can say that like every new judge, he is treated by me as president, as by my predecessors, even better than the other judges and really speaking of a lack of culture... I don't get it. So that's not true, Mr. Senator. [[Senator Czerwinski, please ask...]] Miss... [[It is a culture in the style of a wizard.]] [[Talking in the O.R.]] Judge Przylebska is... [[Mr. Senator...]] [[Talking in the O.R.]] ...a constitutional judge and is treated the same way as any other judge. [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[I'm sorry, I didn't give you the floor.]] [[Talking in the O.R.]] No, because we're gonna turn this into a mess. Senator, I beg you. It's transmitted. [[Voice from the room: Yes.]] [[Voices from the hall: That's the point.]] Is it supposed to be transmitted from the Senate? Excuse me. I wouldn't want to be a part of this. [[I would ask the marshal to point out that the president doesn't lecture me. I'm the senator. It was said in public space. Please make a reference. You're the one making the mess, Mr. President, not me.]] [[Voices from the hall: Oh, oh, Senator!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-18-senat-27-3.u59	Excuse me... Ladies and gentlemen, please remain silent on the left side of my left side of the room. I didn't give the floor to Senator Ziientarski or Senator Jackowski. [[Oh, bravo!]] Mr. Senator Czerwinski. Ask me a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-18-senat-27-3.u60	Mr. Marshal! Mr. President! High Izbo! First of all, the corrigendum. Of course, I did not suggest in any way here that this job jump was the jump of any of the Court's judges. This was obviously about the Civic Platform. If that's not how you understand it, I'm explaining it now. I would like to obtain a fair answer from you, Mr President, about the judgment of December 3rd. As I said, I do not know if you remember, at the meeting of the Legislative Committee, where we also referred to this judgment: this judgment will sometime be a basis for analysis. And I'd ask, if that's possible, for reliable answers, not for an earlier decision, just... Because I didn't get an answer to one of the questions. What about the combination of judgment... maybe what about the connection of the sentence's operative part, the issue of scope with the paradigm rule... Well, that's when we get to the Court's statement on the facts, two plus three. But for one more reason, this sentence is interesting, or actually two, namely that judgment handed down on 3 December refers in its scope to the states that existed earlier. But if this sentence had been given earlier, which is theoretically possible, e.g. In August or September, it could not be said which judges, when they were elected, or how to speak about the term of office, because it was not known the date of the end of the term of office of the 7th Sejm and the beginning of the 8th Sejm, quite the opposite, from the point of view of causality, the beginning of the 8th and the end of the 7th term of office. [[You're welcome...]] And now the question is very simple: does the operative part of the judgment, but also its justification, about which, in a moment, may depend on the date of its proclamation? Can the judgment of the Constitutional Tribunal be different in autumn and different in winter if it concerns the same legal status? And the second point, à explanatory memorandum: this part concerning 3 judges elected in accordance with the Constitution is not justified at all in this judgment, only the operative part is given. While it is justified in a clear and logical way, why two judges were not elected in accordance with the Constitution This is the 2 for which their predecessors' term of office expired in December. As regards those whose term of office expired in November, there is no such justification. Maybe it's obvious, but, like I said, it wouldn't be obvious if that sentence had been given earlier. For the sake of clarity, the formation of the court should justify its operative part.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-18-senat-27-3.u61	You're welcome, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-18-senat-27-3.u62	Mr Senator, if President Duda had already submitted a proposal to the Court on 7 August challenging the constitutionality of the article. 137, this case would be settled, I think, by the end of the first decade of September. But he didn't sue. He could have sued that bill on August 31st, but he didn't sue her. Naturally, I cannot say how I would vote on the article. 137 in summer and early December. If I had said now that in any case I would have voted in favour of this provision being incompatible with the Constitution, you could have said that now, so I do not say how I would have voted. But if you were to sue the president, and he had the right... President Komorowski could have sued before signing the bill and he didn't either. We ruled on the application of a legitimate applicant, not our will. [[We're out of questions.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-18-senat-27-3.u63	Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-18-senat-27-3.u64	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Mr. President, to answer my question, you were talking about the institution of reopening the proceedings. Please tell me whether the grounds for reopening the procedure can be invoked indefinitely. Do you want to repeal the decision...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-18-senat-27-3.u65	We are talking, Mr. Senator, about a specific provision in a specific case with specific arguments and concrete patterns. We can take this case and start discussing it, but in this case, in the light of these arguments, the Court has ruled that this provision is incompatible with the Constitution and requires legislative intervention. What's that? This is good... I think it's the government's job first. I think a government project would be appropriate. Then work in the Seym and work in the Senate. I wouldn't want to anticipate what the executive authority is going to do, and then the legislature is going to decide here.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-18-senat-27-3.u66	Mr President, I know that the Court's judgment is on a particular case, but the execution of the judgment is no longer this particular case, that is many other cases, these are dozens of irregularities, decisions taken on the basis of which criminals have acquired certain rights. If we introduce a temporary limitation on the possibility of moving such decisions, we will, unfortunately, stand on the guard of lawlessness in Poland.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-18-senat-27-3.u67	Mr. Senator, in the matters we're talking about, the statute of limitations is 15 years later, so the legislator... Now it's gonna look like I'm advising you on how to set this up. You can set this up by referring to the rules of the criminal code, the general section, and at this level set... A different solution can be adopted. I wrote projects 18 laws so I was, I'm a legislator. I haven't practiced in years, but I think if I was a legislator, I could handle that sentence. Of course, all the interests that Mr. Senator has raised must be taken into account.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-18-senat-27-3.u68	Senator Gawel. Ask me a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-18-senat-27-3.u69	Mr President, you said today that you particularly appreciated those judgments of the Court in which they were separate, as broader and more substantive. And that's what my question is. You also said today that you do not read the press, you do not have time, but I am convinced that you are aware of the functioning of similar tribunals in Europe or the Supreme Court in the United States. The question is, do you think that the political views of judges can affect the case law? That's the first question. The second question concerns the anniversary which was celebrated in Gdansk. Is this date fortunate? It is about the 30th anniversary of the appointment of the Court by the Law of the Polish Sejm of the People's Republic. Wouldn't it be better to say that when the Parliament of the reborn Republic was taking judges, they refused to take an oath on that old rota and then the Court's oath was changed? Those two questions just...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-18-senat-27-3.u70	You're welcome, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-18-senat-27-3.u71	Maybe I'll start from the end, from the rota. Mr. Senator, it was just that for a year... And that was the only provision that I added in the Court Act of 25 June. I have completed it according to my conscience with words that every judge pronounces by taking a vow in the face of the President. This was deleted in the July 22th Act. Please read this bill. It's not there. Restored 1997 version I took a vow before President Kaczynski, according to that rule. And so it was in the 1985 Act. Whether it's bad or not... I just convinced my colleagues at the Court You didn't have to be hard-pressed. And Members and Senators. I've been paying attention. I noticed that when I was reading the whole project that we were going to submit to President Komorowski. Usually the vows go by... Well, there are solemn words in the vows that the one who makes vows or vows, like the president, makes. You don't stop at it. But I read the word after word in every recipe of the project and associated it with how many times I've heard the vows made by the judges, just with this addition. And that's when I added it. We wouldn't have noticed that either. The legislator on 22 July knew that in 1997 in the Law of. very good, but for that time It wasn't... And today it's so rota. Is she mad? No, she's not bad. But constitutional judges do not take vows like common judges. Is that unconstitutional? I'm not answering that question. It's just different. That's it. About Gdansk... That's what we were talking about yesterday. It was the twenty-third postulate in the adoption of the first convention of Solidarity, Mr. Senator. I kindly recommend your attention to the content of this. The Court was not born of the will of General Jaruzelski, I assure you. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the hall: But he was born...]] [[...by the will of Solidarity.]] Do the political views of judges affect the content of judgments? Of course they do. I'm going to Washington for a big conference-- judge Scalia's legacy, legations justice Scalia. He was an outstanding judge, I had here to say an ugly word. Strong views, everyone knew them. Judge Thomas Not everyone knows his views, but also Judge Ginsburg. Each of the 9 judges, the 9 righteous who rule on the quality of American law for 330 million people In fact, this is important for the legal culture around the world. He's got political opinions. Without them, they wouldn't have gotten to the Supreme Court. Without them, it would be difficult to assess the quality of their judgments in federal courts, district courts or appeals courts and their statements as lawyers, their statements as law professors. Excuse me, is the judge without jurisdiction to be the constitutional judge of the Republic of Poland or, in this case, the Supreme Court? A judge without an opinion, which is who? Everyone's writing board? The judge has opinions, but naturally he leaves them... You're probably not gonna believe this, Senator, but to a constitutional judge, including me, it really doesn't matter who wins the parliamentary elections. For each of us, it's important that this person is honest. [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[You'll never understand, buddy.]] [[Mr. Senator Fedorovich, I have not given you the floor.]] [[I don't know why I said that...]] And now... [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[So do I.]] [[I'm sorry.]] And now, as far as publicism is concerned, read, unread... Mr. Senator, every judge orders... It depends on the judge, because I receive it in electronic form, but the constitutional judge can also receive it in printed form. So we order at one of the companies all the texts that appear every day in Poland, in which the words "the Constitutional Tribunal," "the Constitutional Tribunal," "the Tribunal," "the Constitutional Tribunal." It's 2,500 pages a month. Do you think I should be wasting my time as President of the Court reading journalism? Is that what you think? No, I don't think so.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-18-senat-27-3.u72	Thank you very much. Senator Dobrzyński. Ask me a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-18-senat-27-3.u73	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. You, of course, deliberately miss the truth and insult the House of the Supreme Parliament, the Senate, by saying that you are not guided by politics. Well, how do you assess what the press says? And the press isn't lying. In the case of these e-mails... [[Sure.]] [[Oh, it's just TV.]] Is he lying? From these e-mails it is clear that the law of June 2015 is sorry, for such colloquialism, but I will be blunt. You played politically. 'Cause you could've made it clear... [[President of the Constitutional Tribunal Andrzej Rzepliński: Well, you insult me, but...]] [[President of the Constitutional Tribunal Andrzej Rzepliński: I am a guest here, so please insult me...]] [[It's insulting, it's insulting, I'm confirming it.]] [[Voice from the room: Always insults.]] But please... Mr. Marshal! [[Please...]] [[President of the Constitutional Tribunal Andrzej Rzepliński: Did you play? You're insulting me with that word.]] Yeah, yeah, you played. There's even... There they are... [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[Quiet, please. You're asking the senator a question. You're welcome.]] I stress, you played politically, these e-mails make it clear. You could have reacted, knowing that the Civic Platform Act was unconstitutional. So how are you gonna take this, how are you gonna comment? [[He reacted...]] [[He reacted just like the judge at the right time.]] These e-mails clearly show that the Constitutional Tribunal is a political body. [[President of the Constitutional Tribunal Andrzej Rzepliński: Mr. Senator...]] But don't interrupt me. [[President of the Constitutional Tribunal Andrzej Rzepliński: Well, I thought you were done.]] We're not in the Court, I'm really asking for culture... About... That's my comment. Is it the surroundings or... It can be called more widely: a certain movement related to Jaruzelski was set up by the Court. And it was only necessary for the West to... [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[Quiet, please.]] ...we were picked up so that we are a country that is trying to face, you can say, with lawlessness at that time. Then I disagree with you here. Of course, we can stick to our opinions that the Court was created at that time without the support of Jaruzelski and his surroundings. But let's get back to these e-mails, Professor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-18-senat-27-3.u74	Mr. Senator, I don't think you were there when I was talking about the issue of the bill and that each of you will receive a document showing on the basis of parliamentary documents, not rumors taken from the press, etc., what the procedure has been since President Komorowski introduced this project on 13 July 2013 to the Marshal's staff. As for... it's obvious that if it weren't in the interests of the Communists, there wouldn't be a Constitutional Court. If it weren't in the interests of the Communists, it wouldn't have been, three years earlier, the Supreme Administrative Court. If it were not in the interests of the Communists, there would also be no institution of the Ombudsman. Of course they realized that it was better to rule by law than by bayonets, but that doesn't mean that created institutions are being autonomous. I'd have to do a bigger lecture on how they see it. President of the United States. On the example of Judge Souter... the well-known conservative views of the judge when the vacancy appeared... President George Bush senior elected him and presented him to the Senate for confirmation. This candidate passed and it turned out that Bush wasn't happy with his judgments, which doesn't mean he wanted to solve the Supreme Court. Bush then said significant words: President, when he gets his confirmation from the Senate and takes his vows, forget that you nominated him as Supreme Court Judge. That's the truth. It was the same with constitutional judges. There were various résumés of these first 12 chosen by the Sejm at the end of 1985, but already in the first sentence, Senator, in the case of U 1/85 they behaved as judges, to the fury of power. They made a mistake, of course, but they probably wouldn't have found 12 bullies in a constitutional court. They found lawyers who turned out to be judges. Naturally, this law, which was in force, limited the cognition of the Constitutional Tribunal. Would it be better if there was no Court? It was only in 1993 that the first constitutional courts were established when our constitutional court ruled and thanks to its judgments it was possible to maintain the social balance. When people lost everything, the Constitutional Tribunal played a very important role. I recommend reading a book that will be published as a result of our scientific conference and in which this problem is presented. Of course, you can say ugly words about these judges now that they've ruled... But that's how they ruled... All those sentences can be translated into the United Nations languages. None of them will be criticized as a communist sentence. No. These were sentences to a limited extent of cognitiveity. After all, we were able to rule on the constitutionality of the decree on martial law. I've already been president. It was not until March 2011. We have ruled the unconstitutionality of this decree. It was unimaginable earlier not because they were afraid, only because the Constitutional Court Act said that the Court only ruled on the matter of normative acts, mainly regulations which were adopted after the entry into force of the Constitutional Court Act. She was passed on April 23, 1985, so there was no possibility... [[The meeting is chaired by Vice-Marshal Maria Koc]] Let us remember that in 1982 the law on a lawyer has been passed, which has so far been in force, although of course there have been many changes. In 1982, the Juvenile Procedure Act was passed. Many changes have also taken place over the years, but the main body of this law is in force. So it's not necessarily the date to decide if there's anything, when you say it in Latin, small per se, or bad in itself. This evil can be the result of people's behaviour in very friendly systemic conditions. And remember, they weren't friendly. I repeat: we can postpone any ruling of the constitutional court from this period and give it to constitutional judges in other countries for review. [[Mrs. Marshal, I didn't get an answer. Again...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-18-senat-27-3.u75	Has the president answered the senator yet? I'm asking because I wasn't there when I asked you a question. [[President of the Constitutional Tribunal Andrzej Rzepliński: Yes. Yes, thank you.]] [[But I didn't ask what the president was talking about. I'd like to ask you one more question, Mrs. Marshal.]] You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-18-senat-27-3.u76	You didn't answer my question about those e-mails. And from these e-mails it is clear that politics was involved. In this case, you were in charge of politics at the Constitutional Court. But I'm also going to ask you an ancillary question, because I see that you don't want to answer that question directly. Have you, for example, spoken to Prime Minister Kopacz? Were the letters exchanged? Were there any writings in which it would be clear that the conduct of the Civic Platform... that the law on this matter I'm talking about 2015, June. Is it unconstitutional? 'Cause the truth is... [[It's only in judgment that you can judge.]] [[President of the Constitutional Tribunal Andrzej Rzepliński: Act...]] Don't interrupt me. [[It's only in judgment that you can...]] [[Talking in the O.R.]] Because in fact, this whole fight started with the adoption of this non-constitutional act. And we all know, for sure, that if it weren't for the situation that the Constitutional Tribunal and the Civic Platform created, knowing that it was unconstitutional, there wouldn't be a storm today and we wouldn't be talking about it. [[Thank you, Senator...]] I'd like you to respond to those e-mails that are... [[Yeah, well, in the e-mails, it says...]] ...in circulation as if general, is it...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-18-senat-27-3.u77	Thank you, Senator. Please, Mr. Chairman. [[Talking in the O.R.]] Ladies and gentlemen, please be quiet.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-18-senat-27-3.u78	Of course, the e-mails indicate that the judges of the Court did not participate in any work on... the final stage of the bill. [[That's not what I'm talking about. What have you done, knowing that this bill is unconstitutional? Because the e-mails indicate...]] [[Mrs. Marshal, please!]] This bill, Mr. Senator... [[...that it's unconstitutional.]] Mr. Senator... [[Quiet, please!]] [[Well, well, well, Mrs. Marshal...]] [[Quiet, please!]] Mr. Senator, well... [[That's what your judges say.]] [[But like, the Court's ruling in advance...]] [[Exactly!]] [[Quiet, please! The senator asked a question. I'm asking for an answer.]] [[Mrs. Marshal, this is not a confrontation!]] [[What's this?!]] Mr. Senator... [[Senator Barbara Boris-Damięcka: But there was already an answer!]] The Court ruled on 3 December that the law is compatible with the Constitution. Oh, for God's sake! What you're saying is probably because you didn't know it. [[What?!]] [[Mrs. Marshal, please! There was an answer.]] [[Talking in the O.R.]] Sentence in case K 34/15... [[Sir, I'd like you to address the e-mails that everyone knows.]] [[Quiet, please. Quiet.]] [[Tell me directly whether you have spoken to the Prime Minister about the reservations you have consulted with each other.]] [[Mrs. Marshal, this is not a discussion!]] [[Senator Barbara Boris-Damięcka: What is it?]] [[Well, how much can I do?!]] No.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-18-senat-27-3.u79	Mr. Senator, you asked me a question... [[That's all. That's enough, Mrs. Marshal.]] You're welcome, Mr. President, for the last time. [[Senator Barbara Boris-Damięcka: But there was already an answer!]] [[She's already been there. He answered.]] [[Talking in the O.R.]] Okay, I get it, so I'm gonna... Ladies and gentlemen, please be quiet! I understand the president is done answering that question.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-18-senat-27-3.u80	Yes. Come on, Mr. Senator... And I didn't talk out of fear... 'Cause what's in it for... I just didn't talk to Prime Minister Kopacz about the bill.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-18-senat-27-3.u81	Thank you, Mr. President. Senator Robert Gawel.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-18-senat-27-3.u82	I would just like to point out that this discussion is starting to escalate more and more in the wrong direction. 'Cause here on the one hand, I hear that we're... [[But we don't ask!]] ...we can't understand... When I asked if the judge had political opinions, I asked them not to introduce you to the president's faces, but to answer. [[And he answered.]] And he answered me. [[Talking in the O.R.]] And here I hear I don't understand. [[No, that's not what we're talking about.]] [[Ladies and gentlemen, please be quiet.]] I think I got it right. [[Mrs. Marshal, please calm these...]] [[Mr. Senator, please don't help me with this.]] And one more thing, Mr. President... [[Quiet, please. The senator is asking a question.]] Actually, I don't agree with your legal statement at all. I'm here to see you... As far as legal knowledge is concerned, unfortunately, I do not have that knowledge, but as regards reprivatization, I believe that there has been a great injustice. That's my opinion. As in the case relating to the illustration. This greatly weakened the Polish state in the long term. And as far as the matter of calling the Constitutional Tribunal is concerned, you know better than I that it was not the will of the nation. It was a postulate of "Solidarity," but on the legal side it was appointed by the Sejm of the Polish People's Republic. [[Mr. Senator, question.]] And all I care about is the turn of 1989. This. And you started talking in the context of these changes now... That's what I asked. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-18-senat-27-3.u83	Mr. Senator, is that a question? [[No, no, no, no.]] [[It's just a correction.]] Corrigendum. Good. Are there any more questions? [[There isn't.]] I don't see any calls. [[Talking in the O.R.]] Please, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-18-senat-27-3.u84	Mr. Senator, for me and perhaps for you, although you are probably much younger than me, the will of solidarity expressed at the first convention was the will of the nation. As far as the minefield is concerned, you certainly didn't have that intention. Besides, you couldn't... I once found myself in a minefield when I was an expert in the Yugoslavian war. [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[Ladies and gentlemen, please be quiet.]] I was in the area of Travnik, I had to document a war crime, and as an expert, I went to the minefield. And it was really exciting. But as you can see, I managed to get out of that minefield. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-18-senat-27-3.u85	Thank you, Mr. President. Does anyone else want to ask a question? Senator Frost. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-18-senat-27-3.u86	Mr President, I have a question about the status of judges who have been elected by the Sejm of the current term of office and sworn in by the President of the Republic of Poland, so they have fulfilled all these conditions in order to be able to rule. [[Not all of them.]] [[Not all of them.]] Mr. President won't allow them to rule, and I read in the press... If this isn't true, then you have to put it down, but I've read that these 3 gentlemen, because these 3 judges are actually paying a couple of thousand. So tell me what the status of these judges is. That's my first question. Second question: if you think these judges don't meet any requirements, tell me which ones. The third question: if you claim that they have been illegally elected, on what basis do you, as President of the Constitutional Tribunal, allow them to pay their wages? Thank you. [[Talking in the O.R.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-18-senat-27-3.u87	Quiet, please. You're welcome, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-18-senat-27-3.u88	Thank you very much. Mr. Senator, well, they didn't meet all the conditions, because these three lawyers, these three judges, have been elected as judges already filled, properly filled and in accordance with the constitution. I'm not the one who won't let them go. They're not allowed in a constitution that says there's 15 judges. By the way, the resolution itself... I ignore the fact that it was flawed, and I can talk about it, because the Court has already expressed its views on this matter. But it also contained another defect. I am thinking of the resolution of the Sejm of 25 November and the resolution of 2 December. The resolution of 2 December did not specify the time limits for taking office, and this is necessary. With regard to salaries, i.e. why I pay these judges, it is not me who pays them, it is the Treasury who pays them, just as it pays all of us, so it is no charge that someone receives the money he has under the budget law. Well, I pay them because I have confidence in the President of the Republic and I believe that he will invite 3 judges from Hauser, Jakubecki and Ślebzak and take their vows. To resolve this constitutional conflict, which was created just as a result of the disorganization of the vows of three judges elected on 8 October, elected in accordance with the Constitution... Well, let's ask ourselves if the President of the Court could have done something other than... Having selected to fill the seats of judges, i.e. those who may take office when the vacancy appears, and after that the vacancy appeared, he recommended paying them a salary, acting in full confidence to the President of the Republic, because it is not marked... The Court ruled that the President could not be imposed here. I expected four weeks from the day I was elected by the Sejm to judge, at the invitation of the President to take the oath, that's all. It's the constitution that determines that this is the case. There can't be 18 judges, only 15. No judge of the Sejm, 460 Members, can take office because the Constitution does not foresee it. The judge shall be elected for 9 years for not one more day and for not one less day.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-18-senat-27-3.u89	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Krzysztof Frost again. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-18-senat-27-3.u90	Mr. President, I'm not a lawyer. I am glad that you have respect for the President, but, to be honest, I did not understand your answer, because the question of how you pay your salary is answered by trust. It's a little bit weird, to put it mildly. Like I said, I'm not a lawyer, but my salary is paid... They have to come from some kind of legislation. [[Voice from the room: Why?]] If you think these judges are properly elected, then they have to rule and then they can get paid. And if you or the Court find that these judges are wrongly elected, they shall not be remunerated. It doesn't work on the principle that transfers to an account affect the Treasury or, I don't know, the Ministry of Finance. Someone at the Court, and these are all your subordinates, has to sign certain transfers. So the answer is that you're paying on the basis of trust, as I said, I'm not a lawyer. For me, to put it mildly, it's weird. Thank you. [[President of the Constitutional Tribunal Andrzej Rzepliński: I understand that the senator would simply deprive them of their salary...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-18-senat-27-3.u91	Mr. President, just a moment... [[President of the Constitutional Tribunal Andrzej Rzepliński: On the basis of the Labour Code I had the right and the obligation to make such a decision...]] Mr. President, I didn't give you the floor. Excuse me. [[President of the Constitutional Tribunal Andrzej Rzepliński: Ah, well.]] Senator Dobrzyński is still asking a question. Yes? You said you wanted to ask a question. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-18-senat-27-3.u92	Yes, Mrs. Marshal. Thank you very much. Continuing the senator's question... Well, it's not the state's budget that pays the people you don't want to let judge, it's... The money comes from the state budget, and you can call it "the head of the unit" in all offices. You're the chief of staff, including the judges, and it's your signature that needs to be seen. It is likely that there is a countersignation of the main accountant It's on a withdrawal order. [[Question, Mr. Senator.]] Mrs. Marshal, wait a minute. I ask: on what basis do you pay these funds? Remember, you always pay for a job. You don't allow these judges to work, so aren't you afraid to put yourself at risk... in this case it's about mismanagement. And it's been going on for a while. You're probably paying about PLN 20 and 25,000 out of my taxes, so as a citizen of the Republic of Poland, I can sue you for having my money wrongly at your disposal. This is very important and please answer this question precisely.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-18-senat-27-3.u93	Thank you very much, Senator. [[I can't believe that without doing your job, the law requires you to pay...]] Thank you very much. You're still Senator Wiesław Dobkowski. You're welcome. [[No, thank you.]] You're resigning. Good. [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[Okay, okay. If...]] Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-18-senat-27-3.u94	I'll ask you a perverse question. Mr. President, I have a practical question. I'm not a lawyer, I'm an engineer. If, say, a constitutional court of a country is wrong, if it issues judgments that are not in accordance with the Constitution, who can be appealed to? After all, the Court is not the Lord God. So is there any way to appeal or repeat this procedure? Because it's like we think the Court is infallible and he's the only one who's ruling on constitutionality. What if he decides something that's against the constitution, then what? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-18-senat-27-3.u95	Thank you, Senator. [[Talking in the O.R.]] Quiet, ladies and gentlemen. You're welcome, Mr. President. [[Talking in the O.R.]] But please be quiet, because it's bothering you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-18-senat-27-3.u96	Thank you, Mrs. Marshal. Senator Dobrzyński scares me, but... [[You can take it that way if you want. I know you from the media.]] ...unreasonably, because... [[Mr. Senator, let the president answer the question.]] Mr. Senator, the constitution says there are 15 judges. The Labour Code states that the head of the unit may pay the employees a salary without giving them a job if it is in the interests of the institution. [[Voice from the room: For 3 months.]] Is it in the interest of this institution to violate the Constitution by me, to ignore the judgment of the Constitutional Tribunal? I'd ask the senator, too. The President of the Republic shall invite these three judges and take the oath from them. [[Mrs. Marshal, that's not an answer to the question. What's this?]] You asked me why they get paid, and I don't want to let them judge. [[No, that wasn't the question.]] The constitution doesn't allow them.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-18-senat-27-3.u97	Mrs. Marshal, I would ask you very much to call the President to order so that he can answer specific questions. I asked clearly: why and on what basis does he pay them salaries if they are not doing work? What's this? Where are we?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-18-senat-27-3.u98	Mr. Senator, please... [[Mrs. Marshal, get Senator Dobrzyński cleaned up.]] Ladies and gentlemen, please be quiet. Mr. Senator, you asked a question, and you're the president's answer. Has the president answered this question yet? [[President of the Constitutional Tribunal Andrzej Rzepliński: Yes, yes, I already answered.]] [[Unfortunately, I find that the President has not answered my question as well as the senator's question.]] I see. [[He just doesn't answer.]] I see. Would the President like to answer this question in writing? [[But I don't want it in writing, Mrs. Marshal. Why?]] You don't want it in writing, I understand. Good. The next question you ask is Senator Jarosław Rusiecki. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-18-senat-27-3.u99	Mrs. Marshal! Mr. President! Listening to your statements and answers, but also in your fine digressions, I would like to ask you a question. At one of the numerous meetings with the media, Judge Biernat here stated that President Rzepliński was eternal. [[Immortal.]] Immortal, I'm sorry. Do you have any intercourse with this statement? Can you give me a context? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-18-senat-27-3.u100	Thank you very much. [[Talking in the O.R.]] Quiet, please. And Senator Krzysztof Frost. Yes, Senator? Anything else you wanted to ask me? There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-18-senat-27-3.u101	I only have one... [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[Quiet, please! Senator Frost is asking a question.]] Since the President has asked me to take such, I do not know, a suggestion that I should appeal to the President to swear three judges from whom the President has not taken his oath, I would like to draw your attention to one point. I am not a lawyer, and I say this as an economist, but I suspect that even if the President theoretically wanted to do so, he could not, because the Sejm of the current term annulled the resolution of the previous term of office on the election of those judges. [[Ask me a question, Senator.]] Mr President, in this connection, my question is: how do you imagine that the President, who must be governed by legalism, is to swear the judges... After all, the President does not swear to himself the judges he wants, only comes a specific letter from the Sejm's Office that such and such judges were chosen by the Sejm, and the President only swears. The Seym of the current term, as far as I know, invalidated that choice. However, according to the provisions Please refer to this, too. The Constitutional Tribunal shall not have the power to assess the correctness of its resolutions. Thank you. [[Thank you very much. And then...]] Therefore, I will not speak to the President. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-18-senat-27-3.u102	Thank you very much. Mr. Senator, I am convinced that the President will answer this question so that you do not answer for the President. Senator Mieczysław Augustyn. You're welcome... Did you say you wanted to ask a question? No? [[No, Mrs. Marshal.]] Excuse me. This is Senator Jan Maria Jackowski. Do you want to ask a question? [[Yes.]] Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-18-senat-27-3.u103	Mrs. Marshal, I have the following two questions for the president. The first is a request to indicate a specific legal basis for not allowing judges who have been elected and have taken a vow before the President of the Lightest Republic. I mean pointing out a specific rule, not a dialectical reflection on the idea of a constitution and a statement... To indicate a specific rule of law. And the second question, the request to indicate a specific legal basis, the provision on the basis of which persons currently receiving an allowance and not being judges of the Constitutional Tribunal receive this allowance. That's what Senator Dobrzyński asked. I'm talking about a specific rule of law, too. If you're not able to point that out right now, I'm gonna ask for an indication in writing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-18-senat-27-3.u104	Thank you very much. Please, do any of you want to ask a question? [[Voice from the room: Let's finish. Close the list of questions.]] No. You're welcome, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-18-senat-27-3.u105	In answer to the question whether Senator Mroz's attention is to say this: Mr Senator, the Sejm, by selecting at least 50 Members from the group or from the Sejm's Bureau, a candidate for a specific vacant office, marks the day of the beginning of the judge's term of office. The Sejm, choosing correctly, in accordance with the Constitution, on the basis of its authority, appointed the day of the beginning of the term of office of 3 judges On that day they should take office. But, as I said, it happens very rarely, but it happens that the president takes a vow from the judge not the day he takes office, only a little later. In my case, it was four weeks later. But the beginning of my term was... This date was marked by the Sejm. At the same time, the end of this 9-year term was also appointed by the Sejm, i.e. 19 December 2016. These 3 offices were filled. Like I said... Because not all ladies and gentlemen of the senators were at the time of my presentation of information and answers to questions. So all I can say here is that the judgment of the Constitutional Tribunal and the basis that you are asking Senator Jackowski for is the legal basis not for my decision, but for the decision of the legislator, Senator. It's the embodiments. The judge chooses the Sejm and there's no way to cancel it. Read the article again. 194. The position of President of the Constitutional Tribunal is also subject to a certain degree to the judgment of the Constitutional Tribunal in Case K 34/15, but above all to the former, in Case K 35/15, issued on 9 December, and also to the order of the Constitutional Tribunal in Case U 8/15, adopted on 8 January 2016.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-18-senat-27-3.u106	Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[President of the Constitutional Tribunal Andrzej Rzepliński: Thank you very much.]] I would like to inform you that the President of the Constitutional Tribunal, Mr Andrzej Rzepliński, has undertaken to provide written answers to questions asked by Senator Jerzy Czerwiński. Ladies and gentlemen, we will begin the discussion in a moment, but at this moment I am announcing a five-minute recess until 17.06. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Adjournment from 17 minutes 01 to 17 minutes 06]] Ladies and gentlemen, I will resume the session. Please take your seats. I'm opening a discussion. I'll ask Senator Jerzy Fedorovich to speak. [[Talking in the O.R.]] Mr. Senator... [[But if I say so, and you're not gonna be president, I'm gonna have trouble concentrating... in an empty room, I'm used to it. If your marshal tells me to, I have to.]] Mr. Senator, you're welcome. I'm sure the president will be in the O.R. in a moment. The president knows that the break is until... You're welcome. [[But if Hamerski doesn't listen to me...]] Mr. Senator, let's not court each other. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-18-senat-27-3.u107	I'm not courting, I think the situation is very serious. Okay, excuse me, Marshal. I wish my... Since the hall is actually empty, apart from the opposition senators, there are few colleagues from the PiS, I will address the Poles directly, to my constituents from Krakow, who follow my actions in the Senate. Well, I think we're at a very serious moment in our history. It's been going on for a while, actually, since the election ended. A dispute which is conducted by politicians, but also by mass media, various newspapers, does not serve the State very decisively. During his speech, President Rzepliński said that trust in the Constitutional Tribunal was down to 29% as a result of all these press and other enunciations and our behaviours, ours, that is, politicians, in parliament, in parliamentary corridors, and the worst of all was down to 29%. The Polish citizens who listen to me are that it means that trust in the Polish state has fallen. I recall the words of President Rzepliński because I find them extremely important for our history. I think it's pretty simple. I am surprised that you could ask so many, unfortunately, pinching or challenging questions about the President of the Court, who must be a person of integrity. Ladies and gentlemen, this is a constitutional requirement. If I'm wrong about it being included in the Constitution, then correct me, but as far as I know, this is the way it's supposed to be. If there's this kind of controversy, this kind of interrogation... Hence my emotional speech, for which, of course, I apologize, because what I care most is that we speak very seriously about Poland and Polish matters, especially in this place, among the elderly, experienced and elected in one-mandate districts. The dispute is incomprehensible to the average reader. And the case is the easiest one that can be. Is there a constitution? [[Voice from the room: There it is.]] Is there a law? [[Voice from the room: There it is.]] It's constitutional, it's going through. It's against the constitution, it doesn't go through. And goodbye. This is the simplest assessment of what we're arguing about. This is the first case. Two. Trust in the Supreme Constitutional Court judge challenged by politicians who believe that those sworn in are better, and those who are not sworn in are worse, and therefore there is some kind of thought perturbation... This causes disrespect for any political activity and for the activities of justice authorities in Poland. There can't be a situation where... I can't imagine that I'd be here, and suddenly someone would tell me that my political views mean the same thing as my conscience. You have rightly said, President Rzepliński, whose teachings and knowledge I invoke, that man cannot be without opinions, without political views either, but there is something we call conscience. And it is the conscience that causes us to act on behalf of the Republic of Poland and for its sake. If I draw my attention to the cause of this dispute, I will think: aha, that is, a group came to power, which believes that the Constitutional Tribunal will interfere with the fulfilment of its electoral promises. This assumption occurred, and suddenly it turned out that we senators were put into night meetings concerning changes in laws, etc. Such an assumption can lead to very serious consequences in the future, which we must avoid for the sake of the Republic and how we will be seen in the world. Those words that were written here today are very important words that I continue to convey by means of the Senate protocol. Those judges, who in 1985 could theoretically have been on the belt of totalitarian power at the moment when they were there, in this Constitutional Court at the time of that system... Suddenly it turns out that these are people who have character, conscience and stand behind the truth. Finally, Mr President, I would like to thank you. - Those words were already here. For this impeccable and excellent attitude in defending the Polish Constitution. Regardless of who is in charge of this country, it is the guarantee of security and democracy of Poles. And for that every thinking citizen will insist. Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-18-senat-27-3.u108	Thank you very much, Senator. And I'll ask Senator Mieczysław Augustyn to speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-18-senat-27-3.u109	Mrs. Marshal! Mr. President! Mr. and Mrs. Senators! It's sad to see this room... And yet the break, which was announced among the controversy by Marshal Borusewicz, prevented at least part of the fact that a significant part of the senators, especially the Law and Justice, were not in the Chamber. And this is an important moment, because we are talking about the most important thing, the fundamental issue of upholding the Constitution in our country. The Constitutional Tribunal with its President is at the forefront of this constitutional order. It is also an important day because we realise, Mr President, that this is the last report you are submitting for your presidency. That's why we thought we should thank you in some symbolic way. There's probably gonna be a lot more thanks. Why us? Because, Mr President, you are nevertheless in the Chamber, which, seeing the need to build the authority of the Court, which can only be done if its judgments are respected fairly, has changed its rules of procedure and itself, has voluntarily undertaken that the judgments of the Court will be carried out more quickly. I must say that then, being here in the Senate, I had such a belief that it became a very important thing for the Senate of the Republic of Poland, for constitutional order, although it was only a change in the Rules of Procedure of this House. It is an honor for the Senate to acknowledge itself as an ally of the Court in respect of the Constitution in Poland. It has always been an honor for the Senate to be in cooperation with the Court. And that's what we've been developing. Then, along this road, we formed special relations with the Ombudsman, with the Supreme Chamber of Control, with the Ombudsman of the rights of the child. And we found in this cooperation 'Cause that's where it started. Our new place, our important place, because we built trust in the state as a state founded on legal grounds. We're talking about last year. This was the beginning of a destructive process which is developing, and this is done in a very conscious way, as further announcements of the submission of further draft laws concerning the Constitutional Tribunal testify. This is a plan to dismantle one of the most important democratic institutions in the country. And, of course, it will not only be harder to rule if it is possible at all. I believe Senator Fedorovich is at the heart of the matter here. What PiS really does in connection with the Court, what it does to Poland, what it does to Poles, destroys trust. Poland, which had no country so many years old, did not have its own authorities, was faced with a very difficult task. This is confirmed by the studies. To build trust in Poland: one to another, to the institution, to the state, to the law. Meanwhile, this procedure is being followed around the Court of Justice. In addition to the fact that it is dictated by some political, tactical calculations, it destroys the foundations on which we founded our country, but also the constitution, or trust. That's why I think it's worth quoting President Rzepliński. Thank you, Mr President, for answering my question. May these words remain in our heart. I quote the words of today: "There is no country, there is no economy, there is no civil society, there is nothing if there is no law. This is a day that we should use somehow, we should use it for such reflection. Because it's time to remember. Mr. President, I think those words that you're immortal have their power. Always worthy of respect... Those who will be able to defend the most sacred, most important things, even though they are spit upon, will be honorable for a long time and beyond the time of office. You're to many of us today in a symbolic sense, it's sad. Not of its own motion, but with the attitude of one of the first citizens of the Republic. That is why I wanted to thank you for this and to say that even if you cease to be President of the Court, it is not the time for a rest, because this is above all the attitude of a citizen, a true citizen of the Republic of Poland, who, when he closes his term of office, says to us: let us return to dialogue in accordance with Article. 1 of the Constitution saying: "Rzeczpospolita Polska is the common good of all citizens. Anyone who doesn't understand that hurts everyone, too. Once again, Mr President, I thank you very sincerely not only for your work, but for an example that should be inspiring to many who should give us strength, it should give strength to all those who want to follow you when we feel that the good of the Republic, our common good, is at risk. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-18-senat-27-3.u110	Thank you, Senator. You're welcome. Senator Barbara Zdrojewska.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-18-senat-27-3.u111	Dear Marshal! Dear Ladies and Gentlemen, Senators, Dear President, Ladies and gentlemen! We are referring to the 2015 report, and it will turn out that this report was probably the worst year ever. Perhaps this will be even worse for the Constitutional Court. And that's what we can say on the 30th anniversary. The Court that he was in the worst crisis he has ever been in. This also applies to you, to the constitution, to the Polish system and to what is happening in our country. I will only remind you that since the end of October, i.e. since the end of the elections, we have been through the whole situation without precedent... the way of destroying the foundations of the Polish constitution, the foundations of the Polish system and the foundations of the rule of law. I'll remind you of the night votes we've had or even the oath taken by the president from the judges at night. After all, after years we will all go back to this, we will be wondering how this could have happened, how this could have happened. I think some of the Senators from the PiS There's one senator here because the rest of them left. That especially they will be wondering what they were doing... what they started doing with Poland in 2015. I'd also like to say that there was another one. My colleagues have already mentioned this. Black, dark side of this fight, i.e. The mudslides of the members of the Court, the mudslides of the Court as such, the mudslides of the former members of the Court, until, finally, the ideas which are now in the Sejm, as to the draft law which is to be closed to the courts of the Court, so far to the former judges, we do not know how it will be with the present. I am talking about undermining authority, even an attempt to humiliate, because it could not humiliate the Court, which is based on the principles of law and which is governed by the constitution and laws which are in Polish law. And that situation that led to... It was not enough, because it has not yet destroyed the authority and seriousness of the Constitutional Tribunal. Finally, the government first referred to the Venetian Court in a curian way, then challenged the rulings of that tribunal and then, in general, challenged the sense of the Court as such. Because that's what we're dealing with right now. I mean, we had this... I would like to draw attention to a process that follows and which concerns not only the Court. But I don't want to go into other things anymore. First, it was the right-wing media that dealt with it, quoting false stories and trying to cast defilements. 'Cause you can't call it that otherwise. The Court's members, but later became involved in a similar way in television called national television. And I'd like to remind you of all this and remind you that there are still more laws ahead of us... how many of them were there at all? That's not how you work! That's what the president said. He talked about the fact that you can't change the law every three months, basic things, the most important things that... Citizens also have the right to some stability, to certainty and to what colleagues here spoke so beautifully. They said that the law sometimes remains this last instance, and we need to know what we're based on, otherwise it doesn't make sense, there's nowhere to appeal, there's nowhere to complain, and then the only way, unfortunately, is by law and justice. There's an exit to the streets. There's nothing we can do about it. That's what it looks like. Because, as we can see, Law and Justice doesn't listen, doesn't want to talk, doesn't want to discuss, and... Well, it's probably gonna have to listen to the sovereign eventually, like he says. He's gonna listen to this sovereign. I believe that very deeply. In conclusion, so as not to repeat what was said again... Mr President, to your hands to all the judges of the Court of Justice once again great thanks and respect, also for what you and the other judges have done, but also for the former judges of the Constitutional Tribunal, for the great lesson about the Constitutional Court, you have been forced to do so. It also took place in the media. Because there's not a lot of people who really know what this Constitutional Tribunal is. One value that results from this is that society has learned how important the Constitutional Tribunal is and has begun to listen to reasons, but has also begun to understand some basic legal mechanisms, systems operating in Poland and what is happening now. So that I would like to thank you again very much for this great lesson in law. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-18-senat-27-3.u112	Thank you, Senator. And there you go, Senator Jan Rulewski.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-18-senat-27-3.u113	Miss Marshal! High Izbo! Mr. President! In reviewing the information, quite extensive, the Constitutional Tribunal, which was supplemented by the statements and answers to the questions of the President of the Court, I saw serious shortcomings in it. There is no information in this information, for example.: number of meetings of the café society held by the Court; description of the trip to China, the largest Asian power; horror pay. I didn't find any soup drinking with President Adamowicz in Gdansk... [[What kind of broth?]] From a pheasant. At least that's what the Deputy Minister of Justice said the day before yesterday on the radio, Mr. Wójcik. I heard it with my own ears. [[Ladies and gentlemen, please be serious.]] This information, unfortunately, does not exist, and this is on public television, public television, Mr. Kurski. [[National.]] [[Voices from the O.R.: National.]] [[Quiet, please.]] I'll add: partially, maybe too often with diarrhea. And we could add a few other points to that, if not for the fact that, in the opinion of this one who is suffering from the diarrhea of television, you are not interested in your report or even the work of the Constitutional Tribunal. Society is interested in expeditions to China or Gdańsk. By the way, Senator Jackowski should resign at this point. Why did he banished the Court to Gdansk, depriving Warsaw of its income and splendor? Warsaw is becoming more and more deboned, which is not even a reason for me to be surprised. But besides the so-called clientele of Kurski's television, which claims that society is not interested in the Court, there are still facts that we, as senators... We have to do this like homework. One of the most interesting threads in recent years, in 2015 Because that's what we're talking about. There was this reflection of Mr Morawiecki. Namely, he presented alternatives, perhaps even 2. [[4 alternatives.]] [[4.]] Court or nation? Constitution or election? I must say, this alternative has aroused interest in the nation. Although, as you know, things have been settled. But what I am going to say is that I am putting on Mr Morawiecki's chest, who is a really honest fighter for the nation, for the sovereignty of this nation. He just forgot that this sovereignty had already arrived and wrote down her cardinal rights in the Constitution. Nevertheless, what I have mentioned has been the subject of a public discussion, and to this day, I believe, because of this television, which is suffering from diarrhea, has not been resolved. So it is worthwhile to do so. I'm saying there's no such alternative. I say there is unity, and that unity is written in your information. That the unity between the will of the nation and the elections, between the law and the constitution, finds an answer in your information. For is it, my dear High Izbo? In the high part It is not true that millions of people, millions of voters, not only the PiS or the Civic Platform, also those who did not go to the elections expected to respond to the adjustment of the income thresholds, so-called. The threshold of life? The Court has decided that they must be valued, that they must be corrected. Doesn't at least 7.5 million pensioners expect the principle of "each according to its merits" to be fulfilled in relation to the calculation of pensions? Who opposes this will of the Court, which, according to some, is a foreign body in which the President, considered diabolical, is pursued by various services, from media to the Attorney General? And haven't the trade unions been able to answer the question in their statements for years whether self-employment is also a form of professional activity giving the right to association? Which one of the governments? I'll even tell you about my environment, did he respond positively to this expectation? The Constitutional Tribunal responded to them. I just want to prove through these three examples that the Court was where the nation was. The Court was where the constitution was expressed, passed by the nation or approved in the referendum. So there's no alternative. There is no alternative, because we live in a sovereign country, Mrs. Marshal, High Izbo, which is described exactly as the nation imagines. Maybe some statistics, though, if that didn't convince... Was not the will of the nation expressed in these 64 judgments of the Constitutional Tribunal? In these 600... at least 400 constitutional complaints, written by the citizens, by the people, citizens are also a nation I must admit that I did not see in them any sympathy for the Civic Platform, nor the condemnation of the Law and Justice, nor the exile of the Democratic Left Alliance. In these actions there was normal, human, difficult work. I must mention my difficult times behind the SLD. What is happening today with the law, with its institutions, is chasing the President and forgetting that the Court is not only composed of the President and that this diabolical President of the Court has allowed the other judges to raise 16 objections, different positions... This reminds me of times, Mrs. Marshal, High Izbo, in which I myself fell victim to the attempt to separate extremists, these Kuroni, Modzelewski, Michniki, sometimes Rulewski, from the nation, from the true Solidarity. But we won, we're one. Although I'm sorry, Senator, you're the only one who's proof of this. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[No, there's Senator Czerwinski.]] Oh, yeah. I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-18-senat-27-3.u114	Thank you very much, Senator. Senator Robert Dowhan, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-18-senat-27-3.u115	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Honourable, Mr President. We have been a little amused by my predecessor, Senator Jan Rulewski, by his speech of color, but in this whole comedy of events recently reported by the media, which, instead of dealing with the substantive side of everything that is important, and what is at stake at the Court, deal with situations that should not be the case at all... It's strange that today, when we have access to everything, the subject of broth is number one, but you can see what TV looks like right now, which is really impossible to watch and which we still have to pay for. I think that's one of the problems today... But what my predecessor was talking about is not a comedy, but rather a tragedy that we've been experiencing for some time. I, a man of the young generation, being in parliament today and looking at it, sometimes ashamed, and very much, for what they say. You can say that, my colleagues. Friends I don't see in this room today, except for one opposition senator, maybe not from the opposition anymore... I'm sorry, except for two senators. That also proves that, Mr. President, what is the senator's attitude, chosen in accordance with the constitution, who swore on the constitution, were to defend it... Instead of defending it, discussing it and through discussion reaching consensus They're not here because they have other classes. I would also like to apologize to you today for the fact that one of the senators at the last sitting wants a break and a re-launch of the debate, although he knows that the Court is in full state... [[...the composition.]] ...the composition. After all, it is a scandal and an embarrassment that such things are happening in this House. I think you and the other judges are coming out on behalf of me to apologize to all of us. It can't be that some people can speak normally, ask questions, and others make cabarets out of it. I'm missing out on what my predecessor said. I really don't want to argue because I'm not a lawyer, but I also receive the voices of people who talk not through the prism of Warsaw, not through the prism of positions, not through the prism of parliament... I talk to young people, I talk to athletes I deal with every day, and I have to assure you that people understand this problem, that for people the constitution that the people elected in a referendum twenty years ago is really important. I want to thank you that, despite your age, your authority, your life experience with the other judges defending this, your weapons, even though you're being spit on, even though you're being accused, even though there are some words that aren't supposed to rain. People who say that have no self-respect, because if someone says such things, if someone spits on the constitution... Because spit on you, spit on the constitution, spit on the Constitutional Tribunal today, spit on the Constitution, and the Constitution is the foundation of our country today. For this constitution we have fought and today we will fight for this constitution too. And I want to assure you that in the environment of young people, this subject is important. It is not an important subject of broth, it is not an important side topic, but it is an important topic of the Constitution that today we can establish one or another law here, but there is always someone who will decide this in an independent, reasonable way, without any political animosity. And for that, Mr President, I would like to place my hands on you, like my colleague, to really pay my respects, my great respect, and to thank you that, despite these adversities of fate, you are in the custody of the Constitutional Court and the Constitution. You said beautifully today that you are not a plaque on which you can paint or write as you want and think. I would like these words to remain valid after 19 December and your successor to go in the same direction as you. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-18-senat-27-3.u116	Thank you. Senator Piotr Zientarski. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-18-senat-27-3.u117	Mrs. Marshal! Mr. President! Mr. Vice President! Minister! High Senate! I, too, want to highlight those thoughts that my predecessors have already said... I'm honored to have been given this. not only to be the rapporteur for this amendment of the Rules of Procedure, which introduced the enforcement of decisions of the Constitutional Tribunal, which, unfortunately, have not been carried out over the years, I think that by omission, not by bad will... the Senate Legislative Commission accepted this obligation and carried it out. In those days, I remember, more than a hundred judgments of the Court were not executed. Of course, the execution of the Court's ruling is not only an initiative, but also an examination and very often a decision to decide that in a different way... e.g. the judgment is no longer valid whether it has been carried out in part or whether it will be executed by another entity. In particular, it is about the financial implications of the initiative, which should be initiated by the government or by the RCL. But at that time we were always proud as the Senate and every time to the President of Stępnia, President of Zdziennicki and you with a turbulent applause we thanked the Court's judges for their attitude and their case law. [[Talking in the O.R.]] Of course. And there were no divisions here, there weren't actually divisions until the previous elections. In my committee, excellent law and justice lawyers represented the Senate in initiatives... As chairman, I offered them this and I had full confidence in them. That was strict. legal work for one purpose To close the legal gap. Why? Because the Constitution is the highest law. And that should be obvious to everyone. As a matter of fact, I'm a lawyer, and it's constitutional law. Ladies and gentlemen, if anyone doesn't know anything, let them listen to authority. Let him not listen to politicians, but let him listen to people who have no interest in saying anything. Who's that? Just former presidents, who no longer have an influence on the ruling, former presidents such as. Professor Zoll, who has spoken many times. Once in times difficult for all of us, in times of martial law, it was one of the great or one of the greatest legal authorities that served the later Cardinal John Paul II and recognized him as authority. I know that. I've witnessed situations like this. And what happened, I'm asking that such a man says, for example, At the moment, he's out of authority, isn't he being listened to? The students I'm dealing with clearly understand what the Constitutional Court says, and some senators are trying to pretend that they don't understand it. And you can't understand it. Every new judge I'm addressing Senator Jackowski here. He's stressed out. He's nervous. To be honest, a couple of years ago, when it wasn't like this. I think it was the right thing to do. ♪ To the politicians or the politicians ♪ The politicians were going to the Court... A few years ago, there were suggestions: or maybe, since you've been dealing with court decisions for so many years, would you like to run? Those were my questions, too. Here's what I'm gonna say. I couldn't handle the stress because I know the level of discussion at the Court to come up with a judgment, which level of legal sublimation. What's that? Supreme. It takes great courage to agree to be a candidate for the Constitutional Tribunal. Because it's not just knowledge... That's what the president was talking about. The President of Stępień also spoke about this. The judge, becoming a judge of the Court, completely ceases to be a politician. Proof? As the president said, the fruits of labour The judgment. That's it, period. After the fruits of work, let's get to know these people. As they ruled, how they could break away... It is quite absurd that the Court was founded in Jaruzelski's time, while it was indeed fulfilling the demands of the first convention of Solidarity. Well, ladies and gentlemen, at the time, most of us have done our diplomas... [[Just don't drag me into this.]] [[Voice from the room: You were a one-man movement.]] I'm saying that most of the... I don't go through every single one of us's diplomas. They talk about universities at this time set up and so on. Well, ladies and gentlemen, we've all functioned... Of course, we showed our attitude, many of us showed our attitude. But it was an attitude that was true to certain rules. Because there will always be people who, so to speak, for a pot of lentils will go into cooperation with every authority. This has always been the case and always will be the case, but fortunately there are also people who are faithful to their principles, who are not afraid. We were not afraid in those days, the more we will not be afraid to tell the truth in these times, what it means to the Constitutional Tribunal, what its role is and who is really blocking the Court here. What's the dispute here? There's no dispute here, ladies and gentlemen, this is a lockdown... The argument would be if there was a legal dispute, but it's obvious here. There are elected judges who weren't allowed by your president because he didn't take their promise. And that's it, period, there's no other lines. There is no annulment of the appointment of a judge. The Seym doesn't have that kind of authority. And that's what the president was talking about today. Finally, let's respect this constitution, which is the expression of the sovereign's will. This is the sovereign, this is the content... And until the sovereign expresses his desire to change this constitution, it is and should be sacred to us. And thanks to an attitude like that of the president, we believe it's worth being faithful to the rules, because you can look at yourself in the mirror every day with calmness. Congratulations, Mr President, on the beautiful assessment of your person by all the legal bodies of Europe and the world. I was proud of the invitation, for which I thank you very much. I attended the celebration of the 25th anniversary, attended the celebration of the 30th anniversary. not as a formal delegate, but as an invited person. [[Time, Mr. Senator...]] But I've seen how these young people who are learning democracy, from Moldova or Ukraine, who want to... I've seen how surprised they are, but they've come because they still believe that the Constitutional Tribunal is a signpost for democracy. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-18-senat-27-3.u118	Thank you. Please take the floor of Senator Jan Maria Jackowski. Please, Mr. Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-18-senat-27-3.u119	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Mr. President! One could say for the summary of this debate, because it is slowly moving towards the end, and this item on the agenda, which was so dramatic that there is politics, there is great politics and there is constitutional law as the highest embodiment of politics. I have preached, preached, and preached. It is the source of the dispute that divides our public life from June 2015, or actually before, since the Civil Platform has pushed through a law that is unconstitutional... which then turned out to be part... and which is the prime cause of the entire conflict around the Constitutional Tribunal. Since the President presented his vision of the Constitutional Tribunal, and I would not like to argue with the President here, I will quote another judge of the Constitutional Tribunal, Judge Julia Przyłębska, because firstly, she is a woman, and secondly, she is one I think it's in the minority. From lawyers who have the professional experience of a judge in the current composition of the Constitutional Tribunal, and finally thirdly, her thesis is diametrically different from the President of Rzepliński, and it is precisely in this group of judges who have been graciously allowed to rule, so it is not of this group which is sworn but not adjudicated. And what does the judge say? The first quote: 'All five new judges have been elected in accordance with the applicable legal provisions and it is not true, as some of the media and lawyers present, that in the previous term of office three judges have been elected in accordance with the Constitution and two have not. That's not what happened. The basis for the election of a judge of the Constitutional Tribunal is the individual resolution of the Sejm. And on the basis of this resolution, each of us was elected judge. The second passage: The guardian of the Constitution is not the President, but the Court through its judgments. They must fall under the law, because regulating the working rules of the Constitutional Tribunal is a constitutional right of parliament. [[Is it different?]] The Court's rulings must also be an assessment of the law... [[Please don't disturb me. Please don't disturb me.]] ... but does not prefer, intentions, emotions or expressions of sympathy for individual people and political parties! The Court is a court of law, not a court of fact, assessing individual cases. The third passage: I was terrified to read the e-mails that had recently been published by the media, showing that both President Rzepliński and Vice President Biernat were aware that they were breaking the law, that they were taking such cooperation with the authorities, that they were crossing the border, which the judges were not allowed to cross. I was also reminded of the call for major institutional and legal changes not to be made in the country in the end of the term of office, which President Andrzej Duda issued at the time of the receipt of the election certificate in the State Election Commission. If the Platform really respected democracy and the judges of the Constitutional Tribunal were guardians of the Constitution, such changes would be avoided. [[Voice from the room: Don't read this...]] Another, fourth fragment... [[Where is it, Network?]] Another example: the constitution clearly speaks... [[Mr. Senator, I'm so sorry. Ladies and gentlemen, as you have had speeches, no one has disturbed you. Quiet, please.]] [[Talking in the O.R.]] Thank you, Mrs. Marshal... [[But we're done talking.]] [[Voice from the room: What difference does it make?]] [[But, Senator, I don't think this discussion is appropriate. You can talk your way out of it, you can read it, you can quote the senator. Please remain calm.]] I understand that Senator Zientarski's comments to women and women who perform important public functions are offensive, and I take it that's an insult. [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[Mr. Senator!]] Because I'm quoting your judge. [[Mr. Senator, you're overinterpreting your remarks. Quiet, please.]] Let me continue, the fourth passage: another example: the constitution clearly states that the tribunal consists of 15 judges. Only the special circumstances set out in the Act, which have not now occurred, may limit this composition. Today, they decide, by arbitrary decision of the Court's authorities, only 12 judges. Another, fifth piece. The journalist's question: The Constitutional Tribunal breaks the constitution? Answer: Unfortunately, the Court is breaking the constitution. Question: "But he gives judgment." No, it's so-called. non-judgments. [[Talking in the O.R.]] There is such a legal concept. If, for example, the general court will give an incorrect judgment, and the higher court will abolish the proceedings. He doesn't, but he does. The case goes back to reconsidering. This rule is obvious throughout the legal system. The procedures are important, without their observance the judiciary will also be distorted and distorted. Today, the tribunal is in exactly this situation. The three judges elected by Parliament, duly sworn, are deprived of the right to rule, which makes the actions of the Constitutional Tribunal unlawful. Moreover, these three are also to be deprived of the possibility to participate in the work of the General Assembly of Judges of the Court, which is completely undefensible. Nor is it envisaged for these judges to participate in the procedure for the election of the new President of the Constitutional Tribunal. This also makes this choice illegal. The journalist's question is, yes, another case on the horizon. The majority of the Court intends to intervene in such a way as to ensure that it is able to elect a President. The judge's answer is "Yes." Currently, the Act states that the General Assembly of Judges of the Court identifies three candidates. And all of a sudden, it's supposed to be unconstitutional. No one really knows why such a conclusion is being pushed, but that is what is being done. Question: "According to the President of Rzepliński, each candidate for President must have the support of eight judges." Answer: "But again, where did he come up with this requirement? There's no law based on that. No law. This is another concept instantly invented just to make the desired result at the end. Question: "Does all of this make the assembly lawful at all?" Are you going to authorize this illegal procedure? It's a perverted result. Answer: "I fear that it is precisely the perversion of the outcome that is involved, that the power of the Court should be usurped even when important factors affecting the final outcome of this procedure have changed. I share your concerns. End of quote. There is politics, great politics and constitutional law. Thank you. [[Talking in the O.R.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-18-senat-27-3.u120	Thank you very much. And please take the floor... [[Talking in the O.R.]] Quiet, please. Quiet. You said yourself this was serious, so... [[Talking in the O.R.]] Senator Jerzy Czerwinski. Please, Mr. Senator. [[Talking in the O.R.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-18-senat-27-3.u121	Mrs. Marshal! Mr. President! High Izbo! The title of the information we are considering is information about the significant problems arising from the activities and case law of the Constitutional Tribunal in 2015. Question: What is the most important problem that was in 2015? Unfortunately, the Constitutional Tribunal itself has provided for this problem. Of course, then the Civic Platform took over. You've been evaluated by the voter. You've been judged by the voters. We leave it on the side. [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[Voices from the O.R.: Here we are.]] [[Here we are.]] Like a commune, we were and will be. [[Ladies and gentlemen, discussion doesn't mean you're going into polemics. Listen to the senator's speech.]] That's it. As you wish. But we really should take care of the Constitutional Tribunal... [[Talking in the O.R.]] ...and the actions of some of his representatives. I, in my questions to the President, addressed to him both today and at the meeting of the Legislative Commission, tried to get the point of what really happened. You knew what had happened, because emails came out pretty recently. At least three people in your group are called those who were aware of what the policy of the Civic Platform might end with, are gmeraning around the Court, fixing it like an alarm clock with a hammer and a cutter. Ladies and gentlemen, this is what I resent about you, and your president, too, and your vice-president, that you did not warn the public in time, knowing that. Not much, you've witnessed it, you've witnessed it, you've witnessed it, but you've witnessed it. You did not respond in time during this unfortunate meeting of the joint committees, which introduced this most important provision on 12 May. A recipe that became the beginning of this stone avalanche. The avalanche that's still falling. That is, the provision which allowed the parliamentary majority of the previous term of office of the Sejm to elect 5 persons to serve as judge of the Constitutional Tribunal in breach of the Constitution. The fact that the same Court later stated on 3 December that 2 people were elected in breach of the Constitution and 3 were vacating positions according to the same Court on 3 December was already an indirect issue. Why? Because the Court spoke in its case. That's one thing. Secondly, this judgment raises very fundamental doubts. I have asked the President today about these doubts, but unfortunately I have not received clear answers. It's gonna be on the record, so we can get back to that. The first doubt concerning this judgment of 3 December is contained in the question whether the Court can express its views on facts, concrete facts, and not on the right to which it was created. I didn't get a clear answer. The fact that it was in some way also prepared by our colleagues from the Platform, because they were the authors of this episodeal recipe. This periodical provision and the scope of the Court's judgment have caused the Court to comment on the facts. Doubtful second. How can the Court express itself in a clear way if it says the facts, as I said in the past? If the sentence were to fall in summer or autumn, it would have a completely different character, it could not have been the same as in December, December 3rd, because then it was not clear, it was not known when the elections would be when the next term of office of the Sejm, i.e. VIII, would begin. the term of office when the previous term of office of the Sejm, or VII, ends A term of office. It just wasn't clear back then. Can the judgment of the Constitutional Tribunal therefore depend on the time it is given? It's a basic issue. I didn't get an answer to that question. The only answer I got was that President Duda was guilty because he didn't sue in time. Mr. President, I was hoping for more, really. That was the answer. Next line. Here we are actually getting to the basics, to those things that I think are basic. Why did the Constitutional Tribunal say this with all its responsibility? It took the opportunity to issue judgments of complex operative part, scope, interpretation, legal and application gaps? That's probably the fourth kind. I do not see in the Constitution the possibility of such judgments. One of the senators has just said very rightly that the Court's action is very simple: here is the constitution, here is the law. [[I'm the one who said it.]] Yes, very good. Of course, I approve. And now the question is simple. Is that consistent or inconsistent? But the Court says much more: to some extent compatible and to some extent incompatible, as we understand it, compatible or incompatible. However, the Court is not authorised to interpret the law. He took that right himself. On what grounds and was he allowed to do so? The position of the Constitutional Court in our system, in our current constitution, is clear, the judgments of the Court are virtually indisputable. Well, if the Court were a gathering of wise men, such a formulation was here, who never were wrong, who did not transfer their views, who are apolitical, impartial, then of course... Give us, God, a collection of such wise men. But it was in 2015 that he clearly demonstrated that he was not. This convention, the decline in the Court's support seen in the public opinion polls, appeared mainly because the Court failed to fulfil the role of the Constitution. He's just not a gathering of wise men. He might be wrong. If there had been a two-way procedure here, as is the case in the administration, throughout the general courts, even at the Court of State, perhaps it would have been different. The second instance, extended, would comment on the Court's first instance judgments. Except it's not. The judgment is irrevocable, please note, even if any nonsense is written in this judgment or for example. Nothing will be written, as was the case with the judgment of December 3. The fact that these three people have been elected in accordance with the constitution is not justified in this judgment, it is given just by themselves, by faith, and I simply do not believe it. I want a reason for that. None of you, because I've asked this from this speaker three times, was able to justify, prove to me that these three people were elected in accordance with the constitution. You have five more minutes, you can refer to it, any one of you. Let's get back to the point. Embezzlement of a certain category of judgments, provided that the Court is infallible. Why was that? Well, those who designed the constitution were then settled by the Constitutional Tribunal. It was supposed to be that body, that last fuse, that safety switch that's always down there, in every building, and when it's all on fire, you have to turn it over. The Constitutional Tribunal had until a certain point fulfilled... well, maybe not so much as it did outside of this role, it was not used for it. But those who designed this constitution, who passed it, are practically no longer in this parliament. Notice, this is a relic of the past. This competence is some kind of fossil. [[Voices from the hall: No, we're...]] [[There's still a few of us here.]] [[Talking in the O.R.]] But not mostly. I wouldn't want to, of course... I wish you, as I say, the best possible future, as long as possible. But not mostly... These political forces Maybe I'll get back to that. It's the SLD, the PSL, the Union of Freedom... well, I don't know if it's the Democratic Union or the Union of Freedom... [[AWS.]] The AWS didn't make it. Ladies and gentlemen, those who have passed this constitution have flown... maybe not so much to the trash can of history as they have been... are out of the story. And the constitution is still in force. And that tool they created was creatively used by the Civic Platform with the outhouses. Well, that's how you used it, that you drowned the Constitutional Tribunal yourself. His... [[Anything specific?]] It's pretty specific all the time. His behavior, that is, the Court, maybe partly coerced, but also culpable, is not a complete case. This is also cooperation with you. And that's the inheritance. on an equal level of social support, this is a fundamental conclusion. The fact that, unfortunately, the Court is misplaced at the moment... Perhaps for some time he was not perceived by society at all, he was quite an alienated institution in society, but now he is shown as the one who unfortunately spoils the state... [[Voices from the hall: Well, shown, but...]] ...and which unfortunately stands in the way of the necessary reforms. [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[Quiet, please.]] It is clear that this problem of the Court of Justice is the Court itself. It's the Court itself, plus helpers like the Civic Platform. And the last digression. If any of you would like to see how our judges from the Court Mr Biernat, President Rzepliński, sat at the committee meeting and did not speak... [[Time, Mr. Senator. Time.]] ...and they didn't speak, they didn't respond to non-constitutional regulations and their introduction by the Civic Platform, I say: it's all in the archives, ladies and gentlemen. It won't erase any more. It's in the archives. They didn't signal that these laws were against the constitution. Thank you. [[Applause]] [[Because you can't...]] [[Talking in the O.R.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-18-senat-27-3.u122	Thank you very much. Please, Senator Robert Dowhan. Second appearance, then, five minutes, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-18-senat-27-3.u123	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Honourable Mr. Chairman! I'm determined to protest. These words that the Constitutional Tribunal is spoiling you are unworthy of this place and unworthy of this speaker, Senator. I'm really sorry to hear that. It's kind of a psychic thing to say here today. Just as I wish they would live long and set an example for those people who, as you say, have already left for a lame man. But they didn't leave because there's Marshal Borusewicz, there's Professor Rzepliński and there's other people. So I wouldn't hide them today... [[Voice from the room: Rulewski...]] It's Rulewski, it's Fedora, of course. I wouldn't hide them today because they're living and setting a great example. And it's a good thing they're alive because somebody else can say the opposite of what you and the others said here today. I would like to refer to my colleague, Senator Jan Maria Jackowski, on such a burning occasion. I'm not gonna read, but there's something I need to support, because I don't want you to... I don't know, Mrs. Marshal, if you don't mind me asking. Perhaps you will answer me at a break, as you have quoted for a long time, Mrs Przyłębska will today reconcile her work at the Constitutional Court with the work of her husband, who recently became an ambassador in Germany. That, too... [[Voices from the room: It's a coincidence. It's just a coincidence.]] It's a coincidence, yes, it's a coincidence. This is certainly an honorable function in the country, a function that is very important to us. I think... [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[Ladies and gentlemen... Ladies and gentlemen, please be quiet.]] I think it can be reconciled. And tonight... I do not attend the meetings of the Parliament committees, and I think most of us do not either, but, as we know, the members of the Committee on Justice and Human Rights have debated the Constitutional Tribunal. [[Talking in the O.R.]] Fedor, Mr. Senator... I know you have a loud voice... [[I'm sorry.]] Today, members of the Senate committee have been debating for a very long time. And so listening to Senator Jackowski's statement... Do you consider that the High House believes that what has been adopted today by a majority of the Law and Justice has been adopted, e.g. allowing three judges to rule, severe disciplinary penalties, which has not yet been... The draft more detailed than the Act on the Court of Justice regulates the rules for the waiver of immunity by a general meeting, possible disciplinary penalties, etc., etc. Another case A court not for seventy-year-olds. Seventy-year-old is a really mature man, a man with a baggage of experience, a man who often writes wonderful professor's works, reviews these works, and today 70-year-olds are cut off. Is there a group of people that's gonna be a threat that's gonna enter that age? It's incomprehensible to me. You want to reduce your age by two years. So why don't we just lower it to 70 years now that people are no longer productive? [[Mr. Senator, this is about a bill that hasn't yet entered the Senate.]] It didn't. And the funny thing is, as I read, is that the rules are set by a non-existent code. The judges of the Court would be liable disciplinaryly not only for the violation of the law, for the failure of the office of the judge, but also for the violation of the code of ethics of the judge of the Constitutional Tribunal, a code which is not yet available. I don't know if you've heard of it. I'm sorry I made a mistake about my age, because I'm 70-year-olds with 60-year-olds who are wrong... Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-18-senat-27-3.u124	Mr. Senator, time's up... Thank you. Senator Marek Borowski. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-18-senat-27-3.u125	Mrs. Marshal! High Senate! I will refer to Senator Czerwinski's remark that from that Sejm that passed the constitution, no one or almost no one is left. What I'm saying is that from the body that passed the Constitution of the United States, there's no one left. [[Joy in the Chamber]] [[Applause]] So I would suggest not to use such arguments. I understand that you also meant that they were other political forces, that there are other political forces now, but that is the beauty of democracy. Constitutions, which are in many democratic countries, are, however, sustainable, even though some political forces are already glowing to look for. So maybe this isn't the way. But unlike Senator Jackowski, who gave us here a reading of the statements of Judge Przyłębska... She has the right to have her views on this matter, I just want to be clear. And you know that. That this is an extremely minority view. This view is not shared by the Polish legal bodies, from lawyers, lawyers, to the Supreme Court, associations of judges. Also, former constitutional judges do not share this view. Finally, this view is not shared by the Venice Commission, which is not, as some of you say, an assembly of left-wings or biased dudes, but by an assembly of outstanding law experts. I would add, by the way, that this last opinion was taken by a majority against one vote of opposition. Who opposed it? Hungarian representative. Well, I'm not gonna comment on that. Everyone else, including the Visegrad Group that we cherished, including the members of this committee from the Czech Republic and Slovakia, voted in favour. So that's not an argument, Senator, that judge Julia Przyłębska has that view. That's not an argument. This must be considered together with other arguments. As I said, the vast majority do not think so. I know the views of Senator Czerwiński and I thank him for his speech, because it was undoubtedly a substantive speech. It is a pity that we are not discussing it in this way, but your political camp is still trying to destroy this Court, as if by avenging, as if trying to punish it for the fact that, as you say, He didn't do the right thing. This is the wrong way. That's not how we're gonna solve this. All those laws that paralyzed the Court It was known in advance that he would not be able to rule simply They were somebody's ideas. Well, not yours, of course. I even guess whose, except that they were signed by the Law and Justice and presented as an attempt to repair reality. So we're not gonna get anywhere like this. You raise here issues relating to, you can say, the powers of the Court and ask on what basis He makes such decisions, not other decisions. I think these are real problems. I don't think it's invented problems, except these are issues that need to be discussed. This discussion may be called for, but it must be considered that until the case is decided otherwise, the Court's decisions are final decisions. Because if we adopt another option, that is, if we don't like the Court's decision But not in a substantive sense, just because it was taken on an unknown basis, etc., etc. We will not recognise it and we will start changing it with laws, which will lead to anarchy. So, at the moment, I am not going into argument with you as to whether the Court's substantive decisions are justified or unfounded. I believe that they were often useful, only that even if I had doubts about it, I would still respect the judgments of the Court. That's got to be the rule. As regards the issues relating to the participation of the Court's judges in the drafting of this law, we have already had this debate here. Here you stood, Minister Ziobro, who accused the judges that they had passed this bill, and then they were judges in their own case, and that it was not acceptable at all, and that it was not happening anywhere. Then from there I said: yes, indeed. Professor Safjan, who is a member of the European Court of Justice, said that the judges of the European Court of Justice are taking part in the adoption of the Act on the European Court of Justice. You didn't say condescendingly, Minister Ziobro, you, Mr. Marshal, are probably not a lawyer, so you may not know this, but I will explain it to you. Then he explained and said that it was absolutely not. Well, I'd like to let you know that I've been waiting for this opportunity for a good few months. As regards the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and the Statute of the European Court of Justice, this is defined as follows: The European Parliament and the Council shall act on a proposal from the Court of Justice and after consulting the Commission or on a proposal from the Commission and after consulting the Court of Justice and amending the Statute. It even says here, legally, that it is impossible for the Court of Justice to act on it without the participation of the Court of Justice. [[It's obvious.]] I took part in these meetings, and I know what it looked like. Just like Professor Rzepliński said. They were asked, of course they were speaking, explaining why, let's say, the rules on the functioning of the Court... That's where he went. about which cases are dealt with in a three-person composition to make it quicker and so on. That's understandable. These are the people who work there. But if you make an accusation that they knew about it, they were so convinced that the rule about this choice of judges is bad... These e-mails, as I recall, showed that they thought he was just bad. If so, they should point out that he's unconstitutional. Gentlemen, you have to decide something: either you have accusations against the judges of the Court that they are writing a bill saying what to write at every point, etc., or you make them pay attention to... well, one of the two. I would be surprised if President Rzepliński or President Biernat, who were there at the time, suddenly spoke and said: please, this provision is unconstitutional. [[Before the ruling...]] Oh, no, let's just cut it out. They were in a difficult situation. They realized that this recipe could cause problems, but they weren't allowed to interfere at this point. They're just not allowed to interfere. The case, Mr. Senator Czerwinski, should be arranged, so to speak, in God's name. I ignore the fact that Mr Duda, of course, could have filed a motion... Okay, but he didn't report it. It was declared by Law and Justice. After all, she filed a complaint against this bill... Many things, including the issue of this provision, have been raised. And what happened? [[They've withdrawn.]] Yeah, well, they pulled it off. So as if they ignored the Court, they considered that they did not need the Court. If the Civic Platform has made a mistake and has committed a mistake, there is no doubt about it. And he's admitting it today. It's... the law and justice have decided to play the case sideways, not directly. And that's why if we're talking about when this crisis started, who's to blame and so on... I think that both of these main forces should hit their chests, and PiS even more, because then he started completely disregarding the Court and putting up various... The judges of the Court really... [[Time, Mr. Senator.]] I'm almost done. ...slopes were poured out. What was said about them is difficult to repeat. And by the way, the truth has been repeated, even though these cases have been fixed many times. They say they're lazy, for example. Someone divided 64 sentences into 15 judges, and it turned out that everyone was only four. Well, ladies and gentlemen, this Mr. Senator Czerwinski is a mathematician... [[But I didn't say that.]] No, God forbid. [[Mr. Senator, time. You're welcome.]] You're a mathematician, and you know that's not the way to do it. If each case had been dealt with in full, or by 15, it would mean that every judge would have to deal with 64 sentences. Right? You can't just divide 64 by 15. [[Maybe there's a pattern.]] [[Mr. Senator, time.]] It's just one example of how it happened. Thank you very much. And write me up for the second statement. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-18-senat-27-3.u126	Good. Senator Leszek Czarnobaj. You're welcome. [[The meeting is chaired by Vice-Marshal Adam Bielan]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-18-senat-27-3.u127	So I don't make a mistake. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Mr. President! Sorry about my vote. I'll try to be brief. I also wrote down what you said to Marshal Borowski. Mr. Senator, first of all... That's what the senator presented. We may be different, but there's a certain level of conversation. And it's a pity this empty hall And only the voice of Senator Jackowski, to whom I am about to address It's causing something completely different. We stopped talking to each other. Last week he was in Kwidzyn, my beloved city, a fantastic lecture by Professor Krzeminski, who said one thing about the history of the "Solidarity" that this ten millionth movement taught Poles to talk, to argue until morning, to talk. And that's what made a product. Meanwhile, today is the other way around. The product is coming to you. Sorry about the comparison. And you're defending this product. And you defend him the way you defend him. This is also the case with the Constitutional Tribunal. If we were to follow the line of thought that Senator Borowski said, then, as I understand it, that Christ is already dead, we should change the Decalogue. And this, Mr. Senator, would be a continuation of your thinking that if those who are... [[Moses.]] Moses, Christ, whoever... [[Let's hold on to Moses.]] [[Joy in the Chamber]] [[Moses.]] All those who took part in the construction... [[From the Book of Exodus...]] Yes. You're gonna have to make a difference... And now, quoting Senator Jackowski... [[Wrong church.]] [[End of quote.]] For balance, I will now read from another weekly: Perhaps soon the students of political science and law will learn about comical authoritarianism, a new form of government carried out in Poland in the middle of the second decade of the 21st century. The communism of this authoritarianism does not, unfortunately, make it harmless. On the contrary, he hides the horror. And it goes on to say that education, foreign policy, judiciary, public media, cultural policy, Miesiewicze, fake tenders, war with women This is the Demolition programme. And such quotations can be invoked, Mr. Senator. And this is not the way to answer the question of what form of functioning in Poland should be adopted in the Polish Parliament. Not questioning what was approved by Poles through a referendum as regards the role of the Constitutional Tribunal in our system... If you look at the 2014 and 2015 report because I made such a comparison You can see that there's a huge difference. A completely different discussion was in relation to 2014, and completely different in relation to 2015. It is here that the role played by the Constitutional Tribunal in the Polish legal system is completely questioned. It's worth going back to these readings and comparing them. Ladies and gentlemen, what Professor Rzepliński said, that there is no state, no economy, no nation, unless the law is respected... Of course, there are many different examples of what this translates to, but I want to tell you so quickly that this legal situation, this state's relationship I'm talking about the current governing team to comply with the law, and also to the Constitutional Tribunal, which means that according to today's statistics from the Polish stock exchange, more than 20 billion have passed away. 65 billion... Ladies and gentlemen, today Polish entrepreneurs have increased their capital in their accounts. And you're asking, is anybody investing? No, no one. Uncertainty, lack of trust, is an important element of the wrong directions in which the Polish state goes. This isn't just about the debate and the dispute between us. It all reflects what is very important from the point of view of Poland's development, namely the economy. If we add to this the fact that there is a decrease in foreign investment in Poland, if we add to it the fact that there is a decrease in the rate of GDP growth... These are already dangerous symptoms for the Polish state. And they do not come from the fact that Poland suddenly became a different country. An important element is among others. that entrepreneurs ask whether the foundation is healthy, and this foundation is among others. application of the law. If we are talking about the fact that one of the important elements is trust, as you know, Poland is in the last place today when it comes to trusting one another. So if we put together that there are completely ruined foundations of the state, and there is no trust in one another, then what economic and socio-economic development we are talking about. The question should be asked: did you want this country, the Senators of Law and Justice? Is that what you want? Is this the good change? And we can change, Mr Senator, what concerns the Constitutional Court and its role in the Polish society, but there is a good way to do this, in short, to approve the new proposals in the referendum, so as not to prolong it. And finally, ladies and gentlemen, one more memory. We just got back from a surveillance mission in Georgia. We visited, among others. election committees. And in one of the electoral committees Probably, as I recall, it was a national union which is currently in opposition, that is, a group of former Prime Minister Saakashvili when we sat with them on this election committee, they complained, please, about such a thing. That today the rulers in Georgia took over all the special forces and used these special services against the opposition. That they've completely taken over public television and called it national to destroy today's opposition. That today's rulers in Georgia threw themselves at the entire judicial apparatus in Georgia, scaring the families of judges to give appropriate sentences. Finally, the chairman of the committee said: imagine that in a country such as Georgia, which is just giving birth, the Constitutional Tribunal began to be destroyed. Well, I wasn't... I said, "Sorry, could you do it again and ask the translator to translate again?" Is it in a European country that the Constitutional Court is being destroyed? Yes. And that's when the arguments started, as the government in Georgia today is destroying the Constitutional Tribunal. And I want to tell you that it was so déjà vu when it comes to my view of this... My fellow Senators from Law and Justice, none of them asked a single question why they do it, how they do it, and why they do it. I would therefore like to end by saying and asking you: reflect on the role that the Polish justice system, including the Constitutional Tribunal, is to play in terms of the stability of the Polish state and in terms of being seen as a predictable state, a country which has a clear and simple law, as a state in which the stability of the judicial authority, the Constitutional Tribunal, is an element supporting the economic development of Poland. And that's what I'd like you to have. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-18-senat-27-3.u128	Thank you. Mr. Marshal, Senator Borowski, second time, so you have five minutes.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-18-senat-27-3.u129	Mr. Marshal! High Senate! I still wanted to refer to one of your statements by Judge Przyłębska, where at the end it refers to the question of the election of the President of the Court, because this issue was addressed by the Venice Commission in connection with the law which was passed on 22 July. The judge says that the requirement that at least 8 judges support the candidates presented to the president is a requirement from the moon, and it's actually unknown why, etc. Well, ladies and gentlemen, the constitution says that the assembly of judges presents their candidacy, presents their candidacy... so far 2, now it's written that 3. That's it. But in what mode does it represent, how does it represent? It's the assembly that has to determine. It's clear. It must be in the assembly regulations. And so it has been for years. And that's the rule book. Notabene, I studied him. Very intelligently thought out. He is thought of as having the majority's support after a number of voting rounds, so to speak, those who have the least votes, then those who are presented to the President, have the support of the majority, because that's what this is all about. The president's been left behind... I wrote that constitution, so I know why. It was about giving the president certain powers. There was such a problem with us that we didn't know whether the president was in charge or not. We have adopted a mixed option in the Constitution. That means we didn't want a president who just hangs the awards or opens and closes the ceremony, we wanted to give him some real powers. One of these powers was the possibility to make a choice, because there were 2 candidates and he decided which of them, only those 2 candidates were candidates of the assembly. The concept of "convenient candidate" means that the assembly supported it. So there can be no situation like this law of July 22, where very clever I can already see in it the hand of prosecutor Peterowicz is written down that everyone has one vote, and the point is that the one who gets less votes can become president. No, just don't. That's what the committee pointed out. What will be the Court's decision? We'll see. Come on, the question of the attorney general's absence. This can't hold back the Court's work. The opinion pointed out that this was the case in the previous law, i.e. It says that the trial takes place in the presence of the Attorney General, and no one questioned it. Yeah, except there was no provision that provided that three judges could request a full-time hearing, and precisely in the case of full-time work of the prosecutor's absence, the case would not be settled. So this shows that the opinion of the Venice Commission is not considered with good will, but rather through the invectives, because what Minister Waszczykowski is saying about this committee is simply a shame. A member of the government shouldn't do that at all. I understand that this can still be done by a Member, because no longer a Senator... [[No, Senator, how did you...]] No, the senator doesn't. But a member of the government? Ladies and gentlemen, now a case that is constantly raised, constantly. Namely, the point is that our constitution states that the functioning of the Court, specifically the procedure and procedure of proceedings before the Court of Justice, is governed by the law. Therefore, here you go, the Sejm passed the bill and do it. Senator Orzechowska didn't understand that, but she asked me how it... Mr. President said how to rule when you can't rule. The senator didn't understand. She said, "No, no, you have to comply with this law first, and then maybe you'll find it unconstitutional. Well, ladies and gentlemen, there was an offer. After all, there was such a proposal, even at some point it was passed. That the Court's judgments be delivered by a majority of 2/3 of the votes. Yes? Now, please, let's assume that the Court accepts this law with the benefit of the inventory and starts judging it, based on the fact that it must be 2/3 of the votes. There's no 2/3 of the vote, and it turns out she's constitutional. Yes? [[Voice from the courtroom: But the Court...]] But he couldn't judge her because he had to have a 2/3. Yes? It best shows the absurdity of such reasoning. There's no bill... The Constitution states that each law is subject to an assessment of compliance with the Constitution, each, including the Constitutional Tribunal. And the principle of cooperation between the authorities, which is enshrined in the Constitution, the statement that the authorities work together, i.e. they act in good faith, I repeat, in good faith, is that when a law is passed, which concerns the Constitutional Tribunal, it must be adopted, e.g. With the right vacathio legis, so the Court can judge her... [[Of course.]] ...not so he can't judge her, and then he's required to follow her. [[Mr. Marshal...]] I'm almost done. This shows that the Court must judge such laws and should not write sneaky laws, write laws which aim to bring the Court and citizens into the field. And that's the last of it, shorty. There was a polemic on the resolution of May 2015 P 46/13. The point is that the Court has found that administrative decisions which have been taken with a gross violation of the law cannot be touched, and that this is wrong, because there is now a reprivatisation issue and these decisions need to be touched. This is a misunderstanding. The Court merely stated that there must be a period... Ladies and gentlemen, what is a sitting? I mean, somebody who, for example, doesn't. wrongly moved in or took a field, after 60 years this is a long time ago He has the right to do so. What are we gonna do about agricultural reform? If we consider, for example, that that decision was unlawful, will we take the land away from the peasants? [[Mr. Marshal...]] Oh, no, there's got to be a limit. It may be a long line, but it has to be. And that's all the Court said. And unfortunately, and this is the last sentence, Mr. Marshal, I promise you solemnly... [[You've been promising that for three minutes.]] Unfortunately, at today's press conference, President Jarosław Kaczyński used this example and stated that this is exactly what the judgments of the Court are. And it is a sentence that is most valid and legitimate, has nothing to do with reprivatization, which can be touched and there is no problem at all. I don't know who told the president that you could stick to that sentence. I suspect it was either Minister Ziobro or Minister Jak, but we have specialists. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-18-senat-27-3.u130	Thank you very much. Senator Augustine. It's also a second time, isn't it? So five minutes.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-18-senat-27-3.u131	Mr. Marshal! Mr. President! I have noted some of the points in this discussion, but they cannot be addressed. It was not by chance as a long-standing senator that I felt that I was partly addressed to some statements, charges. It has been said here that the Constitutional Tribunal has proved to be biased, overly political. This was mentioned in a number of arguments on this subject. I fully agree that this was not the case. I would like to draw your attention to another very important aspect that has not been mentioned here. Ladies and gentlemen, the President said that, naturally, when assessing the legislation of a given authority, the Court most often becomes - If he has a problem with that, he's gonna have a problem with it. On the side of others who have reservations, e.g. The opposition. Ladies and gentlemen, if someone asked what it was like for the presidents of Rzepliński, I would assure you that these were the times of the rule of the Civic Platform and almost all the judgments under appeal concerned laws taken by the Civic Platform, so saying that the Court was on the side of the Civic Platform is, of course, aware of the repeated misrepresentation of people. What's more, the taste of the whole thing adds that in these years This country, as Law and Justice, was in opposition. If you were to follow up on who was actually suing the Constitutional Tribunal for these Civil Platform laws, and it often turned out that it was right. You would notice that the Platform's laws were challenged by law and justice. And if you ask me what this attitude is called... Yeah, it's called hypocrisy. In a pure form. Ladies and gentlemen, I was just talking about Lech Kaczyński. Some of the senators came out offended. I apologized because I didn't mean to offend people, but I was talking about some doubts. Ladies and gentlemen, you glorify the character of Lech Kaczyński, but in a situation where the Constitutional Tribunal was tried to be attacked at the time, for his presidency, he had the courage not to cross that border, speak out and oppose at least some ideas. So is that just an inconsistency? And finally, ladies and gentlemen... You also mentioned here that Platform 1 broke the Court Act. Right. In part, the Constitutional Tribunal ruled that the rules were unconstitutional. You sued them, then you pulled out of it. But, ladies and gentlemen, the repair cycle you started is simply a mockery of the rule of law. They're mocking. And those words must, unfortunately, be said here. And finally, ladies and gentlemen, perhaps we should try to answer the question of why this is happening. It seems to me that observing what is happening around the Court leads us to understand what the word "usurpation" means. Because if someone thinks that it is not the ruling of the Constitutional Tribunal, only the President's will decides, contrary to the Constitution, who is and who is not a judge, if someone thinks that it is the publication of the ruling that determines what is right and what is not, contrary to the Constitution, it is usurpation, it is the granting of the powers that no one has given. I know that the word "suwieren" is often repeated. Every authority, especially authoritarian authority, is trying to legitimize itself. It used to be the working class that gave some people the right to make decisions that... [[Mr. Senator, it's been five minutes.]] I'm almost done. ...they were in a common sense against the sense of justice and against the law. Today, such a veil is the will of the sovereign. That's why I came out on the stand to make those words come out here. Maybe it's strong, but I think it's revealing the essence of things. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-18-senat-27-3.u132	Thank you very much. Senator Oremski has applied for the discussion.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-18-senat-27-3.u133	Just a few notes. I listened to Mr. Marek Borowski, I listened to this longing for the Constitution of the United States and I would say this: I would like our constitution to last 200 years. I know the Constitution of the United States was created a little differently. I mean, there was a huge philosophical effort of great figures, but it was also another time, because democracy was just being created. Poland has already benefited from the experience of many countries. Perhaps because of this, our constitution is also burdened with shortcomings of other constitutional standards, i.e. it is chatty. Moreover, in the Supreme Court of the United States, there was often a very turbulent discussion through which the United States had overinterpreted the constitution. I mean, the lately deceased Scalia opposed such a reading of the Constitution: what would the Constitution's creators mean if they were living now; and expanding interpretations. [[President of the Constitutional Tribunal Andrzej Rzepliński: Inversely.]] [[Voices from the room: Inverse.]] [[The other way around. And it's not about, because the topic is the Constitutional Tribunal.]] [[Calm down, please.]] I mean, I'm pretty sure I'm sticking to the subject as much as you gentlemen are. I was listening to the discussion. It seems to me that in a situation where we are dealing with the Court's verdict, which is irreversible, which is true and binding, there is a problem that we may face a logically contradictory situation. What do we have then? Every time you agree to what the Court has decided? No. There is a formula that the creators of our constitution invented, knowingly or not, that there is this paragraph about the need for a law that will regulate the work of the Constitutional Tribunal. I have the impression that the Sejm and the Senate accept how the Court is to be organised, and the Court every time determines whether it is constitutional or non-constitutional, it is a very dangerous process. I think this is exactly where the Venice Commission can come in and say: the ruling party, the parties that you have the majority, you exaggerate, and in this way you are incapacitated, for example. The Constitutional Tribunal. But I don't think that's the job that the Constitutional Tribunal should be doing, because that's what this paragraph is made of. 22, no way out. [[Okay, the committee comes in and is ignored.]] And now they're saying that the Platform made a mistake and apologized. I have a feeling we don't call certain things by name. I was there a year ago... and I was convinced that this was an action, I'm sorry, for the rhyme, i.e. That someone drove into the bus stop on purpose and then said, "I'm sorry." [[What is it now?]] No... Okay, let's just call some things by name on both sides. And in the end, I would like to say that I always listen to Mr. Leszek Czarnobaj with great attention, and I think we always have a good conversation, a call for a conversation is very good for me, just to ask if you are entitled to say that the total opposition has been broken. Well, there's a problem here. I think it is necessary to talk, maybe it is not too late to fill in some division, which is in Poland and can get worse, and maybe even more after November 11th. [[One sentence I need.]] [[Voice from the room: No...]] [[Jurek, come on.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-18-senat-27-3.u134	Thank you very much. [[Talking in the O.R.]] Senator Czarnobaj for the second time, five minutes.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-18-senat-27-3.u135	Two minutes, Mr. Marshal. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! What Senator Oremski was talking about... Of course, I'm not authorized to declare, but since we're having this discussion, we're talking, I can say I'm sensing an atmosphere of openness. us for what concerns cooperation in the field of lawmaking. This is not a sociological or otherwise. I simply declare, on behalf of my political group, my willingness to cooperate on law, law enforcement and law-making. So if the Constitutional Court Act is to be amended, that's the right way to go, we're gonna go that way, and that's what we're gonna do. Finally, I would just like to explain to my colleagues my comparison of Christ. I would like to make it clear that even Christ has not changed the Ten Commandments, and when he died, we do not change them either. There is a right and there is the right mode to change it. And I would just like to declare once again that when it comes to the level of cooperation, please, Dear Jark, we are ready to cooperate. [[May I?]] [[The voice from the hall: Oh, Jesus!]] [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[It's over, thank you.]] [[Mr. Secretary, may I?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-18-senat-27-3.u136	Yes, you're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-18-senat-27-3.u137	It's hard... I didn't speak, I listened to the whole discussion, not from the chair, but from the monitors... [[Voice from the room: From the bed.]] [[The voice from the room: The bed looks different...]] Thank you for your kindness, Senator. You're wrong, Senator. Christ did not die, and as you do not know the basis of religion, it is difficult for you to understand. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] Thank you very much. [[Joy in the Chamber]] [[Mr. Senator, Christ died, only rose from the dead.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-18-senat-27-3.u138	I inform you that the list of speakers has been exhausted. For the record, Senator Czesław Ryszka made his speech in the discussion for the minutes. The discussion is closed. [[Talking in the O.R.]] Would the President of the Constitutional Tribunal, Mr Andrzej Rzepliński, like to take the floor and comment on the senators' speeches in the discussion? [[Talking in the O.R.]] Mr. President, do you still wish to speak? No. I thank the President of the Constitutional Tribunal for providing the Senate with information. I state that the Senate took note of the important problems arising from the activities and case law of the Constitutional Tribunal in 2015. I would like to inform you that the agenda for the twenty-seventh Senate meeting has been exhausted. The next, twenty-eighth, Senate sitting will begin tomorrow at 11 a.m. The meeting was extended by 21 October 2016, i.e. Friday. We proceed to senators' statements outside the agenda. I inform you senators that the statements made to the minutes will be included in the official version of the short-term report. Declarations may not last more than 5 minutes. The statement may include matters relating to the implementation of the mandate, but may not relate to matters on the agenda of the current Senate meeting. [[Talking in the O.R.]] Quiet, please. The Marshal will refuse to accept unsubstantiated statements which cannot be established or which the Senator's announcement would not be possible within the time available, i.e. within 5 minutes. There is no discussion on the senator's statement. Would any of your senators like to speak? [[Yes.]] You're welcome, Senator. [[The first was Senator Czerwiński.]] Excuse me, the first one was Senator Czerwinski, you're welcome, and you're the Senator right after.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-18-senat-27-3.u139	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I am sending my statement to the Opole Voivodeship. Dear Mr. Voivode! In the winter of January 1945, the Southern Opole was marched by death. The columns of prisoners from KL Auschwitz-Birkenau and its sub-camps in Gliwice, Jaworzno, Sosnowiec, Siemianowice, Blaclinowice and Sławęcych crossed the territory of today's shooting, kędzierzyńsko-kozielski, Głubczycki, Prudnicki and Nysa districts. To date, few material souvenirs of this gehenna have been preserved in the area, and there are also the last witnesses of those events. I ask that your voivode be involved in a worthy commemoration of these events, both in material form. For example, setting up a national memory trail together with the IPN, renovating and building new commemorations, as well as in the form of educational activities such as the organisation of occasional events, competitions, exhibitions, etc. These proposed initiatives are particularly important in Opole, where the Polish state is still being challenged, trying to rewrite the history of World War II, replacing the roles of executioners and victims. He made proposals in this area several times during the proceedings of the Opolskie voivodship councilman Andrzej Mazur. Unfortunately, for more than 10 years, the Seym coalition has been ruling. The Civic Platform, the Polish People's Party and the German Minority were deaf to these appeals. Only you, as a representative of the government in the field, can react properly and restore Opolan's memory of the truth about that time. With respect, Senator Jerzy Czerwiński of the Republic of Poland.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-18-senat-27-3.u140	Thank you very much. Senator Frost.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-18-senat-27-3.u141	Mr. Marshal! My statement is addressed to Mr Andrzej Adamczyk, Minister of Infrastructure and Construction. Dear Minister, My senator's office in Jelenia Góra has been asked to intervene by a disabled person with a disability decision who has been assigned to social housing. This person pointed out to me the problem of not regulating housing standards in social premises for people with disabilities in legal regulations. In the light of the current legal provisions in the Act on the Protection of the Rights of Tenants, the Housing Stock and the amendment of the Civil Code, the social establishment is defined as a residence suitable for residence due to the equipment and technical condition of which the room area per tenant's household member may not be less than 5 m2 and, in the case of a single household, 10 m2, which may be of a reduced standard. These provisions do not provide for an increase in room surface standards in the social premises for people with disabilities. For a disabled person there is room space 5 m2 as for any other person. For other categories of premises, no minimum surface standards have been set at all. People with disabilities due to their illness often require more space. The absence of statutory provisions in this regard condemns them to the good or bad will of local government officials who may, but do not have to, grant a disabled person a larger length of the apartment. I am therefore addressing the Minister with the following questions. Firstly, do you see the possibility of amending the laws in this respect in order to guarantee a higher standard of room space in social premises for disabled people? Secondly, do you see the need to set minimum room surface standards for disabled people in other types of premises? Sincerely, Krzysztof Frost. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-18-senat-27-3.u142	Thank you very much, Senator. Would any of your senators like to speak again? No. I ask Senator Secretary to read the messages. [[Voice from the room: No messages.]] There's no messages. I would like to inform you that the minutes of the twenty-seventh Senate meeting of the Republic of Poland IX term will be made available to the senators within 30 days of the Senate meeting at the Senate Office in room 255. The twenty-seventh session of the Senate of the Republic of Poland of the IXth term of office is closed. [[The Vice Marshal strikes three times with a marshal's cane]] [[End of session at 19 minutes 06]]
