ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-17-senat-30-3.u1	Resume session. We're going back to... [[Talking in the O.R.]] We would like to return to the examination of the third item of the agenda: the Act on the status of judges of the Constitutional Tribunal. [[Talking in the O.R.]] Gentlemen of the Senators! [[Voices from the hall: Shh...]] We've already started. Mr. Senator Klich and Mr. Marshal Borusewicz... We've already started, gentlemen! I can't use a chick right now. [[Joy in the Chamber]] [[Voice from the room: Thank you very much.]] The session was interrupted by a meeting of the Committee on Human Rights, the Rule of Law and Petitions, which responded to the proposals put forward during the debate and prepared a report on the matter. It is in print No 321 Z. I would ask the rapporteur, Senator Rafał Ambrozik, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-17-senat-30-3.u2	Mr. Marshal! High Senate! The Committee on Human Rights, Rule of Law and Petitions at its meeting on 17 November 2016 discussed the proposals made during the debate on 16 November this year on the Statute of Judges of the Constitutional Tribunal and presents the following position to the High Senate: The High Senate is pleased to accept the proposals set out in points 3, 5, 6, 7, 10, 11, 13, 14, 15, 18 and 19. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-17-senat-30-3.u3	Thank you very much. Do the senators of the applicants still want to speak? In the course of the discussion, you submitted proposals to Marshal Bogdan Borusewicz, Senator Piotr Florek and Senator Zbigniew Cichoń. No. Thank you. We'll proceed with the vote. In the first place, a vote will be taken on the proposal to reject the law and then, if the proposal is rejected, on the amendments tabled. We proceed with the vote on the motion of the senator, Marshal Bogdan Borusewicz, to reject the bill. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? [[Voice from the room: Yet the applicant...]] The applicant, we'll wait... Okay. Please report the results. 80 senators voted against, 25 against, 55 against. [[Voting No 30]] The motion to reject the law was rejected. In view of the rejection of the motion to reject the law, we are voting on the amendments tabled. Amendment 1 removes from the law a provision which entails the establishment of a service relationship between the judge of the Court of Justice and the taking of the oath and provides that, after the oath has been taken, the judge is required to appear at the Court and the President of the Court must enable him to fulfil his duties as judge. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 80 senators voted, 25 for, 54 against, 1 abstention. [[Voting No 31]] Amendment 1 was rejected. Amendments 2, 8, 12 and 16 should be voted on together and the adoption of these amendments excludes voting on Amendments 3, 7, 13, 14 and 15. Amendments 2, 8 and 16 on which we are voting together... And number 12 isn't here... [[Voice from the room: It's...]] [[...there's amendment 12.]] Oh, come on, good. Okay, I'm sorry. Amendments 2, 8 and 16 include the proposal to delete the rules relating to the Code of Ethics of the Judge of the Constitutional Tribunal and Amendment 12 abolishes the restrictions imposed on the Judge of the Court at rest. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 82 senators voted against, 25 against, 57 against. [[Voting No 32]] Amendments 2, 8, 12 and 16 were rejected. Amendment 3 aims to eliminate the general reference to separate provisions and to identify the authority within which the Code of Ethics of the Judge of the Constitutional Tribunal falls. Amendment 7 is, in turn, the editorial consequence of a change in the wording of the article. 7. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 82 senators voted, 59 for, 23 against. [[Voting No 33]] Amendments 3 and 7 were accepted. Amendments 4 and 17 should be voted together. Amendment 4 seeks to abolish the obligation to transfer profits obtained by a judge of the Court for holding shares or shares in commercial companies for a public purpose. The related amendment 17 corrects the reference accordingly. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. There were 80 senators voted, 27 for, 52 against, 1 abstention. [[Voting No 34]] Amendments 4 and 17 were rejected. Amendment 5 allows for the collection of profits from shares or shares in commercial companies in a separate bank account, provided that the judge can benefit from them only after the end of his term of office. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 80 senators voted, 54 for, 26 against. [[Voting No 35]] Amendment 5 was accepted. Amendment 6 seeks to alleviate the rigour associated with the failure by a judge of the Court to make a declaration on his spouse's business activity or his intention to undertake such activity or to change its nature. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 82 senators voted, 81 votes for, one abstention. [[Voting No 36]] Amendment 6 was accepted. Amendment 9 consists in deleting the part of the provision on which the President initiates disciplinary proceedings against the Judge of the Court. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 81 senators voted, 25 for, 54 against, 2 abstentions. [[Voting No 37]] The amendment was rejected. Amendment 10 requires the opinion of the first President of the Supreme Court on the appropriateness of the President's notification of disciplinary misconduct by the Judge of the Court. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 82 senators voted against, 57 against, 25 against. [[Voting No 38]] The amendment was accepted. Amendment 11 removes the editorial flaw in the provision of too narrow a definition of the tasks faced by the Disciplinary Advocate. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 81 senators voted, 80 for, 1 against. [[Voting No 39]] Amendment 13 clarifies that the judge of the Court of Justice at rest has the right to comment on public matters and at the same time corrects the terminology error. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 82 senators voted, 80 for, 2 against. [[Voting No 40]] Amendment 13 was accepted. Amendment 14 abolishes the restriction that a retired judge may be employed only at one university. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 81 senators voted, 80 for, one abstention. [[Voting No 41]] Amendment 14 was accepted. Amendment 15 narrows down the prohibition for a judge of the Court to take resting classes other than employment only in cases where the dignity of a judge of the Court of Justice could be infringed at rest. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 79 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 42]] Amendment 15 was accepted. Amendment 18 is dictated by the desire to maintain the consistency of the legal arrangements and the content of the declaration made in the form of Annex 3 to the Act. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 78 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 43]] The amendment was accepted. Amendment 19 boils down to the deletion in Annex 3 to the Law of Links, which from the point of view of statutory regulations are inadequate. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 79 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 44]] The amendment was accepted. We are voting on the adoption of a resolution on the adoption of the law in its entirety, with amendments resulting from the amendments adopted. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 81 senators voted, 56 were in favour, 25 against, and no one abstained. [[Voting No 45]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the statute on the status of judges of the Constitutional Tribunal. We return to the examination of the fourth item of the agenda: the Act amending the Act on the Agency for Restructuring and Modernization of Agriculture and the Act on Income Tax on Individuals. The Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development presented a draft resolution in which it requested the adoption of this law without amendments We proceed to the vote on the draft resolution submitted by the committee. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 82 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 46]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the Act amending the Act on the Agency for Restructuring and Modernization of Agriculture and the Act on Income Tax on Individuals. We return to the discussion of item 5 of the agenda: the Act amending the Payment Act under direct support schemes. The Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development has presented a draft resolution in which it requested the adoption of this law without amendments of Senate printing No 307 A. We proceed to the vote on the draft resolution submitted by the committee. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 81 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 47]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the Act amending the Payment Act under direct support schemes. We return to the examination of item six of the agenda: the Act amending the Act on Social Insurance for Farmers. The meeting of the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development and the Committee on Family, Senior and Social Policy, which responded to the proposals put forward during the debate, prepared a report on the subject. It is in print No 303 Z. I would ask the rapporteur, Senator Krzysztof Słoń, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-17-senat-30-3.u4	Mr. Marshal! High Senate! I have the honour to present a report to the Committee on Family, Senior and Social Policy and the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development. The Commissions at its meeting on 17 November this year considered the proposals submitted during the debate on 16 November 2016 on the Act amending the Act on Social Insurance for Farmers and presented the following position to the High Senate: The High Senate is ready to adopt the proposal for a law without amendments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-17-senat-30-3.u5	Thank you very much. Do Senator Piotr Florek or the other Senator rapporteur, Wiesław Kilian, want to speak yet? You're welcome, Senator Piotr Florek.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-17-senat-30-3.u6	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The proposed amendment aims to limit the pilgrimage to the president of the cash register. The point is that earlier appointments and appeals concerned field managers, and this law will not only apply to managers but also to their deputies. In that case, the president of the cash register will also appoint deputies in the field. It's supposed to be... well, at national level, he's gonna have to decide who's gonna be in the field unit, not just the manager, but the deputy manager. Hence, to limit these pilgrimages to the president, such an amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-17-senat-30-3.u7	We'll proceed with the vote. First, a vote will be taken on the proposal to adopt the law without amendments and then, if this proposal is rejected, on the amendments tabled. We are voting on the proposal from the Committee on Family, Senior and Social Policy and the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development, supported by the joint committees, to adopt a law without amendments. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 82 senators voted, 57 were in favour, 25 against, and no one abstained. [[Voting No 48]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the Act amending the Act on Social Insurance for Farmers. We return to the examination of item seven of the agenda: the Act amending the Act on Commercial Quality of Agricultural and Food Products. The Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development presented a draft resolution in which it requested the adoption of this law without amendments We proceed to the vote on the draft resolution submitted by the committee. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 83 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 49]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the Act amending the Act on Commercial Quality of Agricultural and Food Products. We are returning to the examination of item 8 of the agenda: the Act amending the Law on Feed. The Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development presented a draft resolution in which it requested the adoption of this law without amendments We proceed to the vote on the draft resolution submitted by the committee. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 83 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 50]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the Law amending the Law on Feed. We are back to discussing item 9 of the agenda: the Act amending the Act on Pensions and Pensions from the Social Insurance Fund. The Committee on Family, Senior and Social Policy presented a draft resolution in which it requested the adoption of this law without any amendments to Print No 304 A. We proceed to the vote on the draft resolution submitted by the committee. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 83 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 51]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the Act amending the Act on Pensions and Pensions from the Social Insurance Fund. We return to the examination of item 10 of the agenda: the Act amending the excise duty Act. The meeting of the Committee on Budgets and Public Finance and the Committee on National Economy and Innovation took place during the session, which responded to the proposals put forward during the debate and prepared a joint report on the subject. It is in print No 308 Z. I would ask the rapporteur, Senator Tadeusz Romanczuk, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-17-senat-30-3.u8	Mr. Marshal! High Senate! Report from the Committee on National Economy and Innovation and the Committee on Budget and Public Finance. The Commissions at its meeting on 17 November considered the proposals made during the debate on 16 November on the Law amending the excise duty Act and presented the following position to the High Senate: The High Senate is ready to adopt the proposal contained in point I, i.e. to adopt this law without amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-17-senat-30-3.u9	Thank you very much, Senator. Do Senator Jerzy Czerwiński or the other Senator Rapporteur, Mieczysław Augustyn, want to speak again? [[No.]] [[No.]] Thank you. Senator Mieczysław Augustyn was also rapporteur for the minority of the Committee on National Economy and Innovation and the Committee on Budget and Public Finance. We'll proceed with the vote. First, a vote will be taken on the proposal to adopt the law without amendments and then, if this proposal is rejected, on the amendments tabled. We proceed to the vote on the committee's proposal, supported by the joint committees, for the adoption of a law without amendment. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 83 senators voted, 57 were in favour, 25 against, 1 abstention. [[Voting No 52]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the Act amending the excise duty Act. We return to the examination of item 11 of the agenda: the Act amending the Act on Competitions of Doctors and Dentist and some other laws. The Health Commission presented a draft resolution in which it requested the adoption of this law without any amendments to Senate printing No 305 A. We proceed to the vote on the draft resolution submitted by the committee. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 83 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 53]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the Act amending the Act on Competitions of Doctors and Dentist and some other laws. We return to the examination of item 12 of the agenda: the Act on the ratification of the Protocol to Convention No 29 on Forced Labour of 1930, adopted in Geneva on 11 June 2014. The Committee on Foreign Affairs and the European Union and the Committee on Human Rights, the Rule of Law and Petitions have presented single-sounding draft resolutions in which they request the adoption of this law without any amendments to Senate prints No 309 A and 309 B. We proceed to the vote on the draft resolution submitted by the committees. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 82 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 54]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the Act on the ratification of the Protocol to Convention No 29 on Forced Labour of 1930, adopted in Geneva on 11 June 2014. We return to the examination of item 13 of the agenda: the Act amending the Act on the Protection of Monuments and the Protection of Monuments and the Act amending the Act on the Protection of Monuments and the Protection of Monuments and the Act on Museums. The Committee on Culture and Media presented a draft resolution requesting an amendment to the Act. In the first place, a vote will be taken on the amendment submitted and then a resolution on the adoption of the law in its entirety, as amended by the amendment adopted. We proceed with the vote on the amendment tabled by the committee... [[Mr. Marshal, there's something I need to explain because they're going to vote against something that...]] Now? Not anymore. We now proceed to the vote. Not anymore, I'm sorry, Mr. Senator, it's too late. [[One second...]] Well, I'll give you half a second. [[But it's important because we're going to vote against something we voted for. So I must explain to the High House...]] But now is not the time, now we are voting. The time for debate, discussion and explanation has already been, and now we are in the process of voting. Now we're not explaining the amendments, that's the custom here. It's different in the Seym, Mr. Senator, I know, because I can see it. But it's different with us. We proceed with the vote on the amendment tabled by the committee. The amendment complements the amendment with the article. 37a Act on the protection of monuments and the care of monuments for the correction of paragraph. 3 in this provision in such a way that persons carrying out conservation work, restoration work or conservation research carried out in respect of monuments listed on the Heritage Treasure List must have the qualifications necessary to manage such work. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 79 senators voted, 5 were in favour, 71 against, 1 abstention. [[Voting No 55]] Will anyone file a motion... Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-17-senat-30-3.u10	Mr. Marshal, I'm filing a motion to adopt a law without any amendments.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-17-senat-30-3.u11	We'll proceed with the vote. [[Mr. Marshal...]] Yes? [[Can I do it now?]] No, no, we're voting now, Mr. Senator. There's a motion for a bill, well, I'm not gonna... Now is not the time to debate. [[Mr. Marshal, I'm very sorry, and I won't speak to you again...]] Very good. [[...but if the High Chamber, which... the entire committee, and the coalition, and the opposition, voted in favour...]] But they've already voted... [[But they don't know it at all...]] But the vote is over, Mr. Senator, so that you can now... Excuse me, sir. I'm taking your voice back. [[I'm not gonna...]] Thank you very much. We proceed to the vote on the proposal submitted by Senator Kazimierz Wiatr for the adoption of the Act amending the Act on the Protection of Monuments and the Protection of Monuments and the Act amending the Act on the Protection of Monuments and the Protection of Monuments and the Act on Museums without amendments. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 80 senators voted, 79 were in favour, 1 against. [[Voting No 56]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the Act amending the Act on the Protection of Monuments and the Protection of Monuments and the Act amending the Act on the Protection of Monuments and the Protection of Monuments and the Act on Museums. We're back to processing... No, wait a minute. It's over, isn't it? [[Voices from the O.R.: End.]] [[Joy in the Chamber]] Ladies and gentlemen, an important piece of information. I wish you hadn't left the room yet. Wait a minute, I'll only read one page, listen up. In view of the resolutions taken, I ask the senators of the rapporteurs to represent the Senate in the course of the examination of the Senate resolutions by the Sejm committees. I would like to inform you that the agenda for the 30th Senate meeting has been exhausted. I would like to remind you and inform you that the next Senate meeting will take place on 29 and 30 November and 1 December, with the possibility of shortening this on 1 December. And we start at 9:00. This is the information I want to give you. The order of this meeting will be sent to you by e-mail. We proceed to senators' statements outside the agenda. I inform you senators that the statements made to the minutes will be included in the official version of the short-term report. Declarations may not last more than 5 minutes. The statement may include matters relating to the implementation of the mandate, but may not relate to matters on the agenda of the current Senate meeting. The Marshal will refuse to accept unsubstantiated statements whose content cannot be determined or whose delivery by the senators would not be possible at the time available, i.e. within 5 minutes. Senator statements are not discussed. Does any of the senators want... [[Talking in the O.R.]] Senator Arthur Warzocha, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-17-senat-30-3.u12	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have two statements today. The first concerns school consultative points. In view of the numerous opinions that affect the representatives of the Senate Committee on Immigration and Communication with Poles abroad from Polish communities and Poles living abroad, which concern the identification of educational institutions involved in the education of Polish children and young people residing abroad, I ask Mr Marshal to take steps to bring about a change of the current name used in the case of educational institutions at diplomatic representations, consular offices and military representations of the Republic of Poland. According to § 1 point 2 of the Regulation of the Minister for National Education of 31 August 2010 on the organisation of education for children of Polish citizens temporarily residing abroad educational establishments which enable pupils attending schools in other countries' educational systems to supplement primary school, secondary school and general secondary school, in accordance with the supplementary education framework and curricula, are called school consultative points. This name was used to distinguish them from other institutions, including primary schools, secondary schools and general education schools, as well as teams at the Polish diplomatic representations and other full-time education institutions for which a different name is used, i.e. School, secondary school and general education high school in accordance with § Point 1 of the abovementioned Regulation. In the opinion of the environmental representatives who submit their comments on the matter, the name "school consultation point' is inappropriate and misleading. The training cycle conducted in these institutions is based on the Polish programming bases developed and approved by the Polish educational authorities, which requires the fulfilment of the relevant requirements in terms of the process and conditions of education, preparation of teaching staff and the use of appropriate textbooks and school assistance. An additional issue is the reduction in the prestige of these institutions, which unexpectedly lost their status as a school, and their rank in the social sense has been reduced, which is mostly affecting the students who attend there and the teachers who continue to work there. It seems that the name of the school consultative centre, even in the case of institutions which teach in the supplementary system, is extremely unheard of, since in no way is associated with the process of education or education. Therefore, I am asking your marshal to take action to restore these institutions to the proper function of the name "School of Poland" with the appropriate organizational unit of the type diplomatic representation, consular office or military representation of the Republic of Poland. My statement, through Mr. Marshal, is addressed to the Minister of National Education. And a second statement, a statement addressed to the president of Częstochowa. With regard to the information disseminated by the President of Częstochowa concerning the alleged need for dismissal of about 200 teachers of the current junior high schools in connection with the reform of the secondary school prepared by the government, I would like to ask the Marshal to ask the said local government authority to provide the public with precise calculations on this matter and to give details of how these calculations have been carried out. My conclusion is that there is a significant discrepancy between the calculations given by the local government of Częstochowa and the data provided by the Ministry of National Education, which, contrary to the estimates given by the president of the city, assumes that the secondary reform will increase the demand for work in Częstochowa schools by 39 teachers. Both calculations are based on the same sources provided by the local government of Częstochowa to the Ministry of National Education through the Silesian education curatorium, i.e. based on the educational information system. The data presented by the president of Częstochowa raises understandable concerns in the middle school teacher environment, who are afraid of losing their jobs and fearing for their future by taking note of the negative reports from some local media based on information disseminated by the city office. However, from the information that reached me, it appears that the said office addressed the junior high school directors with instructions to prepare calculations, how many teachers would lose their jobs due to the extinction of further junior high classes, without taking into account their migration to primary and secondary schools. On this basis, it can be assumed, if this information is confirmed, that the data are incomplete and do not provide a complete picture of the impact of the planned reform. However, the situation in the teaching environment in Częstochowa is bad and leads to escalation of unnecessary tensions both in schools and among the public. The governing body for Częstochowa schools, which is the local government, from the very beginning was negatively concerned with the plans of the secondary reform. At the beginning of this parliamentary term in the Częstochowa City Office under the auspices of the President of the City of Częstochowa, a meeting was organized among local government officials, representatives of educational unions, teachers and school heads with the participation of opposition parliamentarians, whose message was opposition to the announced secondary reform, although at that time Mrs Anna Zalewska, Minister of National Education, had not yet presented any assumptions of this reform. Moreover, this discussion, strongly publicised by some local media, also used middle school students, minors who in their speeches addressed the Prime Minister, Prime Minister Beata Szydło, with an appeal to withdraw from the planned reform and to I quote: It's about saving the junior high school achievements. For many representatives of the local public, the fact that young people were involved in political disputes was extremely disgusting, taking into account the age of some speakers 14 or 15 years old. It is simply unethical, especially since this reform in addition to professional matters relating to the hiring of teachers affects extremely sensitive matter, i.e. the education and training of the young generation of Polish citizens. Therefore, representatives of all public authorities, even at the time of difficult changes, should demonstrate appropriate sensitivity and high ethics, both political and personal. I'm sending my statement through your marshal to the President of Częstochowa City. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-17-senat-30-3.u13	Thank you very much. Please take the floor of Senator Jerzy Czerwinski.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-17-senat-30-3.u14	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! My statement is addressed to the President of the Council of Ministers, Mrs Beata Szydło. Dear Prime Minister, So far, many problems have not been solved, the causes of which lie in the outbreak and course of World War II. The Polish state, theoretically, was among the winners of this war, almost unfortunately suffered proportionally the greatest losses, to this day uncompensated. It was also carried by our Polish citizens. Some of the material losses of private individuals were compensated in a small percentage by the Polish state, e.g. under the so-called indemnification claims. Some, rather in the form of minimum benefits rather than equivalent compensation, companies and the German State have provided, e.g. Polish forced laborers working in the Third Reich. However, there remain large groups of our citizens whose legitimate claims of World War II were not met in any way as if we wanted to forget them as soon as possible. This group includes present Polish citizens who were displaced from their headquarters during World War II. Apartments, houses and farms By the German occupier. The number of Poles displaced by the Germans is estimated at about 1.7 million people. Most of them came from Wielkopolska, or more specifically from the then German Warty Country. After the confiscation of the estate, the Germans carried Poles to the eastern General Governor. After the end of the war, some of the displaced persons returned to their homes, some moved to Recovered Lands and received abandoned German property as compensation. But a large percentage of the displaced never received any compensation for the property confiscated by the Germans. Is the Polish State, at least in part Like, for example, Wake-up calls Will it compensate for the material losses displaced by the Germans during World War II by Poles, present Polish citizens? If not, will the Polish State take steps to make this compensation committed by the Federal Republic of Germany, the legal successor of the aggressor and the perpetrator of the displacement of the German Third Reich? Were such steps taken? If so, what was the effect of the talks with the Germans? If not, then why didn't these talks take place? This is all the more important because Germany regularly tries to rewrite the history of World War II. I'd like to express my respects. Senator Jerzy Czerwiński of the Republic of Poland.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-17-senat-30-3.u15	Thank you very much, Senator. I would like to inform you that the minutes of the 30th Senate meeting of the Republic of Poland IX term will be made available to the senators within 30 days of the Senate meeting at the Senate Office, room 255. The 30th session of the Senate of the Republic of Poland 9th term of office is closed. [[Marshal hits Marshal's staff three times.]] [[End of session at 10 minutes 06]]
