ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-19-senat-18-2.u1	Resume session. Senators of the secretary's office, please take your seats at the president's table. High Izbo, I propose that the agenda be supplemented by a point: second reading of the draft resolution on amending the Senate Rules of Procedure and consider it as item eight of the agenda. If I do not hear the opposition, I will find that the High House has accepted the proposal. In the absence of any votes against, I find that the Senate has accepted the proposal. We proceed with the examination of item 6 of the agenda: the Act amending the Law The text of the Act is contained in print No 173 and the report of the Commission In print No 173 A. I ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Budgets and Public Finance, Senator Grzegorz Bierecki, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-19-senat-18-2.u2	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! At its twenty-seventh meeting on 17 May, the Committee on Budget and Public Finance considered the Law amending the Law on Tax Law and certain other laws; Senate Print No 173. After discussion and hearing the representatives of the organisations invited, the Commission recommends that the Senate adopt a law without amendments. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-19-senat-18-2.u3	Thank you very much, Mr President, for the concise, concrete report. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the rapporteur's senator. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? No. The bill was filed by the government. The Minister of Finance has been authorised to present the position of the government during parliamentary work. Does a government representative wish to speak on the bill under consideration and present the position of the government? No. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of questioning to a government representative related to this item on the agenda. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? You're welcome, Senator Blackbay.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-19-senat-18-2.u4	Mr. Marshal! Minister! At the committee meeting, I asked a question about introducing a tax avoidance clause in other countries and asked if this would be possible at today's meeting to answer the question of how it was in other countries, what was the period during which the tax avoidance clause was introduced in a given country. Of course, we are not talking about what the Minister was talking about, about the example of Germany, because Germany introduced it before World War II. We are interested in introducing this clause into the legal systems of other OECD countries or the European Union. What was the period for the introduction of the law, not just about the vacatio legis, but about the technical implementation of this important system of laws?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-19-senat-18-2.u5	Thank you very much. The government represents the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Finance, Minister Jasiński. I'm asking the Minister for an answer. You can give me an answer, if that's what you'd prefer.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-19-senat-18-2.u6	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! Thank you very much, Senator, for your question and your interest in the anti-tax avoidance clause. At the moment, most countries in the world have a tax avoidance clause. This clause is general in nature, primarily preventive in nature, and this is its essence. The preventive nature of the general clause against tax avoidance is demonstrated by the introduction of it in the Republic of Hungary. Hungarians, as the first country in the world after leaving the communist regime, already in 1990 decided to introduce a clause against tax avoidance. Then in this country most likely few yet entrepreneurs knew about tax optimization and tax avoidance options or tax avoidance methods. However, Hungarians decided very early, precisely for preventive purposes, to introduce an anti-tax avoidance clause into their law. I'll let you think about it. In the second half of the 1990's, I acted as an expert in the preparatory proceedings for money laundering. This was true of Polish entrepreneurs who founded companies in tax havens. As a forensic expert, I had access to information, to the economic documentation of these enterprises, secured for the purposes of the Polish criminal proceedings by the police on the island of Guernsey. Then I saw for the first time that Polish law firms on the island of Guernsey told Polish entrepreneurs that it was possible to use artificial structures to avoid taxation. Ladies and gentlemen, law firms were already talking to Polish entrepreneurs in the 1990s about what tax avoidance is. Therefore, we consider the introduction of a general anti-tax avoidance clause to be a particularly preventive instrument, and in most countries it is treated as such. I must say, answering the senator's question over and over again, that these solutions are different, often adapted to the law in which they appear. So it's going to look different in common law and in the UK, different in Hungary, different in Germany. There is also a difference in history, and in Germany the anti-tax avoidance clause was introduced in 1919. The senator asked this in the context of introducing a clause in Poland. Of course, we're prepared for this. First, it seems that we were, also thanks to your commitment, prepared to present the appropriate legal form. So we propose a separate department in the tax administration, so as to avoid reservations from the Constitutional Tribunal, such as in 2004, when in Poland we decided for the first time to introduce a clause against tax avoidance. That's one thing. And secondly, we're prepared from the technical side. The Ministry of Finance is already organised in the context of the application of the rules provided for in the tax administration. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-19-senat-18-2.u7	Thank you very much, Minister. Now Mr. Senator Kaminski.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-19-senat-18-2.u8	Mr. Marshal! Minister! According to the wording of the article. 7 the law that we are pursuing, the provisions relating to the article. This law applies to the tax advantage obtained after the date of entry into force of this Law. Originally included in the draft government law, the regulation provided that those provisions apply to acts carried out after the date of entry into force of this Law. Therefore, please indicate the reasons to justify the modification of the original regulation in the procedated law. In my view, these provisions of the Act should apply not to the tax advantage obtained after the date of entry into force of the Act, but to the actions carried out after the date of entry into force of the Act which imply the creation of certain tax advantages. Such transitional regulation would avoid possible disputes and divergences that may arise in practice, and would also bring taxpayers' legal situation into line from a specific point of time when specific actions will be initiated. I would like to point out that tax advantages may arise in practice not only during the year in which the event occurred, but often in the year following the day of the economic event, e.g. the conclusion of a contract. This means that many economic events could have taken place prior to the entry into force of the contested law and even before it was notified to the Sejm, which, according to the tax office, would satisfy the conditions set out in the provisions of the contested law. This in turn leads to the question of whether such regulation is in line with the ban on the operation of the law backwards. Please answer me. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-19-senat-18-2.u9	Minister. [[Mr. Marshal...]] Yes? [[Mr. Marshal, are you the Minister...]] The Minister, if he prefers, may answer from the place. This is the Minister's decision. [[Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Finance Wiesław Jasiński: I can approach...]] Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-19-senat-18-2.u10	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! Senator, I would like to thank you very much for your inquiry and your interest in the issue of the retrospectiveness of legal action in the context of the application of the anti-tax avoidance clause. First, there's a reservation, Mr. Senator. Well, about the application... You ask this in the context of the act of law backwards. I would like to point out that this clause will not be applied by the tax authorities, as the senator was kind to say, only directly by the Ministry of Finance. Therefore, in my previous statement, I pointed out that the Ministry of Finance will be and is prepared to apply this law. To respond more specifically to your doubts about the action of the law backwards in the context of the application of the anti-tax avoidance clause, I would like to draw attention to the fact that the proposal proposes that the new rules apply to the tax advantage acquired after the date of entry into force of the law. We had to decide something. Here, as I believe, the tax advantage is very precisely defined and should be taken into account in the context of any reservations that the senator is kind to raise. This solution will be more precise than referring to the date of the action, I believe. The bill will not work backwards. It is possible to talk about the action of the law backwards when the new rules are extended to the facts closed, completed before the entry into force of the new law. This is not the case in the case of the proposed law. It cannot be considered to be fully closed to the facts in which the action will take place before the date of entry into force of the Act and the tax advantage will occur after that date. The principle of retrospective law requires the application of a new right to assess the consequences of events under this new law. There should not be a parallel 2 legal regimes in which the tax avoidance scheme implemented e.g. today it will give tax advantages until its expiry without any time limit, and an identical scheme used e.g. in July it will be subject to a clause and benefits will be received. At the same time, it must be noted that I refer here to my earlier statement We are dealing with a situation where we are unable to define these patterns which can be used in order to avoid taxation, their catalogue is in fact expanding permanently. When we started talking about this project, it was At least in the comments Oh, let's say 200 tax avoidance schemes. Now some people say there's 600 of them.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-19-senat-18-2.u11	Thank you very much. Are there any more questions? Senator Blackbay, then Senator Augustine.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-19-senat-18-2.u12	Mr. Marshal! Minister! Thank you for that information, the first one you gave to the Minister. But I'd like to ask you one more question, Minister. [[Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Finance Wiesław Jasiński: Yes.]] If it is possible to reply, please give it and if not, please say no, I will reply in writing. That'll satisfy me, too. Once again I would like to ask, Minister, are you familiar with examples of what was the implementation period, e.g. in Hungary, since you used the example of Hungary. I mean, the Hungarians have introduced this bill. I'm shooting. On 1 January, they prepared for it for six months, trained, organized, etc., etc. Because the Minister declared: yes, as the Ministry of Finance, we are ready. The law, as I said at the committee meeting, is not an easy law when it comes to the taxpayer's relationship with the Ministry of Finance or the tax collection bodies. This law is valid from the point of view of sealing. And I would like to declare right away, Minister, that I am a strong supporter of such solutions. I'm just interested in how we, with our character, with our flaws, are prepared to implement a difficult bill, not easy in a mental, organizational sense. And how long it took, etc., etc. compared to other countries? If you've chosen Hungary, then please, in the case of Hungary, if that's possible. Next questions later. If you don't mind, I'm asking you to answer that question.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-19-senat-18-2.u13	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! Thank you very much for this declaration by the senator and this position that you support this solution. Thank you very much, also for your interest in this, there is no doubt, passionate matter. I, before I go back to the subject of Hungary, will allow myself to respond using the UK casus. Like I said, there are a lot of examples. And, of course, we are prepared to give the senator in writing all the information that concerns even all the states. 'Cause we did the right analysis before the project. As regards the above-mentioned work 'Cause now you're asking a very narrow question about this period. In the UK in December 2010, the UK government commissioned a special committee to draw up a report which would answer the question of whether there is a need to introduce a general tax clause against tax avoidance into the UK tax system. After the annual work, a positive recommendation was issued. The anti-tax avoidance clause was introduced by the Finance Act 2013, which was announced on 17 July 2013. The final shape of the regulation was essentially based on the guidelines of the committee's report. The work therefore lasted almost 3 years. In the UK, the idea of introducing a clause also raised many concerns and controversy. As regards the answer to the Senator's second question, i.e. preparation for the implementation of the anti-tax avoidance clause in the Republic of Poland, it is the only authority competent in matters relating to the application of the anti-tax avoidance clause, i.e. with the conduct of tax proceedings and the issuing of protective opinions, will be the Minister of Finance. It is not possible to delegate this competence. Such a solution is intended to ensure uniformity of decisions on the above-mentioned clause as well as their highest level of substance. According to the impact assessment attached to the draft law in the Ministry of Finance, a cell to prevent tax avoidance will be created, in particular the application of the clause and the issuing of protective opinions. It was assumed that 20 posts would be required to ensure that these tasks were properly carried out. Some of the calls to this cell have already been decided, and there are still more. As of the date of entry into force of the Act, the Ministry will have a highly qualified staff who will be responsible for the application of the Act. I'm answering the senator's third question. Since this clause was adopted in Hungary in 1990, it means that the Hungarians did so during the year. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-19-senat-18-2.u14	Thank you very much. Now, Senator Augustine.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-19-senat-18-2.u15	Minister, two questions. Question one. How did the business corporations react to this project? What's their opinion, or what's their opinion? And second question. Undoubtedly, the issues raised are very complicated, and this is due to the figures that you have just shown, as to how many officials will have to be hired, and certainly high-class professionals. Are you in contact with the Ministry of Justice? Because it is to be expected that when serious money is involved, the court will be the result of a dispute. Do you think the Polish courts are prepared to settle such complex cases?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-19-senat-18-2.u16	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! I'm answering the question. Mr. Senator, thank you very much, the question is extremely detailed and the answer is probably very complicated. With regard to the first issue, i.e. the opinions of entrepreneurs, it seems, ladies and gentlemen, that the way this project was prepared and the involvement of entrepreneurs from the outset ensured that all the reservations raised by the Constitutional Tribunal in 2004 would be taken into account in the work. First of all, I would like to point out that these provisions are specific. They can never be sufficiently detailed, such is the preventive nature of this legal solution, but are detailed, for example, by being placed in a separate department of tax administration. I will merely remind you that the judgment of the Constitutional Court of 2014 concerning the non-constitutionality of the provisions on taxation of undisclosed income indicated that in the Act on personal income tax the relevant provision is not in a separate section but in only one article. Here is a separate department, a detailed provision, and representatives of entrepreneurs also participated in the work. Of course, you can reflect on the accents among different categories of entrepreneurs and different categories of interest. There is no doubt that avoidance will work That's what I'm gonna do, and I'm gonna go over, if the senator says it's okay to question number two about the involvement of the Ministry of Justice. Well, first, one explanation. Tax avoidance is not an illegal activity. Therefore, we are not simply talking about criminal proceedings here. We are talking about tax proceedings implemented by the Ministry of Finance. However, please note that the Ministry of Justice is sometimes involved in parallel activities. I'm talking about action against tax evasion or money laundering. But in this case, I don't see the need for the Ministry of Justice to be involved.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-19-senat-18-2.u17	Thank you very much. Mr. Senator Augustine... [[Voice from the room: No...]] Senator Stanisławek. [[I volunteered...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-19-senat-18-2.u18	Thank you very much. I'd like to ask you a question about avoidance. Will this law allow us to improve these issues and close carousel fraud, international fraud, such as the recent issue of CO2 emissions trading in France? Will this law allow the system to be sealed against VAT fraud of this kind?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-19-senat-18-2.u19	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! Mr. Senator! Ratio legis of this draft law is primarily related to action Once again, I stress: legal action In relation to tax avoidance, although, of course, having the nature of sealing the tax system. The senator was kind enough to ask a question. And thank you very much for your concern. Directly on the issue of sealing the tax system against crimes, which are private carousels. I must answer in this way: this law does not apply.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-19-senat-18-2.u20	Thank you very much. Senator Wach.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-19-senat-18-2.u21	Thank you very much. Minister, I would like to ask a question of a similar nature, a bit like the previous questions. How do you estimate the potential number of cases that may arise at first and, therefore, how do you assess the performance of the department that is being designed? It's probably gonna be some kind of flexible formula. But can a great number of cases be expected? What does it look like with other countries? That's the first question. Second question. If you could just say This is a very general question. If there are methods to estimate the impact... The act and formula are preventive. So the question is: how is it estimated, in terms of, say, an improvement in the situation in relation to the existing state? [[Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Finance Wiesław Jasiński: Sorry, I had to consult, Mr. Senator.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-19-senat-18-2.u22	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-19-senat-18-2.u23	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! As for the Senator's first question, which is the number of cases I'm already reading. Here's a cheat sheet. There were 20 cases per year in Canada, 80 cases in France, Sweden A few, and in Poland it is estimated that this is a few dozen cases. The senator's second question was about the budget. Of course, the press reported various amounts. I personally remember that we were talking about hundreds of millions of zlotys on the income side of the budget, but this calculation cannot be presented to you by the Ministry of Finance.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-19-senat-18-2.u24	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-19-senat-18-2.u25	Mr. Marshal! Minister! To return to my question, I would just like to say that I thank you for your reply in writing, because the information you have provided about the United Kingdom gives me a certain picture of the situation. That's one thing. Secondly, Minister, I have two more short questions. Legislator in its short opinion He had little time to write that the changes that had been made during the legislative process had gone beyond the matter of the draft law passed by the government to the Sejm. Thus, they did not undergo a full procedure of 3 readings, a full public consultation. Hence, they can be accused of violating the constitutional procedure. Indeed, they should be the subject of a separate legislative initiative. So the point is that the changes that were made during the legislative process, which were right, improving this law, should not be introduced in the context of a separate legislative process. If you don't mind, I'd like the Minister's opinion on this. That's the first question. And the second question may no longer be so directly but indirectly related to it. Does the Minister have any information on the dynamics of the state budget revenue for the first quarter in relation to the plan and in relation to the first quarter of the previous year? If you don't have that kind of data, I'd ask you to write down the revenue dynamics this year.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-19-senat-18-2.u26	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! I'll start with the second question. Of course, we will give this information in writing. On the other hand, as regards the reservations made by the senator regarding the self-correction and the extension of the scope of the amendments to the Tax Order, I would like to point out that this is about... I am directing these words to all of you. Namely, we are talking here about an additional provision specifying the mandatory transfer of VAT records by traders from 1 July this year, for the time being only by so-called. large entities, within the meaning of the Business Freedom Act, i.e. those with a turnover of EUR 50 million and assets of EUR 43 million and employ 250 employees. I would like to point out that this provision is an extremely important provision for sealing the tax system, which shows the determination of the Republic of Poland to seal this system. This is a continuation of the rules related to a single control file. According to the government, the next step should be taken quickly using this IT instrument to type entities for control, to analyze the activities of entities in terms of typing them for control, and we consider this provision necessary. Those reservations that the senator raised are about speeding up. Well, you might as well raise objections when things get too slow. We chose and offer the first way. We're showing enormous determination here. Further dates to speed up the whole procedure have been indicated: on 1 January next year, the obligation to provide electronic VAT records, i.e. only one of 7 schemes in electronic form, will be covered by small and medium-sized entrepreneurs, and on 1 January 2018 by micro-entrepreneurs. The figures vary from 1 July to from 3 000 400 to 4 000 entities, from 1 January 2017 to tens of thousands of entities and from 1 January 2018 to the rest. So we're talking about a group of over 2 million entrepreneurs here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-19-senat-18-2.u27	Thank you very much. The list of senators enrolled in the questions has been exhausted. Thank you very much, Minister. [[Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Finance Wiesław Jasiński: Thank you very much.]] I would like to inform you that a representative of the government has undertaken to give a written answer to Senator Czarnobaj's question. I'm opening a discussion. Please take the floor of Senator Jan Dobrzyński... Oh, Mr. Senator has withdrawn. Senator Blackbay reporting. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-19-senat-18-2.u28	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Just a little bit about this bill. I have already said that sealing the tax system, and especially eliminating tax evasion from the Polish reality, is probably in the interest of all Poles, even those who do not realize it. In addition to this important element mentioned by the Minister, I would also like to point out the regulations that were introduced in the previous term of office... An important clause is now being introduced, which, as the Minister said at the committee meeting, today does not seem to apply only in Greece and Poland from all OECD countries. So this is how we join a group of countries that seal the system in a uniform way... [[Greece already has.]] Mr President here tells me that Greece has already introduced, so we are the last country to introduce this clause in order to seal the tax system. I hope that Poland will be spoken of as of the United States, that 2 things are certain in us: that you will die and pay taxes. And that, as in the 18th century, two of the best constitutions in the world were said to be true in Poland. However, I have some comments on this law. And please, Minister, accept them as heartfelt remarks, not as the attention of the person who is declared opponent of this law. Firstly, the question of what is the peril of this term of office, the question of the legal procedure. I'll read it to you because... [[Talking in the O.R.]] May I ask, Mr. Marshal, that the gentlemen in the front row move to the last... [[I'm asking you to calm down.]] The legislator says this: "This opinion does not constitute a comprehensive or comprehensive assessment of the legal solutions proposed in the law. The reason for this reservation is that there is too short a time limit for analysing the content of the bill in question. In fact, at the committee meeting and here, during this debate, I asked the Minister how the other countries were given an example of the United Kingdom and Hungary in one year. I understand that we, thanks to the baggage of other countries' experiences 'Cause you gotta use 'em. We can shorten certain elements. And it should be shortened, and therefore I am not in favour of extending the procedure for implementing this law. The sooner, the better for the legal system in Poland, its readability and the interest in collecting taxes. However, by introducing such an important law, which is not an easy law and will arouse many emotions also at the time of implementation, because when it comes to paying taxes, such laws always arouse emotions, a law which is based on indeterminateness and indeterminate concepts... Let me quote you something, because some of you are not so interested in financial matters. In Article 2, paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: 119a, which is very important, states in §3, that it is appropriate to consider an act which an entity could have carried out in the circumstances in question if it acted reasonably and guided by legitimate objectives other than the achievement of a tax advantage contrary to the object and purpose of the provision of the Tax Act. And, of course, what the Minister said, I take as an indication that in other countries it is also based on indeterminate and insensitive concepts. And that we are not able, whether in Poland or in other countries, to create a law that solves all the problems that will arise, so we are going towards this kind of formulation, and it is only in the course of proceedings that we explain who is right here. This bill is very important, which is why I've been asking so much about preparing us as tax administration, ministerial administration, to implement this bill... You don't have to go far. In the last 26 years, we know stories that have led to the collapse of many companies in Poland. Poland, from a statistical point of view, is at the forefront when it comes to ungrateful traditions in relations between the taxpayer and the tax office. And Polish entrepreneurs... That's one thing. Secondly, the opinionaries of the external institutions say this: the Polish tax system, in terms of its level of GDP, is in the middle, or perhaps even in the top, in terms of the low, so to speak, paying taxes, so we do not have as high taxes imposed as in many OECD countries. But in the assessment of these two entities, we are in the last place when it comes to the complexity of the tax system. Everyone, both entrepreneurs and each of us, expects the system to become more transparent and easy to apply, so it's good staff preparation... Let me just remind you of what the Minister said. The British, of course, at a different time, introduced this at least 3 years in terms of legislative work and at least one year in terms of the introduction itself. We do not have time, especially those who rule today, and it is right to speed up, while there are limits that... there are certain risks that I draw attention to. And now, Minister, what you said about the legal opinion of your legislator, who said that there are certain elements of unconstitutionality in this bill. I also say that it should be introduced as soon as possible, but properly. What does that mean? After all, the legislator does not say, Minister, that these comments which were introduced during the legislative procedure in the Sejm are wrong. They, on the contrary, improve the system. We are just talking about one thing: that the proposed changes go beyond the submission. So we had to do this law and work alongside, in parallel, on an amendment or a new legislative initiative. That's what you should do in a country where you obey That's what the legislator's writing about. . legal procedures. We're taking a shortcut here. I hope that no one will ask the Constitutional Court to declare the non-constitutionality of this law, but, like the legislator, I, too, during discussions in committee and here. I draw attention to the fact that something that is right should be implemented in a lawful manner. And this is not the case, Minister, that we should continue our work, but it could be done in parallel. So, to conclude, I'm going to say this: I hope that what the Minister said is that the Ministry of Finance will have... Please note the situation today. We're investigating a new bill today, the Minister says that there are or will be people employed, it's happening in parallel, so the pace is high... I hope so, Minister. And that's what I'm doing all the time, and I'm asking for it. That because of this pace, which is needed to seal the system, we will not fire the baby with a bath. I mean that what is often a Polish vice, namely doing things in a guerrilla way, does not affect taxpayers, does not affect the whole system and does not give rise to a negative opinion on a law which, in my opinion, goes in a very good direction. I believe that the elements of this law are similar to those contained in the same laws in other OECD countries, only the fundamental difference is that they were introduced in accordance with the legal procedures enshrined in the Constitution and in accordance with the procedures relating to the adoption of such laws. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-19-senat-18-2.u29	Thank you very much, Senator. Now, Senator Bierecki.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-19-senat-18-2.u30	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I would like to thank Senator Czarnobaj for his constructive approach to the bill under review. As you can see, we all agree here that this law is very important for sealing the Polish tax system, for increasing budget revenues, and for providing funds for the implementation of the programme of the Government of Law and Justice, which we care very much about. The general clause against tax avoidance has a very long history in Poland. I would like to remind you that it was adopted in 2003, in force for a little more than a year, was repealed by the Constitutional Tribunal in 2004, but not because of the contradiction of the general clause itself with the Constitution, but because of the flawed wording of that clause in the provision adopted by Parliament at that time. The Constitutional Tribunal, repealing this clause, gave very precise instructions on how the anti-tax avoidance clause should be formulated. These instructions were used in the drafting of the bill that we are proceeding today. Of course, the Constitutional Tribunal also pointed out that it is not the duty of the taxpayer to organise his business in such a way as to always pay the highest tax. Taxpayers, Polish entrepreneurs have the right to shape their business activities in order to pay as little as possible. It's not a crime, we don't do it here. We're talking about a clause to prevent artificial solutions. Artificial solutions that are created solely for the avoidance of taxation. And here, of course, there's going to be a very large area to discuss, which is this artificial transaction, which is rational behavior... As the courts will judge this, we will learn from the caselaw, because there will certainly be a very rich case law of the administrative courts around this law, and perhaps other courts as well. What do I want to emphasise when I tell you about this law? In some sense, it anticipates these disputes and responds to this problem that entrepreneurs can have, wondering how their economic activity will be shaded by tax authorities. In this law, the creation of a council at the Minister of Finance, a council made up of outstanding specialists, deserves special recognition. The Act provides for the very high qualifications of those who will sit on this Council. The Council will both be able to give a protective, prior, prior opinion before taxing and will be able to give an opinion on specific actions that have already been taken by businesses without obtaining that protective opinion. Thus, the Minister of Finance and the Entrepreneurs will be equipped with this law to take advantage of the opinion in a very professional, fair form, one which in some sense is a spectrum of freedom of intellect by tax officials of complex economic activities often removes and protects against negative consequences. This law is adopted by our Parliament as the last parliament in the European Union. One might ask why since 2004 we have waited so long to apply something that practically all OECD countries have applied in the Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development. This general anti-tax avoidance clause is not only recommended by the G20, the OECD, but is also recommended by the European Commission. I would also like to say to you that soon, I hope that we will implement the directive quickly, because this year, a European anti-tax avoidance directive will be adopted, which is the result of several years of work by a special team set up to deal with this problem that all developed countries face. Finally, as it turns out, taxes, which come from revenues obtained in the countries of the European Union, end up somewhere on beaches in small countries that benefit from the fact that they are some kind of tax hooligans. They benefit from the fact that they facilitate tax avoidance and, in fact, facilitate criminal activity. You have recently heard of Panama papers, the vast amount of data that has been published, which shows the scale, the global scale of tax avoidance. Before that, we had a leak from Luxembourg, so-called. LuxLeaks, also from Liechtenstein, has been revealed many stories, whose heroes are also Polish entrepreneurs I am a little concerned that in this mass of data that appears, everyone is sort of in one bag, because often Polish entrepreneurs use different solutions abroad not for this reason to avoid taxes, but because the Polish law does not create such opportunities for them. Hence, some of the demands of such a de lege ferenda, I would like to say, some of the demands on what should sort of complement this general clause against tax avoidance, so that the Polish tax system is business-friendly. First of all, we have to say that in Poland we have very adverse conditions for carrying out the activities of holding companies. This causes that Polish companies that want to enter into other entities capitalally do so very often through foreign holding companies instead of through Polish tax structures. That's something you'd have to take an urgent interest in. I think that the Dutch, Luxembourgian experience is here to be used to make it easier for entrepreneurs who... Our entrepreneurship is now developing a lot, complicates. The aim would be to facilitate the functioning of holding structures in Poland. This law gives consistency to the interpretation of tax law in this respect and it is necessary to continue to seek to ensure consistency in the interpretation of tax law in general. Too often, there are situations in which different centres issue contradictory interpretations or change their positions over time, resulting in the fact that entrepreneurs often feel guilty about not being able to pay back. Right? They did business in accordance with the applicable interpretation, but after a few years the interpretation changed and it turned out that suddenly someone violated tax law and had to pay the tax together with interest. This inability to interpret is a problem in the functioning of our tax system, and therefore calls on the Ministry to take specific measures to harmonise these interpretations and ensure their stability. It is also worth noting that there are other tax systems, namely the possibility of negotiating with the tax authorities the additional tax liability established during the tax proceedings carried out with the trader. Such a solution would significantly facilitate and reduce many ongoing tax proceedings without the risk of reducing budgetary revenue. Tax proceedings take several years, on average several years, and the amount ultimately paid by the taxpayer after the end of the proceedings is very often lower, much lower than initially determined by the tax authority. Therefore, I think that introducing the possibility of negotiating with tax authorities the dimension of this additional obligation, which exists in other tax systems, would be beneficial for the amount of tax collected. It is also worth considering the possibility of preferential taxation so-called. income from undisclosed sources in the event of their voluntary notification. Finally, it is important for a friendly tax system to be set out precisely in the rules on criminal liability to those responsible for financial matters for businesses. [[Mr. Chairman...]] I'm done, I'm done, I'm done, I'm done. The current rules, which are in place, allow many people to bring criminal charges on the basis of unclear rules on the assignment of liability. So much for the demands for legislation which I think should come soon or in parallel with this general clause against tax avoidance so that our tax system is not only tight and effective, but also friendly to Polish entrepreneurs. Congratulations again to the Ministry for preparing such a good bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-19-senat-18-2.u31	Thank you very much, Mr President. I inform you that the list of speakers has been exhausted. The discussion is closed. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. We proceed with the examination of item 7 of the agenda: the Act amending the Act on Export Insurance Guaranteed by the State Treasury and certain other laws. The text of the Act is contained in print No 172 and the report of the Commission In print No 172 A. I would like to ask the rapporteur of the Committee on National Economy and Innovation and the Committee on Budget and Public Finance, Senator Grzegorz Pekkis, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-19-senat-18-2.u32	Poland will be great or it will not be great at all, that is the sentence of Marshal Piłsudski, which opens an important document, adopted on 16 February 2016 by the Council of Ministers, under the title "Plan for Responsible Development." The consequence of its adoption is the need to adapt the legal system in the field of the functioning of existing institutions, to support exports and the integration of development instruments. As a result of the amendment presented during the work of the committee on the document, the supervision of the Export Credit Insurance Corporation SA is changed. As regards the property rights of the Treasury, the Minister of Treasury will be entitled to the power of the Minister for Energy. The Minister for Economic Affairs will take over the supervision of the President of the Public Procurement Office. The Minister responsible for Economic Affairs will supervise the status of Bank Gospodarstwa Krajowego. The Committee on Financial Supervision will be composed of the Minister for Economic Affairs or his representative. A new Management Board of Export Credit Insurance Corporation will be appointed. They will be appointed on new terms by the chairman and members of the supervisory board of Bank Gospodarstwa Krajowego. The Minister for Economic Affairs will report his participation in the work of the KNF. These are the key messages contained in the novel presented and drawn up at the committee meeting. 8 comments from the Legislative Bureau were submitted at the meeting. Of these 8 comments, the Ministry gave a positive opinion 4: 1st, 3rd, 6th and 7th. In fact, as far as the committee's report is concerned, I can only say that there was a short discussion in which the current minister answered questions and doubts. No further amendments were tabled. Thus, these amendments, which were tabled, were only due to the comments of the Legislative Bureau.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-19-senat-18-2.u33	Thank you very much, Senator. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the rapporteur's senator. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? Senator Grubski. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-19-senat-18-2.u34	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Mr President, have you talked more about the guarantees in terms of export areas that the Polish entrepreneur is interested in? I mean mostly Iran. There has been a change in world policy towards Iran, sanctions have been abolished, there is a great interest from Polish entrepreneurs. And the question arises whether today the bank, which is to implement the guarantees, is prepared for this, first of all, so to speak, mentally. And whether he is ready to give such guarantees to interested Polish entrepreneurs.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-19-senat-18-2.u35	It wasn't discussed. However, there is a minister present in the Chamber who is likely to answer this question.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-19-senat-18-2.u36	If there are no further questions, I'd like to inform you that... [[Voice from the room: There it is, there it is.]] Ah, Senator Augustine. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-19-senat-18-2.u37	Mr Senator, at the committee's meeting there was a concern that such a detailed division of responsibilities on the board of the Bank Gospodarstwa Krajowego, especially when the word "competences" is used, would lead to misunderstandings between the board members as to whether the board, in the group, has common competence, as it has common responsibility, or whether the individual areas fall within the exclusive competence of the individual members of the board. I would like you to talk about this issue that was raised at the committee meeting.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-19-senat-18-2.u38	Yes, there was such a fear, she was very rightly expressed by some people, including the senator asking the question here. The Minister responsible for the response drew attention to the distinction between the question of representing the bank and the question of carrying out tasks. These details, the analysis of obligations, the assignment of them to the relevant individual employees involves the execution of tasks, not representation outside.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-19-senat-18-2.u39	There are no more calls. Thank you very much, Senator. The bill was filed by the government. The Minister for Development has been authorised to present the government's position in the course of parliamentary work. Does a government representative wish to speak on the bill under consideration and present the position of the government? [[Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Development Mariusz Haladyj: No]] No. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of questioning to a government representative related to this item on the agenda. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? Senator Grubski. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-19-senat-18-2.u40	I would like to ask the same question, which was addressed to Senator Pekkis, about the question of Bank Gospodarstwa Krajowego's view of the export possibility of a guarantee aimed at Iran.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-19-senat-18-2.u41	I inform you that the Ministry of Development represents the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Development Mariusz Haladyj. You're welcome, Minister. Answer the question.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-19-senat-18-2.u42	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The question about Iran is, of course, an important and relevant question, but not at the level of consideration of this law. We are really talking about organisational and structural changes within the government. And issues relating to the use or intensity of specific instruments are already linked to the implementation, later, of specific actions. Iran is of course of interest in the activities of the Polish institutions.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-19-senat-18-2.u43	Thank you very much. Are there any more questions? You're welcome, Senator Augustine.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-19-senat-18-2.u44	Minister for Agriculture and Rural Development the economy is to take over the powers of the Minister of the Treasury towards PKO BP. While in the case of other institutions it is possible to discuss what is better, whether the Minister of the Treasury of the State, who is responsible as the owner, or the Minister of Economy, who is responsible for economic development, here the public limited company, which brings together the savings of Poles, is to be supervised by a minister who is responsible for economic policy. What is the purpose of such assignment?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-19-senat-18-2.u45	Dear Senator, the changes concerning PKO BP are mainly linked to one key reason, namely that other development agencies referred to in the Act do not have such distribution tools as PKO BP has, in particular, in the context of reaching SMEs. And that's, you know, the main goal. This offer of PKO BP complements, as it were, the landscape closes, which will result from the adoption of the said law. And, of course, any action taken by the Minister who will exercise the rights of the shares will only be market actions. There's no danger here that this bank, I don't know, will change its profile or formula. This is more about exploiting the potential of PKO BP than about some dramatic movements towards PKO BP.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-19-senat-18-2.u46	Thank you very much. Senator Augustine again.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-19-senat-18-2.u47	Minister, however, I will return to the question of art. 10a added in the Act relating to Bank Gospodarstwa Krajowego. I don't think this solution really ensures the proper functioning of the board. Because if the exclusive competence of specific vice presidents or members of the board belong to specific areas, what will happen when there is a dispute between the members of the board? Yes, responsibility is shared, but in what formula will such a body be able to make a consistent decision? It is either that someone will enter into someone else's competence, which, in the light of this law, should not take place, or it will not be possible to establish a common position. I think that's pretty much how it looks.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-19-senat-18-2.u48	You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-19-senat-18-2.u49	I'm answering the question. Let's remember, and I was talking about it, too, about art. The 4th BGK Act, so that we can have a full understanding of the nature of Bank Gospodarstwa Krajowego, which is the bank. Let us remember that for the basic purposes of BGK's activities That is what Article is about. 4 The economic policy of the Council of Ministers, government socio-economic programmes and local self-government and regional development programmes should be supported. And that's kind of the starting point to answer the senator's question about the draft article. 10a. I wouldn't say art. 10a very detailed... He directs the powers of the members of the board, who are pointed out by the various ministers, so that the internal competences, to conduct matters within the company, correspond in a department, so to speak, to those areas from which their recommendation emerges. That is to say, targeting the powers of individual members of the Management Board precisely because of the requesting authority for its appointment. And what's different is that I'm talking about the potential disputes that you're talking about, the question of competence and internal division of tasks, and what else is representing the company outside. And this is where all corporate, code and banking laws work. The Management Board shall act in a collegial manner and in an art. 10 also states that. On the other hand, the resolutions of the Management Board shall be adopted by a majority of votes. Art. 10a is intended to focus the internal allocation of tasks of individual members of the Management Board.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-19-senat-18-2.u50	Thank you very much, Minister. Mr. Senator Grabowski. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-19-senat-18-2.u51	Mr. Marshal! Minister! I have a question. Senator Florek kind of provoked me. That question was raised during the committee meeting. It's about PKO BP as a stock company. Here, the Minister, as at the committee meeting, confirmed that it was only about using the existing distribution network to reach SMEs. But how will this affect the organizational structure? If I say so, it will involve a necessity, I don't know, the construction of some additional organizational cells within the structure of BP, will it be... It is also about possible costs which will be incurred by PKO BP as a result of such reorganisation. Were such discussions held with the PKO BP board or not?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-19-senat-18-2.u52	I don't think I can fully answer the senator's question at the level of the bill. There are no changes to the structure of PKO BP's operation in the Act. Here there is only a changing authority exercising rights from shares and the law itself, the mere transfer of these powers, does not imply the need to make any organisational changes within the bank.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-19-senat-18-2.u53	You're welcome. The senator wants to ask.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-19-senat-18-2.u54	Minister, I don't know, maybe you didn't understand me... You confirmed that PKO BP would be... The law will de facto use the PKO BP distribution network to support SMEs, right? So, as I understand it, these facilities or those organizational structures that exist will serve... They'll get extra assignments. Therefore, I ask whether a change in the organizational structure will be necessary, I do not know, the employment of employees or any expansion of the organizational cells. In this context, I'm asking.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-19-senat-18-2.u55	Mr. Senator, the bill doesn't regulate it and doesn't oblige it. Changes in the organisational structures of individual entities as if they were not the result of changes in the regulation as regards supervision. I suppose this is already a matter of bank management and bank management, not a supervisory authority.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-19-senat-18-2.u56	Thank you very much. The list... Oh, and... You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-19-senat-18-2.u57	Minister, I have this question: why did you give up the current wording of the article? 12? It is about the guidelines that the Supervisory Board could provide to the Minister responsible for financial institutions, in this case it was the Minister responsible for economic affairs. So you're giving, as I understand it, very much freedom to this bank, and he has a specific function in our system.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-19-senat-18-2.u58	Mr. Senator, we have given up this provision in agreement with the Minister of Finance, who has simply not used this provision in practice over the past few years, so he felt that this provision is not necessary to carry out tasks, including the Minister of Finance in relation to the bank.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-19-senat-18-2.u59	Thank you very much. I don't see any more calls. Thank you very much, Minister, for your answers. I'm opening a discussion. Senator Grubski was the first to speak. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-19-senat-18-2.u60	Dear Marshal, Dear Minister, I'm gonna talk about something, just a little bit next to this bill, just like my question was addressed... Of course, the name of this law is important, i.e. the question of guarantees for exports. There's hardly a chance to talk about that kind of thing. We had a program that was preferred by the former Deputy Prime Minister in the previous government, a program called Go Africa, which somehow worked. Today, the same programme is needed for Iran, the programme "Go Iran. " We have a situation in which the Polish-Iranian group, which has been operating in Parliament for 5 years, urges Polish entrepreneurs to invest in Iran to collect goods from Iran. Iran today has such a dynamic economy, especially after its opening... Following the abolition of sanctions in Iran, we have a situation of a very dynamic desire to exchange between the two countries. And we have a large group of entrepreneurs who are interested in doing this. Today, instruments are needed to strengthen these measures in order to safeguard these activities primarily in terms of guarantees. Therefore, this law, I think, reforming in some sense this guarantee system through individual financial institutions in Poland, gives such opportunities. And for that, of course, we must thank you. I hope that Iran in Polish reality will function in a moment too. I would also like to say that this is an economy which today is the second economy in terms of gas quantities and the third economy in terms of oil quantities. The potential that Poland needs for cooperation... Relations between Poland and Iran have always been very good in history, so that I hope that this law will also give Polish entrepreneurs the opportunity to develop this business activity. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-19-senat-18-2.u61	Thank you very much, Senator. Senator Augustine will speak now.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-19-senat-18-2.u62	Mr. Marshal! Minister! Mr. and Mrs. Senators! The government should, of course, be free to shape the structure of its offices to achieve its objectives, but such proposals should be looked at to ensure that they function effectively. This bill in a few places raises some doubts. I even have the impression that in some part it is part of the cycle of laws that we are investigating here, and whose purpose, according to the patent laid down in the previous term of the rule of law and justice, is to exchange authorities in many companies and agencies that the Treasury wants to influence. This, of course, always happens according to the same scenario: we increase or decrease the number of members of the authorities, change their competences a little bit and use it as an excuse to exchange boards. Here, I think, it's similar, and it's not really political. What we're seeing now is very common. But competence guarantees the government of law and justice success. And political distribution guarantees the Law and Justice failure in areas where there is no competent management. What I'm saying is not against... I'm not saying it with bad intentions, because we've all committed ourselves to serving our constituents and to acting for the state. What particular doubts does this law raise? So far, when some ministries wanted to carry out their tasks, including banks that had a large enough network, they announced a competition or a tender and set up an appropriate operator. Meanwhile, it is the acquisition of management powers towards PKO BP, in which, as the Minister said here, he places his savings so many Poles of small-scale scrapers, who have great confidence in this state bank, can cause them to impose tasks on this bank, which he does not want to undertake at all, and perhaps there are other banks which, using their network, would be able to do so even cheaper. We are going, it seems, to the manual control mode to a minor extent, but, however, with regard to the stock exchange company, which should only be based on business considerations. The second thing I've already mentioned in my question is the addition of an article. 10a. Minister, of course within the board of directors, we share tasks, that is, in a way, an abecadle of good governance. But if we put it in the bill, as you propose, and instead of the tasks we add competence, it is certainly possible to interpret that these are the exclusive powers of the relevant members of the board, because others are assigned other competences. It's a simple way to disintegrate the board, not calm the emotions. I am convinced that what we have here is the seed of conflict. There will probably be no revealing statement that this law has been born for so long, because other competences have already been transferred, because within the Council of Ministers there are and there have been fierce disputes, which are to be assigned to whom. And the echo of these disputes is the proposed article. 10a. There was a dismemberment of competences between the various departments and the statutory board, which, in terms of representation, has matters regulated in accordance with the Code, but must reach consensus or at least a majority decision on decision-making. And if the tasks were included here in such a way that I would say soft, if I left this as it was, the tasks would be shared within the board, and it would be his internal business, and outside would be a concrete decision and a specific responsibility. In the meantime, this is how you open the field to internal conflicts. This is the wrong solution, and that's why I'm gonna ask you to delete this article. That's all the bill's gonna get. Management will benefit from this. And the minister will benefit from it, although other ministers will have to comply with it a little. And if we leave it this way, it will be, so to speak, the years of funding within this large conglomerate for which individual ministers will be responsible, which they wanted to avoid. This is contrary to the purpose of the law and contrary to good governance. This article should absolutely disappear. One might ask, Dear Senators, what would have happened if this article hadn't happened? It wouldn't have happened. [[Senator, 9.5 minutes.]] Finally... Thank you. Mr. Marshal is like a stopwatch... [[I'm watching my time.]] ...because if I crossed time, it's different, but it's already preventively paying attention to me. But there's only one thing I'd like to bring up, and it was also raised in the committee. Of course, these movements, which are proposed, will concern people, will concern employees. And art. 10 says that when it comes to members of the civilian corps, they will have guaranteed work elsewhere once they have left one place. However, this is only part of the workforce, so you have to ask what will happen to the others. I don't know what percentage the members of the civilian corps are, but probably small. Most employees have the right to fear this bill. And in fact, many of them, perhaps even good ones, today from these very important places will want to leave, because wages do not encourage to stay so much, and now they are getting a signal that staying in these offices, in these institutions, is not necessarily certain. You could've gone a step further. I know there's no obligation to guarantee that in the bill... [[Mr. Senator, it's 11 minutes.]] I'm almost done. ...then it wouldn't have happened if the workers had such guarantees. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-19-senat-18-2.u63	Thank you very much, Senator. [[I'm handing over the amendment here.]] Correction, yes. I inform you that the list of speakers has been exhausted. I would also like to inform you that you have submitted a legislative proposal in writing to Senator Augustine. The discussion is closed. Does a government representative want to respond to the proposals put forward? [[Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Development Mariusz Haladyj: Yes.]] Yes? You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-19-senat-18-2.u64	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Only briefly, because there was a question about Iran from the senator... the bill doesn't regulate it, but that's what the bill is for, to integrate the tools available to the government or the government, and to focus the actions on those markets that are the most forward-looking. The point is to integrate the tools they have... Because today is a product approach. There's one agency here, and there's another. It is therefore about integration and, let's say, accumulation in order to combine the activities of these institutions. We were talking about the civilian corps today. That's exactly what this provision is about, Mr. Senator, to avoid such a situation that there will be duplication of employment. The staff will remain in one office, and in the other, which will take over part of the tasks, the administration will be built up. and avoid the need to fire these people and hire new ones in the second office. It is precisely that those who work on specific tasks should be able to move smoothly to another office. The organisational details will, of course, be the subject of discussions between ministers. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-19-senat-18-2.u65	Thank you very much, Minister. As a legislative proposal has been made, I ask the Committee on National Economy and Innovation and the Committee on Budget and Public Finance to respond to the proposals submitted and to prepare a joint report. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. We proceed with the examination of item 8 of the agenda: the second reading of the draft resolution on amending the Senate Rules of Procedure. I would like to remind you that this project was introduced by a group of senators and is included in print no.123 and the report no. 123 S. I would like to ask the rapporteur of the Joint Committee on Legislative Affairs and the Rules of Procedure, Ethics and Senators, Senator Krzysztof Słoń, to present a joint report to the committee on the draft resolution.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-19-senat-18-2.u66	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour to present a report by the Rules of Procedure, Ethics and Senators' Affairs Committee and the Legislative Commission on the draft resolution on amending the Rules of Procedure of the Senate, which is included in print No 123. A brief history of these changes. On 24 March 2016, the Senate Marshal sent a draft resolution to the Legislative Committee and the Rules of Procedure, Ethics and Senators' Affairs to amend the Senate's Rules of Procedure in order to consider it at first reading. At its meeting on 18 May 2016, the committees considered and amended the draft resolution submitted by the applicants at first reading. The proposer of the draft amendments to the Rules of Procedure was Senator Jan Żaryn, he also presented a draft amendment to the Rules of Procedure of the Senate in connection with the need to make changes concerning the changes that the High Senate introduced in the Act on the Institute of National Remembrance The changes concern the question of the Senate's election of Senate representatives to the College of the Institute of National Remembrance, the Commission for the Investigation of Crimes against the Polish National. Art. 1 of the proposed amendments amend the Rules of Procedure of the Senate and Article. Article 2 and Article 2 3 arrange for issues relating to the activities of the Senate Marshal in view of the situation which will enable these Senate representatives to be appointed to the said Council. Art. 3 in turn clarifies issues related to the entry into force of the resolution. During the discussion, the senators were interested in issues such as how a group of 7 senators recommended candidates for this committee, as well as how to select 2 members of the Senate for this body. Senator Żaryn, as well as the legislator, gave comprehensive answers to the questions of committee representatives. The committees that I represent during this report request that the Senate adopt a single draft resolution attached to it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-19-senat-18-2.u67	Thank you very much, Senator. At present, senators may submit a maximum of one minute's query to the rapporteur of the committee and to the authorised representative of the applicants. I would remind you that the applicants have authorized them to represent Senator Jan Zarin. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? Mr. Senator Jackowski. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-19-senat-18-2.u68	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. I have a question as to whether there was any discussion about the amounts needed to support the candidacy in question. Did the committees agree on this, or were there any comments and arguments? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-19-senat-18-2.u69	Comments, Mr Senator, concerned issues related to the whole selection process, with the fact that a candidate for a member of the College of the Institute of National Remembrance, the Commission for the Investigation of Crimes against the Polish Nationals, can issue a group of 7 senators and that 1 senator can only give support to 1 candidate. Some senators had doubts as to whether 1 senator could support 1 candidate, or whether he could support 2 candidates in connection with the fact that the Senate was electing 2 representatives to this body. The discussion also concerned the question of voting on the selection of candidates, whether the election is to be conducted by an absolute majority or by a simple majority. While voting on the amendments tabled during the discussion and on the whole resolution, there were no votes against, some senators abstained.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-19-senat-18-2.u70	Thank you very much. Senator Florek.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-19-senat-18-2.u71	Mr. Marshal! (PL) Mr President, rapporteur, ladies and gentlemen, I've already got some answers, but I'm saying there's no consequence here. The Senate elects 2 senators for the National Council of Courts, elects a member of the National Council of Radiophony and Television, 3 members of the Monetary Policy Council and 2 members of the College of the Institute of National Remembrance. I quote how it is written, this is also a change to the article. 92, which is the first article we're updating. And now, the senator can support up to two candidates to the National Courthouse Council. And we choose 2 candidates for the National Council of Courts; 1 candidate for the National Council of Radiophony and Television and select 1 candidate; 3 candidates to the Monetary Policy Council And we choose 3 candidates; and 1 candidate to the College of the Institute of National Remembrance, and we appoint and cancel 2 candidates, so there is no consequence to these others... If we can report everywhere as much as we choose, and we call and cancel two, then why can we report only one in this case? Well, I'm just saying, it's really a lack of consistency, an exception to the National Remembrance Institute. I don't know why we make such an exception. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-19-senat-18-2.u72	This was proposed by the Senators' Group, and this was the formula presented by the Senators' rapporteur, Senator Jan Żaryn. It gained recognition in the eyes of the committee and was included in the draft resolution presented to the High House. Indeed, in this particular case there is a slightly different way of giving recommendations, support, this is a difference in relation to other bodies to which the Senate elects its representatives, but the committee's decision was expressed in a vote and such records were recognised by the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-19-senat-18-2.u73	Thank you. Mr. Senator Jackowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-19-senat-18-2.u74	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. I might ask that the representative of the applicants, Senator Żaryn, explain this problem, because I think that Senator Flork's question was not very precise, maybe Senator Żaryn will explain the question that arose. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-19-senat-18-2.u75	Good. You're welcome, Senator Lightning.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-19-senat-18-2.u76	Mr. Marshal! Dear Senator and all Dear Senators, of course, the other Senators! The question that came from the senator's mouth is a certain error of substance. Namely, in the proposed amendment to the Rules of Procedure, it is stated that each senator has the right to sign the list with the other 6 senators, so as to recommend 1 person to the group of colleges. This restriction to 1 potential college member does not change to any extent And it was also translated at the committee meeting. The obvious right of all senators to vote for 2 members of the future college because so many members of the Senate will sit in this body. So that these are two complementary orders, not mutually exclusive. It is possible to submit 1 candidate and vote in favour of 2 candidates, because so many have the right to introduce the Senate into the college. It's in the process of ordering things like this. And you are right, Senator, that this is kind of an individual approach to choosing this 2-person college in our case, because indeed the College of IPN is also chosen differently by other institutions to do so, namely the Sejm and the President.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-19-senat-18-2.u77	Thank you very much, Senator. Senator Florek. Who are you asking the question to?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-19-senat-18-2.u78	I may only be part of a replica, because what Mr. Senator said at the moment is obvious, only that I meant that the same rules, the same rules that apply when choosing e.g. National Judicial Council, National Radio and Television Council, do not apply in this case. There we also select 2 or 3 members, we also vote, this is the same thing, but when we report we can do different things. I only meant one thing, that in this law, in this change, we treat these organs a little differently, or else the Institute of National Remembrance. I would just like to point out that there is a difference here, in my opinion, unreasonable, but if this is what the board has decided, it will be so. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-19-senat-18-2.u79	Thank you very much, Senator. I have allowed you to speak, although you know perfectly well that there is no replica mode under the Rules of Procedure. As I understand it, no further questions. [[We already know everything.]] I inform you that none of your senators... [[There's something else. Senator Jackowski called in.]] Senator Jackowski called in. How happy we are. You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-19-senat-18-2.u80	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I think it's obvious. The bill has changed, the motion has been made, the rule board has examined it. I think that the discussion that has just taken place is also a reflection of what was happening at the committee meeting because it is obvious that, since the law has changed, our rules need to be adapted so that there is no inconsistencies here. Especially since the Senate plays an important role in the creation of statutory authorities according to the amended Act on the Institute of National Remembrance. I think that in these proposals which have been submitted by the High House, there are no dangers, no dangers, no risks that a stalemate might arise in the votes. There are obvious rules. 7 senators sign the candidate. I understand it in such a way that theoretically it can be e.g. 13 candidates, because 13 times seven, let's assume... [[I'm not even 14.]] There could be as many as 14 candidates. I'm speaking theoretically, sir, to reassure the senator. The vote shall then take place. Then the order, as I understand it, of those two candidates that the Senate is about to select will decide the outcome of the vote, i.e. These will be those who, let's say, 14 candidates will get the best results. If this is not the case, please correct it. Therefore, there is no danger that we will have to e.g. Repeat the electoral act or carry out some kind of resummation. The choice is clear, obvious, clear. 7 senators this is a very reasonable limit when applying for such applications. I know there have been proposals for one senator to apply, but it seems to be too far-reaching, and it could be an element that would disrupt a certain harmony in the creation of the authorities of the Institute of National Remembrance. Besides, someone who has to get the support of 7 senators has to legitimize himself with some environmental authority, an appropriate acquis, some sort of, I would say, professional position that predisposes him to this honorable function. I think we will accept this amendment to the Rules of Procedure as of course. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-19-senat-18-2.u81	Thank you, Senator. Senator Florek. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-19-senat-18-2.u82	Mr. Marshal! Mr. Senator! It is clear that if two members are called up and cancelled, as in this case, the principle is that, if I want, I can also report two members. Why can't I just sign up for one if I'm gonna... Like you said, there could be 14 or even 20 candidates. The choice is obvious. The last one is out and we have another round of votes. Well, there's a rule that if we choose two, we can support two, not just one. Let's just say they're gonna run, among other things. Mr. Kowalski and Mr. Kaczmarek. Mr. Kowalski wants my support, but Mr. Kachmark doesn't. Let's say there's six people willing to support Mr. Kaczmark, that that seventh signature will be gone. Well, there's a general rule that I'm a little surprised why we're making an exception to this general rule. In my opinion, there is no great justification for it. We could simply adopt the general principles that apply. But I'm not going to make an amendment... [[One reasonable senator.]] ...because, I think, it doesn't matter that much in this choice. Yes, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-19-senat-18-2.u83	Thank you very much, Senator. I inform you that the list of speakers has been exhausted. The discussion is closed. Now the Senate could proceed with the third reading of the draft resolution. This third reading would only cover the vote. But it will be held together with other votes. I'm asking Senator Secretary to read the memo.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-19-senat-18-2.u84	Communication: Joint meeting of the Committee on Budget and Public Finance and the Committee on National Economy and Innovation on the examination of applications submitted at the 18th Senate meeting to the Act amending the Act on Export Insurance Guaranteed by the State Treasury and certain other laws, Senate printing No 172, will take place today, 19 May 2016, 30 minutes after the announcement of the interruption in Senate plenary session in room 182. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-19-senat-18-2.u85	Thank you. Dismissed until 1 p.m. After the break, we'll proceed to the votes. [[Adjournment from 10 minutes 43 to 13 minutes 01]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-19-senat-18-2.u86	We return to the examination of the first item of the agenda: the Act amending the Act on registration and protection of the names and designations of agricultural products and foodstuffs and on traditional products and certain other laws. The Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development presented a draft resolution requesting amendments to the Act; Senate printing No 163 A. First of all, the amendments will be voted on and then the resolution adopted on the adoption of the law in its entirety, as amended by the amendments adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Amendment 1 eliminates the words stressing the need to submit an application in a single copy. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 80 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 2]] The amendment was accepted. Amendment 2 improves the reference. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 78 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 3]] The amendment was accepted. Amendment 3 formulates the provisions in an appropriate grammatical form. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 81 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 4]] Amendment accepted. Amendment 4 introduces sanctions for re-use of the reserved name. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 81 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 5]] Amendment 4 was accepted. We are voting on the adoption of a resolution on the adoption of the law in its entirety, with amendments resulting from the amendments adopted. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 81 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 6]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the Act amending the Act on registration and protection of the names and designations of agricultural products and foodstuffs and on traditional products and certain other laws. We are returning to the second agenda: amendment of the law on the financing of the common agricultural policy. The Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development presented a draft resolution in which it requested the adoption of this law without amendments; Senate printing No 188 A. We proceed to the vote on the draft resolution submitted by the committee. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 81 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 7]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the Act amending the Act on the financing of the common agricultural policy. We are returning to the third item on the agenda: the Act amending the Horse Races Act. The meeting of the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development was adjourned, which responded to the proposals put forward in the course of the debate and prepared a report on the subject; it is in print No 159 Z. I would ask the rapporteur, Senator Przemysław Błaszczyk, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-19-senat-18-2.u87	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! High Senate! A single amendment was tabled yesterday during the debate. The Committee on Agriculture at its meeting today assessed this amendment negatively and asks for the adoption of a law with 3 amendments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-19-senat-18-2.u88	Thank you very much. Is the senator... [[Mr. Marshal...]] Wait a minute. Does Senator Robert Dowhan still want to speak? [[Yes.]] Please, Mr. Senator. You're still checking in, aren't you? I'm gonna ask you in what mode.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-19-senat-18-2.u89	Dear Marshal, High Senate! Once again, I call for my motion to reject the law in its entirety to be upheld. This is a bad bill. This is another interference in normality. This time in sports Where we're dealing with cadence. It cannot be that another organ will be politicized. Sport was always far from politics and I would appeal to leave such a state. This bill raises a lot of emotions In fact, there are a lot of different articles in the press recently about the ethicality of some of the links between people from Parliament and the government. And that is another argument not to vote in favour of this law. And, of course, the whole debate in yesterday's debate was really an empty conversation about nothing. The Minister was completely unprepared, could not answer any questions, and the arguments that somebody did not know who called the ministry and said that it was a good bill, they did not convince us and in fact ridicule the high office of the ministry. Minister Jurgiel didn't show up during the debate... [[What do you mean, no?]] It only came to an end when the senators could no longer enter into polemics, into a discussion with the Minister, which is not entirely in line with the procedure we know from the previous term of office. The Minister read some numbers from the card that don't exactly match... He was talking about an audit that really embarrasses those who wrote this audit. Once again, I ask you not to politicize the authorities and reject this law at third reading. Thank you very much. [[The horses will be healthier.]] [[Mr. Marshal!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-19-senat-18-2.u90	Wait a minute. And in what mode, Mr. Senator... [[To the rapporteur on the amendment... in accordance with the Rules of Procedure.]] Give me the number of the article you want to speak on. [[Mr. Marshal, I agreed with the Legislative Bureau.]] Okay, but give me the article... [[I don't remember right now.]] Okay, but... [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[Well, then we can take a break, and I'll give you the article number in a minute.]] [[Voice from the room: See you tomorrow!]] [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[Mr. Marshal, I'd like to speak...]] [[Voice from the room: In the matter of false.]] [[Talking in the O.R.]] Okay, but right now... We've never spoken at this stage before, Senator. I have information in the script that the applicant and the rapporteur can now speak, and no more. So that right now, well, that's not gonna happen. I don't have... If you invoke a specific article on the basis of which you wish to speak... [[Talking in the O.R.]] Okay, then you have 30 seconds or a minute to find out which article it is. There you go. [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[Art. Article 53 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1, Mr. Marshal.]] [[Talking in the O.R.]] Good. We'll proceed with the vote. The senator wishes to speak and actually in the article. 53 of the Rules of Procedure is a record which allows this to happen at this stage. You're welcome. I'm giving you the floor. [[What is mentioned in this article?]] Well, then read it to yourself. [[Joy in the Chamber]] [[Talking in the O.R.]] Well, Mr. Senator, I'm not reading the rules right now. I have this point, I know what it sounds like, I make the decision, and I do. [[Yeah, it's good, it's very good.]] [[Yeah, but you should...]] Well, Lord... You won't make a decision. [[Correct.]] [[Talking in the O.R.]] Come on, Mr. Senator, I'm calling you to order! [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[Applause]] There you go, Mr. Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-19-senat-18-2.u91	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Yesterday, during my absence, Senator Borusewicz spoke about me and, of course, lied, lied quite rudely... [[Voices from the hall: Ooh!]] [[As always.]] [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] I know it's kind of like the Civic Platform domain, but here, it's a three-seater marshal who's out of line. Well, I'd like to make it clear that I've never asked and never asked for any kind of invitation... [[Pinocchio! Pinocchio!]] ...and in conversation with people like you I always have a witness, and then Senator Błaszczyk was with me. We asked for an invitation because even the SLD offered to invite senators who would like to attend the ceremony. [[But, Mr. Senator, you...]] Mr. Marshal... [[Mr. Senator, wait a minute.]] Just half a minute. [[But you're overreacting to this article...]] Mr. Marshal, I understand... [[...because you don't ask a question...]] Let me ask you a question, Mr. Marshal. [[...directed to the rapporteur or the applicant.]] Good. I'd also like to say that... [[Talking in the O.R.]] ...for me to represent you wherever you were when you were a marshal, would be an insult, sir. [[Mr. Senator...]] You're the last person in this room... [[Mr. Senator...]] ...anyone to pay attention to. I'll remind you...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-19-senat-18-2.u92	Mr. Senator, I'm taking your vote back. [[...like the press...]] Thank you very much, but you're overreacting... [[I'm asking, Mr. Marshal...]] Sir... [[...the rapporteur, or such statements...]] [[Very good! Very good!]] [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[...they were on the agricultural committee, because in this situation I demand an apology.]] Mr. Senator... [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[For you to apologize, not to me, because you don't have to apologize to me.]] [[Applause]] Thank you very much, Senator. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] Thank you. You abused... In the first place, a vote will be taken on the proposal to reject the law and then, if the proposal is rejected, on the amendments tabled. We proceed with the vote on Senator Robert Dowhan's motion to reject the bill. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 81 senators voted, 23 for, 56 against, 2 abstentions. [[Voting No 8]] In view of the rejection of the motion to reject the law, we are voting on the amendments tabled. Amendment 1 increases the quorum required to adopt resolutions in the cast of the bodies of the Polish Horse Racing Club. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 81 senators voted, 58 were in favour, 23 against. [[Voting No 9]] The amendment was accepted. Amendment 2 amends the rules for reimbursement of travel expenses for members of the Council. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 76 senators voted, 54 for, 21 against, 1 abstention. [[Voting No 10]] The amendment was accepted. Amendment 3 allows you to combine the functions of President of the Polish Horse Racing Club with work with another employer. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 81 Senators voted, 56 for, 25 against. [[Voting No 11]] Amendment 3 was accepted. We are voting on the adoption of a resolution on the adoption of the law in its entirety, with amendments resulting from the amendments adopted. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 81 Senators voted, 56 for, 23 against, 2 abstentions. [[Voting No 12]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the Act amending the Act on Horse Races. We return to the examination of the fourth item of the agenda: the Act amending the Law on special arrangements for the protection of jobs and the Act on the protection of employees' claims in the event of the insolvency of the employer. The Committee on Family, Senior and Social Policy presented a draft resolution in which it requested the adoption of this law without any amendments to Senate printing No 162 A. We proceed to the vote on the draft resolution submitted by the committee. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 78 senators voted, 75 for, 1 against, 2 abstentions. [[Voting No 13]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the Law amending the Law on special arrangements for the protection of jobs and the Act on the protection of employees' claims in the event of insolvency of the employer. We return to the examination of item 5 of the agenda: a law on specific rules for the performance of certain tasks in the field of computerization of the activities of tax administrations, Customs and tax control. The Committee on Budget and Public Finance presented a draft resolution in which it requested the adoption of this law without amendments; Senate printing No 160 A. We therefore proceed to the vote on the draft resolution submitted by the committee. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 81 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 14]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the Law on specific rules for the performance of certain tasks in the field of computerization of the activities of tax administrations, Customs and tax control. We are returning to the examination of item six of the agenda: the Law amending the Law on Tax Ordination and some other laws. The Committee on Budget and Public Finance presented a draft resolution in which it requested the adoption of this law without amendments; Senate printing No 173 A. We proceed to the vote on the draft resolution submitted by the committee. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 81 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 15]] In the light of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the Law amending the Law on Tax Order and some other laws. We return to the examination of item 7 of the agenda: the Act amending the Act on Export Insurance Guaranteed by the State Treasury and certain other laws. The meeting of the Committee on Budgets and Public Finance and the Committee on National Economy and Innovation took place during the session, which responded to the proposals put forward during the debate and prepared a joint report on the subject. It is available in print No 172 Z. I ask the rapporteur, Senator Grzegorz Pekkis, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-19-senat-18-2.u93	The position of the committee shall be in accordance with the position presented by the Minister. Amendments 1, 2, 3 and 4 the committee proposes that you accept, while Amendment 5 has given a negative opinion.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-19-senat-18-2.u94	Thank you very much. Would the senator, Senator Mieczysław Augustyn, like to speak? [[No, thank you.]] Thank you. We'll proceed with the vote. First of all, the amendments will be voted on and then the resolution adopted on the adoption of the law in its entirety, as amended by the amendments adopted. Amendment 1 aligns the provisions on corporate management and export credit insurance with those of the Commercial Companies Code. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 80 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 16]] Amendment 1 was accepted. Amendment No 2 deletes the provision amending the Law on Public Procurement, which transfers powers of supervision of the President of the Public Procurement Office from the President of the Council of Ministers to the Minister responsible for Economic Affairs, assuming that the change of competence should take place in connection with the Law adopted by the Sejm on 13 May 2016 amending the Law on Public Procurement and certain other laws. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 81 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 17]] The amendment was accepted. Amendment 3 harmonises the terminology for the bodies of Bank Gospodarstwa Krajowego and eliminates interpretation doubts. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 77 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 18]] The amendment was accepted. Amendment 4 makes it clear that no member of the supervisory board of Bank Gospodarstwa Krajowego can be a member of the management board of that bank. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 77 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 19]] The amendment was accepted. Amendment 5 eliminates the provision concerning the designation of the respective members of the Board of Directors of Bank Gospodarstwa Krajowego in the act of competence. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 80 senators voted, 24 against, 56 against. [[Voting No 20]] The amendment was rejected. We are voting on the adoption of a resolution on the adoption of the law in its entirety, with amendments resulting from the amendments adopted. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 80 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 21]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the Act amending the Act on Export Insurance Guaranteed by the State Treasury and certain other laws. We return to the examination of item 8 of the agenda: the second reading of the draft resolution on amending the Senate Rules of Procedure. I would like to remind you that today the committee's report on the draft resolution has been presented and a discussion has been held. We proceed to the third reading. I would like to inform you that the third reading only includes voting. I would remind you that the committee requests the Senate to adopt a single draft resolution in print no. 123 S. We proceed to the vote on the draft resolution. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 81 senators voted, 59 were in favour, 2 against, 20 abstentions. [[Voting No 22]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on amending the Senate's Rules of Procedure. In view of the resolutions taken, I ask the senators of the rapporteurs to represent the Senate in the course of the examination of the Senate resolutions by the Sejm committees. Ladies and gentlemen, the Sejm has not passed a law on amending the physiotherapist's profession. The Senate will therefore be adjourned today. I would like to inform you that the agenda of the 18th Senate meeting has been exhausted. I inform the senators that the next Senate meeting will take place on 8 and 9 June 2016. The order of this meeting will be sent to you by e-mail. We proceed to senators' statements outside the agenda. I inform you senators that the statements made to the minutes will be included in the official version of the short-term report. Declarations may not last more than 5 minutes. The statement may include matters relating to the implementation of the mandate, but may not relate to matters on the agenda of the current Senate meeting. The Marshal will refuse to accept unsubstantiated statements whose contents cannot be determined or whose delivery by the senator would not be possible within the time available, i.e. 5 minutes. There is no discussion on the senator's statement. Would any of your senators like to speak? Senator Jan Maria Jackowski. Who else? Good. Please. [[Mr. Marshal...]] Senator, please don't waste time. Time is... Okay, let's wait a minute. It's a minute technical break. [[The meeting is chaired by Vice-Marshal Adam Bielan]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-19-senat-18-2.u95	Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-19-senat-18-2.u96	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. My statement is addressed to the Minister of Justice. A quarter has passed since the law on free legal aid and legal education was in operation. This time allowed an analysis of the effectiveness of the programme. My senator's office is addressed by residents with comments on the free legal services provided by NGOs. In the vast majority of legal aid providers are lawyers and lawyers. NGOs often only operate on a cost-generating intermediary basis. On average, they charge about 30% of the basic amount for mediation, i.e. 30% of the amount of PLN 5 000 150 allocated to it from the state budget. This form of assistance, in my opinion, is inefficient and therefore part of the points supported by these organisations is avoided by the interested parties. For this reason, please inform whether this programme is monitored by the Ministry of Justice and whether it is possible to correct the solutions so that free legal assistance is more effective. The second statement is addressed to the President of the Constitutional Tribunal. I ask you to inform us of all the missions of the judges of the Constitutional Tribunal in 2011, 2012, 2013, 2014 and 2015 and of the foreign missions and the costs of each of these missions and of all the expenses that the taxpayer has incurred for them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-19-senat-18-2.u97	Thank you very much, Senator. Senator Ambrosik.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-19-senat-18-2.u98	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. This is a statement addressed to the Ombudsman Adam Bodnar. With reference to the statement made by Senator Alicia Zając at the seventy-sixth Senate meeting on 12 June 2015 addressed to the Łódź Voivodeship and to the Ombudsman concerning Mr M.S., and to the Ombudsman's reply of 3 September 2015, I kindly ask you to provide information on the state of play of the case, as to this day the Ombudsman has not taken a final position on this matter. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-19-senat-18-2.u99	Thank you very much, Senator. Senator Gogacz.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-19-senat-18-2.u100	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! The senator's statement is addressed to the Minister of Health, Mr Konstanty Radziwiłł. Minister! They asked me for help from employees and trade union organisations, including the NSZZ Joint Committee on Solidarity in Puławy, which is concerned about the implementation of the repair programme implemented by the hospital's director with the consent of the founding body, which is the Puławy District for the hospital. According to the interested parties, the restructuring programme will result in large redundancies, up to 150 people, resulting in the liquidation of some hospital departments, and this is the only hospital in the Puławy district. According to the trade unionists, further redundancies are currently underway. Yesterday, i.e. On 18 May this year, a picket was organized under the district old age in defense of the hospital. As there is a risk of limiting the provision of health services by the Independent Public Health Care Institute in Puławy, and therefore there may be a reduction in health safety, I ask the Minister to take an interest in restructuring activities of the hospital in Puławy. I also ask for assistance from the Ministry of Health to a hospital in Puławy. Despite the fact that the founding body is the Puławy district, according to my opinion the large debt of the unit should run a defence mechanism in which the Ministry of Health must also be present. Please respond to my statement. Stanisław Gogacz. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-19-senat-18-2.u101	Thank you very much, Senator. He was the last to sign up for a statement by Senator Czerwiński.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-19-senat-18-2.u102	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Declaration on the 50th anniversary of the Brest events. On 26 May this year. 50 years have passed since the dramatic events that took place in the Opolskie Voivodeship in Brzeg. On that memorable day, the inhabitants of the city were cruelly punished for the demonstrations of solidarity with the repressed and persecuted by the communist authorities by the Church represented in the Bank by the parish priest under the call of the Exaltation of the Holy Cross and at the same time the dean of the Brest decanate, priest Kazimierz Makarski. The reason for such unprecedented actions of communist authorities towards this priest was his relentless faithfulness to the teaching of the great Primate of the Millennium, Cardinal Stefan Wyszyński and loyalty to the shepherd of the archdiocese of Wrocław, Archbishop Bolesław Kominka. Father Kazimierz Makarski with great zeal and consequence realized the program of national retreats in the period of the Great Novena before the Millennial Baptism of Poland and opposed the actions of the authorities aimed at the secularization of society, which at that time meant its actual Sovietization. A special concern was given to schoolchildren, as demonstrated by the fact that after the removal of religious lessons from schools, the number of children and young people attending catechesis organized at the church was twice as high in the Brest district as in the other districts of Opole Voivodeship. He also took care of the material basis of the Church, as evidenced by its rebuilt sacral objects. He was absolutely devoted and obedient to orders coming from the teachings of the Church. By exposing himself to severe administrative repression, he defended the name of the Church against the unlawful actions of the communist authorities of that time. His attitude caused the Security Service in the Bank to give it a significant slogan in 1958, which was an involuntary tribute given to him by his fierce enemies. In order to punish Father Kazimierz Makarski for his faithfulness to God and his homeland, for disobedience to his oppressors, the provincial authorities of the PZPR in Opole decided to take away the church's vicar house, where there was a catechistic hall and the apartments of the vicar priests of the Brest parish. The people of the city of Brzeg protested against these actions. More than a thousand parishioners, including most women, children and young people, gathered in front of the church on 26 May 1966 to protest against this lawlessness. In order to evict priests and occupy a church building, the authorities had to use about 700 ZOMO officers armed with sticks, tear gases and water cannons. Despite the brutal rush of the demonstration in front of the church and the force of the building parish, the residents of the Brzeg did not give up. The ZOMO troops have been pacifying demonstrations throughout the day, which spontaneously gathered in various parts of the city. Many residents, including women and children, suffered from the beating and action of tear gases. These repressions were also affected by innocent, not participating in the demonstrations of the person. In this way the communist authorities celebrated in the Bank a day considered a celebration of Polish mothers. Repressions were not limited to physical aggression alone. That day, 82 people were arrested. In relation to 13 people, court trials were started, which ended in prison punishments from 6 months to 2,5 years, and 23 people were fined from 350 PLN to 2 000 400 PLN. Given the scale of the events, the number of persons and forces involved in their pacification and the number of detained and punished, Brest events should be considered the most severe conflict between communist power and society, which occurred during the celebration of the Millennium of the Baptism of Poland. On that day, the people of the city of Brzeg witnessed their patriotism, their attachment to God and their homeland, and they deserved to be remembered and thanked for their excellent attitude at a time when honesty and integrity had to be paid a very high price. At the end of my special thanks to all the residents of the Bank, who will now celebrate the 50th anniversary of these events, especially those who contributed to the restoration of memory of this wonderful little town in Opole. [[Applause]] Mr. Marshal, can I have another statement from another... [[Voice from the room: It's only five minutes.]] I can't do this anymore? [[That was exactly five minutes.]] [[Voice from the room: Can't it be any longer?]] [[Voice from the room: You can make multiple statements within 5 minutes, but only within 5 minutes.]] Oh, actually, we have five minutes. [[But can you put them in writing or not?]] [[Voice from the Chamber: In writing to the minutes.]] [[Voice from the room: No.]] [[No? Then why don't you do it in the next session if this statement doesn't go out of date, okay?]] I'll save it for another session. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-19-senat-18-2.u103	Thank you very much. I ask Senator Secretary to read the messages. [[Voice from the room: No messages.]] There's no messages. I would like to inform you that the minutes of the eighteenth Senate meeting of the Republic of Poland IX term will be made available to the senators within 30 days of the Senate meeting at the Senate Office, room 255. The eighteenth session of the Senate of the Republic of Poland 9th term of office is closed. [[The Vice Marshal strikes three times with a marshal's cane]] [[Meeting adjourned at 13 minutes 35]]
