ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-15-senat-32-3.u1	I'm reopening the session. I ask the senators of the secretaries to take their seats at the president's table. I would like to inform the senators that at 5:45 p.m., the meeting will be adjourned for club fare meetings. The meeting will be resumed at 7 p.m. Mr. and Mrs. Senators, I propose that the agenda be supplemented by the following items: the Law amending the Prison Service Act and some... [[Voice from the room: Just a second, because the prints haven't arrived yet...]] Do you want me to announce a recess? [[Voice from the room: Maybe three minutes.]] But first, I was gonna vote. [[The voice from the room: Yeah, but I was just...]] But first, there was going to be a vote. The script's wrongly written. I'm sorry. [[Please don't be nervous, because I'm sick.]] Ladies and gentlemen, I'm changing my mind... We return to the examination of item seven of the agenda: the Law on the amendment of the Seed Act and the Plant Protection Act. The meeting of the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development was adjourned, which responded to the proposals put forward in the course of the debate and prepared a report on the subject; it is in print No 363 Z. I would ask the rapporteur, Senator Jerzy Chróścikowski, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-15-senat-32-3.u2	Mr Marshal, High Izbo, I have the honour to report on behalf of the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development. The Commission accepted 3 amendments, Amendments 7... sorry, Amendments 8, 9 and 10. I ask the High House to support the amendments.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-15-senat-32-3.u3	Thank you very much, Senator. Do the senators of the applicants still want to speak? Senator Jerzy Chróścikowski, Przemysław Błaszczyk? No. Thank you very much. We'll proceed with the vote. First of all, the amendments will be voted on and then the resolution adopted on the adoption of the law in its entirety, as amended by the amendments adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Amendment 1 determines that the length of the period for the entry of fruit plants in the national register is determined by the will to preserve the variety. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? I'm asking you to... [[Talking in the O.R.]] Just a minute. Senator, if you want to vote, go ahead. Please report the results. 85 senators voted, 26 for, 58 against, 1 abstention. [[Voting No 27]] Amendment 1 was rejected. Amendment 2 gives the Central Centre for Plant Variety Studies the obligation to keep documents relating to varieties entered in the national register. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 85 senators voted, 26 for, 58 against, 1 abstention. [[Voting No 28]] Amendment 2 was rejected. Amendment 3 harmonises the calculation of time limits. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 85 senators voted, 26 for, 58 against, 1 abstention. [[Voting No 29]] The amendment was rejected. Amendment 4 introduces a time limit for the prohibition on the assessment or collection of seed in the event of a time limit for participation in an improvement training. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 81 senators voted, 25 for, 55 against, 1 abstention. [[Voting No 30]] Amendment 4 was rejected. Amendment 5 shortens the deadline for participation in an improvement training in the event of circumstances justifying re-training. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 83 senators voted, 26 for, 56 against, 1 abstention. [[Voting No 31]] Amendment 5 was rejected. Amendment 6 correlates the time limit for the restoration of the power to carry out the evaluation or sampling of seed with the time limit for perfecting training. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. Fourty-four senators voted, 26 for, 57 against, one abstention. [[Voting No 32]] Amendment 6 was rejected. Amendment 7 provides for authorisation to issue a regulation prohibiting the marketing of seed of a particular kind. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. There were 84 senators voted, 82 for, 1 against, 1 abstention. [[Voting No 33]] Amendment 7 was... That was Amendment 7? [[Voice from the room: Yes, no. 7.]] Amendment 7 was accepted. Amendment 8 allows the new wording to be applied. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. There were 84 senators voted, 81 for, 2 against, 1 abstention. [[Voting No 34]] The amendment was accepted. Amendment 8 sets a deadline for issuing... [[Voices from the O.R.: No. 9.]] Well, I'm looking at Amendment 9... I'm sorry. Amendment 9 sets a deadline for issuing a regulation on the basis of new authorising provisions. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 85 senators voted, 84 for, one abstention. [[Voting No 35]] Amendment 9 was accepted. We are voting on the adoption of a resolution on the adoption of the law in its entirety, with amendments resulting from the amendments adopted. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 85 senators voted, 80 for, 3 against, 2 abstentions. [[Voting No 36]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the Act amending the Seeding Act and the Plant Protection Act. We return to the discussion of item 17 of the agenda: the second reading of the draft resolution on the 35th anniversary of the tragic events on Uncle. The Senate, following the second reading of the draft resolution, sent the draft to the Legislative Commission and obliged the committee to present an additional report at the present Senate meeting; it is in print No 368 X We proceed to the third reading. I would ask the rapporteur, Senator Barbara Zdrojewska, to present an additional report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-15-senat-32-3.u4	Dear Marshal, Dear Senators! At its meeting on 14 December, the Commission commented on the proposals submitted in the course of the discussion and they were unanimously adopted. Let me remind you that this was about an amendment concerning the name of one of the victims.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-15-senat-32-3.u5	Thank you very much. Would Senator Stanisław Rooster like to speak again? [[No.]] Thank you very much. At present, senators may submit no more than one minute of a request to the rapporteur and the applicant in connection with the additional report submitted. Would any of you senators like to ask such a question? I don't see any volunteers. Thank you. We therefore proceed to the vote. First, the vote on the amendment will be held. Print No 368 X corrected and then on the adoption of the draft, printing No 368 S, in its entirety, with changes resulting from the amendment adopted. We proceed with the vote on this amendment. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 85 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 37]] We therefore proceed to the vote on the draft resolution in its entirety with the amendments resulting from the amendment adopted. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 80 senators voted, 80, that's all of them. Okay, okay, [[Voting No 38]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate adopted a resolution on the 35th anniversary of the tragic events in the mine. We're coming... Now point 18, right? [[Voice from the hall: Eighteenth.]] We return to the examination of item 18 of the agenda: the second reading of the draft resolution on the 46th anniversary of the bloody massacre of workers in Szczecin and the Coast. The Senate, following the second reading of the draft resolution, sent this draft to the Legislative Commission and obliged the committee to submit an additional report at the present Senate meeting, which is in print No 367 X. We proceed to the third reading. I would ask the rapporteur, Senator Barbara Zdrojewska, to present an additional report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-15-senat-32-3.u6	Mr. Marshal! Dear Senators! At its meeting on 14 December, the Commission commented on the proposals put forward in the course of the discussion. I would like to remind you that an amendment has been tabled extending the dates of the events we have been talking about so that the resolution will be "14 and 18 December" instead of "15 and 17 December." This was accepted by the committee. And we're asking for support from the project.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-15-senat-32-3.u7	Thank you very much, Senator. Do Senator Tomasz Grodzki or Senator Barbara Zdrojewska still want to speak? [[No.]] Thank you. At present, senators may submit a maximum of one minute's query to the rapporteur and the applicants in connection with the additional report submitted. Would any of the ladies and gentlemen of the senators like to ask such a question? No. Thank you. We therefore proceed to the vote. In the first place, a vote will be taken on the amendment in print No 367 X, followed by a vote on the draft resolution No 367 S and the amendments resulting from the amendment adopted. We proceed with the vote on this amendment. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 84 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 39]] We proceed to the vote on the draft resolution in its entirety with the amendments resulting from the amendment adopted. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 84 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 40]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate adopted a resolution on the 46th anniversary of the tragic events of December on the Coast. We return to the examination of item 19 of the agenda: the Law on the Organisation and Procedure of the Constitutional Tribunal and the Act on the Status of Judges of the Constitutional Tribunal. The meeting of the Legislative Committee and of the Committee on Human Rights, the Rule of Law and Petitions took place at the time of the debate, which responded to the conclusions put forward during the debate and prepared a joint report on the matter; it is in print No 374 Z. I would ask the rapporteur, Senator Stanisław Gogach, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-15-senat-32-3.u8	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! I am pleased to present the report in print No 374 Z on the deliberations of the Legislative Committee and the Committee on Human Rights, Rule of Law and Petitions. The Commissions at its meeting on 15 December, namely today, discussed the proposals made during the debate on 14 December 2016 on the Law on the organisation and procedure of proceedings before the Constitutional Tribunal and the Act on the status of judges of the Constitutional Tribunal and presented the following position to the High Senate: The High Senate is willing to accept the proposal contained in point II, i.e. the proposal to adopt the Act without amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-15-senat-32-3.u9	Thank you very much, Senator. I would very much like to ask the rapporteur of the minority of the joint committees, Senator Barbara Zdrojewska, to present proposals supported by a minority of the joint committees. [[Jasia, thank you.]] [[We've already thanked this gentleman.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-15-senat-32-3.u10	Dear Marshal, Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! We've made 16 amendments. These are the amendments tabled by me and by Senator Rulewski. There is also one amendment tabled by me and one amendment tabled by Senator Rulewski and Senator Augustyn. Ladies and gentlemen, the amendments we have tabled It is about amendments from 1st to 12th, these are amendments that are in line with the recommendations of our Legislative Office. I highly recommend them to the senators. Amendment 13 refers to the deletion of Article. 16.18 and 20.22. All these articles concern the appointment of a person acting as President of the Court of State. I suggest they... [[Constitutional.]] The Constitutional Tribunal. Yeah, I'm sorry. I propose that they be removed because, in accordance with the constitution... in the opinion of the applicants for minority amendments, it is stated in the Constitution that the vice-president of the Constitutional Tribunal replaces the President. Amendment 15. It's about art. 23. This is also an amendment concerning the Vice-President of the Court and the Agent. We call for the support of these amendments.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-15-senat-32-3.u11	Thank you very much, Senator. Do the Senators of the applicant or the other Senator rapporteur still want to speak? No. The conclusions were made by Senator Jan Rulewski, Senator Barbara Zdrojewska and Senator Mieczysław Augustyn. Please. The first was Senator Augustine. [[On the spot, on the spot.]] Someone's gotta be... [[It's a good choice, a good change.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-15-senat-32-3.u12	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Of course, I was in favour of a motion to reject the law in its entirety, because its adoption threatens to paralyze the Constitutional Tribunal completely, but specifically... [[Well, we'll see about that.]] I specifically requested the deletion of the article. 19. Ladies and gentlemen, most of the Senators of Law and Justice weren't here. I've been trying to figure out if the competent authorities who are here to assess whether or not any laws are in violation of a law. In the case of the Court of Justice, the Court itself found that the Court's decisions or judgments infringed the Law of 25 June or 22 July 2016. Sadly, no one could point out that such violations had occurred. There are neither judgments of the courts nor judgments of the Court, and they alone have the power to do so. [[Reason...]] This provision is absolutely pointless because it requires the President of the Council of Ministers to declare something that has not been established, i.e. judgments or decisions by anyone who has not been identified. This is an absurd provision and should not be retained in the Act unless we assume that some other bodies are competent to determine which laws are or are not compatible with the Constitution. So I call on you to remove from the entire wrong bill what is at the top of absurdity.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-15-senat-32-3.u13	Thank you very much. Senator Jan Rulewski came forward. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-15-senat-32-3.u14	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Today, at this hour, at this time, the Senate is facing an incredible opportunity... [[Talking in the O.R.]] I'll comment, too. ...a great chance that this year's challenge of protests, which are not by any means protests of this House, is not an expression of conflicts in this House, but of a deep social conflict, bringing profound divisions not only on the streets, in offices and among legal circles in Poland, Europe and the world... Then we stand a chance to put an end to this conflict. [[That's what we're doing.]] That's the only solution we have. In order to reject this law as a continuation of previous legislation. You have also expressed your conviction that it is time to end the proceedings around the Constitutional Tribunal. [[The speech is working now.]] And, Mr. Marshal, I am directing a formal motion to you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-15-senat-32-3.u15	But now? [[Yes.]] No, you speak in a different formula, it's not, no... Now... [[Excuse me, a formal motion can be made at any time.]] Okay, I understand, but did you end the senator... [[Yeah, well, the reason for the motion...]] ...justification of the minority's request... [[...and adjustments...]] And now you're in addition to filing a formal application? [[That's right.]] There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-15-senat-32-3.u16	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I'm requesting a half-hour recess... [[No!]] ...to deepen the thought... [[Joy in the Chamber]] ...through the PiS Parliamentary Club... [[Okay, I get it.]] ...in order to take a position that... this will also justify a formal request. I know that Senator Ryszka and, as I have noticed, Senator Majer is also commenting on it with a smile at the moment. There's nothing wrong with that, it's even a cultural attitude. It happens that laughter is something that disarms. [[Laughter is health.]] The laughter in Chaplin's movies was disarming Nazi Germany. Kozakiewicz's gesture aroused patriotic emotions. I do not urge you to show Kozakiewicz's gesture to the High House, but I advise the PiS club to reject this bad bill. [[This is the deep culture.]] [[Joy in the Chamber]] [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-15-senat-32-3.u17	Thank you. Excuse me, someone cut my mic off. Senator, come in, will you? [[No, no, no, no, no, ……]] There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-15-senat-32-3.u18	Yes, Mr. Marshal, I object.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-15-senat-32-3.u19	Objection, good. I understand that Senator Rulewski... I will repeat the formal proposal by Marshal Rulewski, which may be submitted because we have not yet entered the vote. The senator is filing a formal motion for a half-hour break and we are voting on this proposal because there is an objection. We vote, we put Senator Rulewski's motion to vote. Who's in favour of declaring a break, which means accepting Senator Rulewski's motion? Who's against it? Who's holding back? And we give the results. 85 senators voted, 26 for, 59 against. [[Voting No 41]] Senator Zdrojewska may speak at this moment. [[Voices from the room: No!]] [[No.]] Thank you very much. [[Good call.]] In addition, the rapporteur for the minority, but he was also Senator Jan Rulewski... Technically, you can speak again. No. Thank you very much. We'll proceed with the vote. First of all, a vote will be taken on the motion to reject the law and then, if this proposal is rejected, on the proposal to adopt the law without amendment. The vote on the amendments tabled will be held if both previous proposals are rejected. We are voting on the motion for a minority of the Legislative Commission and the Committee on Human Rights, the Rule of Law and Petitions to reject the law. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 84 senators voted, 28 were in favour, 57 against. [[Voting No 42]] The motion to reject the law was rejected. We therefore proceed to vote on the proposal of the Legislative Commission and of the Committee on Human Rights, the Rule of Law and Petitions for the adoption of a law without amendments. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 85 senators voted, 56 were in favour, 27 against, 2 abstentions. [[Voting No 43]] In the light of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the Law on the Organisation and Procedure of the Constitutional Tribunal and the Act on the Status of Judges of the Constitutional Tribunal. Now, ladies and gentlemen... Ma'am, I'm sorry to interrupt you, but... Is he here yet? [[Voice from the room: Yes.]] Okay, then. Mr. and Mrs. Senators, I propose that the agenda be supplemented by items: the Law amending the Prison Service Act and some other laws. and consider it as a point of the 20th agenda; secondly, the Law establishing the.Programme of the modernisation of the Prison Service in the years 2017 and 2020 and considering it as a point of the 21st agenda; thirdly, the Law establishing the Police Modernization Programme, the Border Guard, the State Fire Guard and the Government Protection Office in the years 2017 and 2020 and considering it as a point of the twenty-second agenda; fourthly, the Act amending the Accounting Act and consider it as item twenty-third of the agenda; fifthly, the Law of the Education Law of the twenty-fourth agenda; sixthly, the Law of the Law of introduction of the Law of the twenty-fiveth agenda; and considering it as item twenty-five of the agenda. I would also like to request that the points of the twenty-fourth and twenty-five be considered together. If I do not hear the opposition, I will find that the High House has accepted the proposal. [[Talking in the O.R.]] Senator Klich is the first... [[No, Senator Klich wasn't the first.]] ...spoken to the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-15-senat-32-3.u20	Mr Marshal, as a Civic Platform Club, we have doubts about the examination at this meeting of the twenty-fourth and twenty-fifth paragraphs proposed here, i.e. the Education Law and the provisions implementing this law. This is, let's face it, pouring out our kids with a bath. This is not a reform of the education system, it is a deformity of the education system. Many environments have raised serious concerns about both the motivation of these changes and the way in which this reform is being carried out. We know that there will be a reduction in our children's general education, in some cases our grandchildren, from 9 to 8 years old. We also know that yearbooks 2003, 2004 and 2005 will have much less chances than older and younger peers due to the accumulation of yearbooks. We know about the organisational chaos that will prevail because of the failure to prepare this reform. We know of the enormous costs undervalued by the Ministry in terms of carrying out this reform and the transfer of a large part of financial responsibility without costing itself to local governments. Finally, we know that the teaching of this subject, which is now 6 years old, will be shortened by 2 years, as announced by the Minister. It all reduces our children's chances. All of this reduces the chances of our young people, which emphasized many of the environments that critically referred to this law. I ask the High House to consider a request for the transfer of these two laws to the next Senate meeting. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-15-senat-32-3.u21	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal Borusewicz. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-15-senat-32-3.u22	I object to the combined examination of these two points, the twenty-fourth and twenty-fiveth, i.e. the education law and the introductory provisions. These are huge laws that count over 400 pages. [[Voice from the room: This is the first request to introduce...]] [[Talking in the O.R.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-15-senat-32-3.u23	No, first a motion for rejection, and then a motion for... [[Voice from the room: No...]] Yes. The first motion was to keep these laws out of order. We're gonna vote on this motion, and then... [[Voice from the room: Yes, but it was a request for...]] There's a second motion, Mr. Marshal Borusewicz's motion for... [[The voice from the room: Yeah, but that conclusion was...]] It was Senator Klich's motion... [[Voice from the room: I mean, how to vote to...]] ...so that you don't get it right... [[Voice from the room: Yes.]] Ladies and gentlemen, we will vote. At the moment we will vote on Senator Klich's formal motion not to put these two laws on the agenda, i.e. the Education Law and the Law, which introduces the Law of the Education Law. That's the senator's motion, so we're voting. Who is in favour of Senator Klich's request not to introduce these two laws: education law and law enforcement? If you are against, please press the counter button. Whoever's holding back, please press the "stopping" button. And I'm asking you to give me the results. 85 senators voted against, 27 against, 57 against, 1 abstention. [[Voting No 44]] We now proceed to the second vote, both of which are on the agenda of Mr Borusewicz's motion to deal with these laws separately. Who is in favour of Marshal Borusewicz's motion to consider these two laws separately? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 85 senators voted against, 27 against, 57 against, 1 abstention. [[Voting No 45]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that these laws will be considered together. And now... [[Voice from the room: Last one.]] We proceed with the examination of item 9 of the agenda: the Act on the ratification of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Poland and the Command of the Supreme Ally of the Transformation Commander and the Supreme Command of the Allied Forces in Europe supplementing the Protocol on the status of international military commanders established under the North Atlantic Treaty, signed in Warsaw on 9 July 2016. The text of the Act is contained in print No 362, and the committee's report in print No 362 A. I would like to ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Foreign Affairs and the European Union and the Committee on National Defence, Senator Mark Pęk, to submit a report to the committee. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-15-senat-32-3.u24	Mr. Marshal! High Senate! On behalf of the Committee on Foreign Affairs and the European Union and the Committee on National Defence, I have the honour to present a report on the Act on ratification of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Poland and the Command of the Supreme Allied Commander of Transformation adopted by the Sejm on 2 December 2016... [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[The meeting is chaired by Vice-Marshal Maria Koc]] [[Mr. Senator, wait a minute. Ladies and gentlemen, please be quiet. Those of you who need to talk, please leave the room for a moment, because you can't hear the rapporteur. One minute break to keep the room quiet.]] ... and the Supreme Command of Allied Forces in Europe supplementing the Protocol on the status of international military command established under the North Atlantic Treaty, signed in Warsaw on 9 July 2016. The bill itself is, of course, very short, consisting of two articles. Art. 1 contains the traditional formula of consent to the ratification of the international agreement by the President of the Republic of Poland and Article. 2 specifies that the law shall enter into force 14 days after the date of publication. [[Talking in the O.R.]] The meeting of the two Joint Committees lasted very briefly and properly limited to one statement by a government representative, Deputy Minister Tomasz Szatkowski, who briefly concluded that it was a framework law regulating specific issues related to the functioning of existing and future international military command or organisation of NATO military command in the territory of the Republic of Poland. The agreement regulates the status of military and civilian personnel and members of their families residing in Poland, including their privileges and privileges. Its main objective is to establish uniform rules on the operation of NATO military headquarters, which aims to simplify the functioning of these structures in the future. The contract itself consists of recitals and 39 articles. I will not, of course, discuss them in detail. These are very detailed provisions concerning, for example, certain types of immunities, powers granted to generals and admirals, certain powers granted to families of soldiers and commanders, residence rules, visa issues, issues of professional authorisations, etc., etc. NATO is the initiator of this agreement. This agreement is to develop a general standard for all members of this alliance. In fact, I think from the point of view, that's all. The committees unanimously agreed, i.e. adopted this law without amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-15-senat-32-3.u25	Thank you, Senator. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the rapporteur's senator. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-15-senat-32-3.u26	Thank you, Mrs. Marshal. Mr. Senator, I just have a request for a quick answer. Well, there is already an agreement that clarifies the issue of foreign soldiers staying in Poland This agreement is called SOFA. How is it different from the regulations that the senator is proposing to us today as regards all legal conditions of foreign military stay in Poland? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-15-senat-32-3.u27	Please, Mr. Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-15-senat-32-3.u28	As far as such very detailed questions are concerned, I think that the government representative present here would be more competent. We actually didn't decompose these little pieces. All I can say is that this agreement, in a sense, consolidates the solutions contained in the few legal acts that have so far regulated these issues, namely in the Paris Protocol and in this agreement that you were talking about, that is, in the SOFA. Well, like I said, I'd rather leave the details to the government.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-15-senat-32-3.u29	Thank you very much. And Senator Alexander Swed. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-15-senat-32-3.u30	Thank you, Mrs. Marshal. Mr Senator, I have this question: what is the issue of ratification of similar agreements by other European countries, including countries in our region, for example. Visegrad Group? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-15-senat-32-3.u31	Mrs. Marshal! Mr. Senator! Well, like I said, it's a framework agreement that comes up with a general standard. As far as I know. I draw this knowledge from the justification presented at the seymical stage So far similar agreements have been concluded, among others. Albania, Estonia, Spain, Lithuania, Latvia, Germany, Norway, Portugal, Romania and Turkey, and many countries are at the negotiation stage, including among others. Hungary, Czech Republic and Slovakia.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-15-senat-32-3.u32	Thank you very much. Are there any more questions? I don't see any volunteers. Thank you, Senator. [[Thank you very much.]] The bill was filed by the government. The Minister for National Defence and the Minister for Foreign Affairs were authorised to present the government's position during parliamentary work. We have Minister Renata Szczech, Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. Would the Minister like to take the floor on the bill under consideration and present the position of the government? You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-15-senat-32-3.u33	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The agreement, which is the subject of today's proceedings, was signed on 9 July 2016 at the second day of the NATO Summit in Warsaw by the Minister of National Defence and the Chiefs of the Alliance, the Commander for Transformation of General Denis Mercier and the Commander of the Alliance's Armed Forces in Europe. Its signature was the culmination of the intensive negotiation process, which was conducted by the government under the leadership of the Ministry of National Defence since 2015. I'd like to be more specific about the senator's question. It contains provisions that clarify the agreement called NATO SOFA concerning the status of NATO Member States' armed forces. It is also about an agreement concerning the status of international military commanders in the so-called. the Paris Protocol. These are provisions which, in addition to the North Atlantic Treaty, lay down the legal foundations of NATO. It's a general explanation, if you need any more... This is a clarification of the law that is required at this stage. The agreement regulates the status and functioning of NATO's international military command in the territory of the Republic of Poland, both existing and possible in the future. This Agreement also lays down the rights and obligations of military personnel What was that about? As well as the civil, international military command of NATO and members of their families, and the status of contract contractors acting in favour of NATO command. The essential purpose of this agreement and other such agreements is to establish common rules for the operation of NATO military headquarters within the individual member states of the Alliance and to facilitate the establishment of these structures in the future. To date, I repeat, similar agreements have been concluded, among others: Albania, Estonia, Spain, Latvia, Lithuania, Germany, Norway, Portugal, Romania, Turkey and the USA. In several other Member States This includes Bulgaria, the Czech Republic, Slovakia, Hungary and the conclusion of such an agreement. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-15-senat-32-3.u34	Thank you very much, Minister. At present, the senators... Stay here, Minister, 'cause there might be questions for you. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of questioning to a government representative related to this item on the agenda. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? I don't see any calls. Thank you very much, Minister. [[Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs Renata Jęch: Thank you very much.]] I'm opening a discussion. I would like to inform you that none of your senators have signed up. The discussion is closed. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held in the voting block. Thank you very much. And the next item on the agenda. We proceed with the joint consideration of items 10 and 11 of the agenda: the Act on the ratification of the Protocol amending the Agreement on multilateral settlement in transfer rubles and on the creation of the International Bank for Economic Cooperation of 22 October 1963, as amended by the Protocols of 18 December 1970 and 23 November 1977, as amended by the Protocols of 18 December 1970 and 23 November 1977, drawn up in Moscow on 18 December 1990; the Act on the ratification of the Protocol amending the Agreement on the establishment and operation of the International Bank for Economic Cooperation of 22 October 1963, as amended by the Protocols of 18 December 1970, 23 November 1977 and 18 December 1990, and the Statute of the International Bank for Economic Cooperation, as amended by the Protocols of 18 December 1970, 23 November 1977 and 18 December 1990 drawn up in Warsaw on 25 November 2014. The texts of the laws are contained in prints 349, 350 and the Commission's reports In prints No 349 A and No 350 A. I ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Budgets and Public Finance and the Committee on Foreign Affairs and the European Union, Senator Jack Włosowicz, to report to the committee on the laws under consideration. You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-15-senat-32-3.u35	Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! Both projects are government proposals. The Sejm adopted them on 30 November this year. These projects were dealt with by 2 committees in the Sejm: the Committee on Public Finance and the Committee on Foreign Affairs. The Sejm has made no adjustments. These 2 projects adapt the legal form to the current realities. The first of these projects contains 5 changes. The first amendment refers to the change of name from contract to agreement. The second amendment replaces ECU transfer rubles. The third change is that the consequences of Germany's withdrawal from this organisation are taken into account. Germany came forward because they acquired membership from the German Democratic Republic but were not interested in participating. The fourth change is the change in some of the objectives of the bank's activities due to the political and economic changes that took place in the early 1990s in the Eastern Block. And the fifth change is to make decisions by the bank's board. The second project introduces 4 changes. Instead of ECU, the euro is introduced. Subsequently, account shall be taken of the presence of the Republic of Cuba and Hungary from the organisation. The third point takes into account changes in the Member States that took place in the 1990s. The fourth amendment concerns the shares of the Member States and the currency of the bank's balance sheet. This is the 9 changes that make these 2 projects. The bank's head is Russian, Mrs. Irina Golovchenko. Mr Krzysztof Majczuk is a member of the Polish council. The two Senate committees are proposing to adopt the proposed projects unanimously, so 14 senators voted.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-15-senat-32-3.u36	Thank you very much, Senator. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the rapporteur's senator. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? You're welcome, Senator Grubski.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-15-senat-32-3.u37	Thank you, Senator. Senator rapporteur, I understand that if we are a member of the supervisory board of this bank, we have some obligations regarding the transfer ruble. How high are these commitments? Are there bilateral commitments? Did you talk about it at the committee meeting?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-15-senat-32-3.u38	Yes, there have been financial issues, but if the senator could ask questions about the financial details to the Minister, I'd appreciate it.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-15-senat-32-3.u39	Thank you very much. Are there any more questions for the Senator rapporteur? I don't see any volunteers. Thank you, Senator. [[Thank you, Mrs. Marshal.]] The draft laws were submitted by the government. The Minister for Development and Finance and the Minister for Foreign Affairs were authorised to present the position of the government during parliamentary work. Would a government representative like to take the floor on the laws under consideration and present the government's position? Today we have Minister Renata Szczech and Minister Piotr Nowak, Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Finance. Do the ministers wish to speak on this issue? [[Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Finance Piotr Nowak: No.]] Thank you very much. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of query to government representatives related to the items on the agenda. Senator Grubski reporting, so I'm inviting the Minister here. [[Dear Minister, Dear Marshal!]] Wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-15-senat-32-3.u40	Dear Minister, I will repeat the question asked by the rapporteur. What obligations exist today as regards Poland and the bank we are talking about today?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-15-senat-32-3.u41	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Our country has no obligations. We don't have obligations in rubles. Currently, we operate in the amounts of the euro and Poland has capital in the bank It is as if our asset, not a commitment of almost EUR 22.5 million. In general, we have capital there. We don't have any obligations. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-15-senat-32-3.u42	Thank you very much. Are there any more questions for the Minister? Senator Włosowicz. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-15-senat-32-3.u43	Minister! I have a question for you. In 2016, we ratify the protocols that were signed in 1990. Would you mind telling me why we're just doing this right now?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-15-senat-32-3.u44	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Mr. Senator! This is, you can say, a complicated situation because the protocol is applied on a provisional basis. The transfer ruble was withdrawn at the end of the 1990s. Political and economic change has continued in individual Member States. All of this was so to say, not entirely defined. It was not known which direction the members of this bank would go. Then there were ideas... There's also an International Investment Bank. And there were ideas to bring these institutions together. And the countries were stalling again because they said there might be a connection. Then there were voices that included. Poland is considering leaving this bank. Well, that was delaying the process, too. There were voices that we might be leaving. For reasons, let's say technical, the exit is inefficient, so we have generally decided that this needs to be sorted out. It can't be like this is taking so long. As soon as the Government of Law and Justice came, he felt that this matter had to be resolved, because we cannot live in such uncertainty for how many years. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-15-senat-32-3.u45	Thank you very much. Senator Alexander Swed. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-15-senat-32-3.u46	Thank you, Mrs. Marshal. Minister, I have a question for you. What is the financial balance sheet of our membership of the International Bank of Economic Cooperation, and are there any possible exit procedures? [[Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Finance Piotr Nowak: Excuse me, could you repeat that? It's about what our contribution is, isn't it? I didn't hear...]] What is the current balance sheet? Does Poland gain or lose its membership?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-15-senat-32-3.u47	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-15-senat-32-3.u48	Dear Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! Dear Senator, Poland, as a member of this bank, gains because, as I mentioned, we have EUR 22.5 million of capital there and the bank generates profit. In 2014, it was almost EUR 9 million and in 2015 EUR 3 million. This year may also be EUR 3 million. So there are benefits here in general. The profit will either be paid as a dividend or capital will be raised. Our assets are actually growing. This is the quantitative part. There's also a qualitative part. Please note that in this bank are the Czech Republic, Slovakia, Bulgaria and Romania, i.e. members of the European Union, as well as Vietnam and Mongolia. So, in general, this bank can be used as much as possible to ensure that the Polish representative Mr Majczuk, and from tomorrow, Mrs Lidia Anczakowska, appointed by the President of the National Bank of Poland... It is about the possibility of using this bank as a platform for building relations and contacts for Polish entrepreneurs in countries outside the European Union And to earn money on the Russian market. There are sanctions, but not in all segments. Polish entrepreneurs, e.g. Pesa, who delivered trams there, can use this bank to finance themselves. So there are also qualitative benefits here. When it comes to leaving the bank, there's a problem. Of course, if we wanted to, we could deny and leave, but there's no exit procedure. That's when you lose your capital. Here's the thing: we say we go out, we leave what we have, we close the door, and that's it. We are losing EUR 22.5 million and potential future profits as well as qualitative benefits. The Hungarians did it a while ago. After a while, they realized they had made a mistake, and now they're trying to come back, but there's no access procedure... back. So the exit procedure for the moment is supposed to be, but it's very unfavorable from our point of view. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-15-senat-32-3.u49	Thank you very much. Are there any more questions? I don't see any calls. Thank you very much, Minister. [[Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Finance Piotr Nowak: Thank you beautifully.]] I'm opening a discussion. He informs me that none of your senators have signed up. The joint discussion is closed. I would like to inform you that the vote on the laws under consideration will be held in the voting block. Thank you very much. We proceed with the examination of the item on the 20th agenda: the Law amending the Prison Service Act and some other laws. The text of the Act is contained in print No 380 and the committee report In print No 380 A. I ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Human Rights, the Rule of Law and Petitions, Senator Rafał Ambrozik, to submit a report to the committee. You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-15-senat-32-3.u50	Thank you, Mrs. Marshal. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I would like to present a report on the work of the Committee on Human Rights, Rule of Law and Petitions, which today discussed the Law amending the Prison Service Act and some other laws. This is a government submission. This submission envisages entrusting the Prison Service with tasks related to ensuring security and order in the Ministry of Justice and in the National Public Prosecutor's Office. The specific nature of the activities carried out by the Ministry and the Public Prosecutor's Office may be linked to certain specific threats to the security of the Office and the officials working there. The entities currently performing security tasks do so on the basis of the Act of 22 August 1997 on the protection of persons and property, but do not provide, do not guarantee, the level of security that Prison Service officers can provide, who have the necessary knowledge and experience. The bill also amends the law on the centres of direct coercion. Art. Article 35 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 Paragraph 2 (10) shall be extended to include the possibility of direct coercion by a Prison Service Officer on the premises of other units where the Prison Service officers ensure order and security. The Act also amends the Law. The Law on the Public Prosecutor's Office. Art is changing. 40 §2, which is the consequence of changes in the abovementioned laws, and is intended to ensure security in the National Public Prosecutor's Office. The date of entry into force of the Act is the day after the date of its publication. Two reservations were raised by the Legislative Office and one amendment was tabled. Senator Rulewski has tabled an amendment concerning the deadline for the Act to enter into force within 3 months of the date of its publication. There was also a proposal for adoption without amendments and it was voted against in respect of: 6 votes in favour in favour of 2 abstentions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-15-senat-32-3.u51	Thank you very much, Senator. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the rapporteur's senator. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? Senator Grubski. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-15-senat-32-3.u52	Thank you, Mrs. Marshal. Dear Senator, who has taken care of the D.A.'s office so far... Because you didn't mention anybody, you just pointed out that there were individuals who, under the People's and Property Protection Act, had such powers. Who was that so far? Were they internal structures or external structures?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-15-senat-32-3.u53	They were probably outside entities that... security companies, in one word.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-15-senat-32-3.u54	Thank you very much. And Senator Alexander Swed. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-15-senat-32-3.u55	Thank you, Mrs. Marshal. Senator, I have a question: will there be any additional costs for the state budget in connection with the proposed amendment?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-15-senat-32-3.u56	From the information provided by the Ministry... I have information that there won't be any extra costs... information that says there won't be any extra costs.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-15-senat-32-3.u57	Thank you very much. Are they... Senator Grubski, you're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-15-senat-32-3.u58	Dear Marshal, one more question: will the number of law enforcement officers on the part of the prison service be increased? Well, because it requires a certain period of commitment from these workers. What will be the number of people involved in these tasks? I mean, on an hour's notice...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-15-senat-32-3.u59	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-15-senat-32-3.u60	Dear Senator, this was not the subject of the committee's deliberations, there was no question about it. However, the protection of the Ministry of Justice is now also provided by the prison service. So what we're talking about here is, you can say, sanctioning the current state. As I understand it, there may be jobs, but I don't know about that.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-15-senat-32-3.u61	Thank you very much. Any more questions? No. Thank you, Senator. [[Thank you.]] The bill was filed by the government. The Minister of Justice has been authorised to present the government's position during parliamentary work. Today's meeting is Minister Patrick Jak, Secretary of State at the Ministry of Justice. Would the Minister like to speak on the bill under consideration? You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-15-senat-32-3.u62	Dear Marshal! High Senate! This amendment is, in fact, technical in nature. As the rapporteur mentioned, she is de facto sanctioning the current situation. I mean, the Ministry of Justice is already being protected by the prison service, only that for years it was done artificially, that is, a special branch of the prison service was created. And now we want this state to be sanctioned. In addition, I would like to draw attention to the fact that for many years the various ministers of justice have worked because this building has been protected by the prison service in fact, we have not been faced with any serious incidents there, even though there are regular protests or demonstrations of people who feel injured by the courts by the justice system under the Ministry of Justice building. So that our experiential experience is the best proof that this amendment makes sense. In our view, it is only technical in nature. Thank you. [[The meeting is chaired by Deputy Marshal Grzegorz Czelej]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-15-senat-32-3.u63	At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of questioning to a government representative related to this item on the agenda. Senator Rulewski was the first person to ask a question. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-15-senat-32-3.u64	Thank you very much. Minister, in the draft law authorized by the government, in the article. 4 there is such an ad hoc procedure for the implementation of this law. There it is simply stated: "On the day following the day of the announcement." This means, however, practically no vacathio legis for adaptation. And I agree with you that the bill is technical, but it doesn't just mean changing words, it just means, for example. in Article 3... that prosecutors and subordinates will have to carry out Or maybe, as I've learned, they're already doing it. The various types of operations of a material nature to implement this law. And if that's the case, Minister, there's no special date here. That's what I'd understand. Only the day after the announcement, which is, I would say, a smooth date, then why do we need to shape this record?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-15-senat-32-3.u65	You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-15-senat-32-3.u66	Dear Marshal, High Senate, Dear Senator, in our view... There's an answer in your question. Since this is a technical change, the immediate date of its announcement is a natural consequence.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-15-senat-32-3.u67	Do any of you have... [[Mr. Marshal, do you understand that?]] Please? You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-15-senat-32-3.u68	I have a question for the marshal. Did you understand that answer? [[Yes.]] Thank you very much. I don't.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-15-senat-32-3.u69	I realized that this is a typical technical change that doesn't require a vacathio legis. Is that so, Minister? [[Mr. Marshal, I would ask the Minister to elaborate because...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-15-senat-32-3.u70	If you don't... [[I'm sorry.]] I'm sorry, Mr. Senator. Of course, I'm ready to elaborate. I also meant that since this change is technical and does not raise any doubts about substance, it would be good if it came into force more quickly. But of course there's no... This is not a fundamental issue for us. This is a natural consequence.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-15-senat-32-3.u71	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-15-senat-32-3.u72	Uh... I don't mean to prolong, but for me... Excuse me, you have a legal dictionary, I have a technical dictionary, and you're using a technical dictionary. For me, technology is materials, energy, instructions, technological processes. And that's what this is all about, because the prosecutors are supposed to keep it safe. Technically speaking. So the question is, isn't the technology of implementing this law going beyond what you said?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-15-senat-32-3.u73	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-15-senat-32-3.u74	Mr. Marshal, High Senate, Mr. Senator, the term or vacathio legis is always an expression of the will of the legislator. In our view, there's no reason to wait, but of course I'm leaving it to the High Senate to evaluate.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-15-senat-32-3.u75	Do any of you have any questions for the Minister? I don't see any calls. Minister, thank you very much. [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Justice Patrick How: Thank you.]] I'm opening a discussion. Do we have anyone on the list? [[No.]] I would like to inform you that none of your senators have signed up. [[And yet there's a call...]] Please? [[I'm checking in.]] Would the senator like to speak in the discussion? You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-15-senat-32-3.u76	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Maybe it's like the Minister says, as he sees it, it's not a problem. Maybe this intention of what he is doing, to enter into force as soon as possible, is the sincere intention and good intention, only that the legislative technique, the practice of both Chambers' work indicates that the adoption of fast, urgent deadlines raises doubts, so as not to say, raises complaints. You didn't convince me, Minister. I'm not questioning these honest intentions. That the term should have been used. As the legislative department points out, this term shall be adopted in laws which are urgent at least 14 days. Well, it's hard to assume that on the day of the announcement these installations will be finished, and even if they're finished, they'll work. So you are exhibiting yourself, Minister, about this vacathio legis, among others. No one who, in the event of a check, will record that this bill has not been implemented. And it's just a few days. I ask the Minister to support the amendment. If the 3-month deadline wouldn't bother you, then I would be able to change that as part of an autocorrection. Thank you, Mr. Marshal. And that's my amendment.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-15-senat-32-3.u77	Thank you very much. Would any of you like to take the floor in the discussion? I don't see any calls. I inform you that the list of speakers has been exhausted. The discussion is closed. Would a government representative like to comment on the proposal? No? Thank you very much. As a legislative proposal has been tabled, I ask the Committee on Human Rights, the Rule of Law and Petitions to respond to the proposal presented and to prepare a report. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held in the voting block. We proceed with the examination of item twenty of the first agenda: the Law on the establishment of the "Programme for the modernisation of the Prison Service" in the years 2017 to 2020. The text of the Act is contained in print No 381 and the committee report In print No 381 A. I ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Human Rights, the Rule of Law and Petitions, Senator Rafał Ambrozik, to submit a report to the committee. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-15-senat-32-3.u78	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I would like to present a report on the work of the committee, which today has examined the Law on the establishment of the "Modernisation Programme of the Prison Service" in the years 2017 to 2020. Prison Service as the only uniform formation is not included in the modernisation programme. The programme is designed primarily to improve the safety of prisons and detentions by providing appropriate equipment and improving the conditions for the service of the officers themselves, as well as by civil servants. The implementation of the programme will create the conditions for proper and optimal execution by the Prison Service of its statutory tasks. The implementation of the programme at the final stage should lead to modernisation of the Prison Service, halt the decapitalisation of fixed assets, including infrastructure facilities. These objectives will be achieved by taking measures such as the purchase of weapons, equipment and special equipment, the thermomodernisation of buildings, the improvement of the technical state of the construction infrastructure, the change in the employment of medical personnel. During the commission's work, Mr. Senator Rulewski... Okay, well, maybe first, yeah. 3 amendments were tabled. Sorry, 3 reservations and proposed amendments: in Article. paragraph 1 is deleted. 2; in Article 2, paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: 5 paragraph shall be deleted. 2. The reservation concerned the date of entry into force of the Act. Senator Rulewski took over Amendment 3 of the Legislative Office, and proposed that in Art. 3 delete paragraph 12. There was a motion for adoption of the law without amendments and it was adopted: 6 senators voted in favour, 1 against, 1 abstention. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-15-senat-32-3.u79	That's it, right? [[Thank you very much.]] Thank you very much. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the rapporteur's senator. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-15-senat-32-3.u80	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. I am not a member of the rule of law committee, which is why I would like to ask you two questions. First line. According to the proposed law, who directly supervises the implementation of the programme? And then there's the second line. For the proposed program... We have an annex to the Act on the detailed breakdown of the amounts allocated to the implementation of the programme and there in point 10 is the entry: The change in the system of employment of medical staff. I have a question: has this issue of medical staff been discussed? Is it missing or missing? Has this issue of medical personnel in the prison been discussed in any way at the committee meeting?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-15-senat-32-3.u81	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-15-senat-32-3.u82	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Mr Senator, the Minister of Justice shall supervise the implementation and implementation of this programme, and this shall be as set out in Article. 6 proposed amendment. As far as changes in the employment of medical personnel are concerned, no, this has not been discussed. According to the information I received, there are about 100 doctors missing from prisons and arrests.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-15-senat-32-3.u83	Thank you very much. Senator Grubski. Ask me a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-15-senat-32-3.u84	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Mr. rapporteur, weapons purchases, hardware purchases mean costs. Will the Prison Guard's budget therefore be increased in the coming years, during the modernisation period, or will it be based on current expenditure under the current budget? [[I mean...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-15-senat-32-3.u85	You're welcome, of course.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-15-senat-32-3.u86	Mr. Senator, I understand that the budget will be increased over the years by the amount set by the programme.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-15-senat-32-3.u87	Do you want to ask, Senator? [[No.]] Thank you very much. Mr. Senator Rulewski. Ask me a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-15-senat-32-3.u88	Senator rapporteur, the law should contain normative provisions, and there are many declarative provisions in this law. Such records include, among others: mentioned by the Senator, rapporteur for the Rule. Point 3 (12), which refers to the need to increase the competitiveness of the remuneration of civil servants of the Prison Service. What's the standard? Every move, every comma even... Does changing the current rules mean increasing competitiveness? Is that clear? Does this result in a calculated action for the recipients of this law or for the obliged persons?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-15-senat-32-3.u89	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-15-senat-32-3.u90	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Mr. Senator, you asked me that question. Minister and... [[Yes, but how did you...]] Well, the minister said it was related to the prison service having a problem with civilian workers. It must compete in the overall market with these best workers and therefore it is necessary to increase the competitiveness of the salaries of these workers. That's how I understood it. I don't know if it's okay. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-15-senat-32-3.u91	Do any of you have another question for the rapporteur? I don't see any volunteers. Thank you very much, Senator. [[Thank you.]] The bill was filed by the government. The Minister of Justice has been authorised to present the government's position during parliamentary work. Does a government representative wish to speak on the bill under consideration and present the position of the government? [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Justice Patrick Jak: Yes.]] Come on in, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-15-senat-32-3.u92	Dear Marshal, High Senate! Prison Service, still as Prison Guard, was appointed by Marshal Józef Piłsudski in 1919 as one of the first and most important services needed in the reborn Republic of Poland. This was precisely because Marshal Józef Piłsudski knew that the Prison Guard, today's Prison Service, is a complementary element of the Polish security system and that it is very important from the point of view of Polish security. And it's exactly the same with the prison service today. Prison Service is almost 30,000 people who keep our safety and ensure that those who commit crimes are isolated from the rest of society, but also rehabilitated, so that they can return to normal life after punishment. Prison Service is a formation that I think I can say is the most neglected formation after 1989, because it has not yet undergone any modernisation programme. Until now, the Prison Service staff have been constantly looking at further modernization programs in the police, in the military, in the fire department and in other formations, but still this modernization has been bypassing them. This is the first project, which is the answer to the need to strengthen the security system of the Polish state, a system seen as a whole, a system composed of elements that connect with each other. The fact that the prison service had been neglected for years has caused problems like... Well, for example. We have over 20 penitentiary units that come from the 19th century, actually still from the Prussian era. From today's perspective, they have very low safety benefits, and from an economic point of view they are simply very expensive. The provision of thermomodernization, i.e. heat, and everything that involves current maintenance, has just become inexpensive or very expensive. We have outdated communications systems, we have very big problems with pay arrears... I mean. In the Prison Service according to the law some part, some group of people have already received promotions because they should receive these promotions related to years of service, but the financial gratifications did not follow because we just couldn't afford it. Prison Service is also an outdated weaponry and other problems. I would like to point out that the Prison Service will receive an additional task related to our European commitments in the coming years, i.e. the acquisition of prisoners who are Poles who are currently serving their sentences in different countries of the European Union. This is an additional challenge for us, which must correspond to the modernisation of the institution. Hence this bill. I remind you, the Prison Service is the third armed formation of the Republic of Poland, which is fully mobilized in the case of, knock off, armed conflict. Prison Service officers are also required to serve over-normatively in the event of riots or other extraordinary incidents in the penitentiary units. They are unique people, often underestimated from the point of view of the Polish state, but very necessary. Therefore, I ask the High Senate to support the submitted programme. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-15-senat-32-3.u93	Thank you very much. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of questioning to a government representative related to this item on the agenda. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? Senator Grubski. Ask me a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-15-senat-32-3.u94	Mr. Marshal, Minister, while appreciating this bill, it must be borne in mind, of course, that this service has not actually been modernised, it has not been changed for years, and it must be appreciated that you are taking these steps, praise you for this. I would like to ask you what the cost you expect for these years of additional measures that will be included in this service so that modernization will be a success. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-15-senat-32-3.u95	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-15-senat-32-3.u96	Already, to give a precise answer to the senator, I'm reading a literal article. 5th Act: in the years 2017 to 2026 the maximum limit of expenditure of the state budget resulting from the implementation of the programme will be almost PLN 3 billion.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-15-senat-32-3.u97	Thank you very much. Mr. Senator Rulewski. Ask me a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-15-senat-32-3.u98	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Two questions. The first one concerns Well, it's just a series. The date which has been entered. It's January 1st next year. This is a virtually unrealistic, fictional term, because today this law is not yet adopted, it is not signed by your President, it must then be announced, which, of course, poses some problems again, I would say, with the integrity of the documentary circulation and perhaps the reservations of the control authorities... I have expressed my willingness to modify this term in the spirit of real possibilities. And I have a question as to whether you and the legislative department have adopted such an agreed formula for this term. I'd be happy to submit to her. The second point is an issue which, as I said, is not of a normative nature. There is such a euphemistic definition of the increase in the competitiveness of the salaries of civil servants of the Prison Service. The concept of competitiveness, let us be honest, is not a normative category, it is a discretionary issue. Competitiveness can mean a reduction in wages, atolls in the annex... Because if the wages of this competition fall, then we should adapt to that too. I don't think that's the purpose of this, given that the annex provides for the Minister And I think you're right. The increase in wages, the increase in wages by forty-six million over the years... Shouldn't it be? That's a question. It is better to formulate more precisely what is going on than to hide under the concept of competitiveness which I do not think budgetary units are entitled to.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-15-senat-32-3.u99	You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-15-senat-32-3.u100	Dear Marshal, High Senate! Mr. Senator! To answer your first question about the date of entry into force, I would say that we are convinced that the deadline is absolutely real. The Prison Service has been fully prepared to implement this programme since 1 January 2017. We have written this very precisely both in the impact assessments and in the latest Prison Service budget. That is why I absolutely cannot agree with this thesis. I guarantee the Senate that we are fully prepared for this. As far as the second point is concerned, namely the statement that we want the wages of civil servants in the Prison Service to be competitive, it is perhaps already a semantic issue, but I know what we are talking about, and in my view it is very precise. The point is to get people who are highly qualified to be admitted to the prison service, but they don't have to wear uniforms. At the moment, the great pathology of the Prison Service is that many people who perform only administrative activities, unfortunately wear uniforms, which from the point of view of the Polish state is several times more expensive, unnecessary and unjustified. We believe that there should be a clear chapter in the Prison Service for officers, ensigns, petty officers and civil servants. The problem with the Prison Service so far was that the civil servants of the Prison Service were paid very little. At the moment, these are usually the lowest national ones. This led to the fact that CEOs in the following years, wanting to keep these employees, were saving themselves by dressing them in uniform, you might say. We want out of this, we want to raise our wages and keep them in the service. We want to move away from this, we want to clearly separate administrative activities from uniform service activities. That is why we want to make these rates for civilian workers more competitive from the point of view of the free market. This is also the competition between public and private actors in attracting educated professionals. When we want to offer them higher rates, we use the wording: we want to be more competitive. Is that precise? In my opinion, it's precise. But, like I said, maybe that's the issue. more for those who are educated in the semantic direction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-15-senat-32-3.u101	Questions, please. Mr. Senator Czerwinski. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-15-senat-32-3.u102	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I have a question about the numbers that are given in the article. 5th Bill. Namely, yes. The programme itself ends in 2020 and then there are, as a rule, effects calculated by 2026. The programme is no longer being implemented, and annually we spend PLN 235 million. I understand, it can be presumed that most of this money is money intended to increase wages, actually after a gradual increase in wages for 4 years they are stabilised. What's the state of employment at the Prison Service right now? On this basis, we will be able to figure out how much the average officer will gain, the total amount will be divided by the state of employment and we will find out what will be the average increase in salary per person.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-15-senat-32-3.u103	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-15-senat-32-3.u104	Mr. Marshal! High Senate! Mr. Senator! What's the status of employment? As I mentioned, the prison service now has about 30,000 people, most of whom are uniform workers. As for the question of how this will increase the average for one officer, I answer that it will be about PLN 253 gross.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-15-senat-32-3.u105	Thank you very much. Do any of you have any more questions? I don't see any volunteers. Thank you very much, Minister. [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Justice Patrick How: Thank you.]] I'm opening a discussion. I ask you to take the floor of Senator Burns.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-15-senat-32-3.u106	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Senate! I will make the most of this situation in order to share a general remark when discussing these laws. For a year now, with a hook, we have been adopting many laws in the Senate, which dealt with the broad sense of the Ministry of Justice. I must say that you can see a vision in this ministry, indeed you can see that this undoubtedly priority area of our program... We stressed that the justice system requires very thorough changes and that in very different aspects, in systemic aspects, in structural aspects, the reform of the prosecutor's office, police reform, the reform of individual codes, the criminal code, the code of criminal proceedings, the implementing criminal code. The whole penitentiary policy is the whole, this is an extremely important area of the state, which has been neglected for years, which is why I am glad that another law related to prison comes into force. I remember, less than a year ago, we had very interesting experiences with the changes in electronic surveillance, and as far as I know, it works quite well. I also welcome the changes related to the work of prisoners, because this is also an area which, not to know why, has been marginalized for years, although there is a very important social and educational and rehabilitation aspect here. All the arguments which were made by the opposition in the process of proceding these various laws, the arguments striking the minister, in the ministry, were purely demagogical. You can see various pathologies in the justice system today: the committee of inquiry concerning Amber Gold, matters of reprivatization in Warsaw. We need to see it as a whole. There is still much to be done, but, as I say, as a Senator of Law and Justice, I am pleased that the Ministry of Justice actually has great ambitions and a clear, broad vision. I keep my fingers crossed to keep these things moving forward. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-15-senat-32-3.u107	Thank you very much. Please take the floor of Senator Rulewski.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-15-senat-32-3.u108	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I would almost agree with everything, even with this card for Minister Jaki, that it shows extraordinary dynamics... It is necessary, Minister, to note that this dynamic of the Minister of Justice is variable, because when it is important for you to deal with matters that sometimes cause problems in the field of Prison Service, even because you have to close up demonstrators, it is the Minister, or actually, I apologize, there are no representatives of the Ministry. And then, when you did it, Congratulations here. To avoid the ostracism of the Minister of Finance from your government and to design large funds in this bill for... This is indeed your success. Now it's polemic. Mr. Senator Pęk, it can be said that there are negligence in the political language, that there have been negligence, that there are even indications of who from the ministers... but in addition to politics or politics, the truth is due. And the truth is, when she took over in 1989... the Polish state didn't ruin the prisons. I don't know the case that prison is ruined or neglected, but the truth is also that, I agree, there was no way to put such measures, since the basic economic spiral... That's what was missing, too. But I understand, I know that during the eight years of the Platform's rule, however you look at them, surplus was created. And the PiS government, in particular the Minister, is using them very well by carrying out a fairly broad programme of modernization of prisons. Maybe because he can write programs that... I'm surprised the Minister of Finance didn't notice that. 'Cause here, under the pretense of... That is to say, there is a real fact of civil service increases, and it is written that it is only about competitiveness. Why don't I agree to that? It's not because I wish I didn't raise it. Because if that's what you say I have no reason not to trust you. There is a problem of underpaid wages, not only in the civil service, but in the whole budgetary sphere... When some members of the Senate read this, they said: "We also want to have competitive wages, we are not worse than civil servants of the Prison Service. I don't want to say they're better because that's not the goal here. If it were in other laws that employees of public services and institutions were to have competitive salaries, we would have a lot of problems. As I said, asking a question, there are indeed economic operators in the commercial market who pay very high for similar employees, i.e. accountants, economists, suppliers. But you could also identify employees who do not have such a salary, who are talking about the commercial sphere, who work on the basis of work contracts, orders... I'm not going to multiply that ugly catalog anymore. They just get what's in the register. I don't want to run far away here, but everyone thinks that within a 100-metre radius, some workers not only don't have a competitive salary, but sometimes they don't have enough salary. Senator Bierecki records it. I hope that Parliament's employees will also write down competitive wages and will already accept my proposal. In order to avoid, I would say, gallops of competitiveness... I believe that this should be deleted without deleting the annex in which you grant civil servants almost forty-two million. At the end of the reflection of a general, budgetary nature. Last financial year, we raised our wages quite significantly, say, the staff of the authorities of CBA, CBŚ, even the State Labour Inspection. I supported all these amendments, some I tabled. And we should now ask whether this civil service is to be competitive with the service of bodies or competitive with the commercial market. This is enough to justify my overly long argument and the need for an amendment. It's a matter of deadline. The Minister says... The second amendment refers to a time limit which is reserved for 1 January. It's not hard to say it's almost January 1. Minister, this record is... It is not the provisions to enter into force on 1 January, because, as you know, the implementation of some of them is planned for probably 5 or 6 years. This bill is supposed to come into force. I say and defend the position that this record is false because the bill will not enter into force on 1 January. She won't even be announced on January 1st. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-15-senat-32-3.u109	Are you making an amendment? [[Yes.]] You've always taken shortcuts, and now... [[Joy in the Chamber]] Thank you very much. Would Senator Frost like to speak? Come on in.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-15-senat-32-3.u110	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! I didn't plan to speak at this point, but I was inspired by Senator Rulewski. Mr. Senator, in this brief speech, you said a few things, so to speak, passing by the truth. First line. You used the phrase that after the Civic Platform governments it's so good today because there's been an accumulation of surplus. Well, Mr. Senator, here is the current Secretary of State at the Ministry of Finance who can confirm to you that the last budget surplus was probably when we gave up power. Under the rule of the Civic Platform every year, so to speak, there was a budget deficit. The level of debts that the Polish state has incurred was taken by Donald Tusk, and then, in the last year, Mrs. Ewa Kopacz... Our children and grandchildren will still be paying off debts after the Civic Platform governments, those were the obligations. Plus these hidden liabilities, these loans. Only this year did we straighten this matter out This is done to avoid safety standards, these indicators related to these 3% GDP. You even granted loans to the Social Security Office, which, as you know, were later redeemed. I think we straightened it out at the Senate's last session. So what surplus were you talking about? That's the first line. Second line. The Minister has made it very clear that this act is about introducing competitiveness so that these workers want to work there. [[To whom?]] Sir, competitiveness towards... competitiveness in the market. As you know, unemployment, sir, is falling. If we don't provide competitive wages in the state administration, these people will just walk away. It's one possibility. And the second possibility, which is very costly for the budget of the state, which Minister Jak spoke about, is that administrative staff in the Prison Service will be wearing uniforms, and this involves not only salaries, but also certain pension privileges, which are very expensive for the state budget. And one more thing. The senator said here that you would like other groups to receive raises as well. I will remind you that it is the state... that Mr. Donald Tusk has frozen the increase in the budget for many years. Do you recall that, Senator? [[Yes.]] Yeah. And it's only today that we've triggered these raises, we've implemented a minimum wage increase, which, in turn, is forcing further increases. Mr. Senator, this bill is absolutely legitimate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-15-senat-32-3.u111	Thank you very much. Mr. Senator Rulewski. You're welcome. [[Jackie, no pressure, 'cause health is more important.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-15-senat-32-3.u112	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I don't want to argue, although I may have started a debate because there are too many topics here. I want to correct something and give you some knowledge of Senator Mr. Frost. Firstly, never after 1989, or actually never in independent Poland, if we consider pre-war times, Poland did not have a zero balance in the budget. She's always been on the line. She's always had a deficit. Deficit that is 3% and which is related to the requirements of the European Union, for the first time has been established, previously enshrined in the expenditure rule, by the Government of the Civic Platform. Indeed, Senator Frost is right that this has had some effect on employees' wages and other savings. However, it must be noted, Mr. Senator Frost, that the PiS government is copying this solution. It has not repealed the expenditure rule, and it also solemnly vows to Europe that the deficit level will be maintained at 3% The turn towards Mr Morawiecki is here. I'm still saying I don't know what kind of business you're in. That the movements made by Minister Jak, but not only him, because also other ministers, are the result of the accumulation that has been achieved, the economic accumulation, because they will be covered by taxes. It is also about wages in the Prison Service, pay for both officers and employees. It's hard to accept, Mr. Senator, that within a year Well, it's a little bit more than that. Since the PiS government's takeover of power, a surplus has been created as a result of its actions which would allow Mr.Jakim to receive such broad gestures as well as other increases. This is difficult to accept because probably only six months ago by the Prime Minister, Deputy Prime Minister Morawiecki was announced a plan for responsible development. As an engineer, I can tell you that in the case of the component of this plan, i.e. electric cars, not even a cable has been activated yet. And I take the liberty of cutting off that this year, and at the end of the government's term of office, there will be no such engine, and therefore there will be no profit from sales. Then you won't be able to, Minister. It is regrettable to say that you are proud of your achievements.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-15-senat-32-3.u113	Thank you very much. Would any of you like to take the floor in the discussion? I can't see. I inform you that the list of speakers has been exhausted. I would like to inform you that you have tabled proposals of a legislative nature in writing by Senator Rulewski. The discussion is closed. Would the Minister like to comment on the proposals submitted? No. Thank you very much. As legislative proposals have been made, I ask the Committee on Human Rights, the Rule of Law and Petitions to respond to the proposals put forward and to prepare a report. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held in the voting block. Please read the message.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-15-senat-32-3.u114	Meeting of the Committee on Human Rights, Rule of Laws and Petitions on amendments to the proposed Law on the revision of the Prison Service Act and certain other laws, the Act on the establishment of the "Programme of Modernization of the Prison Service" in the years 2017 to 2020 and the Act on the Establishment of the "Programme of Modernization of the Police, Border Guard, State Fire Guard and Government Protection Office in the years 2017 to 2020... [[Voice from the hall: No, we haven't considered this bill yet.]] ...will be held tomorrow, December 16th, 8:15 p.m. in room 182.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-15-senat-32-3.u115	Thank you very much. Dismissed until 7:00 p.m. [[Adjournment from 17 minutes 48 to 19 minutes 01]] I'm reopening the session. Senators of the secretary's office, please take your seats at the president's table. [[Talking in the O.R.]] Quiet, please. We proceed with the examination of item twenty-second of the agenda: the Law on the Establishment of the Police Modernization Programme, the Border Guard, the State Fire Department and the Government Protection Office in the years 2017 The text of the act is contained in print No 382 and the report of the committee In print No 382 A. I ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Human Rights, Rule of Law and Petitions of Senator Łukasz Mikołajczyk to submit a report to the committee. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-15-senat-32-3.u116	Thank you very much. Dear Marshal, High Senate! I am very pleased to be able to present the report of the Committee on Human Rights, Rule of Law and Petitions on the Law passed by the Sejm on the establishment of the Police Modernization Programme, the Border Guard, the State Fire Department and the Government Protection Office in 2017-2020. The programme of modernization of the Police, Border Guard, State Fire and Government Protection Office is one of the most important projects of the Ministry. It is a specific continuation of the modernisation programme. The implementation of this law will contribute to improving the efficiency and effectiveness of the police, the State Fire Department, the Border Guard and the Government Protection Office and will significantly improve public security and protect citizens. At the same time, it will enable the formations to modernise equipment and equipment, to build new and modernize existing facilities and to increase staff salaries and salaries in two stages. The Minister shall supervise the implementation of this law. At today's committee meeting, which... As I said, the committee meeting took place today at 10 a.m. Representatives of the Ministry of Internal Affairs and Administration, representatives of state institutions, took part in the work of the committee. The Legislative Office indicated that the Act does not raise any substantive legislative objections, but proposed two amendments. One of the amendments was taken over by Senator Rulewski. The amendment concerned the introduction of Article. 8th entry: The Act shall enter into force 14 days after the date of publication, with effect from 1 January 2017. Senator Mammytov filed a motion to adopt the bill without amendment. Finally, after considering the bill at the sitting today, the committee asks: The High Senate will approve the attached draft resolution. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-15-senat-32-3.u117	Thank you very much. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the rapporteur's senator. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? I don't see any volunteers. Thank you very much, Senator. [[Thank you very much.]] The bill was filed by the government. The Minister for Home Affairs and Administration has been authorised to present the government's position during parliamentary work. Does a government representative wish to speak on the bill under consideration? Welcome to Minister Jakub Skiba. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-15-senat-32-3.u118	Dear Marshal, Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! Developed in the Ministry of Internal Affairs and Administration, the draft and adopted by the Sejm on 15 December is one of our most important projects. It is a continuation of the 2007-2011 programme and responds to an increasing sense of threat to the security and public order of the state and citizens. Implementation of the programme is intended to contribute to the efficiency and effectiveness of the formations subordinate to the Minister for Home Affairs and Administration Police, Border Guard, State Fire Department, Government Security Office. and is expected to significantly improve public security and protect citizens. At the same time, it is intended to enable the formations to modernise equipment and equipment, build new and modernized facilities, and two-stage increases in staff salaries and salaries are intended to improve their material situation and increase the motivation and competitiveness of wages. It should be added that the programme will also finance the process of restoring the necessary police posts from the number of 416 decommissioned in the years 2008 to 2015. The programme envisages spending over a total of PLN 9 million 186 000 over a period of 4 years... sorry, PLN 9 billion 186 million PLN 697 thousand, including PLN 5 billion 470 million 911 thousand is the funds included in the budget of the formation, and PLN 3 billion 715 million PLN 786 thousand is the additional funds included annually in the special reserve. Of the total amount is: Police 5 billion 993 million 29 thousand zlotys; Border Guards 1 billion 267 million 448 thousand zlotys; State Fire Department 1 billion 723 million 142 thousand zlotys; Office for Government Protection • 203 million 78 thousand zlotys. The expenditure on modernization of the State Fire Department includes a total of funds for units financed from Part 42 For 2017, the programme includes appropriations of PLN 300 million, which, in accordance with Article. 13 of the Law of 4 November 2016 on special arrangements for the implementation of the Budget Act for 2017 will be transferred from Part 29 of the National Defence. The programme includes the following projects: firstly, construction investments, including the construction of new, reconstruction and modernization of used facilities, to which the amount of PLN 2 billion 346 million 138 thousand is planned; secondly, the replacement of equipment and equipment of the formation for the amount of PLN 2 billion 718 million 286 thousand. transport equipment, including aircraft and vessels for the sum of PLN 1 billion 99 million 543 thousand, weapons of special technology for PLN 214 million 605 thousand, computer science and communications for the amount of PLN 1 billion 31 million 176 thousand, personal equipment and protective equipment of officers for the amount of PLN 372 million 962 thousand; thirdly, strengthening the motivation of the system of salaries of officers, with the planned amount of PLN 3 billion 383 million 573 thousand, and increasing the competitiveness of salaries of civil servants, with the amount of PLN 738 million 700 000. Planned as from 1 January 2017 and 1 January 2019 - these are the two stages The increase in the salaries of officials and salaries of employees, taking into account the increase in annual prizes and the additional annual salary, will amount to PLN 274 and PLN 335 respectively, and to employees respectively. PLN 271 and PLN 326 respectively. The total increases for officers will be PLN 609, which represents an increase of approximately 13% and for employees PLN 597, which represents an increase of about 16% to 19%. The programme will be implemented by chief police officers, Border Guard and State Fire Department, as well as organisational units under their control and supervision or controlled by them or by the Head of the Government Protection Office. The programme shall be supervised by the Minister of Home Affairs and Administration, who shall evaluate the implementation of the projects, monitor the expenditure and provide the Sejm by 30 April of the year concerned with information on the implementation of the programme for the previous year and by 31 May 2021 with final information on the implementation of the programme. The Minister of Home Affairs and Administration may change the distribution of expenditure, transfers between formations and projects, and the Minister of Finance, in analogy with the provisions of the special-purpose reserve, without the need to amend the law. In addition, the ministers mentioned may agree to multiannual commitments by the programme's implementing entities. I would like to take a brief look at the expenditure on formations, expenditure on projects and the tangible effects of the programme. In the case of the police, the total funds to finance this formation amount to PLN 5 billion 993 million 29 thousand, of which PLN 1 billion 591 million is expected for construction investments. 624 million PLN is planned to purchase transport, land and air equipment. In the field of weapons equipment and special technology, it is planned to spend PLN 76 million,920,000. The amount of PLN 655 million is expected for IT equipment and communications. There are also plans to purchase personal equipment and protective officers for PLN 173 million. In the case of the Border Guard, the corresponding amounts shall be as follows. Overall expenditure, totaling PLN 1 billion 260 million 448 thousand. Of these, 302 million PLN 488 thousand were allocated to construction investments. For transport equipment the amount predicted is PLN 130 million 255 thousand. The amount of PLN 46 million is planned to be spent on weapons and special technology equipment within this formation. The IT and communications equipment was provided for 300 million PLN 566 thousand. The purchase of personal and protective equipment of officers is expected to spend PLN 60 million 645 thousand. The next formation is the State Fire Department. In general, the amount of PLN 1 billion 723 million is expected to be spent in this area. Including construction investments, there is a forecast of PLN 396 million 180 thousand; transport equipment - PLN 302 million 478 thousand. Purchases of special technology equipment are planned for PLN 65 million 380 thousand, and purchases of computer and communications equipment PLN 70 million 104 thousand. Personal and protective equipment of officers is planned for expenditure of PLN 122 million 870 thousand. And the last formation is the Office of Government Protection. Overall, for which an amount of PLN 203 million is planned 78 thousand. From this, 56 million PLN is planned for construction investments, reconstruction and expansion of buildings; for the purchase of transport equipment 42 million PLN 810 thousand; for the purchase of weapons and special technology equipment PLN 25 million 327 thousand; for IT and communication equipment PLN 5 million 506 thousand; and for the personal equipment and protection of officers expenditures of PLN 16 million 380 thousand are planned. In order not to prolong, I will end there. Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-15-senat-32-3.u119	Thank you very much. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of questioning to a government representative related to this item on the agenda. Are any of your senators... [[Senator Barbara Boris-Damięcka: I was the first.]] [[I was second.]] Senator, you're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-15-senat-32-3.u120	Thank you very much. Minister, I have a question for you. In the draft of this law in paragraph. 3 We have information that the programme is not a multiannual programme within the meaning of the Law of 27 August 2009 on public finances. Maybe I didn't understand something. 4 we have information that the total amount of expenditure for the implementation of the programme will be... The Minister gave this amount, but then, as we can see, there is a development in four points and this amount is spread over the years 2017, 2018, 2019 and 2020. So how am I supposed to understand that the programme is not a multi-annual programme when spending amounts is scheduled for the years 2017 to 2020? That's the first question. And second question. Now, if you'll kindly tell me what the modernization is gonna be... Whether this modernization includes the question, because there is no detail here, e.g. construction or creation of new border crossing points, which the Polish state has with many neighbouring countries? And if such a project is intended, then according to what rules... what determines that border crossing points are established in such places rather than other places? I am asking this question because from a dozen voters I have received a request for intervention regarding the creation of new border crossing points, among others. e.g. in Vladawa, which is missing. What are the criteria for creating border crossing points if account is taken of the costs generated by opening the new crossing? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-15-senat-32-3.u121	You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-15-senat-32-3.u122	Thank you very much. The answer to the first question is as follows. So-called. multiannual programmes within the meaning of the Public Finance Act of 27 August 2009 should at this point be regarded as lex generalis In this case, we are dealing with a construction that can be defined as lex specialis. The point is that a specific programme which involves the purchase of specialised equipment to improve safety, aircraft equipment, ships, weapons requires a special approach because it does not fall within the framework of those procedures which are included in the multiannual programme. There's a proposal here to make other rules. They're not worse or looser. More substantively adapted to this issue. That's how you treat it. Indeed, it is a multi-annual programme in a common sense, but it is not the procedure we are talking about. With regard to border crossing points, let me say this: of course, this programme aims to improve the state of border crossing infrastructure. I'm not going to go further than what exactly the border crossings are about, but of course the senator is right. This is about adopting a concept, a strategy for creating these border crossings. At this point, their number is not sufficient, there is no doubt about it. This is particularly true for the Ukrainian border, for example. in view of the expected abolition of the visa requirement for Ukrainian citizens. So the need to expand infrastructure is certainly one of the main issues That's the program. And what criteria do we need here? First of all, this should be done in terms of criteria that are important for the whole country. This is quite an emotional topic, especially when it comes to local communities that live at the border. This is also largely due, unfortunately, to the relative economic impairment of these regions. Border crossings are treated as a means of economic activation of these areas. I must say right away that unfortunately, this is not always about economically healthy activation, it is very often about creating space for the grey zone. The state must pay attention to these, say, pathologies, must somehow change them, shape them in order to foster sustainable development, based on adequate infrastructure and investment. In this regard, we must first of all provide the right infrastructure for the main border crossing points, those strategic ones, on the main lines, communication corridors, especially those leading east. There are very significant delays in this respect. On trails like this highway in the south, Korczowa or A4, of course... There is not enough substance at the border crossing point in Korczowa. The same is true in Medicine, the same is true in Dorohusk. And these examples could be multiplied. Therefore, the main emphasis must be placed there, because it is the interest of the State, but of course also the local transitions, as a complementary infrastructure for these major transitions, must be taken into account. I'm not going to go into detail here anymore, but this program is about balancing this investment pressure. On the one hand, it is about making these most important transitions more accessible, and on the other hand it is necessary to have a sensible policy that will increase the number of transitions in those directions that prove to be economically most promising.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-15-senat-32-3.u123	You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-15-senat-32-3.u124	I'd like to ask. I understand all this with regard to these border crossing points; I understand that the main transitions, which are necessary and most important, must be co-financed and their quality must be raised. However, hypothetically, I assume that there may be a situation that we will need to open some border crossing point, for example. There will be a special economic zone in a border region, which requires amenities for businessmen who will invest or hire, etc. I get it. I would just ask you to give me a few criteria so I can explain to people who are quite locally approaching the problem of the border crossing, because they're connected to their region... It is a number of general criteria which are taken into account at all when opening the border crossing point, so to speak, without touching, without touching the existing ones, the important ones. What are your criteria? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-15-senat-32-3.u125	Specifically. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-15-senat-32-3.u126	Senator, I propose this solution... I am, among other things, co-chair of such a committee on border infrastructure. I propose that I give you a written reply because it will later, I think, be more useful on various issues. But naturally, I think so. [[Senator Barbara Boris-Damięcka: Okay, Minister, thank you, that's enough for me. If you'd be kind enough to give such information in writing, I'd be satisfied. Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-15-senat-32-3.u127	Thank you very much. Senator Slugocki. Ask me a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-15-senat-32-3.u128	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister, thank you very much for the very detailed catalogue of information that you have been kind to present in various constellations. I have a few more formal technical questions. The first relates to the scale of resources allocated to the implementation of the programme over the years. The total amount you spoke about is PLN 9 billion 186,000 697. In the first year of implementation, i.e. in 2017, it will be almost 1 billion 400 thousand, in the second year Nearly 2 billion, and in 2019 we will be dealing with an apogee of spending money. Then the largest amount will be spent, nearly 3 billion 100 thousand. In the following year, in 2020, this will be a much lower amount. What is the point, Minister, of such a time-bound allocation of quotas? Why is the top-of-the-line expenditure, the highest amount of funding, for 2019? That's my first question.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-15-senat-32-3.u129	You're welcome. [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Internal Affairs and Administration Jakub Skiba: Already?]] Yes, you're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-15-senat-32-3.u130	Mr. Senator, the answer is as follows. First of all, in this program, we have the raises I was talking about. There will be two stages of these increases. The first stage will cover the years 2017 and 2019. This is due to certain agreements with trade unions, as well as planning, the forecasting of average wages. In general, this is about a wage strategy. Secondly, it is a question of carrying out the whole purchasing procedure. The point is, these groceries need to be properly planned. It's gonna be a big order for a lot of equipment. As far as investments are concerned, the entire investment cycle will develop. It is known that technical projects, building permits, and then procedures... From our time simulation in this area it turned out that 2019 will be the year of the top-up of spending funds. The plan is also prepared for implementation possibilities.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-15-senat-32-3.u131	Thank you very much. Senator Mikołajczyk... [[Mr. Marshal...]] You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-15-senat-32-3.u132	Minister, thank you very much. Gentlemen in the back are telling me... As a politician, I'll remind all of us, although I'm sure we all remember this very well, that the year 2019 I'm going to say it straight away, please forgive me. It's an election year. I understand there's no such thing as a relationship. [[Oh, Jesus, darling.]] Relax, Mr. Senator. I ask calmly, without emotion, politely. Is there a relationship?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-15-senat-32-3.u133	I can't say anything about it. It's just... [[Thank you very much.]] ...I answered what I had...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-15-senat-32-3.u134	Another question, if you don't mind, ma'am. I'm asking Senator Rooster not to get excited because I'm going to talk about numbers. Minister, tell me... 'Cause it's kind of a wondering amount for construction investments when it comes to the government's security office. This is a relatively high amount of 56 million over a period of 4 years compared to spending on other uniformed services. What does it say? What are the construction investments planned for this service, which you estimate to be nearly 60 million?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-15-senat-32-3.u135	Dear Senator, as far as the Office for Government Protection is concerned, this is a formation that, I would say, is particularly underinvested. Recently, there have been many cases where it turns out that we are dealing with a rather unsatisfactory action. We're aware of that. This also applies to their local base, and it applies in a broad spectrum. It's not just about barracks, it's not just office buildings, it's about all kinds of labs, shooting galleries, etc. It is a wide range of elements that will enable this formation to achieve such a standard of action, from which all authorities will simply be satisfied. So with the full sense that it is a formation in great need, this is how it was defined.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-15-senat-32-3.u136	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-15-senat-32-3.u137	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. Minister, in this series the last question, this time à speaking of wages. Please tell me whether the relationship between the different formations, between the different services, with regard to the projected wage increase, is maintained at a similar level. If not, what are the differences and what they result from. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-15-senat-32-3.u138	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-15-senat-32-3.u139	Here, of course, we followed the principle of the parallelity of tasks. One cannot say that any of these formations are privileged. The differences we can see are somewhat the result of scale, size. Usually, in larger formations the average is smaller, well, it's kind of the nature of things, which doesn't mean that in terms of function positions, there are supposed to be any differences. So even though we have some minor differences in the section here, As I say, they are the result of statistical regulations rather than any policy which would favour one formation... [[At the expense of others.]] ...at the expense of others. Please be sure that our goal is to pay for equivalent and comparable jobs in terms of responsibilities and functional competences. [[Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-15-senat-32-3.u140	Thank you very much. Senator Mikołajczyk. Ask me a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-15-senat-32-3.u141	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. Minister, I am very pleased that the Government of Law and Justice, in its concern for the safety of Poles, restores police stations wound up in the years 2008 to 2015. Personally in October, in the Kalisz district, I attended the symbolic ceremony of handing the keys to several posts by Prime Minister Beata Szydło and Minister Błaszczak. Therefore, I would like to find out about this number again. How many stations are planned to be restored in Poland and how many of these stations will be restored in Wielkopolska. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-15-senat-32-3.u142	Dear Senator, as far as the overall number is concerned, I was talking about the fact that 416 stations were wound up in 2008 and 2015. Our intention is to rebuild this infrastructure. I would like to say one thing: this does not mean full automation. The conditions change, the situation changes, the demographic situation changes, some areas gain the population, other areas simply lose it, so we have to make constant observations and actually year by year of analysis of the situation. So when setting this ceiling, we reserve the right to change and manage this whole process as accidents develop. You just have to watch what it looks like in the regional system and how it changes temporarily. Mr. Senator, I would also suggest... At this point, I do not have specific data about the restitution of police stations, police stations in Wielkopolska. I'll try to give you that information in writing. [[Thank you very much, Minister.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-15-senat-32-3.u143	Do you have any more questions for the senator? [[No. Thank you.]] Thank you very much. [[Senator Czerwinski.]] It's another round. Mr. Senator Czerwinski. Ask me a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-15-senat-32-3.u144	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I want to speak to my lips. Article 2 3. It is very good that you see the needs of a widely understood volunteer rescue. I'd like to know if there's any amount. .. such as those amounts listed here. What will volunteer firefighters and those who are included in the national system get, or is it a percentage, or will it just be established? And in connection with the wording of the mouth. 2... There's a phrase at the end: performing tasks commissioned in the field of fire protection. Don't you think the Minister is a little narrowing down the scope of any assistance you could give these firefighters? Doesn't that just tie your hands? Shouldn't we come up with another phrase, e.g. For the purposes of carrying out statutory tasks? That would be a general statement that wouldn't bind your hands. Because it may turn out that this and this cannot be bought for a given guard, because it goes to accidents, not to fires.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-15-senat-32-3.u145	You're welcome. I appeal to you for questions of no more than one minute.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-15-senat-32-3.u146	Well, as far as the Fire Department is concerned, the amounts to be allocated together amount, as I said, to PLN 1 billion 723 million 142 thousand, of which in 2017 we expect to spend PLN 300 million 407 thousand, PLN 361 million 50 thousand in 2018, PLN 540 million 610 thousand in 2019 and PLN 521 million 75 thousand in 2020. Of course, there are also investment plans for the Senator because that's what he asked. Volunteer firefighters. Well, there are grants in this area. One thousand and 300 investments are planned for the units included in the national fire rescue and fire-fighting systems. For example, voluntary firefighters are expected to receive grants. financing of the purchase of 136 heavy, medium or special rescue and fire-fighting vehicles. In addition, we will buy sets of hydraulic tools, medical rescue kits, air apparatus, pumps, moto pumps, etc. It's a long list. Oh, and 7,000 more special clothes. I'm simply listing some exemplary amounts and investments that I believe the senator can calm down and convince you that this rescue segment will be properly handled. And as for the statutory records, there's kind of two logics here. The first one talks about the maximum extent of the case, and the second, however, somehow mobilises or directs the government. As it seems, the latter logic is probably simply more appropriate, because it more unambiguously distributes these resources and denies certain, say, temptations resulting from savings or other needs that may arise over time.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-15-senat-32-3.u147	Thank you very much. Senator Komarnicki. Ask me a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-15-senat-32-3.u148	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Although some of my questions were asked earlier by Senator Slugocki, I would nevertheless like to ask two questions. First of all, I'm gonna justify why... Well, I had the opportunity, the pleasure, but also the honor to build as an entrepreneur of the crossing on the western border, which secured it, as to say, the swingy border, which was a great border for smugglers. They were huge, expensive investments. [[I'm asking you a question.]] Minister, is there any analysis in the Ministry regarding the sealing of borders as a result of these investments? [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Interior and Administration Jakub Skiba: Excuse me, Senator, is this about the western border?]] Yes. As I am saying, Gubinek Sękkowice, Kietz-Kostrzyn and Świecko-Słubice.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-15-senat-32-3.u149	If you'll excuse me, I'm not sure I understand the question. After all, the western border is at this point the internal border of the Union and there is no border control, and I don't think we're expecting... [[No, no, I'm talking about those investments that were in the '90s, when it happened like... all the terminals were built on these border crossings. It was a lot of money.]] Well, there were, and you can ask if the governments that were in power at that time were aware of it. I'm sure they did. That Poland will join the Schengen area and that simply these investments They won't be needed. Neither the current government nor the previous government nor even the previous government is responsible for this... [[But I'm not burdening anyone, I'm talking about economic analysis, nothing more, whether or not this economic analysis was done.]] I must say that as far as the current government is concerned, I do not recall such an economic analysis, but perhaps this is an interesting task. But who knows, maybe...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-15-senat-32-3.u150	Excuse me, ladies and gentlemen, I call for questions that last no longer than a minute and related to the item on the agenda, not an economic analysis 20 years ago.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-15-senat-32-3.u151	Okay, that's a quick question. Minister, was it a good decision that this huge estate, which was, as if it had been made at the border, had been transferred to local governments? Was it the right decision, or should you manage it? Just a quick question.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-15-senat-32-3.u152	Well, that's certainly not a question for my government either. I'm sorry, I'm just not prepared... [[Okay.]] ...and I can't answer... [[Thank you very much.]] ...so ad hoc on such an extensive, comprehensive question. This doesn't concern the government I represent. [[Okay, thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-15-senat-32-3.u153	Senator Slugocki. Ask me a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-15-senat-32-3.u154	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister, one last question, because I am inspired by the interesting statement of Senator Łukasz Mikołajczyk à about the re-enactment of police stations... In part, you referred to this question, saying that it would depend, among other things. from demography. But the question is, do you take into account in your analyses, research also such an element that if these are stations in big cities, then in the 21st century, during the internet, telephone connections can be built slightly differently on this map of the location of posts in space. Isn't it better to spend a penny of money on the operation of police officers, to be present among Poles, not to build buildings, infrastructure, the maintenance of which costs, heating, etc., etc.? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-15-senat-32-3.u155	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-15-senat-32-3.u156	The answer is, we want to do two things. Definitely an IT program, communication with citizens, a security map, as the senator knows, these are the initiatives we're conducting. On the other hand, the widely reported demand of citizens is convinced that direct contact with officers, that contact with this place, police station, police station brings very large, positive social effects. That's just what citizens want, so that's the answer to the demand. These two roads need to be developed. [[I'll ask you, if you'll allow me, very briefly...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-15-senat-32-3.u157	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-15-senat-32-3.u158	But I understand that in this desire, the state also takes into account the economic account in some way. Because if we can't play the station and send in enough cops every day to patrol and thus guarantee the safety of the local community, then I think you're at stake.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-15-senat-32-3.u159	Of course, Mr. Senator, naturally the answer is: definitely yes. I will not represent the whole logic, because this is not the time and place for this, but certainly this kind of reasoning is taken into account when it comes to the creation of this infrastructure.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-15-senat-32-3.u160	Thank you very much. I would like to inform you that a government representative has undertaken to provide written answers to the questions asked by Senator Barbara Boris-Damięcka and Senator Łukasz Mikołajczyk. Thank you very much, Minister. I'm opening a discussion. Please take the floor of Senator Rooster.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-15-senat-32-3.u161	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! Minister! Dear guests! I would like to say one thing: the first programme for the modernisation of the police, the Border Guard, the State Fire Department and the BOR began in 2005 with the rule of law and justice. Very good that it was continued later. Now the government and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs under the direction of Mr Mariusz Błaszczak definitely looks at the economic account. Ladies and gentlemen, I'll say this. The senator was right to ask some questions here. You've done the most harm to the Border Guard, Minister Stachańczyk. It is important to know that the profile of these four institutions has changed. The Border Guard must now protect borders against immigrants. I will give an example of the southern border, which has been completely exposed, because a decision has been made, not substantive, but political, about the liquidation of the Carpathian Border Guard Division. The facility was moved to the field to Raciborz. And there were actually the most crimes on the south border. The calculations showed that there was the biggest arms trade there, the biggest drug trafficking, and even the Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators, that you would be surprised. The trafficking of women. It must be said that the policy pursued by Minister Mariusz Błaszczak, and also by Minister Skiba here present, is really based on the economic account. Elimination of certain posts I'm gonna tell somebody not to throw something at me. E.g. in Kłodzek, where there was a super-adapted Border Guard unit... eliminating it and creating a facility in Raciborz was, in my opinion, one big mistake. Next thing you know, it's a flip-flop. The Minister has rightly said here that he is Schengen. The whole Western border is exposed because we are in the European Union. Some decisions have just been made. And now the current management of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs is making decisions to seal these borders before immigrants. Because what's happening... Poland is only treated as a metastatic country. We say we take emigrants. But let's look at the statistics. They come to Poland and Poland is only a transitional country for them. They're moving on to Germany because there's a bigger social. When you look at it all, you can see that there's no need to regret the money for safety. The state must be strong and safe. There must be a strong police force. There must be a strong border guard. I was at a Border Guard show and there, Dear Lords, there were screams that we were buying drones, that we were equiping with police drones and Border Guards. These drones are programmed to speak different languages and keep immigrants from crossing the border. The problem we will have, Minister Skiba. I think you're a super-trainer. It's going to be a matter of aviation. As I said, the previous management eliminated really superequipped hangars for helicopters in Poland. And now there's a problem, how to focus aviation in one place. I'm talking about helicopters because... we need to know that they're being sent to the Balkans and other countries where there are conflicts. You can't run out of money here. As far as the Border Guard is concerned, there's a well-equipped staff out there right now. There are young people there who speak several languages. When I was at the show... Don't let anyone think I'm just congratulating my government. He's really done a lot. Let me put it this way: I also bow to Prime Minister Schetin, because under his rule the Border Guard was equipped with state-of-the-art equipment, modern guns, modern weapons. But it really didn't matter at some point. Ino has come to a decision. Although you protested the chairman of the MSWiA committee and your colleague, Mr Biernacki, no arguments reached Mr Stachańczyk because there was a political decision: to remove certain troops to create other branches. And then they didn't count on the costs, they didn't count on the fact that for example. For the modernization of the Carpathian branch, 40 million PLN went that these troops were equipped with everything, including staff, ready to receive immigrants and even to roll up criminals, including drug gangs. Because you'd think the biggest gangs were in voivodship cities. That's not true. The greatest metastases were in the Court of Justice. And the biggest exterminating drug gangs were carried out by Carpathian border guards and New Court police, they rolled up powerful gangs. And it wasn't taken into account that there had to be harmony between the district attorney's office and the police, and that also the Carpathian unit... Because even the arguments that you have to commute. 40 km from Raciborz to Gliwice to get a refugee or a criminal to make a court decision, not accepted. And just to congratulate you that there's another upgrade, there's another money. And for this we must thank the government Prime Minister Beata Szydło, Minister of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Minister Skiba here. Yes, thank you, Marshal. I won't stall, although this is a subject that can be discussed for a really long time. Because state security comes first. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-15-senat-32-3.u162	Thank you very much. It informs that the list of speakers has been exhausted. The discussion is closed. There were no formal applications. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held in the voting block. We proceed with the examination of item twenty-third of the agenda: the act. The text of the act is contained in print No 383, and the report of the committee In print No 383 A. [[Talking in the O.R.]] Quiet, please. Mr. Senator Elephant, please be quiet. I ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Budgets and Public Finance, Senator Krzysztof Mroz, to submit a report to the committee. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-15-senat-32-3.u163	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! Today, the Committee on Budget and Public Finance dealt with the Act amending the Accounting Act and unanimously recommended that the High Senate adopt the Act without amendment. The Legislative Office has not submitted any comments to this law. This law implements the 2014 European Parliament Directive. Well, unfortunately, we're a little late here, because the deadline for its implementation was until December 6. That is why we must take care of this matter so urgently. The implementation of the 2014 Directive in Polish legislation aims to oblige large companies and capital groups to disclose non-financial information and information on diversity by selected entities. I will not read which entities they are, because they are enumeratively mentioned in the opinion. These are generally banks, insurance companies, companies that... public trading... Of course, we are talking about large companies where the average annual employment exceeds 500 people and the balance sheet assets are above 85 million or the net revenue from the sale of goods and products is above 170 million. In our country, as the Minister informed us, these new rules will apply to about 300 entities. As regards the scope of implementation of this directive, the government Because the law was a government project, it implemented all the minimum assumptions that result from the directive. And wherever there was a choice, and in 3 cases there are solutions that are meant to serve entrepreneurs. The provisions of the Act also introduce other solutions, apart from the implementation of the Directive of the European Parliament. They concern, inter alia, the introduction of new financial reporting rules for entities other than capital companies operating under the Public Benefit and Volunteering Act. It is introduced at the request of these organizations. It is also possible to transfer certain accounting evidence, before approving the financial statements, to IT carriers, as well as to simplify the rules for calculating the cost of manufacturing of products for the wider circle of units. The Act did not raise any major controversy, so it is unanimously recommended by the Committee on Budgets and Public Finance. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-15-senat-32-3.u164	Thank you very much. And I'm asking you to stay a while longer... At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the rapporteur's senator. Senator Augustine. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-15-senat-32-3.u165	Senator, so far individuals such as associations, foundations In other words, those set out in the Act on Public Use and Volunteering, as defined in that Act, were treated in the same way as micro units within the meaning of the Act on Accounting. At the time, it was considered to be a positive solution because it did not force these organizations to keep accounts, but only books of income and income. Now he's clearly different... In fact, these organisations have been deleted from the list of units that belong to micro units and are clearly emphasized that they are not This is in the next provision, in the next paragraph. Tell me. 'Cause you said that's what organizations were going to do about it. 'What do they get out of changing those rules? Will they be able to apply simplified rules, or will they not be able, and if they can, to what extent? Because I'm gonna honestly admit that I didn't hear the organization's conclusions, but I did hear that these simplified rules were well received there.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-15-senat-32-3.u166	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-15-senat-32-3.u167	Senator, according to this information that was presented to us at the committee meeting in this area, this change is being introduced at the request of these organisations and these organisations will be able to apply Annex 6 to this law for reporting, which is more suited to the profile of activities carried out by NGOs. [[Thank you very much...]] [[It's about the balance sheet, and I was asking about the current accounting.]] Mr. Senator, it wasn't at the committee meeting that detailed. I think perhaps the Minister will be able to answer that in detail.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-15-senat-32-3.u168	I don't see any more requests for questions. Thank you very much, senator. [[Thank you.]] The bill was filed by the government. The Minister for Development and Finance has been authorised to present the government's position during parliamentary work. Hello, Minister Wiesław Janczyk. Would the Minister like to speak? [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Finance Wiesław Janczyk: Mr. Marshal, I would like to inform you that at 8:00 a.m. the vote begins in the Sejm, so I do not know if I should be here.]] You should be here. I think it's gonna take a while. Do you want to speak or not? [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Finance Wiesław Janczyk: No, the Senator rapporteur said everything.]] Good. Thank you very much. But the senators have the right to ask you questions. At present, senators may submit no longer than a minute of questioning to a government representative. Not more than a minute, Mr. Senator. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-15-senat-32-3.u169	So let me repeat this question. How much change do accounting rules change when non-governmental organisations are not listed in, let's say, a register of micro companies? What are the organizations to gain from this change? And the second question: what was the opinion of the Council for Public Use in the Minister of Labour on these changes?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-15-senat-32-3.u170	Thank you very much. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-15-senat-32-3.u171	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. High Izbo, the project introduces a simplified, separate range of informational financial statements for certain non-governmental organisations operating in the public interest, including foundations and associations, and associations of local self-government units, but excluding capital companies; it is a new annex No 6 to the Act. As a result, NGOs will be excluded from the catalogue of micro and small units and will draw up financial statements on the basis of that Annex 6, which they requested. This will result in the activities of these entities being subject to a reporting obligation corresponding to their needs and to the scale of the action.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-15-senat-32-3.u172	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-15-senat-32-3.u173	Minister, I see this annex, but it concerns the financial statements and the balance sheet. And I'm asking about current accounting. This provision in the Accounting Act qualifying these organisations to micro entities gave them a chance to keep current accounts in a simplified manner. Is this gonna happen now?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-15-senat-32-3.u174	The design rules allow more units to apply simplified rules for calculating the cost of production of the product. That's all I can say.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-15-senat-32-3.u175	Thank you very much. No further questions. Thank you very much, Minister. [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Finance Wiesław Janczyk: Thank you very much.]] [[But to the second question, the Minister didn't answer the position of the Board of Operations...]] [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Finance Wiesław Janczyk: We will reply in writing.]] Good. I've got it. Thank you very much, Minister. I would like to inform you that a government representative has undertaken to give a written answer to Senator Augustine's question. I'm opening a discussion. I would like to inform you that none of your senators have signed up. The discussion is closed. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held in the voting block. We proceed to the joint examination of the points of the twenty-fourth and the twenty-fiveth agenda: the law of education; the law of the law of the law of the law of education. The texts of the laws are contained in prints 375 and 376 and the Commission's reports In prints No 375 A and No 376 A. I would like to ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Territorial Government and State Administration and the Committee on Science, Education and Sport, Senator Łukasz Mikołajczyk, to present the report of the committee on the Law You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-15-senat-32-3.u176	Thank you very much. Dear Marshal, High Senate! I am very pleased to be able to report to the Committee on Science, Education and Sport and to the Committee on Local Government and State Administration on the Law of 14 December 2016 on Education Law and the Law on the Law of Education. The new school system and the related modifications in the organisation and functioning of schools and educational establishments are an important change in the current state of play of these laws. Other systemic changes are also envisaged in selected areas of education strengthening and complementary changes in the school system. In accordance with the provisions of the draft law, the current school system, in which there is a 6-year primary school, a three-year high school, a three-year general school, a 4-year technical school and a three-year main vocational school, will be transformed. It is proposed that the target structure of education should include 8-year primary school, 4-year general school, 5-year technical school, 3 year first-year professional school, 3 years special school for work, 2nd-year professional school and post-secondary school. As a result of the change in the school system, adjustments are needed in the following areas: organisation of primary and secondary education, including the operation of bilingual, international, sports and adult schools; determination of the duration of the school obligation and the provisions concerning the forms of compliance with the school obligation and the obligation to study; recruitment mechanisms for schools; the basis for pre-school and general education; the basis for curriculum training in professions; manuals for general education; framework teaching plans; school printing and certification; examination system, including the introduction of the eighth grade examination. Today was the meeting of the joint committee. The meeting was attended by Minister Anna Zalewska, together with the directors and heads of staff of the Ministry of National Education. The committee was also attended by the Vice President of the Polish Teachers Association, Mr Krzysztof Baszczyński, a representative of the Polish Towns Association, legislators and of course employees taking care of the committee. After a very substantive, calm discussion at the committee meeting, the adoption of a law without amendments was adopted. At the same time, a minority request to reject the laws was submitted. This motion will be presented by Senator Florek. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-15-senat-32-3.u177	Thank you very much. I would like to ask the minority rapporteur of the Committee on Local Government and State Administration and the Committee on Science, Education and Sport, Senator Piotr Flork, to present the proposals of the minority of the committee to the law on education and to the law on education. [[I was afraid you wouldn't be here...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-15-senat-32-3.u178	You were worried. Ladies and gentlemen! It's past 8:00 p.m., so the kids have gone to bed, so we can start the educational debate quietly, because it's, as it turns out, the right time. The minority's motion to reject the law I will no longer justify it in detail, and I will try to say something more in the debate on this subject. I'll give him a brief explanation. A senseless, very expensive change will cause a huge mess in the education, will start a new war with local governments, teachers, parents, students. There'll be a war on the school network, there's no doubt about it. The planned reform of the school system is harmful and there is no rational basis. It will cause several years of chaos. It was a quote. It was a quote from a magazine that I received from the Polish Teachers' Association. And there were many other e-mails today, which I suspect the state, ladies and gentlemen, the senators have also received. At the meeting of the committee, a representative of the Polish Teachers' Association called this law retroactive. I will not say what the representative of the Polish Towns Association said, because of course it was all negative. Now about the procession, I'll tell you what it looks like to process this bill. The Sejm voted yesterday at 22.33 p.m. the first law, and at 23.59 p.m. that is yesterday it was He passed the second law. The committee met today at 12:00 p.m. Before that, these prints were published on the website of 375 and 376. And I looked at these laws. One of the 168 pages, the other of the 253 pages, together there are 421 pages, and I was to prepare myself, because in the end my committee also dealt with this law. Now I have my first motion for your marshal. Mr. Marshal, I would suggest that we arrange for senators, ladies and gentlemen of the senator's high-speed reading course, because if we have two hours and 421 pages... I can't prepare for it, I can't read it. Mr. Marshal, there's a method, a quick reading course, and if we could do this kind of training, we could certainly prepare ourselves and we wouldn't have to wait three or four days, just to get acquainted with the bill within... It's a motion for a marshal. As for the opinion of the Legislative Bureau... Ladies and gentlemen, the oral opinion... There were three legislators present at the meeting and they had as much time as we did. I suspect they slept at night, but there was no bill, no printing at night, so we couldn't get to know the material. In accordance with §2 of the principles of legislative technique, the law should fully regulate the area in question without leaving any relevant parts of the area to normalise. This law does not comply with this requirement by means of the adopted construction, and in addition this construction may cause legal difficulties. The entire opinion was delivered within 36 seconds. There were no written opinions for two laws, which have a total of 421 pages. The Legal Office's opinion was oral, and it lasted 36 seconds, so I'm asking: what are we supposed to do today? Ladies and gentlemen, we have nothing to investigate. We can discuss this, but you've already voted in committee, and the results of this vote... Whatever we say, as long as we discuss it, the outcome of the vote is definitely decided here. [[Democracy.]] Ladies and gentlemen, let me try to say a few words in the debate on substantive issues. Double Yearbooks in 2019 Big Problem... School network, change dependent on the probation officer's consent There's gonna be a big problem here. I'll develop it later. Further: equal opportunities, middle school, environment change, quality of teaching, teachers' dismissals 40 thousand, costs for self-governments PLN 1.1.5 billion, so I estimate, ladies and gentlemen, the basis of the program, qualifications of teachers, a network of hours... You could probably discuss anything for an hour here. I'll try to talk about it in the discussion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-15-senat-32-3.u179	Thank you very much. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the senators of the rapporteurs. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? You're the first Senator to report to the Swede. Ask me a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-15-senat-32-3.u180	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Since there are a lot of lies about education reform, I would like some issues to be heard here. I have questions for the Senator of the majority. First question. As far as time is concerned, what the public consultation on reform was like... How long have they lasted, and with what social factors have the aims of this reform been consulted? Second question. When it comes to EU funding issues, what about funds for... What about EU projects implemented in secondary schools that are extinguished? Third. As regards the employment of teachers, there is already one reform We have implemented, and here's the question: what happened to the six-year-olds this year, and did the teachers lose their jobs because of it? That's it for now. I'll have two more questions, but for now, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-15-senat-32-3.u181	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-15-senat-32-3.u182	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. Mr Senator, when it comes to the first question and the time of implementation, I will remind you that this change has been mentioned for a long time. Since February, consultations began in all voivodships. Both the Minister, the Deputy Ministers, the Ministry's staff and the curators, the Voivodeships met and continue to meet with local government officials in each voivodeship, as well as school and teacher directors, and are conducting consultations. There have also been a number of debates related to the implementation of these changes in education law. As far as the draft law is concerned, the law of education has been on the Sejm since November. That's where it was to be downloaded. Of course, yesterday some amendments, but few, were introduced to this project after the vote. In any case, you could have read the project much earlier. As far as I can tell, it's in response to what Senator Florek said. That the legislators had already worked on this project, they had already leaned on it. So much for the first question. Second question. As far as EU funds are concerned, the fact is that we have often heard in the media concerns about the fact that middle school, which will be extinguished, will have to pay back the EU funds acquired for the implementation of projects in these middle schools. There's no such fear. The European Union transfers funds to an educational establishment for a specific educational task and does not matter if it will be implemented in secondary school, primary school or secondary school. So I would very much like to emphasise that there is no concern about EU funds. As far as six-year-olds are concerned, several million parents have asked that the school's obligation be from the age of seven, and so it has happened. We remember very well how some opposition representatives said that this would result in the dismissal of up to 5 000 teachers. So I've heard, I've read on different portals. It turns out that in fact 80% Six-year-olds stayed in kindergarten, which was very necessary, and this was the answer to what parents expected, and this did not result in redundancies, so there is no such fear either.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-15-senat-32-3.u183	Are there any more questions? Mr. Senator. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-15-senat-32-3.u184	If I may, Mr. Marshal, one more thing. I have a question: what about the 4th grade students, will they be able to use the buildings of expunged junior high schools? I ask this because my parents came to me and wanted their child, currently attending class III, to go to the newly created primary school in the middle school building.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-15-senat-32-3.u185	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-15-senat-32-3.u186	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. This is one of the amendments that has been tabled and which we can already find in education law. Namely, this parent will decide whether a class IV student will go to a regional school, in the sense of newly created after middle school. He'll have the opportunity. Previously, it was said that the first and seventh classes would be in high school buildings, and that there would now be opportunities for fourth classes. In fact, I can say that in my constituency, teams have been set up to implement this reform, headed by the president of the city, the substantive deputy, the head of the education department, the junior high school directors, in the context of the arrangement with the circuits, but also in order to present some solutions, so that it would be the best network of schools in our city. So that's one solution. Of course, as I said, if a parent after the first stage of education, which is class I.III, decides that his child could start the fourth class already at another school, a peripheral one, because he will be there for example. Closer, it'll be a possibility, by all means.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-15-senat-32-3.u187	Thank you very much. Senator Augustine. Ask me a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-15-senat-32-3.u188	Mr. Senator, were you serious about the issue of possible teacher unemployment? What was the position of trade unions? What was the motivation? Because I want to let you know that I've met with most of the local government, and everyone, without exception, announces that there's gonna be layoffs. Only where the district of Grodzki is, that's not a threat, because they can be used in another type of school. And where it's separable, there's another glazer, that's not an option. That's why I'm curious about this argument. Secondly, I would like to ask if you talked about how the issue of art schools will be resolved. Because the students and educators of these schools are protesting strongly against the impossibility of continuing their studies after the end of middle school. And finally, I'd like to ask you about special schools. Have you considered the situation of disabled students who lose their opportunity to learn in the second degree of general education? So, most often or very often, they will finish their primary education, which will significantly reduce their status and opportunities.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-15-senat-32-3.u189	Three questions. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-15-senat-32-3.u190	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. I will start with this, Mr. Senator, that since 2007 1040 schools have been liquidated in Poland and 42 thousand teachers have lost their jobs. [[That's right.]] We're talking about teachers being fired and government concerns. I was the headmaster of the school for seven years, the biggest school in the county, where in one year, students of 6 and 7 years of age met, which was a double yearbook. Which we know very well about. I've released 4 troops from class to class IV. III, and to Class I, Mr. Senator, I've accepted nine troops. It means that I only hired five teachers during the educational cycle, because it was known that later this accumulation, such a large yearbook, would not be. As far as teachers are concerned, this reform is really calculated and prepared. Don't worry about the teachers being fired. [[That's not what I asked.]] Here, too, I appeal to the leading authorities and to the directors not to cause concern. 'Cause this anxiety is very often aroused. That this is how many and so many teachers will lose their jobs. In fact, there's more in the whole system these hours. Of course, it's much easier. I agree with you here. In cities on the rights of the county, where there is one host body. It's definitely easier here. [[And there's only 63 of them.]] However, please note that the average number of children in the class, in the primary school unit is 19 and the average number in the middle school is 24. Therefore, they will pass through Please note, Mr. Senator. The whole class. Yes? So this is where the number of branches is going to increase, and besides, this is the teaching in question, so there is no fear of dismissal. I would say that the Ministry of Education's calculations show that teachers will be admitted to work, not that they will lose it. If they lose, it's just... [[You say you don't have to worry. And what was the trade union position if there was no concern about it?]] [[But it doesn't matter.]] The union position... I do not recall whether, at today's committee meeting, Mr Vice President raised the issue of the number of teachers being fired. I don't recall that now. But it's probably what you say, that somewhere it's raised by the Polish Teachers' Union, which, after all, was an opponent of junior high and what happened during middle school creation. Last year, what some representatives of the CIS wanted to eliminate middle school, and today they are advocates of this system. Because we're talking about the system, not the liquidation of junior high. And here's my next request: for education... I say this as an intern who worked in an 8-year-old primary school, a 6-year-old primary school, worked in junior high, worked in a 4-year-old high school and a 3-year-old high school. Let's look at Polish education as a system of education. Let's not just raise the question of putting out middle school, because that's not the point of education law. The point is to take a global look at the education system today. I think that all teachers or the majority of teachers working in upper secondary schools agree: general secondary education is a training course for high school and there is no general general education. So let's take a look at the system, and I am convinced that the implementation of this system will be effective in teaching. And besides, Mr. Senator, industry schools that are extremely important. It is the employers who ask to have prepared employees, it is the industry schools that are very well suited to the needs of employers and the Polish economy. That's one thing. And secondly, we can't in the education system, as it is today, block students after the first degree of professional school or, at the moment, after the vocational school graduating from the university and the sentences of the Matura. And another question you asked here. Mr. Senator, art schools... this case has been sorted out about art schools, and she's finally been sorted out. We're talking about musical arts schools. Yeah, the student will be there graduating from an 8-year-old elementary artistic school, and then he will pass the exam and then after this 8-year-old school he will be 2 years old. So here in the system, nothing happens when it comes to art schools. You probably have information a few weeks ago when there was some anxiety. At the moment I am calming down, Minister Zalewska, together with Minister Gliński, has established a network of schools in the field of art schools. And another question about students with disabilities, until they're twenty-four years old, they're in the system. [[Do you have any more questions for the senator?]] [[I asked about special schools and students studying in these schools, not whether these students are in the system, because it's obvious they are.]] Yes, but there was also a question of the age of the student in the system. Earlier in the media, I had the opportunity to read information that by the age of twenty-four they wouldn't be in the system... The matter of special schools was not raised in the committee, and I think that the Minister or Minister will certainly answer you exactly.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-15-senat-32-3.u191	Thank you very much. Senator Blackbay, ask me a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-15-senat-32-3.u192	Mr. Marshal, Mr. Senator, a few questions to the senator of your statement, very interesting. Could you clarify your statement that the legislators were leaning over the draft of these laws? Would you mind telling me? Because I didn't hear at the committee meeting where they leaned over there, whether they leaned down with you or... Could you be more specific? We were at the committee meeting, and of course I didn't ask any questions, as a non-member, I didn't want to interfere... I'd like to ask the senator if I've heard too well... The trade union rep said that the first draft of these magnificent trade union laws was given an opinion on June 27th. I'm gonna take a look. Yes. It should therefore be said that these consultations have started during this period. I would like to ask in this way: does the senator know how long the consultation lasted and how long did it take to implement the education reform in Finland, which the Minister referred to ten years ago as a good example? To make it easier, it's not a number 1, nor a number 2, nor a number 3, it's just to make it easier. June 27th. Now on the issue One more question and I'll take a break. . concerning the waivers. It wasn't at the committee meeting, but the senator always says What do I like? With such conviction... Tell me about your personal opinion. Will you agree and vote in favour of the amendment to include in the bill that all costs relating to change, reform, exemptions, etc. will be charged to the State Treasury? Well, since the Minister In fact, I will ask this question to the Minister, he is so convinced that this will not be the case, and you also speak of it in a clear, simple, mathematical way, as always the senator says, why not write such a thing in the bill? Could you tell me if you would support such an amendment and if you did not, why?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-15-senat-32-3.u193	You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-15-senat-32-3.u194	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. As far as the work of legislators is concerned, yes, they had previously been familiar with the draft law. I remind you, he's been available since November. As regards the date of 27 June and Finland, I do not know how long it took to implement the reform in Finland. I know a functioning Finnish system, which is a very good system and is also a 2-stage system. The Finns start school at the age of 7. This is a 2-step system, very similar to the one we propose in this law. To be honest, I don't know how long it took the Finns to implement this reform. As I said, it is difficult to answer some parents today, why we delay, we postpone the time when their children will start attending 4 years of high school. Very often employers say that they will have to wait longer for graduates of industry schools. That was question two. As far as the third question is concerned, I am really convinced that there is no need for such an amendment to the law. Well, like I said, teachers won't lose their jobs, which the Minister stressed very strongly today. The role of education curator has been strengthened, Mr. Senator. He's gonna be the one who's gonna review the school network. It is very important to do so together with the probation officer. I would like to remind you that the educational information system is in place for each school, from each educational institution the Ministry has at its disposal. [[Mr. Marshal, if you don't mind.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-15-senat-32-3.u195	Of course, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-15-senat-32-3.u196	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Mr. Senator, a word to what the senator said. The Finns discussed and implemented for 3 years, which is 5 years in total. We're five months, but we're warriors... [[We can implement five years, Mr. Senator.]] And a word to what the senator said. You said a fantastic thought that the system you're proposing is similar to the Finnish system. And you mentioned two things: children start school at the age of 7 and that... well, 8 plus 4. Could you name one more thing in common?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-15-senat-32-3.u197	The Polish system... [[...and Finnish.]] I hope... I'm just gonna say... [[And while I'm discussing it, I'll tell you the difference.]] [[This has nothing to do with this bill.]] I am aware of the differences between the Polish and Finnish systems, Senator. But if you're talking about these differences, if you know it's such a great system... [[I'm sorry, but, of course, you can answer to a wider extent, but you're the committee's rapporteur for the committee meeting. You're welcome.]] I'll just add, Mr. Senator, that I'm very pleased that you appreciate the Finnish system very much. It is only a pity that for 8 years the Platform has done nothing to try to introduce a similar system in Polish education. [[Because there was no need.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-15-senat-32-3.u198	Do you have any more questions for the senator? [[I do, but for later. Let's get you started, Senator.]] Mr. Senator Bang. Ask me a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-15-senat-32-3.u199	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. Mr. Senator, I will return to a historical background of this reform. Here you mentioned the position of the Polish teachers' union. Is it not so that this position on the liquidation of secondary schools has frequently changed, that it is characterised by a certain volatility? If you'd told me in more detail... And the second, in my opinion, is more important. What was the opinion of the Polish people about middle school? Were there any studies in this area, polls? Were there any concrete initiatives aimed at eliminating middle school? And my third question, as detailed as that, is about the system that's being created. What will be the role of pedagogical supervision in this system? Will this surveillance increase or decrease? Because the often raised charges against this reform also apply to this. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-15-senat-32-3.u200	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-15-senat-32-3.u201	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Mr. Senator, as far as the P.O.P. position is concerned, it has changed dramatically here. In 1999, when middle school was created, ZNP was a huge opponent of middle school creation. Last year, some prominent representatives of the Polish Teachers' Association signed to eliminate the middle school. Today, this position, as we know, is different. So that it changed dramatically, so to speak, from extreme to extreme. As far as research is concerned, Senator, I think it is worth emphasising here that the Institute of Educational Research has spent 350 million on various kinds of research, which were often not made available, were simply done by the Institute of Educational Research and left at this institute. Minister Zalewska spoke about this today during the committee meeting. These studies, dozens of these studies confirm that the education system in Poland does not work properly. Of course, they weren't just focused on middle school, but on the education system in general, because that's what we're talking about. So the Institute of Educational Research... reports from the Supreme Audit Chamber, I think, are important here, too, and it's worth mentioning in the context of research. 26 out of 37 university rectors are ruthless for the current education system; they talk about preparing upper secondary school pupils for higher education. PISA research, which we're referring to here as well... Of course, in these studies it turned out to be very nice. I'm really glad it worked out. The Polish student recreates, but unfortunately only replays, and it also recreates, when it comes to mathematics, about mathematics. But I wonder what's going on in the education system, that 20% Seniors don't give high school exams at the basic level. Or even 30%? So we're back to the basic question about the education system. There are also some OECD reports; teachers are almost at the end of the list in the context of the use of information technology. Well, it's not the teachers' fault, because we in Poland have really nice, wonderful teachers. And they can use these tools. They just don't have them. It's just that there's not enough equipment in every room to have an interactive board and we can use these tools. So that's what I think it is. [[I'd like to ask you a question, Senator. I also asked about the role of pedagogical supervision in the new system.]] Oh, thank you very much... [[The meeting is chaired by Vice-Marshal Adam Bielan]] [[You're welcome.]] Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. As far as pedagogical supervision is concerned, let me remind you that we have strengthened this oversight. It was the Law and Justice that made pedagogical supervision, the education curator, reinforced. First of all, what is most important here in terms of education law will be the opinion of the school network. It is very important to have data from the educational information system and at the same time to translate this data into whether or not certain schools can be eliminated and how it will look in the system. I would like to remind you that today, the school curator is also evaluating the liquidation of schools, and this opinion is binding. He reviews the school organisational sheets, which is very important. There has also been a strengthening of the role of education curator in competitions for directors, i.e. the role of pedagogical supervision is greatly strengthened. Everything goes to make sure that visitors are in educational institutions, are in schools and serve their help, experience and knowledge to school heads and teachers in these working schools.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-15-senat-32-3.u202	Thank you very much. Senator Sługocki signed up for the next vote.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-15-senat-32-3.u203	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Mr Senator, rapporteur! Mr. Director! I think the most general question I can ask... Because we're discussing very specific issues. There are very precise questions, and I have an extremely general question, because somehow I did not hear any answer to this question in public space. I would like to ask you very warmly, of course, if there was a debate at the committee meeting, a discussion on this subject... Mr. Senator, may I ask you to present such a general message or the purpose of this bill? What is at the heart of the reform of the education system in Poland? Could you name five, ten, twelve... [[At least two!]] ...a message supported by research and statistical data that underpins this reform? Well, aside from political considerations, of course, beyond current politics. I'll be very grateful to you. That is the first question, and I will go to the next one, if the marshal permits, after obtaining the answer to this fundamental question. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-15-senat-32-3.u204	There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-15-senat-32-3.u205	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Senator, of course, this issue was raised during the committee meeting. Several aspects have been highlighted, which are very important, but maybe I can start by saying that we want to build a well-prepared, well-educated, well-educated school. We want to give young people a chance to compete with their peers in Poland, Europe and the world in the future. We want to prepare students to function very well in the Polish economy. I would like to draw attention to other aspects, such as the lack of spiraling teaching, short educational periods and educational issues that I have already mentioned here. What is very important, 4-year general education school is not supposed to be a training course for Matura, but actually a secondary and general education school, a school with such subjects as biology or geography, which is missing in high school today. [[Can I have another one?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-15-senat-32-3.u206	Thank you very much. You're still Senator Slugocki.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-15-senat-32-3.u207	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. Senator, to some extent I am very satisfied with your response. You said at the bottom... Well, of course, you didn't support this with statistics, figures or research, but I'm going to ask you about these conditions by the Minister and the Minister, the representatives of the Ministry of National Education. You said that the reform of the education system is at the heart of, among other things, the reform of the education system. so that graduates of Polish schools are competitive, well prepared for competition I understand, among other things. in the European Union's single market. But I'm experiencing a kind of déjà vu, Mr. Senator, because in such a system of education, or in a very similar way, I graduated from school. I want to tell you that I graduated from college at 25. [[Beautiful age.]] I didn't repeat any of the classes, I assure you. It was eight years of elementary school, five years of tech school... not four years of middle school, as Mr. Richard Petru said after elementary school I went to tech school. [[So do I.]] Then it was five years of college, and at the age of 25, I graduated from college. Don't you think 25 years is a long time? Isn't it that we graduated at a very advanced age? You were talking about competitiveness, about being well prepared. Isn't education in Poland taking too long? Is it not possible to accumulate and prepare the education system so that we can enter the labour market a little younger, but not worse, and better prepared? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-15-senat-32-3.u208	Thank you. We thank the senator for such, you can say, very personal confessions. Now I'm gonna block the questions a little bit, 'cause we're booked up until 3:00 a.m., but we might be able to finish a little early. [[Voice from the room: I'll be brief...]] I'll block it if the senator says so. Now, Senator Klein.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-15-senat-32-3.u209	Mr. Marshal! (PL) Mr President, I would like to ask you a few questions. These two laws are called reform, which is persistently worthy of a better case, and this is a withdrawal of reform rather than reform. This is a retreat to a system that was in force in the 1980s and early 1990s, and of course earlier. Then the reform was carried out. What the Proceded Law represents is the withdrawal of the reform. Did you talk at the committee meeting about the need to change the rhetoric of both laws? That's the first question. The second question is that some of the people, even the senators present in this room, both from the Law and Justice and the Civic Platform, voted for the reform of education years ago, for the system that is in force today. At the committee meeting, the people who introduced this reform, knowing that they had their weaknesses... There were many years before us to make things better. Did these people, when they attended committee meetings, cut themselves off from this reform and speak with shame about what we did a dozen years ago? Did they say that all that was done at the Polish school was just one big mistake? Third question. Was this the case at the committee meeting? Of course, this change, the withdrawal of the reform you are proposing here, will probably not cause major problems in larger cities, in presidential cities. It'll probably be easy to get it in there and everything will work there. The children will probably be well-educated. That won't be a problem. The problem will arise in smaller centres and rural areas, because in many places, due to demographics, there are fewer and fewer children and local governments still face the problem of reducing schools. You say that you have to create 8-year-old schools, with a whole cycle of teaching, full of that, so to speak, chemistry, biology, with studios, etc. How to bring about such a situation Did you ever think about that? In every village, wherever we want school to be, is it also a cultural centre? How can we bring about a situation where each school will have all this and will be able to teach? For many of us, it seems... I did, too, many years ago, but I was a teacher. Many of us have teaching experience. Junior high school was introduced, among others. because he won't give in every little school Although there are examples of excellent small schools where only dozens of children learn A system to implement the entire curriculum, which in practice was implemented by junior high schools, i.e. a reduced number of schools in individual municipalities. My question is: did you pay attention to this problem, mainly in relation to rural areas and small towns?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-15-senat-32-3.u210	Thank you very much, senator. Mr. President Klich.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-15-senat-32-3.u211	Mr. Marshal, I have a question for you, Senator Flork. I would like to know if you are familiar with the position of the Polish Towns Association and the calculations in this position as a minority rapporteur. I would ask you to be so good as to share with us information about these calculations if you know them. These are calculations of the cost of changes to education, how these costs have been calculated in the Ministry and what costs will have to be incurred by local authorities. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-15-senat-32-3.u212	Thank you very much. Senator Shark.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-15-senat-32-3.u213	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. I will refer to Senator Kazimierz Kleina's statement, because I also represent mostly rural areas. And I'd like to ask you a question. In their opinion, the rectors speak of rural children, saying that the extension of primary school means, among other things, the extension of primary school. Longer stay of rural children in small, poorly equipped and staffed schools and therefore these children will simply not have a chance for good high school. And a good high school is then a study and an opportunity to develop, a possibility for better development. They also express concern that this is not about caring for all children, because these children This is mainly about rural children. They will be deprived of equal opportunities. Don't you have any concerns just... And as for this, I would also like the Minister, if he were to speak, to share with us his... to resolve these concerns. Aren't you afraid, gentlemen, that you're just wasting the chances of rural children? You want these kids to be less prepared to study, so they're just graduate from worse high school? I would also like to address the question to the rapporteur of the minority proposal, since it has already been raised. Mr. Senator, I'd like to ask you about the school network. Who exactly will decide on the school network? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-15-senat-32-3.u214	Thank you very much. Mr. Senator Kilian.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-15-senat-32-3.u215	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Mr. Senator, I'm asking you my question about the question Senator Slugocki asked. Changes, reforms are carried out when something is malfunctioning. So please give some examples of what is so wrong with our education of young people, children. Because according to my knowledge and information, our junior high students taking part in various Olympics in Europe and in the world take the lead. Will this reform lead to our disciples not only being the top students but being top students? [[Voice from the hall: On the moon.]] On the moon... Thank you. [[Voice from the room: Primates.]] [[Voices from the hall: Yes, primate, primate.]] [[Well, maybe I'll answer 'cause I'm already...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-15-senat-32-3.u216	And one last question. Mr. Senator Oremski. [[Talking in the O.R.]] Senator Oremski is asking a question. [[Voice from the room: He's not...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-15-senat-32-3.u217	I have a question about a little... I don't know if it's up to date, but when we get 400 pages, then... I may not have noticed any changes. [[That's 421 pages. You haven't read it.]] [[He didn't read those 21s.]] Have you considered this possibility, however, to return to the fact that it is possible to extend the term of office of directors in agreement with the school curator? This is a certain instrument of distinction for these directors and there is no co-motivation here, because in such a situation there must be the agreement of the managing authority and the supervisory authority. And something like that is a tribute to outstanding directors. Let it be at least an extension of one term. Was that at the committee meeting under consideration?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-15-senat-32-3.u218	Thank you very much. Senator Mikołajczyk will answer first.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-15-senat-32-3.u219	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. I'll start with Senator Kilian's questions about... [[Kleins.]] Kleiny, I'm sorry. Yes Kleina, I'm sorry. ... About reform and retreating or, as you call it, anti-reforms. I think it's a reform of education. If you think it's a withdrawal, I respect your opinion, but I think it's a reform of education and I'll stick to that position. This was also the case at the committee meeting on several occasions. As for the senators who voted... I don't know, I'm honestly saying I don't know. This was not discussed at the committee meeting, who voted in favour of the 1999 reform when the middle school was introduced. But I'm gonna say this right away. And here again I will quote an example of the Polish Teachers' Association, which is just the other way... Because he was such an opponent of junior high in 1999, and last year he was also an opponent of junior high, and now suddenly he is a supporter. So there are probably different reasons for today, but after observing the functioning of this system I would not stress the middle school system here, but the education system of the Senators who then voted in 1999 to introduce the middle school system and that system, voting, expressed their opinion on whether this system was good or not. Absolutely, after so many years of its operation, they have the right to do so. As for your question about middle school, schools in rural areas... I'm gonna start by saying that I'm really very closely involved with rural schools, and I'm never gonna let anything bad happen to rural schools. Let's not say that... [[So am I.]] Although you're saying that they're... [[I'm saying that this change now, the withdrawal of the reform could lead to...]] I'm absolutely not afraid it will. I'm mostly behind schools in rural areas. The school in the country is a cultural center, the heart of the village. Most of the middle schools in these areas operate in schools, i.e. primary school and middle school, and the idea of middle school, Mr. Senator, was quite different in 1999 because the middle school was to be established in schools together with general schools. This is not the case, but most teams form primary schools and middle school. I believe that in rural areas there are excellent teachers and children from rural schools that are no worse prepared than children from urban schools. And when it comes to equipment, Mr. Senator, we've had a dozen years of middle school activities and probably 25%. junior high schools are equipped with physical studios, 18% primary schools. As far as these assumptions are concerned, I would like to emphasise strongly that improving the quality of teaching is among others. modern school equipped with broadband internet, interactive boards. And this is already happening in the Ministry, Mrs Zalewska is after talking to Minister Streżyńska and they guarantee that in every educational institution there will be broadband internet within 2 years, and funds will also be spent for buying interactive boards and accessories. Today we are talking about 500 million in the first stage of implementation of this reform. [[Two years from today, right?]] In two years, so let's count. [[From today?]] I don't know when. Come here, sir. I'm saying in two years, probably school, which is the new school year. Let's assume so. Sir, you had eight years to do this. As for the school networks, as Senator Shark asked, and the rural schools, I think I've already answered. As I said, local governments set up networks of schools together with the curators. I will return to the fact that, on the one hand, it is about some support, on the other, that we see in the system, how many students are in a given municipality, how many rooms, how many schools, etc. So this is where the local government cooperates with the parole officers. The senator asked: What is wrong with education? I'm gonna talk about the system again, not the middle school, so we don't really mix it up, we're talking about the whole system again. Firstly, there is a lack of certain spiraling teaching, for example in the context of foreign languages, where certain content after the first stage of education, after six years of primary school, is replicated in middle school. Today I am personally pleased as a teacher that the graduates of the new system will be with a given foreign language throughout the entire educational system, 8 years in primary school. If this language will pass during the test, then the same language will have to pass the exam, which, I hope, guarantees very good language preparation for graduates of schools, not necessarily through tutoring and additional lessons. Second, general education. I'm gonna stress it a lot: they're three years old, and in fact they're 2.5 years old, and I'm gonna remind you that they don't end in June... A course to prepare for Matura without general education, without general education. Thirdly, the new peer group and the educational aspect, which I also think should be noted and, of course, for short periods of education. Senator Oremski... There was no mention on the committee today of an extension... I know it says here that only competitions... The extension will only be possible during the transitional period. After the transition period there will be no longer extensions, only competitions for the head of the school, but during the transition period this extension will be possible. [[It's me.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-15-senat-32-3.u220	Thank you very much. Now, Senator Florek.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-15-senat-32-3.u221	There were two questions for me, Senator Shark was asking about the school network. Ladies and gentlemen, we spoke at the committee meeting on this subject, and I spoke on the school network myself. It's the local government that shapes the school network, decides what schools are going to be... and which eventually end up in liquidation. It's the government's job, but here he's changed... Previously, back in my day, when I was a voivode, we had such a problem with the liquidation that the D.A. didn't have a firm opinion here. In the event of liquidation, the probation officer's consent was not required, but you changed this provision and now the role of the probation officer has significantly increased. Now the parole officer also affects the shape of... the school network. This is very important, because that's what's going to be a big problem in a minute when local governments do it. Why would there be a problem? I can give you an example. I am talking generally about rural schools, small towns, because in big cities this problem can be solved differently. In cities on the rights of the county it is much easier, because there is one founding body, also for secondary schools. [[There are no schools there.]] [[Because you took them out.]] As far as municipal schools are concerned, it's... Let me introduce you to this case: a newly built junior high school The last time I was in it was in September in... [[Where?]] In Dopewo, if you ask me where I was. There is a middle school built from EU funds and now there is a problem with... You are very defending small schools, it was mentioned because you know that the closer you get to home, the better, definitely. There are schools that have 20 students, 30 students and the problem remains... If the middle school is eliminated, the high school is large, and this middle school equals the odds, because from small community schools, from small villages... Junior high school is the place where these young people come, where they integrate in other ways, and that's important because today in the labour market... we change jobs every second and we change jobs, it looks quite different. And if this middle school is eliminated, there is a question of whether it can be transformed, whether it can be done at primary school, at secondary school, because there are various possibilities here. Suppose you can't say that's not possible, then what's left? It means that the students will stay in small middle school. It means that the mayor or the mayor will resent him because on the one hand, he will be pressured to keep these small schools in these small towns, but he has a grant on the student, so he has to add his own money to these schools. The Minister stressed at the meeting the role of the educational part of the general subsidy, which... That's what you get, and investment, renovation, and so on. they belong entirely to the municipalities, i.e. municipalities must deposit their money. Ladies and gentlemen, we all know what budgets look like because there are a lot of local government officials in this room. Education expenditure in municipalities accounts for 50%, 60%, 70% the budget. In general, it can be said that on average 2/3 of the funds are from subsidies, and the rest are from local governments, which have to contribute to all this. And now we're making something again, we're doing a revolution, we're making a change. The Polish Teachership Association has also spoken about this matter, and I will not repeat it. Why did he change his mind now? Because there's a different situation, and it's been a long time, and it's all different. There's other access, there's other possibilities. There's computer science, and so on. Everything's changing. It should be taken into account that this is a blow mainly in local governments, in small local governments. I'm telling you today, two, three, four months from now, there's gonna be a larum. Today we are not aware of this and we are easily going past this change. I'll remind you of that. Every once in a while, I can remind you of some laws, about how you voted. And I'll remind you of that, too. It is expected to be a completely unnecessary, unnecessary reform. I understand the arguments you're making about this four-year-old high school, about the fact that you used to be 10%, 15% ...At the beginning of 6% The students went to college, then it changed. There's five times as many at the moment. This is decided by many factors, not only that the school is three years old. We could talk a lot about this, but we didn't talk about it at the committee meeting. To conclude this, let me put it this way: one must consider that there is a great danger of conflicts that will arise between self-government, teachers and parents. It's only a matter of time, but I can tell you that this is definitely going to happen. And there was Senator Klich's question. about the Polish Towns Association. At the meeting of the committee there was a representative of the Polish Towns Association. It negatively assessed the financial and social impact of the reform. The Polish Cities Association has already discussed the idea that it is unnecessary, unnecessary reform, that something can be reformed, but first we have to think about it, and that it has to be done in the long term, not in the way it is being done now. I don't remember if it's the Polish City Union... There was also talk of costs to be incurred, from PLN 1 billion or PLN 1.5 billion. It's gonna be such an extra cost. I think the representative of the Polish Towns Association also spoke about the costs the municipalities have incurred so far, how much the junior high cost, how much the investments cost. I think it's $8 million. The whole cost is 130... [[Eight billion.]] Billions, sorry, eight billion. I can say that the Polish Cities Association is generally opposed to this reform. The Polish Towns Association is exactly, I would say, cities. We have to consider that, too. One of the representatives, from the vice presidents of a large city in Poland, said that the exchange of chairs and tables themselves, which will have to be purchased in connection with this reform, will cost them PLN 2.5 million. I'm talking about Poznan. I talked to the vice president about it. That's it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-15-senat-32-3.u222	Thank you very much, Senator. Another question. Senator Augustine.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-15-senat-32-3.u223	Question for Senator Flork. Mr. Senator, I would like to ask if there was a question of the continuity of language teaching, especially the second foreign language. Since when will it be introduced? Is that what they were talking about? How is the continuity of teaching to be ensured? I'm asking because there's a habit that kids could learn a second language after primary school in some particular middle school. It didn't necessarily translate into high school. Now this one link is missing. How's that gonna work out? [[What do you mean it's missing?]] It's gonna be missing.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-15-senat-32-3.u224	Senator Slugocki.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-15-senat-32-3.u225	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal, for finally seeing me. Mr. Marshal! High Senate! I would like to ask a question similar to that of Senator Augustine. I have a framework curriculum for primary school, including special primary school, with the exception of special primary school for pupils with moderate or significant intellectual disabilities. Annex to the Regulation of the Minister for National Education, Annex 1. I'm asking a question for Senator Flork. Senator, in this framework teaching plan is item No 2, the modern foreign language: class IV 3 hours, class V 3 hours, class VI 3 hours, classes VII and VIII 3 hours, also after 3 hours, plus 2, but there is footnote; item No 3, the second modern foreign language: class IV 0, class V 0, class VI 0, class VII 2 hours, class VIII 2 hours. [[It's zero now, too.]] Question... I'm referring to Senator Nicholas now. You talked about competitiveness, about building a strong position of Poles in the European labour market. Will such a framework teaching plan, the introduction of a second modern foreign language in classes VII and VIII, allow you to build, Senator... Senator Flork has these questions for you. I'm sorry. [[And you said Santa Claus.]] I told you, didn't I? [[Completely consciously...]] I always ask questions consciously, Senator, imagine. [[Yes, you said to me. Then I'd be happy to answer.]] No, no. I said that I was referring to the words of Senator Mikołajczyk, who, in answer to my first question, about the general, spoke about the fact that reform is dictated, among other things. building a strong position of Poles on the European market, building competitiveness of Poles etc., I quote. Another question à about the framework curriculum. Item 14. Item No 14 is computer science: Class IV, 1 hour, Class V, 1 hour, Class VI, Class VII, also 1 hour, Class VII, Class VII, 1 hour. Don't you think, Senator Florek, that in the age of the information society... I'm sorry, in the age of the digital society, where digitization is ubiquitous, one hour is not fornication? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-15-senat-32-3.u226	Thank you very much. Senator Romanchuk.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-15-senat-32-3.u227	My question to Senator Flork, the minority rapporteur. Mr. Senator, what did you base your negative stance on as rapporteur for minorities about education reform? Or only on the opinion of the CP, which, as it turns out, is always against? The Polish Towns Association also issued its negative opinion. I would like to ask if the Polish Cities Association gave an opinion when the middle school was formed. And one more question about that negative opinion you said, and it's very negative. Why did you express such an opinion when you publicly admitted that you did not have time to read the contents of the bill discussed here? Or just on the basis of these two negative opinions? Because when it comes to the CIS, this opinion does not need to be taken into account at all, since it always has a negative approach to any reform. [[..."Solidarity, the education section of the Gdańsk region, has also issued a negative opinion.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-15-senat-32-3.u228	Thank you very much. Do any of you senators want to ask a question? [[Definitely negative.]] No? [[It's interpreted here...]] Which one of you will answer first? [[There were no questions for me.]] Oh, there were no questions for Senator Nicholas. So, Senator Florek.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-15-senat-32-3.u229	Yeah, well, now you're pointing out that I didn't have time to read these 420 pages, and that's where you're right. So, unfortunately, I only have the kind of knowledge that, I say, she was at a committee meeting about what we talked about. I tried to read it, of course, but that application I filed with your marshal... If we were able to read like this, only by moving the cards, then maybe we could adapt to this pace of work on the next bill. It was the same yesterday. All express laws... We don't have time to prepare, we don't have time to gather opinions, we don't have time to consult... I could, of course, tell you more about how many opinions there are. Only as far as the Polish Cities Association and the Polish Teachers Association are concerned... Well, that's because those opinions were delivered at the committee meeting. So, about that... I can say what was at the committee meeting, although of course I know many other negative... I know the press release. But I'm not prepared enough to... because you didn't let us have time to prepare. Well, if you want, if we postpone this session for a few days at least, I'll be able to prepare... and all the opinions you're talking about, including the opinion of the Legislative Bureau... Because that 36-second opinion I was talking about is a scandal, ladies and gentlemen. How can we even get on with this? Well, scandal, the Legal Bureau's opinion isn't there at all. There are two short sentences. Because there wasn't time. How can we sit? It's unthinkable that you can process it this way. We're doing this because you want us to. Okay, we're gonna have a little chat, 'cause we know the vote. But you can't do that. It's gonna turn around, I'm telling you. If I wanted to say a little politically, I'd say I'm happy with what you're doing right now, because you're gonna be picking your whips in a minute. But we don't want to do that because it's about the student's welfare, it's about our children, it's about our grandchildren. I have a grandson who's gone to school now, a six-year-old. And I see it's a shame that the reform was stopped, too, that six-year-olds... But it's a matter of longer reason again, and I'm not gonna talk about it. So I'm telling you, I don't know those opinions. As far as foreign languages are concerned, that was the case. I recall that there was a discussion at the committee meeting today. The thing is, when someone went to that six-year-old elementary school, and now they're going to go to her seventh, eighth year, they're not going to middle school... The point is to keep the bilingual schools that were there. The point is that we really should be talking about this. It could also continue in the seventh and eighth grade. And this reform will also be aimed at enabling these children to... It's probably not gonna be easy, it's not gonna be that easy, because we have to consider the possible relocation, the liquidation of middle school. Three thousand, three and a half thousand are to be eliminated in Poland. That's a lot. Is this gonna work? In every school... And we're talking about the rural ones. It's probably not gonna work. Those bilingual schools, if they were so... Well, in general, there aren't a lot of bilingual ones, so I think that's a possible problem to solve. Same goes for computer science, other things. Well, ladies and gentlemen, we don't know what the reform will look like today. All we know is that the sixth grade students will go to seventh grade, not middle school, so the new programming base must be. Creating a new software base is that it will now be for those students who will go to seventh grade. But who's creating the seventh grade software base and then making the fifth, fourth, third, second grade basis? Well, it's crazy, because otherwise it's a software base. [[But it is.]] As a result, some fakes will arise, something will probably stick. That's what I think. But of course, what the result will be, we'll all see, and soon enough. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-15-senat-32-3.u230	Thank you very much to the senators for their reply. The drafts of these laws were brought forward by the Sejm... [[I had another question.]] Excuse me? [[Question.]] There you go. I asked if anyone else had any questions.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-15-senat-32-3.u231	I have a question for Senator Flork. It was given by the president... by the rapporteur, the president. She was in the clowns, too. Such information that the only opponents of this reform among trade unions are the Polish Teachers' Union. Was there a negative opinion from the Education Section of the Gdansk Region at the committee meeting, which is very critical of these changes in the law? Was this opinion approved at the committee meeting? Because in this application, the education section of "Solidarity" (Solidarity) was posted on their website (Solidarity) said that if there was nothing else to be done, it was at least a year's delay in the implementation of this law. Was this not only the position of the Polish Teachers' Association, but also of the "Solidarity" section, an important section, because one of the strongest in the association of "Solidarity" was presented?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-15-senat-32-3.u232	Do any of you senators want to ask a question? Mr. Senator... You're welcome, Senator Blackbay.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-15-senat-32-3.u233	Mr. Marshal, I have a question for the Senator of the rapporteur. I have two questions, Senator. Because I took this interesting material, a framework teaching plan, and you remember... I'd ask you for an opinion on that, because you, as a man, are going to say so, from the industry, I'm sure he'll respond on the flight. The Minister, presenting, inter alia, why this anti-reform should be introduced in our view and, in your view, the reform, argued that there was a decrease in knowledge in the field of natural sciences. Yes? Is that what happened at the committee meeting? It wasn't? Well, I'm... [[It wasn't.]] I'm the one telling you it was. That's one thing. Secondly, one of the elements of the argument was that Polish students have a negative attitude regarding their interest in computer science, and these two areas belong... They were given here as an example of OECD and PISA studies, as a negative proof that the system that works needs to be changed. I'm looking now, and what do I see? As Mr. Senator said, after one hour of computer science and nature is in Class IV, and then it's like this: in Class V, Zero, Class VI, Class VII, Class Zero, Class VIII, Class VIII, Class Zero. That's one question. How could you comment on that?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-15-senat-32-3.u234	One second. And another question. [[Please?]] Another question, Mr. Senator. Because we're gonna collect... [[No, that's the other one I'm gonna ask the Minister.]] Uh-huh. Are there any more questions? No. You're welcome, Mr. Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-15-senat-32-3.u235	Dear Marshal, High Senate! Mr. Senator! I'm just going to start by saying that in the context of a negative opinion... But she wasn't. But there was a positive opinion of the Sejmik Voivodship Podkarpackie, which was presented to us in full, and I think it is worth it to sound here too. As for your question, Mr. Senator, relating to natural sciences and computer science, the OECD report was about the use of information technology by teachers. There was no mention of students there. It was in the reports that students don't like school, and it's in these reports, in these studies it's confirmed Which is very sad, because we want the student to like the school so that he would be willing to attend school and want to use it and draw on the key competences that each Polish school has to give. I don't recall, Mr. Senator, to be honest... when it comes to framework teaching plans, there are two hours in class four for nature. But nature... Today, the subject in primary school is, Sire, the contents of geography, biology, chemistry, mostly geography and biology, but there is also physics. And look at this: we have geography and biology in Class V, geography and biology in Class VI, in Class VII we have geography, biology, chemistry, physics, also in Class VIII we have these objects. That's one thing. Secondly, as far as computer science is concerned, as we can see, there is one hour in each class of this subject. Today, if we looked at the primary school cycle, we would see that there is no computer science in each class after one hour in junior high. I also say this as a former IT teacher because I taught this subject for many years. And in computer science, as part of computer science, we must also emphasize content related to algorithmic thinking, programming. As the senator said earlier, young people operate in the virtual world, they operate in this computer world, but they can't always use it properly. Because just because we can type something into a search engine and search for a site or use social networks doesn't mean that a student can select and collect information, which is very important and elementary in the context of teaching today. The student is to be able to select, collect, search and process information. Meanwhile, very often this is the case. And that's what I told my students in computer science, that's what I taught them, that's what we talked about. That if a student types in one of the known search engines the password data and when the first page found appears, he considers it to be a sure thing. So that's probably enough to answer Senator Blackbay's question.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-15-senat-32-3.u236	There were short questions for me, too. Of course, with regard to the opinion of the education section of the region you were talking about, I know it. But I also know other opinions, other seymists... Because the senator said here about the opinion of the Sejmik Wojewódzkiego Podkarpacki I'll be right back. And I also know other opinions of other seymists, and they're negative, too. But I'm talking about what happened at the committee meeting. We had the opinion of the Polish Towns Association delivered in the committee at the meeting and the opinion of the Polish Teachers Association, we also received it in materials. These are negative opinions... [[Wasn't the other one included?]] And the third opinion, probably read by someone, is the opinion of the Podkarpackie Seymour. And those were the three opinions that went to the committee, but of course There are many other opinions. You, too, certainly know the opinions that the authors generally have a negative attitude towards the elimination of middle school. Ladies and gentlemen, I was wondering if... I'd like to make a motion right now, but looking at the O.R., there's no quorum, so we're not going to vote on it anyway. So I'm not going to make that proposal, but it's hard to process when there's no basic opinion. I understand the Legislative Bureau didn't have time. Well, there were no chances, no opportunities to prepare us that opinion. It's not their fault, it's the result of such a method of proceding, but I'm sorry that we don't have that very important opinion. We have only heard an oral opinion which is very critical and talks about the failure of this law to comply with certain requirements. So we're gonna be discussing the bill... [[We'll be updating it in a while. There's still an opportunity.]] ...with no basic knowledge, because the opinion of the Sejm's Legislative Office is quite different. This opinion is required in the case of a law which is passed in the Sejm, and as far as the law is concerned, we should demand... There have already been situations where there was no written opinion or that it was delivered at the last minute, but today another absurdity occurred because the opinion was delivered orally and was presented for thirty seconds. Yet it concerns laws that have 421 pages and are really extensive. An opinion for this bill is needed, but I will not apply for a break because I see that there is no quorum. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-15-senat-32-3.u237	Thank you very much to the senators for their reply. The draft laws were submitted by the Sejm and by the Government. The Minister for National Education has been authorised to present the government's position during parliamentary work. Would a government representative like to take the floor on the laws under consideration and present the government's position? You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-15-senat-32-3.u238	Mr. Marshal! High Senate! On behalf of the Minister for National Education, I would like to present both draft laws, i.e. draft educational law and implementing rules. First of all, I would like to answer the question of why this reform is being implemented, which is the justification for the drafts of both of these laws. The first issue, which is characteristic of the current functioning of the education system in Poland, is the issue of demography, i.e. a significant decrease in the number of pupils. The drop, which is extremely dramatic. As far as middle school is concerned, the number of students decreased by 33%. This is an important element that has to be taken into account. It was already said today that this one, rather than the one that caused... [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[Excuse me, I ask you to remain calm and allow the Minister to continue his speech.]] Thank you, Mr. Marshal. ...the release of 42,000 educators. This is an extremely dramatic situation. The second issue is the evaluation of the functioning of two reforms: the first one introduced in 1999 and the second one introduced in 2009. In other words, evaluation of both of these reforms is also a prerequisite for making significant changes in the education system in Poland. With regard to the 1999 reform, the reform of Minister Handke, we recall that it introduced a three-stage system in which six-year primary schools, middle school and profiled high school were established. Probably some of us don't remember at all that what we call general education high school was really a profiling high school with an academic profile at the time. As far as the justification for that reform is concerned, it was Three pages, really. There were no studies, no indications, except for one statement. That middle school is supposed to equalise educational opportunities. It was the only hard thought that was written in that reform. At the same time, the aim of this reform was to be a secondary school, which was to create a canon of general education. In other words, this middle school, which was supposed to even the odds, at the same time was supposed to be such an important factor in a certain professional stabilisation of teachers who were to be chosen as the best there. Initially, it was predicted that this network would cover 3.5 thousand schools, then the network was increased to 5.5 thousand, and today there are 7.5 thousand junior high schools. The basis for the stabilisation of that school was also the records that talked about its size. The idea was that her size would stabilize the number of teaching jobs. The 1999 regulation said that this school should have a minimum of 150 pupils. Today, the average number of middle school students is less than 150. So even that minimum requirement of regulation has not been met. Come on. When it comes to schools and jobs, it is, of course, easy to see that when we are dealing with a school as planned, i.e. where there are over 300 students, it gives some stability to the jobs. Yes? In other words, when we have 3 kind of strings, it's like. The history teacher would have a job. But it's impossible for a smaller school. Come on. As far as the functioning of this system is concerned, at the same time it was called the elimination of vocational education, which had to be replaced by profiled high schools. As far as issues related to the functioning of the same vocational education are concerned, it was anticipated that this would be possible to complete the school. But the changes that took place after 2001, caused another government to allow the combination of middle schools and primary schools, which was prohibited by the reform of Minister Handke. So if we are talking about the fact that Minister Handke's reform has been supported in different ways by various political forces, today we must also say that it simply does not exist. So if we're talking about the fact that a certain educational system was created at the time, then the next changes that took place completely changed it. The general secondary school remained, the main vocational school remained, the technical school remained, and Handke's reform did not foresee this. So this system has obviously changed. With regard to the functioning of such a school, what did this lead to? This led to teaching a canon in a three-year cycle in junior high and a three-year cycle in general high school. And here we were in front of a situation where, on the one hand, the canon was in junior high, on the other hand, the canon was in high school, and the range of requirements in high school was much bigger and ended with a senior exam. For this reason, after the change of government and the appointment of Minister Katarzyna Hall as Minister of National Education, a reform was carried out. And this reform was primarily a programme reform rather than a structural reform, although it really changed its structure, because the escape from repeating both cycles was really the introduction of a combination of the third and fourth stages of education. So the middle school education system was changed, and it was extended by a year in general high school. And that led to what we're talking about, that high school became a prep course for M.A. In other words, it's like the function of a generalized high school has changed. Besides, as I said at the beginning, Minister Handke was talking about a profiling high school about an academic profile. However, the change that took place practically meant a completely different structure, a combination of the fourth and third stages of education. This, of course, had specific effects. Because as you can easily see, this has led to the fact that, in fact, when it comes to natural objects, they have been realized, and they are still, in a one-hour dimension, these four objects, namely biology, chemistry, physics and geography. In Class I as a secondary school completion. It was similar with history, in other words, it ended in junior high in 1918, and the discussion of the 20th century continued in the first year of general education. So, in other words, by doing this reform, it was either possible to return to the 8+4 system or to make another attempt, one that was made by Minister Hall, but in this way destroying the general education high school. The next prerequisite for the change concerns what is said out loud, i.e. educational research. In the last few years, the Educational Research Institute has spent PLN 350 million on research on the education system, mainly on the evaluation of the functioning of the programme base introduced in 2009 and subsequently revised in 2012. More research... Of course, there are various international studies, such as TIMSS, i.e. those that concern mathematics and nature after class IV or PISA, i.e. studies of 15-year-olds. As far as these tests are concerned, they point to a few things. Of course, we can talk about a certain record that talked about equalizing opportunities, but research clearly shows that middle school has become a selection school. So, while primary school and middle school in small centres and in the countryside are a common school, in other words, the difference between schools is virtually non-existent, and therefore statistically not noticeable as an important premise, it is a selection school in large cities. In other words, for 25% population, this is a selection school. What we want to do is to go back to universal school, in other words, one that will shape a canon of teaching for all Poles. [[Selective? What does that mean, Minister?]] This means that there is a very large diversity between junior high schools. In other words, in large cities, a large proportion of parents make a choice, so the selection started at the level of a 12-year-old. If the middle school was supposed to even up the odds, of course it functions as a universal school at the level of villages and small cities, and at the level of big cities it is completely different, so that means that there is a selection at the level of twelve years of age. If we'd gone back to that research... Of course, we're talking about PISA research. But what does it say? If we looked at the 2012 research and the report on these studies, we would read this statement, supported also by other studies, which says that the years 2006 to 2009 were likely to have an impact on the higher performance of our students in terms of 15-year-olds, had a social, economic and cultural factor, i.e. the status of a parent, and since 2009 a new programming basis has probably influenced this. There is no proof of that, and it only shows how much the approach has come out to me to say very manipulative to this research. Why, then, did their results drop dramatically in 2015 at all 3 levels tested, i.e. in mathematics, natural sciences, reading and interpretation? And they fell. In other words... [[But not drastically.]] Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, [[Allow the Minister to present his position, and then there will be questions. Minister, don't react to the banging in the hall.]] There is another reason that is worth noting in this whole discussion. In the PISA 2015 study we have seen some other disturbing phenomena, e.g. The drastic decline in career interest in natural objects has clearly fallen. Interest in future computer science has also fallen From 6% to 1%. In general, interest in scientific activity fell from 6% to 1%. There have therefore been some negative developments and it is difficult not to relate them to those changes which concerned general secondary school and the actual disappearance of natural subjects. With regard to the shape of the reform, the introduction of an 8-year primary school, 4-year high school, a 5-year-old technical school and a two-stage professional school, it is worth noting that the change proposed by us is a relatively mild transition between class III and class IV. The results of the TIMSS studies, which have been published recently, were compared to the results of 2011... In 2011, when talking about the fourth year of science, a zero was also considered, i.e. the study was in the class. III. On the other hand, for the second time, in 2015, class I.IV was studied. So, what's the short version of this research? With regard to Class I.III, the result was quite weak; a better result was when the test was after Class IV. At the same time, it is clear that a child who liked school in classes I In other words, this indicates the need for a gentle transition from one stage to another. The attempts to alleviate this transition at this stage seem to be as reasonable as possible. We can still think about two elements that are important for this change: one is about finance and the other is about the pace of change. Of course, when it comes to the story that was mentioned here, it is not necessary to imitate bad patterns, but to refer to what was. Especially since there have been a lot of voices in this room about certain events in the past. As regards the reform of Minister Handke, its programme was announced on 28 May 1998. The project was addressed to the Sejm in November, and this was adopted in February 1999. As far as software bases are concerned, they have a May date. And since 1 September, the reform has entered into force. If we look at the reform of Minister Catherine Hall... Well, we can talk about a certain rate, because it was actually fast. Right? Please see: 2008 - the programming basis, the December regulation; the January 2009 Official Journal of the European Union. So we can actually talk about a lot of pace, but we managed to make it with the textbooks and the whole housing that was going on. The changes that took place in 2012... It was the Official Act of August 31, 2012. If we are talking about speed, we are not saying that these changes are happening slowly, but they are happening as they should be. Besides, they are evolutionary, because the exam in the technique will follow these changes in 2024. This reform is counted financially. Of course, there were amounts that the local authorities spent, but they would still be spent, because they were amounts spent on subsidies. This should be divided over all the years of middle school operation. In any case, the money that has been invested will not be lost, because where there was middle school, for example. 8-year-old primary schools or 4-year general education schools, or these schools will undergo further transformations. With regard to funding, it is worth paying attention to two issues. One is the amount associated with the adjustment to the new system. This money will be transferred to the local government in several years, in 2017 it is the first amount, i.e. 315 million, then there will be another one. The next amounts relate to the valorisation of teachers' salaries, for the first time in a long time, i.e. more than 400 million. Next, to adapt buildings, the possibility of using the special reserve, i.e. 168 million. Next, the issue of introducing subsidies for a six-year-old. This is indeed a major change, which gives funding of 1.5 billion. As we remember, a six-year-old in kindergarten, kindergarten is his own job, out of his own resources, and here it will be a question of subsidies. It is therefore a reform, as if thoughtful and at the same time based on research. Of course, one can ask and wonder whether it is worth further exploring whether to spend another 350 million, or to allocate further tranches of money for subsequent editions of research, e.g. PISA, which takes place every 3 years... But of course, every year that will pass will be another year when it comes to student losses. That's one thing. Two. Here we talked about money, jobs and finance. As far as this change is concerned, we clearly note that the primary school units, i.e. sixth grade, are smaller than the middle school classes. In middle school, schools are re-established, and they are just more numerous. So if the seventh grade, eighth grade, is in eighth grade school, that means there's gonna be more troops. And, of course, the statistics show that if we look at the individual municipalities that should be followed by the increase in the number of school branches, which will increase by a few thousand, and therefore also have to increase the number of teaching posts in the following two years. So this threat, which we often talk about, should not appear on a national scale. This reform is also intended to change the issues that have been taken away from students in some way by previous reforms... So, like I said, there's going to be a return to a four-year high school of general education for teaching natural sciences. Let me remind you, the student had in the first class one hour of physics, chemistry, biology and geography, and then he had four hours of nature, which is practically unknown to the student who did not choose extensions from natural objects. And that's one thing. It is difficult to imagine the progress of our country or the reversal of the negative trend that has emerged, so that students cease to see for themselves the possibility of a career when it comes to natural objects or the choice of science... It's supposed to stop it. Another important issue is computer science. Computer science is to be implemented from the first grade of primary school to the third grade of high school. This is a 100% fulfillment requests from the Board on Information Technology at the Minister of Education, a council appointed by previous ministers. At the same time, we are trying to ensure that the pre-prepared software base from computer science, modified and adapted to the new school system, changes the negative trend that we have faced before. And here I can also return PISA research from 2012 and 2015. In 2012 there was also a computer option in addition to the paper option. And this computer option came out dramatically compared to the paper option. We can, of course, wonder if the cause... This was not said by the researchers, but it is so laborious to wonder whether this really strong drop in results in 2015 in all areas was the result of the full use of the computer option, whether the causes are much deeper. This question was answered by researchers when the results of PISA were presented. Anyway, whatever it is, it's definitely the direction we're going to be strengthening. And this is particularly true of this important period, i.e. classes I.III, when we are going to talk about logical games, chess, math, the one in which we really want to start such a good change in this matter. So it's definitely math, it's definitely natural objects, it's computer science. I would also like to say that the transformations that will be made have been laid down in the introductory provisions. As far as this legislation is concerned, they were of course consulted with local governments. Many regulations are what local governments have proposed. They offer a wide range of possibilities for transformation, and of course they also provide opportunities for local governments to shape the network. This is kind of an important element from previous years. It's worth looking at, because... if we're talking about changing networks, we also need to look at the fact that in previous years, the factor leading to teacher redundancies was rather than demographic. And the same factor that led to the closing of schools was also more than demographic. In fact, in such a year as to say, the slaughter of small schools and primary schools was 2013. With regard to the years 2013 and 2016, the so-called resolutions of intent, i.e. those which concerned the intention to liquidate the school, took over 1700. In other words, we need to see that the transformations that are taking place are also somewhat the answer to the actions of local governments. Today 60% Junior high schools are located in teams with primary schools. In other words, the way to save schools was to combine primary schools and middle school. This reform will simply end this natural process. A major factor in this change is also the change in the approach to vocational education, i.e. the creation of a first and second degree school, an industry school. This school is about to change the vocational education system. Its important element is also that it is intended to provide a certain degree of transparency. In other words, it's about ensuring that she also gets her M.A. These provisions also cover a number of transitional mechanisms concerning other phenomena in the system, i.e. issues related to promotion, and issues relating to the functioning of other educational solutions, those relating to recruitment, those relating to the functioning of sports schools. They're bringing in another completely new element. It is a different approach to bilingual schools, i.e. those in which some subjects are taught in a foreign language. So far it has been bilingual middle school, now this offer has been extended. In each primary school, if it is suitable for this staff, you can create a bilingual branch. So these changes, as I said, are structural changes, but not only. These are also changes that are intended to address what is being completed by the school, i.e. the basics of the programme. And they're in the first stage now. And the law of education allows it to do so. It is intended to cover primary school, from Class I to Class VIII. Of course, these changes, which relate to, as if separately and to early school education, and in this class IV-VIII, will be made gradually, i.e. from classes I, IV and VII, as we have said, all this good change in education is being introduced gradually. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-15-senat-32-3.u239	Thank you very much, Minister. We're adjourned until 22.20. [[Adjournment from 21 minutes 56 to 22 minutes 17]] I'm extending the recess until 10:35 p.m. [[Adjournment from 22 minutes 17 to 22 minutes 35]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-15-senat-32-3.u240	Ladies and gentlemen, I will resume the session. At present, senators can report no longer than a minute's time to the Minister. You're welcome, Minister, to the podium. The first question will be asked by Senator Kilian, then by Senator Klein.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-15-senat-32-3.u241	Thank you, Mrs. Marshal. Minister, Minister Zalewska has often used such a slogan this year: public consultation. She said that this consultation took place ho, ho, ho, or maybe even more. My questions are this. Has the Minister met with the rectors of state universities? What were the presidents' opinions? I know one opinion of the rector, the rector of the Wrocław University of Technology, who strongly criticised the proposal, and especially the framework programme on this one hour of computer science in the field of teaching. So that I would ask for an answer in writing, not now, just in writing, because I would like to know how many such meetings were with the rectors of state universities and what was the opinion of the rectors about this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-15-senat-32-3.u242	Thank you very much. You're asking Senator Klein a question. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-15-senat-32-3.u243	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! The questions will be brief and I hope to ask them as soon as possible. What will be the difference between the new 8th-grade school to be created as a result of the laws that we are now working on from the 8th-grade school from the 1980s? Of course, aside from the curriculum, because it is known that they will be different. That's the first question. Second question. What will happen to free textbooks for each class that were passed on to the students and according to which the program was being implemented? What about those textbooks? The third question concerns education in minority and regional languages. I have a question about Kashubian. A software base has been prepared, which has been quite strongly criticised. I attended this meeting. Because of her weakness so to speak, because she doesn't even correspond to that area of education that she's been to primary school so far. Will this software basis be changed? Is this really the objective that you want to achieve when it comes to this programme basis? And the fourth question... [[Mr. Senator, why don't we stick to three and then...]] But these are short questions. I'm not gonna ask any more questions today. [[Yes, yes, please.]] 'Cause I'm asking short questions. Right? What will be the difference between the current vocational school and the professional school? The last question concerns regional education: are the elements of regional and local education also the basis for teaching adopted for this new primary school? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-15-senat-32-3.u244	Okay, thank you. Senator Ryszard Bonisławski and the Minister will answer these questions.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-15-senat-32-3.u245	Thank you, Mrs. Marshal. Minister, let me ask you three questions first. In Article 2, paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: 25 is described the creation of initial classes in bilingual schools. I'm just curious. 'Cause it's not written here. What will it be like to teach in these initial classes. Because I understand that this is something between elementary school and high school. Are there gonna be any extra high-school classes besides this language class? That's the first question. And second question. It also says here, on page 42, that access to primary schools, if the limit of kilometers separating the student from the school is exceeded, will be sponsored, and therefore the student will simply have a free trip to the school. I'd like to ask... Because these limits are clear. Usually schools are close to houses, of course, but there are also artistic primary schools to which students Even with us, in a big city They're very far away. Can they also count on free rides? Well, that's elementary school, too. And the third question, the last one in this round. A friend of mine already asked about regionalism classes. We were talking about them, too. When I was on the education committee last time, we also put emphasis on this type of class. Here, in the article. 3, I have read that NGOs will support education, but I would like to know how this will be done and whether this also applies to non-governmental organisations related to the region. Because there's a lot of these kinds of organizations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-15-senat-32-3.u246	Thank you very much. And I ask the Minister to answer these questions.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-15-senat-32-3.u247	Mrs. Marshal! High Senate! As far as public consultations are concerned, they have been conducted on a multi-faceted basis. In other words, educational debates took place in all voivodships and of course everyone was interested in them. These were open meetings. The people who wanted to come to these meetings could, of course, have. These meetings were addressed to those people who are somehow related to education, strongly connected. First of all, they were attended by teachers, directors, as well as representatives of the leading bodies. Parents also attended these meetings. These were many hundreds of meetings that were held in a certain way. The presentation took place first. As regards the subjects that were presented there, they concerned e.g. safety at school. [[This is the subject of a reform?]] The participants were then able to express their views in smaller panel discussions. [[Minister of National Education Anna Zalewska: Yes, this is the subject of reform.]] And they were written down, and they were presented to all those gathered. And that was one of the elements of this consultation. In addition, of course, there was a consultation which resulted from calls from various actors. I personally attended such meetings or meetings. I was, for example. at such a big meeting in Toruń, where there were representatives of the movement, let's save the middle school. I was also at a large debate in Krakow, in which Mr Handke participated, for example. So there was also a whole series of such additional meetings, which were invited by the Minister of National Education. In addition, there was also a large meeting with the parents' representatives in the Sejm Column Hall. It was also a hundreds of people meeting at which parents' demands were formulated. Some of these demands were found in educational law. First of all, it was about describing the position of parents and parents' advice and school board in education law. Another element, quite important from our point of view, is meetings that took place in the building of the Ministry of National Education. In particular, they dealt with discussions on the currently functioning general education programme basis. Like I said, the Educational Research Institute spent 350 million on research. Of course, these studies are an important element that has been taken into account here. It was based on what was available on a large scale, i.e. the results of external examinations, on educational added value, on surveys that were collected among students, teachers and parents. We felt that the introduction of the change required the opinion of teachers themselves, not only of the opinions expressed in the surveys, which were somehow analysed by the Institute for Educational Research, but also of the opinions which were presented during meetings held at the Ministry. I myself probably attended halfway, which is about 20 such meetings. These were specific meetings on the various elements of the programme basis. There were several meetings on early school education, several meetings on the basis of the program in the Polish language part, there were meetings on history. As far as history is concerned, I also participated in the debate that was held at the University of Warsaw at the Institute of History. I met with the bureau, as well as with the Dydactic Commission of the Polish Historical Society. I attended a seminar for teachers that was organized by the Institute of National Remembrance in Kołobrzeg. I've been in a series of meetings like this. They have shown, as a matter of fact, what teachers believe should be improved in terms of the content itself, which is on the programme basis, in terms of testing and what concerns the combination of the third and fourth stages of education. Very many comments have been made on the history which is the subject, I would say, the most unfortunate after the changes that were made in 2009. I'm talking about the chronological breakdown. As far as junior high school is concerned, by 1918... In a joke, it is divided roughly so that in the third grade of junior high school the Greater Poland Uprising explodes and that's the end of it. Then we start class with a truce in Trevira. That line sounded pretty strong in there. At the meetings there were people who formulated very different views on a certain foundation, i.e. what the curriculum is at all, what the curriculum should be and what the correlation between the base and the manual should be. Come on. The idea of enlargements and faculties, how it worked before, has been considered. How much, to what extent should you profile... Of course, this profiling is referred to here as in quotes, because it's really about enlargements. Let me put it another way: it's when a student has to make a choice. In the current system, he hardly had a chance to return to education other than the one he chose. So if he chose a natural extension, he didn't actually have a return to humanities, etc. These were actually very serious meetings that presented us with such a vivid picture of what is happening with Polish education. They concerned different elements. There was a meeting with librarian teachers, where I took part. As I said, the meetings concerned very different aspects of the school's life. With regard to the opinion of the rectors, of course it was expressed in the NIK report on external examinations. Yeah, in short, an evaluation of three-year-old high school... In other words, in a three-year high school, at such a rate of expansion, the student found himself in a rather difficult situation. The number of hours of different additional compensatory classes, tutoring is noticeable, and for the rectors themselves it usually means simply compensatory classes for students. What's the difference between 8th-grade school and the '80s school? To be honest, it's hard for me to... I'm not a historian of educational systems, and I graduated an 8th-grade school myself in the 1970s. Seriously enough: Mr. Senator pointed out that the changes that took place after 1999, primarily concerned the introduction of novelty, which was the issue of the basis of the programme. That's what they were called. At that time, it did not eliminate the curriculum, but another reform, which took place in 2009, changed a lot, because it combined what was the standard of examination with what the student was supposed to learn in terms of the basis of the curriculum or the curriculum. As for the value of change, of course nothing has changed here. As far as primary school is concerned, the programme basis for its definition has been preserved, i.e., in other words, it is also a basis for examination. The whole system must fit into what is the Polish Qualifications Framework, an integrated qualification system. As far as change is concerned, of course we can look at them not only in the context of the definition of the programme, because it is a change in relation to what a 6-class primary school was, in which there was no teaching of natural subjects, but only in nature 9 hours, i.e. 3 hours in the following school year from class IV. I'm sure that's new. A new issue is certainly also the question of the approach to teaching when it comes to early schooling in an integrated system. Here, of course, there must be a change in the obligation of six-year-olds and seven-year-olds, concerning the basis of the program, but above all, I have already talked about it before, we have here this component, which is supposed to be an introduction to computer science, to teach mathematics, logical thinking, to be developed through logic games, chess. It's definitely a change, it's definitely something else, so it's hard to say it's the same school because we have a completely different approach to teaching computer science. It is a school that ends with an exam, this stage of education will end with an exam, while the student will pass an exam in mathematics, Polish language, foreign language, and at a later stage will have a choice of 4 natural subjects and history. This exam will be of a kind of diagnosis, i.e. it will be a summary of the stage of teaching in classes IV.VIII, and at the same time This is due to the theory of exams, although it sounds uncool, selective. So he's gonna be an introduction. to the high school of general education. As far as the free textbook is concerned, he was introduced cyclically, i.e. gradually, in other words, in primary school and middle school. And here this free textbook, which means free for the child, will of course remain. However, the change mainly concerns early school education, where it also had to be acknowledged that they were developed at a high rate. He's an elementaryr. And there will be a change here. Of course, there will be a textbook that will be free of charge, but there will be no more one textbook. So there's gonna be a choice. The textbooks are available to the student for 3 years and nothing changes here either. As for the software base and the Kashubian language... Well, I admit, there have been some comments from the beginning on those methodologies that have taken up the programming base in the case of Kashubian. And that's obviously true, that's the point. In total, around 800 different contributions to the programme base were received in general. And, of course, we will take these comments into account, also in this matter. At the meeting of the Committee of National Minorities, the representatives of the Ministry of National Education also asked the minority representatives to simply present such comments to us. To make sure that in this particularly sensitive matter we do not introduce something that will then not be accepted by everyone. And we have tried very hard to take this component into account in particular. And myself, while in the Sejm at the meeting of this committee, I also tried to draw attention to these issues. About industry schools and how they're going to work... I mean, there are some elements of this... [[And what is the difference between industry school and basic school today?]] There are two... In fact, we can say that these professional schools will change together with the system, because in terms of the basics of general education, in 2017 the student will go to the industry school. So this component of general education is difficult to change at level 1 of 3 years of professional school. In fact, it looked like the first year of upper secondary school was the completion of the curriculum base, i.e. the third and fourth stages of education were combined. And it's gonna stay that way. However, a change which concerns professional objects is important. The major change will also be for the next stage, or second stage. Because the essence of this change is also to keep the system simple, but at the same time simplify it. So the second grade student will carry out three key subjects that are needed for the exam: Polish, Mathematics and Foreign Language. The point is not to create something that complements a full-time tech school, i.e. that there are no objects carried out in the form of various extensions, just to give a chance to get a Matura, and at the same time to make this system actually expensive. And this is the first shift. An even deeper change will, of course, take place when we are dealing with a student on the foundation of an 8-year-old elementary school. So that the industry school, as in general all secondary education, will change further. As far as regional education is concerned, this is obviously a subject that returns, because it has also changed in the programme basis, as well as in the approach to regional education. And that's also a question, I'd say, teaching. In objects such as nature, of course, it begins with what is closest. In case of class IV history, this introduction usually starts with what is closest. But it's probably not what the senator asked, which is regional education. This regional education could, of course, have been implemented in different ways. As far as upper secondary school is concerned, of course, where history and society were involved and the additional thread that the teacher could have chosen could have been realized. And that's hardly the end of the story in the case of the current primary school. But if I say so, the teams working on the software base will introduce comments that have been received... Of course, I cannot tell you how strongly these comments have been formulated or how much they have affected. Unfortunately, I don't have that kind of data right now. But all the comments that were received were passed on to the teams. I am convinced that some of them will be taken into account. Even if some things did not appear during the pre-consultation which was from 30 November, when we presented the preliminary material on the programme basis, until 9 December, of course, there will still be appropriate public consultations at the time of the presentation in December of the general education framework and the basis of the general education programme as regards primary school. So that voices similar to the senator's voice on regional education sounded at various meetings. During the discussion I was talking about, which took place at the University of Warsaw at the Historical Institute, such views were presented by at least some of the teachers from the Departmental Commission of the Polish Historical Society. I will attend the meeting of the PTH Directorate-General Committee next Saturday and, if such votes arise, of course, they will be forwarded to the teams that develop the general education programme basis. Bilingual introductory classes. I mean, as you remember, a reform that introduced a 3-year-old junior high school and shortened general secondary school has led to a shortening of bilingual education as well. So as a result, a system was created in which it functioned in a 6-year cycle, i.e. in middle school, and in general high school. Of course, it must be remembered that the introduction of bilingual classes was also part of the policy of the Polish state at a time when we were dealing with a certain deficit in foreign languages. Yes? There was also a method of adequate funding, with an appropriate weight, which was included in the educational subsidy, i.e. 017. And this additional way of funding was supposed to help complete what was impossible in the previous era. In other words, bilingual education was such a supportive form. And in this bilingual education, on the one hand, we have a language that is universal, leading, worldly, or English, and we also have languages that are, as those who teach these languages speak, niche, or French, Spanish, Italian. In fact, such a language is German. And for this reason, we have a problem that is not entirely identical, because English today learns practically from kindergarten, i.e. it is completely free to enter this bilingual education even in a general school if someone wanted to. But, of course, problems can be here. We don't want to shut anyone down. On the contrary, the idea of a change in bilingual education was to promote it, as we would say, and even some democratisation. The point is that a bilingual unit can be established in each secondary school, in which students from this circuit will have priority, but of course only after the exam, which concerns language predispositions, and then such branches or branches can be supplemented by students from outside the circuit. It would be Class VII and Class VIII. And that would keep the 6-year cycle on bilingualism, that is to say, keeping the number of hours that were previously taken into account in this bilingualism. But as for foreign languages, it was already mentioned here today that the second foreign language entered into secondary school, so the consequence was the introduction of a second foreign language from Class VII and Class VIII. And at this point we have this situation: coming from the belief that one language should be taught all the time, science should continue, as the rapporteur has already said... It is supposed to strengthen this leading language, but it also somewhat hinders the introduction of bilingualism in the case of these niche languages, because it is usually the case that there is teaching in English, and the second language can come from Class VII and VIII. And as for the fact that bilingualism actually works... It means that we have subjects that we learn in a foreign language, and the student needs to understand that. If it's geography, biology, it's taught in a foreign language. So, in other words, the point is that someone who takes up such teaching actually knows a foreign language, because... This is what representatives of bilingual schools have called for, and that is what diplomats of some countries, especially Spain and France, have asked to introduce so-called preliminary branches, otherwise zero. And that was the main request. In fact, it's just that we have... It used to work, but it was wiped out. In fact, the framework curriculum, or rather its component, provided primarily for 18 hours of foreign language. And that's the key thing... But besides, there were hours of other subjects in this framework. I don't want to be calculating them from memory right now, but it's been about 30 hours. Yes? Yeah, actually. And now, of course, we in the framework curriculum, together with the relevant regulation, will also introduce a framework where these subjects will be included, some of the subjects that the student will be able to implement in addition. Is it possible to map the historical framework, that is, where there were previously zero troops, preliminary... That, of course, is the question. Because there's a four-year-old high school, which is, in other words, the student will have four geography, four biology, four physics and chemistry, eight history... Is it necessary to repeat such a number of objects? That's a question, and that's probably part of the consultation we're going to do. The senator is right, of course, that these objects, which will be next to those 18 hours, are such an element... Even those heads of bilingual schools we spoke to did not insist that this framework was to be an accurate mapping of what was going on. I'm sure there'll be a few extra items in there as well. As far as art schools are concerned, I mean, as far as the circuit's concerned, he obviously has to do with the student's place of residence and connects to the school's duty. So art schools aren't circuit schools. And here's where we've been before. About the issues... Depends on what kind of schools they are. 'Cause I'm kind of not sure about that either. Because there are schools that only carry out artistic training, and those that actually are general education schools. Then their design is different. So I don't know if the delivery was about the ones that are... [[Voice from the room: Basic.]] But the basics can be... There could also be those that only educate... Music schools can only be evening schools. So, where there's a circuit, there's, of course, a delivery. And where we have one school, it's hard to talk about delivery issues... It's already a matter of choosing a parent. As for the question that concerned the organization in the school, which can act or participate... It is, of course, the law that provides for the possibility of activity. First of all, it lists scout organisations, which means they have such a statutory opportunity to act. And all that happens in school, the functioning of other institutions or organizations, of course, must be done with the consent of the school head. If we have pupils who are underage, then of course this should be done with the consent of the parents. So there is a statutory record of Boy Scouting, while the rest, as far as the activities of other institutions are concerned, must take place with the agreement of the school head. But such elements have been strengthened in terms of education law, in terms of innovation, volunteering and related issues.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-15-senat-32-3.u248	Thank you very much, Minister. You're welcome. The question you ask is Senator Mieczysław Augustyn.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-15-senat-32-3.u249	Minister, I would ask you to explain what this cardinal disagreement is all about. I've visited a dozen local governments. All those who invited me were discussing changes in education and calculating how many teachers in their municipalities would lose their jobs. That's what the Polish Teachers' Union says. And you insist that this is not the case. What do you think this difference of opinion is? [[Self-government error.]] Are all those people who pick it up, self-government people who say, "We're 15, we're 26, we're 57, are they making some kind of mistake in the calculations?" The second case of special schools. The Senator rapporteur was unable to answer. He said it wasn't at the committee meeting, and I'm very interested in the matter. So far, in special education, this general education has been quite well organized to the middle school level and these children have finished 2 stages of school, gaining some important status. Now they're probably just gonna finish elementary school. Parents and students are very disappointed in this. Another thing I'd like to ask you. How do you want to ensure the continuity of teaching a foreign language which, on the basis of getting along with schools with one administrator, was possible in the case of primary school and middle school? Now that most of these schools have completely different managers, there is a fear that there will be no continuity. Are there any safeguards in your solutions so that you can continue to learn a second language? Since when will the second foreign language be taught in primary school?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-15-senat-32-3.u250	Thank you very much. Senator Piotr Wach. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-15-senat-32-3.u251	Thank you very much. Minister, I have two questions. The first concerns the opinion of the Polish Teachers Association. The vice president was present at the committee meeting and his opinion was very critical, I would even call it crushing. According to him, she was based on consultation with teachers, with unionists, very broad consultations. My question is this: is there any group interest in this, what is the reason for such a fundamentally critical opinion of the ENP on this reform? And second question, shorter. I mean, I hope the answer can be short. You were polite to say that there was definitely a drastic one, because I think that's what you said, a drop in the PISA test. I don't know the details of this year's results, their relationship to the 2012 results, but I don't think it's drastic. This overall result this year is five hundred and a few points. I can't remember exactly how many, 505... [[504.]] ...504, and in 2012 it was 511 or 512 points. Why would you call it a drastic inheritance? In this context, you said interestingly that the technology of conducting these tests was different, which I did not know about. A few words about it, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-15-senat-32-3.u252	Thank you very much. Senator Leszek Czarnobaj. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-15-senat-32-3.u253	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! At the meeting of the committee, the Minister, too, the Senator rapporteur, also... Well, you often recall the example of Finland. I am very happy about this because in my opinion this is a good pattern, and good patterns should be replicated. I have the following question, Minister, and I have also asked it to the Senator of the rapporteur. What, apart from the fact that learning starts at the age of 7 and that this is a system of 8+4, are there other similarities? After the implementation of this project, what will be the Polish system in common with the Finnish system? That's the first question. And the second question, which is related to this: what role do the curators play in the Finnish system, in Finnish education? Another thing. Country Common It's okay. You're quoting the position of the rectors. In one sentence, please say, is the most recent opinion of Polish rectors about what you are proposing positive or negative? That's another question. I have a few more, but now I'm gonna ask one. I'll be asking questions in the next round. [[Voice from the room: Divide it.]] Yeah, I'll split it. Minister, if you don't mind me asking one more time, but in one sentence... It was a long, nice statement, but if the Minister could answer in two sentences, what is the fundamental difference between the professional school and the current vocational school... I suggest: the professional school is different from the vocational school because it has more classes of both, both, and they do both. I'd like to hear something like that. Why am I talking about this? I come from a city where educational authorities, local government authorities work very well with entrepreneurs. I was in a meeting and they asked me, but I couldn't explain it. If the Minister tells me, I'll tell them.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-15-senat-32-3.u254	Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-15-senat-32-3.u255	Mrs. Marshal! High Senate! The issue of disagreement has been explained by us many times. She deals primarily with the issue of the number of students That's what you've been talking about, Mr. Senator. This means a different number of students in primary school and middle school. In other words, when the student went to middle school, the troops were re-created. And because... as we said, if we compare the decline in the number of primary schools and junior high schools, it will be obvious that local governments to a large extent Of course, this is due to the statistics that mainly eliminated primary schools and tried to maintain middle school. That's why the drastic difference between the drop... Besides, these statistics are also falsifying as if the issue of six-year-olds who are in the system. So the number of middle school students dropped by 1/3. Of course, for various reasons, most often austerity, local governments also tried to increase the number of students in the middle school. In other words, if a student who is present in Class VI is in the same class VII, it will automatically result in more such branches. We hope that such branches will be several thousand more on the national scale, and consequently the number of jobs must increase. Well, that also depends on the local government, of course the local government can vary... I'll take that. I have now had the pleasure of participating in one of the debates in Krakow, listening to it, and being able to analyze carefully what the city of Krakow has prepared. Of course, if you look so purely in conversion, these data, which would result from pure statistics, differ, because Kraków talks about a much larger increase in the number of teaching posts, in other words, 200. But if I were to count it, these jobs would be much more... [[These are the counties...]] ...but not that much. It is similar for many other cities. Well, you could watch... When I was in Tarnów, that's where... [[I'm sorry, but these are Grodz districts, and I'm talking about...]] No, it's not the Grodz district, it's just... The point is that we take into account this yearbook that goes away, and we calculate that it's going to increase in classes VII and VIII. Of course, when we present these data, we're also trying to figure out what's in the county, which is... Of course it looks different in the Grodzki districts, but one way or another there will be an increase in the number of branches. That's why there's a difference. And the decision will still be made by local governments. They depend on how these branches will be organized, how the school network will look like. As for special schools, of course, the student will have the opportunity to train in public schools, integration schools, special schools, and integration units, at a basic and non-basic level. Students with moderate intellectual disabilities will also be able to continue learning, i.e. there will be classes to prepare for work. So there are no threats here. And, as the Senator rapporteur said, this learning period will be extended. This will be extended until the age of twenty-four. As for the foreign language... I already told you that. In primary school, which is the current six-grade language, there was one foreign language... [[Two, two.]] ...the other one showed up in middle school. So if the student goes to Class VII, then the second language comes in. And just like it's been so far... In general, as far as the network of hours is concerned, Minister Hall's network has dealt with a combination of these hours in both languages, and here they are differentiated. So there will be a second foreign language, just as he was in junior high, but it is a matter different from bilingualism, because there simply selected subjects must be taught in a foreign language. As far as the Polish Teachers' Union is concerned, his approach does not seem entirely consistent with what the teacher's relationship had. Yeah, I think so. It's in the program. Because the relationship of teaching in its strategy in December 2011 indicated first of all what he thought was inappropriate in the Polish educational system. And he pointed out that the child's educational success is primarily determined by the status of parents, and in fact PISA's research confirms this, not only by these studies, but also by others, that this is a key factor. So this factor of inequality and a certain selection was pointed out by the association of teachers in their strategy of the Education Pact on page 5. About the other thing... And we are trying to answer what the Polish Teachers Association wrote about, and we are talking about it loudly and we are saying that we want to remedy it. This strategy also pointed out that there was a system of elite schools, and I also talked about the fact that middle school actually became selective in large cities. And this phenomenon, as negative, was pointed out by the Polish Teachers' Association. Well, we too, creating a de facto universal school, are somehow trying to restore some teaching as universal. Next, ZNP unionists pointed out in their education pact to the influence of the education curator and demanded that his powers be strengthened. We can say that the ZNP's postulate was realized by us because further changes strengthened the status of the education curator. First of all, what the Polish Teachers Association pointed out was an opinion that would be effective in the case of school liquidation, and the possibility of issuing this negative opinion this year was used by curators. Local authorities' powers and relations between school heads and social factors were also indicated. In fact, the issues of the opinion of the organizational sheet by the trade unions or the greater socialisation of the competition for the school director are also in some way a response to the demands of the trade unionists, including the Polish Teachers' Association. Of course, the issue of financing small schools or small schools at all is also an important element that we will still want to strengthen in the next step. Come on, the kindergarten thing. It can be said that subsidising a six-year-old is also an element of an exit to what was said, i.e. a certain availability, in a different way, because it gives local governments a chance to increase their pre-school network. What else is worth paying attention to are, for example, undesirable phenomena. This is also what the Polish Teachers Association wrote about, and this is also an important element of our program, which we are trying to draw attention to. Another issue is wages, hours, standards. Minister Anna Zalewska proposed to trade unions, including the Polish Teachers' Association, the so-called. industry table. This was not the case for the unionists from the ZNP, but a team was set up to resolve such issues, including the participation of the headquarters, which are representative, i.e. the Polish Teachers' Association, the Solidarity Association and the Trade Union Forum, and those ministers who run schools, i.e. vocational schools as well. So we can say that these demands are being implemented. We can say that there is a general consensus on the article. Article 42 (2) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 2 Teacher's Charter, or the one who spoke of the so-called. Card hours, too, was taken by us. It is difficult to say that we did not take up these demands, which raised the teacher's environment, also those associated with the Polish Teachers' Association. So that's what we're trying to do, too. As for PISA and these differences, whether or not they're drastic, I'm going to say yes. If we look at what it looks like, what it turned out to be, it turns out that the drop in results was one of the biggest, right? So how's it going... I don't want to mislead you right now, because I don't have this table in front of me, but these downfalls. If I remember correctly, although I do not remember, for which of the 3 competences was such that it was e.g. minus 24 points around those 500 that the senators were talking about. It was bigger in Turkey, minus 30, right? As for any of the competences, it seems that the greater decline was in Vietnam. The high drop was also noted, for example. Korea. Now, of course, we can think about it. I did not hear that on the day of the presentation of the results of the PISA, representatives of the Institute of Educational Research were able to answer the question in concrete terms about the reasons for this decrease. And as for this inheritance, I will say that in the natural sciences from the ninth place to the twenty-second, in the mathematics from the thirteenth to the seventeenth, the eighteenth. In other words, those inheritances were. You can say that drastic, non-drastic, in any case large. It's probably better on the chart. This is, of course, an important question that the Minister of Education must answer, but it must also be supported by scientists who will formulate such proposals. How much was this drop conditional on changing the test formula? That, of course, is true, gentlemen of the senators are right. Like I said, a hundred percent answer wasn't here. Visible Here we can say that the drastic result difference was between the paper option and the computer option. It was evident and of course it was noted. And now that it was known that there would be a complete change of formula, i.e. that in 2015 it would be just a computer version, piloted in 2014 and he did not show, let's call it a danger, that it could have such a drastic impact. It's not that this paper or computer option was just an effect, I don't know, click B It's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay. The computer option gave the possibility to introduce other tasks, in other words, some experience in the virtual version that the student had to perform. That's why the question is: how much is this? the effect of the novelty on the result? Besides, not only in Poland did these results drop, it also needs to be objectively said, because it was the participation of many countries, but in Poland this effect was particularly noticeable. In any case, it appears to be an excessive statement, which was formulated during the analysis of the results of these studies in 2012, that earlier it was only a socio-cultural effect. Because, in fact, in the case of PISA research, you don't really look at the educational system itself, you're looking at how much this 15-year-old will continue to move smoothly, also outside the system. That's once. And the two important elements of the study are that it draws attention to the socio-cultural factor. And before that, obviously... In fact, scientists are widely talking about it, Professor Sawinski was talking about it, because he, as far as it is concerned, presented it on the basis of PISA's research. Others tried to use external exams or EWDs, or educational added value, but they had already had to survey their parents. Because in the case of Polish external examinations there is no possibility to obtain data concerning the parent, i.e. his social, material or cultural status. But it's also been noticed... IBE has also conducted such studies, very multifaceted, e.g. on the impact, I do not know, of tutoring on the EWD, i.e. educational added value, or the impact of extracurricular activities on educational added value or on the student's outcome at all. So that there was a lot of research. But they're e.g. They clearly showed in the case of analysis of the basis of the Polish language, that what is often said in quotes, that the number of books at home affects the result from the Polish language... Literally, where there's 500 books in the house, there's... This definitely affects the outcome of the high school exam from the Polish language. So the cultural status has kept meaning all the time. I'm sure PISA research is an important element that we're paying attention to. But I would also like to point out that the Minister of National Education, who finances these studies, took note of the results at the time of the announcement, of the preliminary report. So it can be said that many people dealing with this at the time of the announcement probably had more knowledge about this than the Minister of National Education. But we're trying to keep up with this and present these results to the senators as fully as possible. Question about Finland. Well, of course, that's the question that's coming back. Because Finland was a role model. After recent PISA studies, somebody will probably say that Estonia should be a role model. We're even messing with Professor Konarzewski that after the TIMSS study, it's probably Kazakhstan... Professor Konarzewski, who deals with this, said that he personally checked it and that it is better not to check how this result was obtained in Kazakhstan. But, of course, seriously speaking, Finland is certainly a specific country, just like a number of other Scandinavian countries. Because what you see in PISA is a socio-cultural factor. And of course, looking at, for example. on Israel, we could say that the results of Israel are lower. But no one will say that there is no innovation in Israel or that there is no high performance in technology and science. It's all because of the social structure. Finland is rather a single country, and also a culturally different country. This is what Prof. Sawinski wrote about, pointing to Finland. This means, however, that there is a strong attachment to equality in society. Where society declares such attachment to equality, it is quite different. In Poland, however, we are dealing with an individual career, with the pursuit of individual success and there are no certain solutions that have been adopted there, concerning the districtization, the assignment of someone to the school, 100% Rewrite to us. The teacher education system is also different. They just need a few specific schools... Well-educated people... And the way of improving, as in most countries of the old Union, is done by public institutions rather than non-public institutions, as it is in Poland. And this status of education can only be given by public institutions, universities, not non-public ones. So that you can't really reschedule all of this. Besides, what Prof. Sawinski draws the most attention to in the case of Finland is its Protestant character. 'Cause it's hard, for example. Scandinavian countries, the Lutheran tradition, compare to the end with countries of Catholic tradition. There's a different approach at all... Besides, it is also a charge to PISA that it is often impossible to compare, for example. the ambition of girls in some country that are kind of socially lower and have to try harder to do what it looks like in other countries. I don't know. As for the position of education curator in Finland, I don't know. I can't answer that right now. Please... [[There's no parole officer, Minister.]] [[There's no parole officer.]] Excuse me? [[There's no parole officer.]] Yeah, I don't know. It's hard for me to say. I don't want to talk about it. It simply follows from something completely different, i.e. that in Finland there is quite a strong assignment to the place, there is a regional school and it is actually difficult to change it. [[No, I don't think it's in Finland.]] But I'd just like to say, last but not least, that Prof. Sawinski draws attention, even in Finland parents sometimes try to get around the perimeter. It's just a joke. So that there is due to other socio-cultural conditions, there is simply no need for this. I do not know whether it can be compared, or even if we wanted to do so, the Polish society could be persuaded to do so. Now, about vocational schools... what has often been raised about the vocational education system is, of course, the question of linking it to the employer, it is a question of dual education, it is a question of the impact of employers on the curriculum and the examination system. And what has often been raised is that in vocational education because of the large number of qualifications there are a number of examinations. Besides, there is a certain problem in the functioning of the entire examination system and the question of the fact that, in principle, exams take place over and over again where we have many professions, many qualifications. And this is an element that is to be changed, in other words, it will also be a matter of changing the basis of the programme. But as far as vocational education is concerned, as I said, for now, we are actually dealing with only a partial change. Because in this system of general education because we have students after middle school, it doesn't change much, but it has a professional component. And with the change in secondary education in 2019, there will also be a further change in vocational education. [[Mrs. Marshal...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-15-senat-32-3.u256	Thank you, Minister. [[I would like to refer to what the Minister said.]] Senator, do you have another question? [[To what the Minister said.]] A question for the Minister, right? You're welcome. But it's short, because... [[Yes, yes, very short now.]] ...there'll be another Question Time.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-15-senat-32-3.u257	Minister, would you please say 'Cause you mentioned the name of Professor Konarzewski. Do you know the Professor's opinion on this reform, the liquidation of junior high schools?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-15-senat-32-3.u258	I've had the opportunity to speak with Professor Konarzewski many times. I spoke to him during the debate in Krakow, which I participated in, many months ago and talked to him because he was a member of the Scientific Council of the Central Examination Board, I had the pleasure of talking to him. I also spoke on the occasion of the TIMSS study. So that the discussion, which concerns the educational system and the results, namely analyses, is of course one issue, and drawing conclusions from research is another issue. As far as Professor Konarzewski is concerned, I know that he usually had a critical attitude towards various organizational solutions. I understand, of course, that there are critical voices. But if you've been researched for a lot of money, it's a shame to study something forever. In other words, the role of scientists is to study, conduct these studies, develop them statistically, but at some point we should draw conclusions, perhaps other than Professor Konarzewski drew.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-15-senat-32-3.u259	Thank you, Minister. You're asking Senator Jarosław Oremski.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-15-senat-32-3.u260	Minister, I have some concerns, however, as far as German, Spanish and French languages are concerned, this number of hours will be sufficient to pass the final exams. But I have two questions. First. How much are the rules for the operation of branches of international schools and for the selection of candidates for such branches specified in the Act? That's the kind of school that exists. Isn't this reform gonna turn this around? The second question, I think, concerns a more serious problem. Namely, in some cases this additional yearbook, which later will also be a second yearbook in primary schools, can cause compression. Therefore, the local government will try to move the annual preschool preparation back to kindergarten, especially if the zerzyki are run in primary school buildings. From 1 September 2017, there will be a rule that says it is an obligation to create a place in kindergartens for all 3-year-old children. Should not this provision on the obligation of municipalities to create places in kindergartens for three-year-olds be relaxed? Well, if they don't provide these places, it's gonna involve financial problems for local governments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-15-senat-32-3.u261	Thank you. Senator Ryszard Bonisławski. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-15-senat-32-3.u262	Thank you, Mrs. Marshal. Minister, three more short questions. The eighth grade exam was introduced. Well, it's the first time I've seen it. Does this mean that a young man who finishes 8 classes but does not take this exam will no longer be able to function in the teaching system? That's how I understand it. Is that mandatory? Does everyone have to pass this exam? 'Cause you can finish 8th grade without that exam. At least that's what I think. It's going to go on. That's the first question. The second refers to the refund of modern - language textbooks, which vary from one language to another. Here is the payment of 25 PLN to the textbook. Of course, I ignore the fact that these textbooks are very expensive, because they cost from 50 PLN to about 110 PLN, especially those on an advanced level. Who's gonna pay the difference? Does it rest on the student, the school, the government? Because we don't know anything about it. The third question is related to regional education. Not without a goat I've already asked because here, in the article. 3. It is said that the education system supports non-governmental organisations, including scout organisations. Right? And I asked because we, at the meeting of the cultural committee on which we talked about regional languages, met with textbooks that appear in Silesia, textbooks published by a group of some people who want to lead to Silesian autonomy. And in them were such historical truths, with which, I admit, I met for the first time. I even checked if it was a translation of some German textbook arranged by the minister of propaganda of the Third Reich, because in Łódź there are such textbooks from the years of occupation and they speak about the same in a very distinctive way. No, among others. They say that the Silesian uprising was caused by Poles to tear out Silesia. If the student learns this type of regionalism on the one hand and learns the actual history of the country on the other hand, he will be a little surprised. He'll think it's some kind of historical schizophrenia. Do you have any influence on how these additional manuals are made available? Well, it's hard for me to keep talking about it, 'cause I didn't get to know the system. It was a complete coincidence that these textbooks came to us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-15-senat-32-3.u263	Thank you very much. Senator Leszek Czarnobaj.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-15-senat-32-3.u264	Minister, it's late. Can we ask for a little shorter speeches? They're very interesting, but I think they'd be more appropriate for a slightly different meeting. I learned from this long speech, Minister, that, if I understand correctly The difference between vocational school and professional school will consist of the number of qualification examinations. Well, that's the fundamental difference. And here's the question that I'm not going to ask: couldn't it be done in a professional school? Yeah, but it needs to be called the industry and all the reform power in this industry school. Let's get back to the question. Minister, you were talking about how we're eliminating too fast selectivity, about the emergence of good and bad middle school, big differentiation... Do you know the latest PISA OECD research on dissection? Has the dissection increased to 2000 or decreased in Poland? To make it easier for you, Minister, recent studies say that in Poland the proportion of the best students has increased, the percentage of the weakest students has decreased, and the dissection has decreased dramatically. That's one thing. Second... [[Mr. Senator, ask me a question.]] Mrs. Marshal, at the end, I'm gonna ask them, I'm gonna... If you don't mind, we'll be done quicker. [[There you go.]] In 2000 20% Class VIII graduates had trouble reading and understanding what they were reading. In three years of middle school existence... In 2003 the same indicator decreased in Poland to less than 10% , up to 9%. Show me your superiority. I understand it's a clou. cycle 8+4 over cycle 6+3+3. [[You wanted it fast.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-15-senat-32-3.u265	Senator, you are appealing for more succinct statements from the Minister, and I am appealing for more concise questions. [[It's been one time.]] [[I take it to heart, Mrs. Marshal.]] You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-15-senat-32-3.u266	Mrs. Marshal! High Senate! International branches remain in the education system. As far as branches are concerned, in addition to these 18 hours the changes will allow for differentiation of the first language and second language so that it can be replaced. The point is to make the number of hours of tongue bigger. Yes? This is another change because we said there was a leading language, but there will also be a change... As for the issue of kindergarten, there are certainly small changes that occurred after the change of school obligation. They had to occur in particular in this group of five-year-olds, where there was an annual preparation. As regards the number of places in public kindergartens and places in non-public kindergartens that can be used by the local government, this number should be sufficient. The question is to what extent the local government... how the local government conducts preschool policy. Together with the introduction of the so-called several years earlier. a preschool law, a grant was introduced to allow local governments to expand their kindergarten, although, as we remember, running a kindergarten is a task of their own, realized with their own resources. That's the kind of grant that's come up, and now it's changing it to a six-year-old. Of course, at a point, different places will have to change. The number of places in kindergartens is... When we talked earlier about changing responsibilities, six. - and a seven-year-old, then we also talked about the fact that this number of places in public and non-public institutions is sufficient. [[That wasn't true.]] I was gonna keep it short. As far as exams are concerned, of course, they were so designed earlier that the test was only diagnostic, but also started to be used as a selection element, as part of the evaluation of the school and the evaluation of the director contrary to what it was intended for. Of course, the exam will continue to have a diagnostic function and will continue to have a selection function and the result of the student will indicate where he will be able to find himself in other selection criteria. It's a matter of payment for a textbook. Yeah, well, it's like there's not much change here. Of course, textbook publishers signal various problems, but at this point we can say that it will be possible to think about this, about different solutions, from January, when we will even think about the functioning of the whole education system, about issues related to teacher salaries, about the functioning of the subsidies themselves and the weights that are present in it. The issue of regional education. Of course, as I said, she was possible to different degrees Previously, there were so-called. regional paths, but now, at this moment, as I said, they were not foreseen in the programme basis. With regard to the issues of these results and studies, of course, these two extreme moments, i.e. those students with weaker results and those with better results... It's changed, and in the last study, unfortunately, it's the other way around. So we have inheritances that are unfavorable, which are, in other words, both for one and for the other group. And, of course, from PISA's research... And this, of course, is right about what the senator was talking about, which is this year 2003, about the fact that there was some improvement there. But researchers later noticed negative phenomena. In fact, lately he's been speaking publicly about this, I think Professor Sawinski, pointing out that he's just... He put it this way: into action... That's pretty much what I'm saying, and I don't want to quote it because I'm talking from memory. Well, the parents got involved, there were tutoring, and this factor started to matter again. Like I said, I can't say the whole thing, but that's what she sounded like. And as for the selection, this phenomenon was primarily based on the results of external examinations by Prof. Dolata and he called it a massive, hidden process, which began to show sometime in the mid-1980s, especially as a result of this influence of the parent factor. In addition, in 2012, in the study on this material, researchers made it clear that the increase in results by 2009 was in their view. Although it's hard to say why you didn't. The main result of socio-cultural differences.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-15-senat-32-3.u267	Thank you, Minister. Does anyone else want to ask the Minister a question? Please, Mr. Marshal.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-15-senat-32-3.u268	Minister, I'd like to ask you about the resources in the education system, about the resources of the middle school buildings. How many of these middle school buildings are standing separately, not those connected to other types of schools, but buildings where there are only middle school? And how many of these buildings could there be another type of school? Is it high school or high school? These buildings built only for junior high schools are probably slightly smaller than those built for other types of schools. Do you have any information about this? If so, I would ask for their application. [[The meeting is chaired by Marshal Stanisław Karczewski]] [[Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of National Education Maciej Kopeć: Already...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-15-senat-32-3.u269	One moment, Minister. Is there anyone else? Senator Augustine. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-15-senat-32-3.u270	Minister, you spoke so offensively to middle school teachers that it was a preparatory course... for high school teachers that it was just a preparatory course. Tell me, what percentage of upper secondary school students did he graduate now, and what was it when he was four years of high school? And what is the conclusion? And second question: why do you think so many rectors of higher education criticize this reform if they would get better students? Don't they understand something? Or are they just explorers or talkers who can be missed?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-15-senat-32-3.u271	Thank you very much. Who else of the ladies and gentlemen of the senators wants to ask a question? You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-15-senat-32-3.u272	Mr. Marshal! High Senate! I will answer your Marshal's question about the middle school resources and self-employed middle school run by the local government. There are about 2,000 such schools. Some of them were actually built as an independent junior high school. Pointing to these resources, I can say that we can look at these statistics in different ways. Yes? Of course, it's hard for me to watch. every local government, but if I look at my own, i.e. Szczecin, this middle school is divided into three groups. I mean, those that are independent, those that are in schools, i.e. middle school and elementary school, possibly middle school and high school, and, of course, there are those that are independent, but only on paper. I mean, at the time of the reform of Professor Handke, the primary school building was divided into two parts and they function as independent 2 schools. Yes? E.g. In Szczecin, it's about 1/3. In other words, there is no problem here to combine primary school with middle school, because it creates one school team, but one can wonder. Yes? The middle school averaged 300 students. There was also a gigantic gymnasium. There was this giant, one of the biggest junior high schools in Gryfin near Szczecin. There were over 1,000 students there at some point. So they're big and small, like I said. And on average, it was supposed to count from what I remember from these calculations. I'll give you 307 students. So if we have a school like this, all we have to do is look at the number of kids in the ward, and you could probably have a one-way elementary school. So that there is the possibility of such a transformation It depends on the number of students in the wards. Yes? I don't want to... That also depends on the number of rooms. Every case of such a school is individual. It can, of course, be transformed, which is easier. The senators have already pointed out that where we have the district of Grodzki, we can transform into different secondary schools, i.e. general school, technical school, industrial school. That's the way the rules work. Which means you can use it. Or maybe there is a case: when we have 2 schools next to each other, it also does not prevent the primary school from operating in 2 buildings if they are close together. Yes? Such a case can also be considered. And, of course, the decisions on how this is going to work and whether or not it meets the statutory condition are in the hands of the probation officer. Yes? Yeah, well, that's the way it is. And I answer the second question. I didn't mean to offend anyone. When it comes to graduation, I also said a little bit on my behalf. I mean, as vice principal of the school, I was introducing a reform of Minister Handke's, if I liked her or if I didn't like her. Yes? So I was simply fulfilling what the Polish state introduced in the form of legislation. And as for your M.A. course, I'd really like you to take a look at it this way. If we had a three-year high school, where there actually was a general education program, and a three-year high school, where the student had to prepare for the Matura, in other words, the same model was repeated twice, because the changes that Minister Łyback had introduced were really very deformed by the reform of Minister Handke, it was as if, in response to these deformations of Minister Handke's reform, Minister Katarzyna Hall had decided in such a way that it would be the basis of the program in 4 years, otherwise it would not be possible. In other words, we combine the 3rd year of junior high and 1st year of general education. That's the model she chose to get out of this situation. We do not assume that it was driven by some evil intentions that would cause something there. We assume that this was simply a reaction to how the system of that time worked. It was possible to refer in different ways to what is three years old and every four years. The Minister chose this model. But the side effect of choosing such a model was what we consciously did. And I assume that's what happened. She's been on her way. Of course, we take it in quotes, we refer to it as an Matura course, but I assume that was the goal. In other words, how else do you define the focus of enlargements after the first year of science? For most extensions that could be implemented in a dimension of 22 hours, in other words, in a dimension e.g. 8+8+6... Well, they were implemented in classes II and III. And it created a prom course. 'Cause what's that supposed to do? But it turns out that throwing in so many hours causes problems. The student began to have a problem with acquiring this material from several subjects in such a mass of hours. Of course, it had to have side effects in the form of tutoring, problems and that some of the students just didn't know how to prepare for the exam in some way. So this isn't about students making choices. And we have another issue that came along with this change, i.e. an exam with all these extensions. Well, let's see that these extensions mean, however, large amounts that the Polish state spends, and so as a result we had an additional exam. But it also turned out that he adopted such a formula that it had no effect: he passed He didn't pass. And what we are introducing is, however, taking the exam, but such that it requires a formula of sentence or failure, at least this one subject, if we implement 3 extensions, and this can be realized by the student. So that's an important issue in what we call a M.A. course. And that is absolutely not offensive to teachers, because you can just say that was the consequence. I think that at the time it was quite consciously accepted, that it would make it easier to prepare for the M.A. However, it turned out that it does not have to be so, that it is a large number of hours to be realized. She caused what two phenomena? When the teacher was ill, it was difficult to provide a replacement when there are so many hours to complete. In other words, they could have gone out there somewhere. At the same time, the pressure to accurately account for hours throughout the entire teaching cycle... This caused problems in general for teachers, how to accomplish what was recorded in the cycle. And the directors had a problem with how to give these hours to other teachers, especially since the reform of Minister Katarzyna Hall simply limited natural objects and it was difficult for teachers of such subjects in such a dimension. Well, in that sense, we can talk about our M.A. course. And it's hard to blame teachers for that, because the system was so designed that through the expansion system the student was prepared for the M.A.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-15-senat-32-3.u273	Thank you, Minister. Mr. Marshal Borusewicz and then Mr. Senator Augustine...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-15-senat-32-3.u274	Minister, I didn't get the answer to my question. [[...and Senator Blackbay.]] I will try to rephrase them so that your answer is accurate. [[I didn't get an answer either.]] Self-governments built buildings for junior high schools, separate buildings. And I'm not interested in middle school, which are in schools or are separated, formally separated. There's some of the buildings... Otherwise, there are some junior high schools that have separate buildings. And these buildings were built to be middle school. How many buildings are there? And how many of these buildings can be converted into a different form of school than middle school? I think the question is specific. And I also think the Ministry has some statistics. Because he's got statistics on jobs, what it's gonna look like after he closes junior high, he talks about it, and so on. I mean, it's a simpler matter: how many of these buildings can be used for educational purposes, that is, so that there are other types of schools, primary schools or high school.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-15-senat-32-3.u275	Mr. Marshal, may I remind you of the question, too, because it's late, maybe there's a problem with concentration. I asked, Minister, about statistics on how many people aren't passing M.A. right now. or else how many people give their M.A. And how much it seemed when we had an 8-grade primary school, a 4-year-old high school and a 5-year-old technique.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-15-senat-32-3.u276	Senator Czarnobaj came forward. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-15-senat-32-3.u277	Mr Marshal, Minister, perhaps 15 years ago Minister Zalewska spoke about the reform of Prof. Handke, well, the disadvantages and advantages of this reform, but this is less important. She then said a very important sentence, Minister, to the editor: do you know, you asked Minister Zalewska... [[Ladies can come over here with the material. Thank you very much.]] No, no, I haven't asked yet... I was just waiting for the Minister to see the papers. [[Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of National Education Maciej Kopeć: No, no, I just... I don't have to look.]] No, no, I didn't mean to interrupt, so I waited a minute, okay. The Minister asked this editor: do you know that such a reform in the country we discussed today has been implemented in Finland for five years? Tell me why we're doing this in five months, in the morning, on Christmas, and we're not going to extend... [[It's not Christmas, Mr. Senator. I'm denouncing that information. He'll be here soon.]] [[Joy in the Chamber]] Mr. Marshal... [[Christmas is December 25th.]] ...you have incredible power, but you haven't put up with Christmas yet. And you can't. [[But you're the one who wants to move Christmas to today...]] No, I want to assure you that this year's Christmas is twenty-fourth, again. [[Voices from O.R.: 25th!]] [[Joy in the Chamber]] Yes, Mr. Minister... [[Good. You've already asked a question...]] ...please tell me...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-15-senat-32-3.u278	But you already asked the question. Now the Minister will answer. Because you already asked the question. [[Mr. Marshal, I would ask you very much to allow us to tell you in a minute...]] But you've exceeded a minute, Mr. Senator. [[Because you interrupt me three times...]] That's the first one. And second of all... [[Because you interrupted me three times.]] Okay, here you go. But it's 00:00 or 00.20. And you've repeated the question for the third time. [[I'm gonna finish, and I'm gonna ask that question again.]] You can ask all you want. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-15-senat-32-3.u279	You can't answer that question because before the exam was internal, and now it's external. That's why it's hard for me to say. However, it is undoubtedly, with the whole issue of vocational education... I was talking about this extra exam that's being extended. A large number of tech students, of course, had to join them, but it was sometimes that they opened the sheet and did not try too much to solve these tasks. And that's the problem, I think. This new Matura formula, which allows this component to be extended with a professional exam, is a way out. It's not just about changing the vocational education system, it's about looking at the prom issue again. At a time when the number of students who pass an exam or receive a maturity certificate... we still have a problem with this most difficult exam, which is a math exam. Of course, we can think about why very difficult exams from natural subjects are so well passed, and they are given by those who are primarily going to medical schools. And that's what needs to be considered. Right? We may wonder why so few students choose an extension from computer science, giving a computer science exam, why there are only 6,000 of them. We can say that when the students of the tech school passed him... They've increased that pool by an eye of 1.5 grand. Well, these are things that need to be watched and reacted on a regular basis. When the exam was external, the school decided who gave... And you can't compare that. It was one of the important demands for introducing an external exam, which was objective. After how many years of her functioning, her character is based on... The search for objectivity led her to the test in many fragments. Thus, one of the elements of the change is to introduce a much larger number of open tasks so that these are not just tests. Answering your Marshal's question again... I said there were about 2,000 of these schools. Now, thanks to the note, I know there's 2,000 81 of them. So that I can say more precisely now, although earlier in my memory, I was close to giving that number. Looking at what you can do... Every middle school can be transformed into an 8-year elementary school, here there is no contraindications. If the local government wants to, it will transform this school into an independent 8th-grade primary school. There's no legal basis for this here. The will of self-government depends on how the potential that it is to exploit. Otherwise, it is difficult to answer that question. The local government has built and the local government can use this building as an 8-year elementary school. As I said, its size allows the primary school to function there. [[Minister, I'm sorry. May I?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-15-senat-32-3.u280	Yes, you're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-15-senat-32-3.u281	I would like to point out that middle school has two classes, and elementary school... [[Voice from the room: Three classes.]] ...three classes, and the primary school will have eight classes. [[Minister of National Education Anna Zalewska: Twelve...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-15-senat-32-3.u282	That wasn't a question. Mr. Marshal, I'm sure that wasn't a question. Are there any more questions for the Minister? Senator Augustine first, Senator Blackbay second. [[Mr. Marshal, I just wanted to say that I didn't get the answer to the question.]] Senator Augustine first, Senator Blackobay second.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-15-senat-32-3.u283	Minister, I have the impression that today students, not only in Poland, want to achieve a concrete result in education faster than before. Aren't you worried that when you get back to the five-year-old tech school, you're gonna be having trouble recruiting? Who's gonna choose who's gonna try to get a job for five years? That's my first question. Perhaps in my places they will go even wider on the catching of German talent hunters with their scholarships and will provide them with a much faster profession in the dual education system just abroad. In addition, I would like to ask you about your attitude towards the Parents' Council Forum's demands, which are very strongly protesting, even threatening a school strike. How do you deal with their demands, their arguments? Is it true, too, that scientists are investigating it, trade unions are protesting, self-governments don't like it, and the parents' forum is wrong, are there any rational arguments here? This is serious.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-15-senat-32-3.u284	Thank you. Senator Blackbay.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-15-senat-32-3.u285	Mr Marshal, Minister, I would like to remind you of the question concerning the five-month period of introduction, the absence of this for a longer period. Could you do it again...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-15-senat-32-3.u286	Thank you very much. Is there another question for the Minister? You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-15-senat-32-3.u287	I will start with this question, Mr Marshal, which I have not answered before, which is the period during which the reform is being implemented. Her announcement was, of course, included in the exposé by the Prime Minister, and there were also educational debates. The announcement of this change was in June, i.e. the plans of the Ministry were announced earlier. As far as the educational law is concerned, this is September, which is the question of the speed of deadlines... I have already mentioned this in the case of changes which were previously made in Poland. Well, it's not like anything out of the ordinary, but we'd say a moment that... It wasn't that fast. It really allowed us to get to know it, it was subject to public consultation. In other words, in the full mode, which concerned the Law of Education and the Law that introduces them... There was a normal consultation procedure here. That's one thing. ..and some local authorities have taken such action. So there are local governments that are prepared, but, of course, they are waiting with final decisions for Parliament to adopt the final form of the bill. This is a period in which local governments have certain possibilities in terms of the mode of implementation of this change. And social bodies, such as trade unions, can refer to this. So this is the moment when we are dealing with the first decision of the local government, with a draft resolution that will introduce a new educational system. These decisions will be made by March 31st. So, like I said, there are self-government units... Besides, we talk to many representatives of such self-governments. And you can see in Warsaw, in Krakow, also in other cities, that the process of creating a new school network has already started a long time ago. So it's hard to describe him as fast. Let me remind you once again: with regard to the law that introduced the reform of Minister Handke, it was passed later than the one we are investigating today. As for parents, parents' opinions are of course important. As I said, there was a meeting of parents' advice from all over Poland in the Column Hall, where we tried to listen to these opinions. Where they influence, they are considered by us and we really try not to ignore any such voice, where there is a will to meet or talk, we try to talk. If the government has decided to implement this reform, of course this is done in a certain way, but it is difficult for me to find such a case that we refuse to talk, meetings, do not speak to a voice. If there is such a voice or invitation to debate, to debate, then of course we will do so, we will not avoid it. Whether this will be a discussion in Krakow or elsewhere, whether in Rzeszów or in Szczecin, we will try to take part in it or to address it in some way, especially where parents want to appeal to the Minister of National Education. Like I said, parents' opinions are important, certainly where there may be some tension, we will try to react. As for the 5-year-old tech school, I would also like to point out that the tech school offers a different opportunity for the student. So the first thing that a professional school has to do is to give a job and make it a fairly simple or very simplified path to getting a high school diploma. The goal, as I said, is to limit what was before, the qualifications that had previously to be obtained and the whole connected... that is to limit it to one qualification and limit the huge number of exams that worked in this system. In the case of a technical school, in addition to being able to obtain appropriate vocational training, the student will also be able to carry out all the subjects that will allow him to study or study in very different ways. We have, like, two different models, I mean. The business school gives you a different path... the second degree is for those who want to participate in it. I'm sure it's okay. Although we'd probably be happy if we didn't. The possibility of choosing a second degree of this school will only be used by part of the pupils, some will remain at the stage of going to work and getting a job. The technology will provide much wider possibilities.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-15-senat-32-3.u288	Thank you, Minister. Senator Augustine, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-15-senat-32-3.u289	Minister, the teachers of vocational subjects at the meeting they invited me to raise the issue of this uniform qualification, which is now to apply in vocational schools. They claimed that the possibility of gaining further qualifications gave students, especially the weaker one, a much better chance and a greater motivation to learn and gain certain qualifications, although not all of them were within their reach. Now it's going to be a little zero-one, I mean. Either I have the one, or I don't have one. How will you respond to those who raised this issue? How do you convince them? [[Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of National Education Maciej Kopeć: I mean...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-15-senat-32-3.u290	One moment, one moment, Minister. Does anyone else want to ask a question? Mr. Senator, Mr. Marshal Borusewicz. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-15-senat-32-3.u291	Minister, what about the education of adults who graduate from a six-year elementary school? Will they continue to have an open path to continuing education after the reform introduced by the government?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-15-senat-32-3.u292	Do any of you senators want to ask the Minister a question? I don't see any volunteers. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-15-senat-32-3.u293	Mr Marshal, of course adult schools will remain, but in Poland the problem is a very low percentage of people who participate in the system of acquiring additional qualifications. It usually stops at the age of 24. This is actually a problem that is being pointed out and discussed. This is an important element, and it's being discussed here about these issues... The Ministry's probably gonna come up with a program on this case. And as for qualification, I'm going to say that these are kind of two visions. Other comments were made during the debates on vocational education. What was going on was to say that this system, which was created, and the examination system, actually prevented schools from functioning to a large extent. Besides, in many cases, the creation of an examination system, questions... the fact that these questions became public property very quickly also required a response. It's connected. On the one hand, the aim is to obtain qualifications in such a way that they can actually be obtained, on the other hand, it must relate to the whole examination system and the functioning of vocational education. Our conclusions from this debate were precisely those reflected in educational law.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-15-senat-32-3.u294	Thank you very much. Are there any more questions for the Minister? [[Voice from the room: There isn't.]] There isn't. Thank you very much, Minister. I'm opening a joint discussion. Please, the first person to vote is Senator Kazimierz Wind. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-15-senat-32-3.u295	Mr. Marshal! Minister! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! Maybe I'll start by saying that Christmas is December 25th, Mr. Senator, and December 24th is Christmas Eve. Perhaps the differences in this matter also reflect the view on the evaluation of the education system law. [[You're a professor's answer.]] Mr Marshal, Minister, Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the Senators, the law on education, the law introducing the necessary reform is important and necessary, and the essence of these changes in my opinion comes down to two fundamental issues that we are dealing with today. First of all, short periods of education, Mr. Minister spoke quite extensively about this in response to questions. Short periods of education which make it impossible to organise a solid implementation of the programming bases. Secondly, the fatal development phase of young people who end class VI. Girls and boys of this age are experiencing a very difficult development period, while changing the environment, changing colleagues, changing teachers. This is a very, very bad situation. I remember today, the time when the reform was being introduced called Minister Handke's reform. I also read a lot about the genesis of this reform, not the time to talk about it, but it was a very interesting reading. The Minister spoke about these modifications to Minister Łybacka, Minister Hall. This is not the time to analyze it. What's the facts? We know him. We know him, and I'm surprised that those who have criticized this state for years are defending the status quo today. That's how I understand it. I'm sure they're against this reform. Professors and rectors have been complaining for years about bad preparation for college candidates. There were ideas of compensatory yearbooks, there were social protests, there were even hungers against the fact that there was only one lesson in history, and many professors and rectors added that there was only one lesson in physics, chemistry and biology. Yes, the education system is a great system, a great organism. It is a great ecosystem including children, parents, teachers, as well as local governments, curators and the Ministry of National Education. It is a great organism with great inertia, but above all they are specific people: children and young people. Therefore, the introduction legislation proposes specific scenarios to show how to implement this reform. This is where we talked about doing it in six months. Well, that's not true. After all, the writing of this law lasted a year, and its implementation would last several years. We know that, don't we? What's the point of making such a narrative? Ladies and gentlemen, we are living in a time of extremely intense civilization development. The information society and the knowledge economy are being built. Information society is not a society where everyone has a mobile phone, a personal computer and broadband internet. No, an information society is a society in which at least half of citizens produce and process knowledge. Of course, this will not be the case in every country. There will also be countries dealing with agriculture, minerals and industry, but they will be societies with a much lower gross domestic product per capita. Now another division of the world is being made. We as Poland want to produce and process knowledge, and for this we need a good education. And that's what this reform is for. This is not a return to what was, but a creative synthesis of these solutions and the current system of education, the current state of knowledge. This also applies to new programming bases. I would like to return to the Senate resolution of 22 February 2007, a resolution on the need to build an educational atmosphere in Poland. There were those who called it a meteorological resolution, but I think that the concern for upbringing and the belief that the upbringing of the young generation should be subject to social consent is worth reminding. That is why I repeat what I said at the meeting of the Joint Committee on Science, Education and Sport and the Committee on Territorial Government and State Administration, and what was included in this very resolution about the need for great care for the young generation. This resolution states that not only parents, teachers, priests, but also a bus driver, shopkeeper, media and politicians are raised. We see a remarkable return of young people to expressing patriotic feelings. We also saw an extraordinary rush of young people to study. We know that the percentage of students has increased over fivefold at some point. Poland has great capital, great potential of human capital, and human capital is not only demography, but also education and education. I have already talked about the Nobel Prizes from economics, whose winners, speaking of human capital, raised the importance of education and ethics for economic development, which make the products produced better and cheaper, because they do not need to be controlled. This is where the reform is headed. But this total criticism and short memory hinders and social consent, and better clarification of specific records, numerous records It was said that the laws are thick and there are a lot of details. Right? Opinions and public consultations are being invoked, and, after all, the biggest public consultation was that this education reform was included in the electoral programme of Law and Justice, so those who voted for Law and Justice also expressed themselves in this matter and we forget about it. I mentioned the adoption of the 2007 Senate. The genesis of this resolution was the suicide death of Ani from Gdansk. I'm talking about it just to show that raising matters are extremely important. We then held many meetings of the Committee on Science, Education and Sport before we dared to propose the text of the resolution. We sometimes see the aggression of young people, but whenever we think that they express their scream of loneliness, because no one takes care of them, no one has time for them... These are really very serious things. And I suffer when I see how very simple disputes are sometimes built around these serious issues. I don't want to use more radical terms. With concern for the current state of education and education, I ask for more reflection and kindness for young people. I very much value the effort, the work of teachers who, under different conditions, including under different legal conditions, are trying to accomplish this mission and this is their calling. I respect that very much, and that's why I'm asking for a broader look. There are various videos on the Internet showing different difficult situations, and we know that it is not always just the student's fault or just the teacher's fault. These are really very complex matters, and this uproar is sometimes not conducive to real reflection. It is important to respect the achievements and junior high schools and the current high schools, and listening to the Minister's words, the Minister's replies at the committee meeting and many other meetings that took place, I see the will to respect them, but I often feel that this outstretched hand is, to say the most delicately, untaken. Of course, there are a lot of specifics... [[Mr. Senator, it's been 10 minutes, unfortunately, up to 11, so please proceed to conclusions, because we have to...]] Last sentence, Mr. Marshal. [[You're welcome, Senator, of course.]] Ladies and gentlemen, education towards values and good education is very important for Poland, for the whole society and deserves social consent. I wish this reform would bring the expected fruit. I wish this to the Minister, the Government, but above all, I wish it to all students, teachers and parents, the whole society. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-15-senat-32-3.u296	Thank you very much. I ask Senator Jan Zarin to speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-15-senat-32-3.u297	Mr. Marshal! Minister! Minister! Dear Senators! Trying to remember when really this social discussion about the current educational system and the reform that was introduced in 1999 started, which was to some extent in the years to come. Whether it was Minister Łybacka or later by Minister Hall under the motto of repairing to some extent a spoilt... Rubbish in the sense that it became increasingly inconsistent with the whole original assumption, which, as it turned out, did not work. And so, in a nutshell. For years to come, it looked like it. Until a moment came when, it seems, a framework broke, which caused the discussion of our public education to close more in the cabinet than in the public sphere. In the public sphere, however, there has been a very clear opposition to reality. Perhaps it's too late for this public sphere to wake up. In 2012, when it turned out that from 1 September 2012 the pre-established curriculum bases would reach the point of entry into school practice, the first yearbooks of pupils will appear at the upper secondary school premises. And then all of a sudden it turned out that all of them hidden until then, i.e. hidden with regard to the public's weakness of the changed and de facto spoiled system, which also, as it turns out today, was corrupted, i.e. since Handke's reform, exploded, moving, at least in the influence, to a larger and wider public opinion. I remind you of these facts to actually remind you that... you could probably go back to 1989. Because we are actually still living in the reform of the educational system, the education system in Poland. And it's no wonder we're giving up critical judgment. Although I hope you're getting better and better. What we find. This last attempt to understand the disadvantages of the educational system in Poland since 2012 led to what Professor Kazimierz Wind mentioned just now, i.e. that the reform of education and the return to at least four years of high school and the upper secondary system based on different bases, on different solutions than before, were included in the Law and Justice programme. And this phase of preparation for reform... You say it lasted very briefly. Well, this last phase of preparation for today's reform is taking place at least from the electoral campaign of Law and Justice. I, too, and probably all those who took part in this campaign, riding around my future district, had to take action. But I also wanted to make The topics related to education reform. And it was one of the most important demands of people, environments, parents, teachers who wanted to talk to candidates. In this case, with candidates for the Senate. I say it again: it was one of the most vital problems. He was no longer concerned with a narrow group of cabinet halls, ministerial halls and professionals, but with a very broad public opinion. This growing up at such a nodal moment I gave myself for 2012, but I repeat that it existed before, only in a more exclusive form, in certain environments of public opinion in Poland. And that's why it's no wonder that the issue of this need, clearly seen in the election campaign of Law and Justice, the need to confront the reality in the public opinion and the clear will to change this system, which is, has taken the Law and Justice at the time when the election was won. Don't be surprised that we're debating this, and don't be surprised that we want to change that. We are chosen by Poles, not aliens, and Poles have made their choice on the basis of their own internal need to test what is, i.e. this educational state which is at the moment. Each of us probably has different personal experiences about what the evil of today's teaching system is all about. As a historian, I have my reasons, and I can answer the question of why this reform is necessary. The first reason, very important in my opinion, I will start with one that has not been raised here, but he may be questioned to be clear about what I read in the introduction to the basics of the pen by Mr Marciniak, who, I understand, was actually responsible for the introduction of these foundations. The Minister wrote no less that the decision-makers of Polish education are faced with such a choice: or we are introducing far-reaching intra-educational democratisation, which means that in fact everyone has to pass the next stages sooner or later. Best up to the bachelor's degree and later to the master's degree And become satisfied with people with further degrees of scientific insight... But that means a total reduction in the level of teaching in such spheres that may be too difficult to jump over. I understood it so that, so to speak, the dead object is to be, unfortunately, among others. history, universal history teaching. The result was that in general teaching history ended as a school subject in the upper secondary class, which was a fatal solution. Further teaching in this field was chosen only by a very narrow group of students who profiled humanistically. The math of history seemed to me, gentlemen, supposedly in the general teaching of Polish in various types of schools. Let's say high school is the most important thing here, in the best cases 20%, 25% students. That was the case, for example. in Batory High School in Warsaw. And in averages and worses, there were 4%, 5%, 6%. And it was to be Poles who would stand among representatives of other nations and discuss what Polishness means, what Polish culture means, and be prepared to be light citizens of the modern nation. From my point of view, it was one of the worst things that was invented at the time. In fact, it was created - Yeah. - I saw it then, and unfortunately I see it today too. The ideal conditions for a larger part of Poles to be able to be mobile for use in different spheres of the world at European level, but for God's protection, there is no identity so deep as to be attached to their own national heritage. I know you're gonna say it's not true that nobody wrote it like that. Okay, no one wrote it like that, but that was the result. The second necessity, the reason... [[The meeting is chaired by Vice-Marshal Adam Bielan]] [[Professor...]] Last minute. The other one will be shorter, I promise. The second reason why I strongly thought and believe that this reform should be introduced today and the stage that is in force today, the de facto stage of the ongoing reform of education in Poland, is something that no longer relates to the programme basis directly, but also... I am referring to the fact that it has already been stressed many times here that it has proved in practice that the three-year repetition of the program at an increasingly higher stage of emotional, intellectual and so on. What, as you know, is, you can say, the growth of a young man is impossible, because these 3 years are too short a period. And much of the natural possibility of taking advantage of existing children is lost. and later in the youth The talents to explore an ever-increasing amount of knowledge. And indeed, Minister Hall stood before... [[Professor...]] It's really... Because I don't want another five minutes. [[Let him talk.]] [[I know, except the guys on the platform are gonna resent me for...]] That's right. Okay, I'm finishing up, and I'm gonna tell you about this second flood... [[Three more minutes.]] [[No, no. Okay...]] Yes? [[No, no, Professor...]] Good. So that we don't talk again... [[Encouraging the Senators of the Platform would be the opposite.]] Good. So just a little bit of the other problem that turned out to be... [[Mr. Marshal, you speak very interestingly.]] [[Joy in the Chamber]] [[Professor, I really...]] Namely... [[We'd like to finish by 3:00 in the morning, and we've got seven more speakers.]] Good. Do you want me to tell you or not? [[Voice from the room: Of course.]] [[I'd like to ask you to...]] It's about ending, isn't it? [[...finality.]] Okay, I'm done.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-15-senat-32-3.u298	Thank you very much, Professor. [[But about this bill...]] Thank you very much. Senator Kopiczko. [[Voice from the room: Five minutes to go.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-15-senat-32-3.u299	Mr. Marshal! Minister! Mr. and Mrs. Senators! In my speech, I would first of all like to thank the Minister and the Ministry for introducing this reform for this change in education. As a practice and long-term director of a small rural school, in 1993 and 1998 I had to reform and unfortunately had to liquidate an 8-year-old school, only a six-year-old school was left, and my students reached a nearby town 12 km. And I experienced it not only as a principal, a teacher, but also as a parent, because my daughter went to middle school for the first time. And she had to commute, split up with her peer group, because then the students could choose whether they would go to this middle school or another, and choose which ones they liked. At that time no one asked questions, there were no consultations, no meetings, no debates, nobody asked directors, no teachers, no parents asked, no child mattered, only we had to reform. Ladies and gentlemen, in this reform... Today you are asking what local governments, what unions... However, this reform is not about trade unions, local governments, buildings. The most important thing in this reform is a student, a child. And that's what we're thinking. We think about the student, we think about the quality of education. Mr. Senator Slugocki It's a shame you're not here because I wanted to answer his question, but maybe he'll listen tomorrow and ask questions about competitiveness and the framework for teaching. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to point out that the major challenge of this reform is also to change the basis of the programme, which clearly emphasises that the school's task is to raise children and young people to value. On the basis, we also stress supporting the development of each student according to his needs and capabilities. Experts working on the basis of the programme have taken into account the programme differences in this basis in terms of chemistry, physics, geography and biology in the VII-VIII classes for those students who did not learn nature in previous years. We introduce new objects of geography, biology, respectively from class V. Chemistry, physics plus the second modern language From Class VII. We also pay attention to the system's professional advice, which is necessary, because it is also the task of the school to prepare for the selection of new courses of education. We want the school student to value his native language and culture with all its historical heritage. We also put emphasis on learning history, that's what's most important. We increase the number of hours of history from 4 to 9 in classes IV.VI. We also pay attention to language learning, knowledge of information and communication technology. These are some of the most important competences. But, ladies and gentlemen, a different change requires vocational education. Today, at the committee meeting and in this debate, you claim that there are no studies. I'm very fond of finding different tests. And there are studies that confirm the necessity of these changes. I will present to you the recommendations of the National Centre for Support for Vocational and Continuing Education, only the most important recommendations, because there are a lot of them, which I have chosen as important. First of all, the recruitment of technicians and vocational schools is decreasing, which is the result of a general demographic trend in the age group 16 and 18. We find insufficient organisation of the hardware base in practical training centres and insufficient access for pupils to modern technologies. Only every tenth of the school realized the so-called. modular education. Half of the schools pay attention to the unfavorable legal situation, the non-application of the technical and teaching base and the lack of the necessary financial resources. One in ten school heads considered that they did not have sufficient information on modular education. In the opinion of employers, vocational training programmes were carried out in isolation from the real requirements of the market and employers. The majority of practical activities took place mainly in schools. In the opinion of employers, students, operating in a system isolated from market realities, were not fully aware of their needs. On the basis of quantitative data, it has been established that the technical and educational base lacks specific training equipment in a specific profession, which is important for the effectiveness of education. Only 56% schools have shown any equipment such as language studios, computer studios, video cameras, tape recorders. More than 80% of school heads expressed their opinion that schools need to be renovated, as well as practical training centres. Professional guidance in middle school should help make choices so that they are part of career planning. And the most important conclusion: a significant increase in student spending, a student over the last decade has not improved the quality of education results. And in fact, this vocational education has survived thanks to good teachers and good directors. Therefore, I thank the Ministry once again for a good change. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-15-senat-32-3.u300	Thank you very much, Senator. Now, Senator Gawel.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-15-senat-32-3.u301	Mr. Marshal! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! There are things in the cultural, civilization system that shouldn't be changed. That's what we all know, but I'll repeat, there's a kitchen. Sushi will never be a national dish or a Polish Christmas dish, no matter how celebrities praised it. The second thing is religion. We have the 1050th anniversary of the baptism and we know that 1050 years ago there was a civilization coup in Poland. And the third thing is education. Therefore, I would say that the word "reform" in the context of a law which is currently being examined is not appropriate in my opinion. We, ladies and gentlemen, are restoring the proper order of things. Let me repeat: we are restoring the proper order of things. The educational system in Poland is a system that we can call an endemic system, i.e. one that is the right place. And there's nothing to compare it with anything else, calling Finland. That can't be done. There are other parameters here, and that's what we should be basing on. In my opinion, ladies and gentlemen, this system was breached 17 years ago. I will not go back to this procedure, to what it looked like, when in November 1998 Prime Minister Buzek sent a letter to the Marshal of Płażyński on the speedy process of the law and actually in the following year a gymnasium was created. But then there wasn't such a scream. I'd say the elites did it themselves without much consultation. Those who predicted the consequences of this fragmentation of the educational system were not listened to at all. And the effects came very quickly. And I don't say it in theory, I didn't read it on the Internet, I didn't sit here in the Senate for many, many years, but I watched the school reality for 25 years with my own eyes, year after year. And I saw a regression. And now the question is, whose fault was it? Those students? Well, it's not. Teachers? Well, the same teachers. The system was inefficient. All the more reason the last few years, after these so-called improvements... In fact, it would be best to ask those teachers who are at the end of this system, i.e. secondary school teachers, what role they were brought to and actually what they had to do at school. Today, there were questions to the Minister if he insults high school teachers. Well, folks... really, a year and a half of serious teaching. In the first class of all subjects learns according to the basics, only the second begins the extension. A year and a half of science. And there's another reason for the disease of education. I remember when young people were told in the 1990's that as many of them as possible should go to universities. All of you go best. And it went in parallel with the depreciation of vocational schools. There they go. The statistics from the county where I come from show that more than 52% Young people go to high school and only 30% go to vocational schools. Well, that's a bad trend, I think we can agree on that. This reform also involves the reconstruction of the vocational education system. And I hope this works. Ladies and gentlemen, let's see if we teach young people to read or if we teach them to write... If we don't leave the test system, then we can't dream of them reading books at all. This isn't real. Those who know anything about it know it. The tests didn't improve the intellect somehow, but they actually became a quiz. And then in high school there's the last year and a half of work huge, eight hours a day at school, and you still have to take tutoring. Worse, in the first year of college, especially technical, where there is math, you have to take tutoring. Moreover, universities throughout the system also contributed to the fact that, unfortunately, this quality of education was decreasing. Because every student was valuable because money followed him. The students, instead of working on their own weaknesses, received prosthetics in the form of various judgments given by counsellors. And you could actually say that Demostenes wouldn't grow up here, he wouldn't be a great speaker, because he'd go to a psych-pedagogical clinic and get a ruling, and he'd have school support. He wouldn't work to improve his pronunciation. And we have dyslexia, dysgraphics, discalculation, etc., etc. And school should be required. The teacher who taught and only taught was not the most respected in this system either, because more had to be done. A lot more. To promote school, to deal with things that really did not translate into the process of teaching and upbringing in any way. What high school and vocational schools have become, I actually said. And I hope that this 4-year system will improve the quality of education. The only problem is, we're not gonna measure that in a year or two or three years. It takes at least eight years, as Prof. Nalaskowski says, to see the effects, but this is the last moment to make these changes, especially if we look at the demographic context. Like a school bust, those who wanted to see it saw it because those who didn't want to see it didn't get it. They have become such uncritical huns of change at all costs. I myself have participated in many projects, many courses and trainings, at which the trainers often had much less knowledge and skills than those they trained. It was embarrassing, and it was made for public money. Millions of gold were kind of thrown into the oven. The authority of the teacher has been reduced and there has been a departure from those matters that are most important to the teacher. Because the point is that the teacher can work with the student and not deal with things that are not needed to conduct the teaching process. And one more reflection on external exams. At first it seemed that taking exams from schools would contribute to the fact that they would be more objective, but when I look at it today, it seems to me that it was a manifestation of a lack of trust in teachers. These examination committees and all the procedures that are in force, especially when improving the prom work, seem to be in complete chaos here. The answer from the key changes already during the correction. And as I said at the beginning, I wouldn't call it a reform, although that's what we've already accepted, because it's a return to the proper order of things. Although I'm hoping for another change in the future. I do not know if the Minister would dare to do so, but it would be a revolutionary change, which would do a lot of things with regard to the flow of money from the state budget to local governments once and for all. [[Mr. Senator...]] I'm talking about introducing an educational bonus, I think you can think about it, Minister. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-15-senat-32-3.u302	Thank you very much. Now I'm asking Senator Wach to speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-15-senat-32-3.u303	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Reform is needed, but certainly not as proposed in these documents. I'm actually one of those two senators who filed a motion to reject the bill at the committee meeting. And I'll try to justify it. First of all, from the formal side, this can be justified by the procedure of proceding this law. In the Senate we worked on it actually 20... well, just over 24 hours. Both the introduction of the committee and the inclusion of it on the agenda required voting. So over this important law we have actually dealt with at the edge of the regulations, as this often happens here. We talk about lofty things, we talk about education, we talk about an example, and look at Parliament. We don't even have to look at the whole parliament. Let's look at each other and how we work, how we work. That's educational? I'm not talking about incidents in the Seym that are publicized and shown in the media, but about our mode of work. If you studied it, it would turn out that it is anti-educational in this term. And that is the first reason why this law should be rejected. And now I'm going to move on to a matter of substance that we can argue more about. I'm a proponent... I am convinced that the three-step system or three-step system, Madam Minister, sometimes speaks about the stage of the phase, is better than the two-step system we are returning to. I do not deny the needs of change, I do not deny the needs of change, but it seems to me that great value is that a young man changes his environment, changes his school, changes his colleagues, changes his teachers. That's a certain value. I know from my experience, and many of us know that both this verbal, practical teaching and the surroundings or meeting of other colleagues are important elements of education. Furthermore, criticism on my part, and this, I believe, is a serious criticism of the fact that in connection with the obligation to start training for 7 years... Our graduates normally finish school at 19 or 20 in the case of a tech school. This is a waste of time, wasting people's chances. I'm not saying we're actually on the tail of most educational systems, but college should start at 17, maybe 18. A further reduction in the retirement age. We go backwards in every direction, actually in every direction. But let's focus on this bill. I think it's a waste of development opportunities. It's under the slogan "elimination of middle school," but actually it's a return to elementary school and high school, to two stages of school education. It's just a loss. This is, in my opinion, archaicism. And not in terms of programming. In terms of programming, you can do things. I hope you'll do excellent things. That's what I'd wish for our system. But when it comes to structure, she's bad. And that's why I don't think this law should be adopted. I propose amendments, because I think she will be accepted. These are amendments to both laws. They're minor amendments, actually just improving some of the things we've been approached with. That is, I have 2 amendments to the Law on the Rules of Introduction. One's for art. 225. It extends the period of the inactive status for possibly exempted middle school teachers from 6 to 12 months. This would allow them to do so if they had to do so. And it can happen without a law, because it is not so that it will not happen, it can happen, so that it does not happen massly yet as a teacher in the next school year. And the second amendment, to Article. 230, which, in short, adds a benefit related to the termination of employment for workers who are not teachers. As well as two amendments... In fact, there is one amendment, only in a narrower and wider version, to the law of education, to the article. 37. It concerns the obligation to study outside school. And it's actually about 2 things about removing the voivodship district and, because it would be best to accept both versions of the opinion that is required, a counsellor without an adjective, that is, without narrowing it down to public entities. It is in the case of the adoption of this law, which is quite likely, that would improve and improve the system a bit, or at least respond to teachers' concerns about the lack of work, in short, with the status of inactive, i.e. the continuity of teachers, and, on the other hand, to the concerns of parents who are sometimes forced, through the disability of children, to teach them out-of-school. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-15-senat-32-3.u304	Thank you very much, Senator. Now, Mr. Klich.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-15-senat-32-3.u305	There are matters, Mr. Marshal, the Senate, which essentially divides us. This is, for example, the case of yesterday's debate, the subject of the Constitutional Tribunal, in principle, all the debates that we have been discussing on this matter. Here between two parts of the room, the larger and the smaller one, there are no common points. But there are things we're voting on together. And yesterday we also voted together on many laws, either unanimously or by a large majority. In this case, I feel that what connects this room is concern for the Polish school. I mean, we all want the quality of education in the Polish school to be better. To make her the best, but especially to make her better than she's ever been. I personally am an opponent of the test system because I know from my own experience and from observing how easy it is to learn to solve tests. You can be a master at solving tests. And that's why. I've always done written exams to my students for 15 years, but not tests. They really require more time, more need to be spent on their evaluation, need more input from the tutor, but they much better test the knowledge acquired by the student or student. But by changing what we consider to be a flaw in modern teaching, we must not pour out our children with a bath. And this kind of showering of children is a change in the education system in Poland. I take a positive view of what was new to us 17 years ago, namely this three-step division of education, in which, as Senator Wach rightly said, not only knowledge is passed on to children, but also children and young people are taught to better find themselves in new environments. After all, our whole life is a constant variation and we still need to find ourselves in new environments. As adults, we know that very well. So making new friends, entering new groups is what this system prepares better than a two-stage system. And we all know that from our own experience. Someone who doesn't know about this probably didn't notice. The data that our children and our young people are better prepared to cope in the modern world is also available. During these 17 years, the level of our 15-year-olds has risen significantly. I mean the level of their knowledge. We were below the average among 65 OECD countries, 17 years ago we were below the average, and at the moment we are 11th. It's a jump! This is the jump our young people made. Because this system, which is still in operation in Poland, is a system that allows for a better finding in modern society, which is very competitive. Whether we want it or not, not only the economy is competitive, but also the society is competitive. And knowledge is one of the tools used to better cope with this local, regional, national and transnational competition. This change, which you are proposing at the moment, reduces the competitive opportunities of Polish children and young people, such as reducing the competitive opportunities of our children, in the future of our grandchildren, was the elimination of the school obligation for 6-year-olds. Those who start learning earlier have a better chance of coping with this competitive environment. I also know this as a parent, in my own experience, having a daughter who's just getting ready for high school, and having a son who's in primary school right now. Of course, you can use various spells that were also in this room, but the facts are, I would say, cruel. Because the facts are that our children will start going to school later, and there will be a reduction in the time of general education. From 9 to 8 years old. So not only will they have a year in the back, because later they will start teaching, but they will be educated for a year less. It's a lot, a year it's a lot. It will also reduce the teaching of the present 6 years to 5, or maybe even to 4. I am also afraid that the yearbooks 2003, 2004 and 2005 will not only have physical problems in the building where they will be, where there will be a larger crowd, the classes will be bigger, and everyone... Many of us remember that the classes in the period of the Polish People's Republic were of 35,40 people. Not only will there be more squeeze in schools, but there will also be a bigger problem with subsequent high school recruitment. High school will also be burdened with the effects of this accumulation of yearbooks. I won't mention organizational chaos, because that's what everyone talks about, including their parents. Not only in my hometown of Krakow have there been parents' advice forums, which are now actively acting with doubts about this reform, fearing, above all, this confusion, this chaos. But we will also have financial consequences, all of us, Poles. And it's not just the ones that were calculated by the Polish Towns Association. I asked the senator of the minority rapporteur how much the Polish Towns Association valued the costs of this reform. And it turns out that local government officials in large cities believe that they will be twice as high as those which are now announced as being to be covered by the state budget. So it will not be 900 million, but over 1 billion 800 million and these additional costs of over 900 million zlotys will have to be borne out of their own pockets. [[Minister of National Education Anna Zalewska: Mr. Senator has Facebook.]] [[My wife won't believe I've worked so long.]] And finally, I fear that, despite the creation by local governments of a new network of schools and the possibility of transferring children from one school to another, they will be treated as furniture and they will be confused during the course of teaching. Because disorientation of parents doesn't matter as much as disorientation of our children. What will affect the results of their education. Finally, however, it would be worth reading into opinions from various expert backgrounds, and I will mention only some of them: the Polish Language Council, the Conference of Rectors of Academic Schools in Poland. The majority of these changes were critically assessed by the vast majority. As far as teachers are concerned, there is no doubt that they will. The question is, to what extent will it be thousands of teachers? But perhaps the biggest loss for Poland, and especially for Poland B, will be the loss of this role, which the junior high school plays in smaller towns. Krakow will manage, Warsaw will manage, Poznań and Wrocław will manage, but in small towns, middle school plays a cultural role. They are those centers where, in fact, a child or already a young man has the chance to wipe himself against a higher culture, acquire knowledge, but also participate in higher education. If you take away their middle school in such places, they will be deprived of their youth, their children. That's an opportunity. That is why I believe that the solution that you are proposing is a wrong solution, although we would probably support modifications to the current way of education, only that without eliminating the structure of teaching that was introduced 17 years ago. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-15-senat-32-3.u306	Thank you very much, Mr President. Senator Blackbay.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-15-senat-32-3.u307	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Before I begin, two words to two senators. Professor Wind said that education is an area where social consent should prevail. Of course, just for social agreement to prevail, you need the other side. I'm talking about the opposition. I'm giving you a chance to agree. This opportunity looks like this: this morning, you bring 250 pages and say, "Absolutely," because we have... [[420.]] Sorry, 420 pages. ... Such a PISA study, where it turned out that in natural sciences we fell, etc. And here's another argument. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to talk about a few elements concerning education. Senator Gaweł said a very brave thing here that the system today exists in sick education. I'm not a teacher, but 16 years as a self-government officer I was involved in education, education. In 1990, when I saw what this education was like... I dreamed my beloved city of Kwidzyn would be an educational power, Minister. I am fascinated by Finland, where public authority sets a goal and gives means to evaluate. And nothing else. And that's a condition for success. That's why I asked the Deputy Minister what tasks are assigned to the parole board. There's no parole office, there's no parole board. There, the teacher was trusted, and the teacher was found to be the basis for success. Instead of going in this direction, you are playing at the expense of our children. I am concerned about the pain of many people in Poland, because each of us either has children or grandchildren. If I get into adult education, I'll probably benefit from it, but I'm looking at what you want to offer my grandchildren. I'm gonna read a few things here. I'm so worried. We are talking about this social consensus, so give us a chance to speak, a time to talk about the problems that Senator Gaweł is talking about, or what the Deputy Minister is talking about. Because all kinds of problems are in Polish education today. After all, this is not a school without faults, but in my opinion, you do not want this sick person, as Senator Gaweł said, to heal the school, but to kill them. In my town... Ladies and gentlemen, Kwidzyn has become an educational power, and local government has set itself the following role: she has spent money on schools... As Senator Gaweł said, we give money, we transfer it to schools through educational vouchers. And that's what's been going on for 20 years. The education management system in our city is that we are those who serve the school, serve the teacher, the whole system, and we are not leading in it. It was in Kwidzyn that a centre of good practice was established, a centre of practical training of the profession, contracts were signed with the world's largest companies. I asked the Minister what's the difference between a school and a vocational school. Minister, what you said... I know, somebody came up with a password and said, "There's gonna be a resort school." Well, there are resort kids, that and there's gonna be a resort school. [[It's an industrial one.]] [[Professional.]] Is there a professional... But we're going back to Poland. Take good examples from places in Poland where good education has been created, so to speak. Do not break open doors and build the system that Senator Klich was talking about, that it will be a system full of chaos, layoffs and 2 billion spent unnecessarily. I mean, they can be put into a system to improve the condition of other equipment... And the other thing. Who is positive about this project? I've read it, I've been looking for... Podkarpackie Voivodeship. All right, at least one vote positive. It's worse if there's no one else. You've found a friendly marshal who's convinced a few councilmen and voted that this is a very good system. It is I who will read the opinion of the Polish rectors who say this: unfortunately, the Minister does not point to any conditions which are of a long-term, thought-out state policy on education. You centralize this education and decide that the curator will establish circuits, divide, tell you where every child... Come, I invite you to towns and cities to share this. You'll see how much trouble this is gonna be. And what else does this advice say? The fact that the elimination of junior high schools, not supported by the results of scientific discussions and thorough expert studies, is a fatal solution. Maybe you think the rectors are wrong. Well, let's ask the unions. And trade unions... Well, I haven't seen one relationship praise you for what you're proposing. It's not just that the unions are going to talk about defending jobs anymore. You should have listened yesterday, the minister listened. Vice President ZNP, who made it clear what this reform will end with. I also met with local government officials from my town, the county I come from. The mayor, who in a way even better than I continued my work, started 27 years ago, said: listen, I, the physicist who manages education, whether I am responsible for education for almost 15 years, such a mess, such chaos as I am preparing, have not yet seen. I pray he's wrong. Now, if we look at our parents... Today, I read that in Lubuskie, my parents decided that on January 10 they were taking a strike to protest what was coming. Let's take a look at the public opinion poll. I want to say that six months ago, Minister, over 70% , no, 70% My parents said, okay, this is a very good reform. Of course, there were no details. But everyone thought: I went to such a school; there were no middle school, and I grew up to be quite a decent person, so it's actually not quite bad, actually it's a good reform, and these problems... But that's not what the public's saying today. According to recent studies, IBRiS 48.7% Asked says that this is a bad reform and that it should not be implemented, and the supporters are only Or maybe as much as 47.1%. And the 10% drop in support, the biggest one, is among the supporters, the voters of Law and Justice. You could be happy, but what awaits us, all this mess in Polish education... I'm not saying there's gonna be a period that's gonna be two years... Well, all of a sudden, we need an extra 350,000 people. And you say there's no problem. And now we're getting to the point. I'm not gonna quote anything here anymore. The basics of the programme. Well, it's a thing that needs to be worked on for a long time and discussed intensively. Minister, I will only read what the Polish Language Council has written about the fantastic basics of the program. The professors write this: the whole project of the basics for Polish language is inconsistent, illogical, with numerous errors of language, terminology and shows incompetence of the copyright team, and the choice of reading... etc. As they say, Polish language education according to these basics will be conducted according to anachronistic patterns. They don't leave dry thread on what you're preparing. In order to stop bullying myself, Minister, I would like to end with this parable I have heard. Because my love for education has made me talk about her more and more now, I have heard this parable. It happened that the present President-elect Donald Trump stood before God. He asks: Lord God, what awaits us as the United States? God answers him: listen, Mr. President, socialism, socialism. President Trump turned around and cried. President Putin also asked this question: what awaits the great Russia? God answers him, Mr. President, capitalism. President Putin turned around and cried. And before God you stood the Minister of Education and could also ask him that question. He asks: Lord God, how do you see all this, these 400 pages, this hard work that we do in the ministry, and now the senators, what we do... [[Mr. Senator, I don't want to spoil your joke, but it's almost time.]] I'm almost done. What are we gonna do? God turned and wept. And that will be the result of your education. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-15-senat-32-3.u308	Thank you. Senator Augustine.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-15-senat-32-3.u309	Mr. Marshal! Ministers! A lot of important words about the importance of education have been said here. I may have a specific perspective on this matter, on this very important area, because when, as a social politician, I encounter human failures and try to find the causes of human difficulties, it always turns out that somewhere there is bad education among the basic reasons for life failure. And it is beyond any dispute that good education, good education is the source of success as far as possible. Today, when the family is in so much trouble, the role of the school is growing, even bigger than it used to be. And it seems that we should really be very concerned that we should find a place at school for a good education for every child, especially for those with non-standard, exceptional educational needs. Many times from this place I have spoken, also to Minister Zalewska, about the fact that especially these children who are not able to keep up with the implementation of the program Polish school actually excludes, disregards. I talked about this in the process of the liquidation of the so-called. card hours, which, after all, were intended to serve the education of children who could not keep up with the material. The Polish school, like any other school, in a world that changes so quickly, must no doubt change, but it should change with a view to the future for which we educate children. We should therefore define well the challenges that young people will face and shape the education system in order to increase their chances and build their competences. That's not the kind of discussion we had here, there isn't. That's why many people ask: where is this added value? What do you mean? What's there to gain from that? Because it's not about the structure, it's about eliminating something and calling something. It's about the result. And you don't explain it, you don't have that kind of discussion, but you and young people are facing huge technological changes, demographic change, and globalisation. Polish school cannot take a step backwards. If we want to race and As Mr Wind said, building society and its well-being on the basis of knowledge must be a modern school. That's not an offer. That's not the reform. Ladies and gentlemen, you can't ignore the obvious beautifully... Leszek, I'm just now realizing that this guy I was trying to look up to back there in the local government was just you. I'm talking to Senator Czarnobaj. I say that it is impossible to reform the Polish school against local governments, Minister, and they are against it globally. Education is too serious a matter to be left to ministerial officials. The whole school environment, which needs more diversity, more creativity, needs more autonomy, not more control, not more propriety. That's why I think we have the right to be most concerned. You're saying we promised to eliminate the middle school, we're eliminating it. And it's like a hammer at the end. You say we were chosen under these slogans, and that's what we're doing. It seems to me, ma'am, that looking for an answer to the question of why the objective has not been clearly set, why such a method is chosen, one can become convinced that eliminating middle school, changing this structure is only the key to opening this system in order to make changes in it. And these changes do not have to meet the civilization challenges that young people will face, but they are going to make the school idealized to start shaping young people in the spirit of falsely understood patriotism on the basis, as we can see from the first basics of the program, false history. I think that's where the determination comes from. Why am I finding another confirmation? Because, Minister, I happen to know what that consultation looked like in Wielkopolska. Did you know that there was no way to speak after the presentation that talked about school safety? Is that supposed to be a leading topic? It was a mockery of the consultation. Teachers found out about the Internet consultation, went to it and left insulted, because in this way it is only possible to offend people, not invite them to consult. And that's what it looks like. Let me put my words to you, Minister: scientists are from research, union protesters, self-government complainers, and we'll do what we want, because that's the way it's supposed to be. This is what this discussion is about, and that is why it seems that this reform has no allies today, and without these allies She absolutely can't make it. And I'm sure she'll be lame, lame school and, unfortunately, ill-educated students. If there's something I'm hoping for, it's really Polish teachers. Let us hope that they will not be led astray and that, within hours of one program or another, they will give responsibility for children to all those whom their parents have entrusted, because they feel, many of them feel that they are depositaries of hope. This reform does not give hope that the Polish school will be better educated to the challenges of the future. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-15-senat-32-3.u310	Thank you very much, Senator, especially since you fit perfectly in ten minutes. Senator Shark. [[No, I'm sorry, but...]] Oh, excuse me. Mr. Senator Oremski.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-15-senat-32-3.u311	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I must say, after Senator Augustine's speech, I am shocked, not confused. Well, I think God cried. However, excessive belief in conspiracy theories is an insult, but never mind. I'm sure it's not such a reform, I'm talking about eliminating middle school. Which is zero-one. You can't say that 100% That's right. It's on one side. I think that if we look at the future, we will see that at such an operational level of implementation of this reform it is not doomed to success. There's a lot of reefs here. And I also agree with Mr Flork, and with Mr Wach, that perhaps proceding in such an important matter should be a little different, but the fact is that we have a problem with Polish education. About 3 years ago I was invited to discuss by Mr.Jack Żakowski, and I think he is a moderate enthusiast of good change. We were talking about the Professor's book. Potulicka. I don't remember her title, but it was about neoliberal conditions in education. It was a crushing criticism of the Polish educational system, indicating narrowing curricula to the needs of economic life, treating education as a market investment, increasing educational inequality, selection processes, management of education, fetishing achievements, standardisation, testing and utilitarianism instead of general education. The quintessence of this thought was the thesis that President Klich put at the end. I'm talking about reducing competitive odds. Of course it's important, but the problem with Polish education is that the ladies who recently led the ministry... It may have been a hidden, unintended program, but it was kept in the neoliberal paradigm. We create a one-dimensional student, a future citizen, who is to be a consumer, a producer and a worker. It's a problem, but it's a challenge that we're actually facing. And that's where it comes from, I'd say. I'm able to discuss it with you about some exaggeration, some hysteria, etc. IT. I think you have to put a horse in front of a car every time in school, not the other way around. Computer science is just a piece of mathematics. And that's where the stuffing of history that's been going on lately came from. Mr. Sługocki asks why this reform. I understand it this way: above all, we have failed with regard to the egalitarianism of junior high schools. It's not even Handke's fault, it's Łybacka's fault, and then this system completely destroyed it. And we know that the best results are achieved by countries such as Finland and Korea, who manage to extend this egalitarianism. We've created emotional nomads. That's my term. Of course, it's cool that the student learns that when he's moved from place to place, he has to redefine his social role, but And that's very important. The school is also the place where friendships are formed, which later remain for life. And we're breaking it. This is a problem that really exists. The third reason is that, despite trying to get these programs to see, so to speak, they see, we are still dealing with some fragmentation. And that's the problem with this triangular system. The next element, especially in a democratic state, is the lack of acceptance of society, which in the case of middle school was related to educational problems and the fact that this threshold, which was created, resulted in accelerated artificial adulthood. From 15 years we lowered this threshold to 12 years with all the negative consequences. And then there's the last piece. I understand that this is also about making sense of high school, because there has been a failure in general education in recent years. And that's a big problem. Don't I see the advantages of middle school? Of course I do. Excellent staff specialized in some difficult development period of children, calming down primary schools, these are the advantages of junior high. It's not so zero-one. I will admit that I personally would prefer, Madam Minister, that this node should be spread slowly, with a great discussion. However, a political choice has been made. The intersection of this node was selected with all the consequences, the pros and cons of this solution. I don't know if my thinking would be better, although I think that discussing education is important. But there are some things I can't understand. I apologize very much if there is a linear correlation between the number of children and the number of teachers, even if it is a slightly positive correlation, it cannot be said that for this reason there will be exemptions. Professor Hare, Senator, says that what we're talking about here is just a simple procedure related to the changeability of additions. It's just... the Ministry is talking about global numbers. If the number of children is constant, and the fact that they're going to arrive locally, and they're going to be decreasing somewhere... Of course I do. And only here is the difference, on the subsets, speaking the language of algebra. [[But per balance.]] [[Minister of National Education Anna Zalewska: Per balance...]] Totally. Collectively, this change is more beneficial for maintaining teaching posts. Well, I'm sorry, come on... [[Oh, no.]] And now the unions see those who are fired. They don't see those who are admitted. There could be a shift here. Second thing. Criticism, so to speak, programmed. As I read, it's not enough about evolution that there's no Lech Wałęsa... Ladies and gentlemen, this is a software basis, this is not a manual. If there's a French revolution in the software base, there's nothing about Danton and Robespierre... But most likely in the textbook, it's... Maybe it's a bad example because of their end. But... [[Voice from the room: There was no...]] Yeah, okay. [[Oh, Mr. Senator made a mistake.]] Then I withdraw from this example. Please note that the applicants, professors of universities, if they are not professors of pedagogy, think in terms of their cathedrals, their specialties. The chemist will want to shorten his five-year studies in an appropriate way and so teach chemistry. Biologist... et cetera. It's a natural process. And the ministry and pedagogics specialists are supposed to find some balance. It was not so long ago that school textbooks were not checked in terms of whether the terminology, which is in the textbooks, was adapted to the development phase of children. Those are problems. We push in the university way, summarize... And we're trying to do it. Chemistry in Poland is badly taught. Chemistry programs aren't done right. I'm saying it as a chemist. Instead of showing beauty, it's a five-year course. So you have to look at this software criticism, too. in a critical way. When it comes to equalizing opportunities, it means that he will be killed... and young people from poorer regions of Poland will not go to college. First of all, if he's not going to college, it's for financial reasons. Secondly, it is not a problem at the moment, because if they want to study, they will do anything at universities, they will pull their ears so that they will be at these universities. Because of the demographics. We now have a much larger supply than demand. So there's a problem somewhere else. Nevertheless, of course I have concerns about the implementation of this reform. First of all, I think we still don't have a very thoughtful relationship between the parole officer and the local authorities. And that, in my opinion, is still as if it were systemically illegible and can produce very far-reaching tensions between the payer, however. and the supervisory authority. But it requires... [[Minister of National Education Anna Zalewska: Grants, not subsidies.]] Good. Just tell me where the subsidies don't add up. I have a fear of some efficiency in managing buildings during the transition period. And what is less always certain marginalities with such big changes, I mean these schools, so to speak, bizarre, language schools, international schools, schools with a certain special profile, etc... So there's gonna be a lot of problems. The situation isn't... This is not a zero-one system, but a problem with mom's Polish education. After 25 years, I think it's worth redefining... Because we're in a dead end. And, by the way, I have my fingers crossed for the Minister in the fight against pathology, with some non-public schools, especially police schools. Because I think it was draining the budget and the local governments and the state. Thank you. [[The meeting is chaired by Marshal Stanisław Karczewski]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-15-senat-32-3.u312	Thank you very much, Senator. And please take the floor of Senator Grażyna Shark.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-15-senat-32-3.u313	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. We have either late or very early time, therefore I will limit myself to reading or presenting the position of self-government and teachers from my territory. I've already told you that I come from areas where rural environments dominate. In my term of office... And I'm here for the third term... I remember small schools, with coal ovens, tiles, kids in tight classes, and I have to say that middle school gave them a lot of opportunities. Many local governments have built this beautiful gymnasium, which today, well, will most likely become part of the liquidation. I'm afraid so. But before I move on to this position, I would like to say a few words to Senator Gawl and Senator Zarin. For many days, by the way, you have been using this type of legislation, let's say the text that, in the case of Senator Żarin, you have had it included in the programme of your party, and therefore you are doing it as part of the implementation of your programme, the programme of the party, and you have stated that the elite, I have already written it down, the elites have carried out the programme themselves. Well, I thought, Mr. Senator, that you are also a representative of these elites, because it is not a shame that you have well-educated elites, you are their representative, and I hope that if you wish to conduct in the future, although experience is bad... If you want to reform, and if you want to reform education, in my opinion, and I think we all think that it should change... I am a strong supporter of the educational voucher, and I think we should all work together on this, but not at such a rate that we are in principle in no position to be able to work together, as stated in this article, together and in agreement, and to work on a decent document under which we can all sign. It's not just an appeal, but as far as the education bill is concerned... I think many of the parliamentarians, many of us, certainly also, have received open letters, in which worried parents, teachers, representatives of local governments attached letters, signatures, even PESEL numbers In a dramatic way, they call on the Minister to reflect on this law. The letter I would like to present to you is from an area where rural schools prevail, where junior high schools also function as cultural and educational centers, lighthouses, because there is no common skylight there. There are no other centers, there is one middle school, there teachers also serve as so-called. limousine, carers, in the afternoon students often stay with their parents... There are really beautiful things going on there, including those projects that we also have in the Senate... for example the last Sienkiewicz competition. I would like to tell you that in this particular district, in the Draw County there were beautiful works that gained your acceptance and admiration. These works have been prepared on the premises of these gymnasiums, those that functioned as gymnasiums. Ladies and gentlemen, I am terribly sorry that right where these kids develop their talents, they have a right to be afraid of it. Their parents, too. In the wake of the liquidation of schools, they will lose their ability to develop their talents during the liquidation of secondary schools. The Minister, in human terms, I'm just terribly concerned that in this mess, these kids are gonna lose the most. This is the fear, but precisely because of Western Pomeranian solidarity... Deputy Minister, Minister Kopeć is also from my voivodeship, although knowing Koszalin's sentiment to Szczecin and vice versa, I think that the Minister has been very little in the former Koszalin voivodeship, to which I cordially invite. I'll point out, I'll show you these schools where... [[Minister of National Education Anna Zalewska: Monday.]] I'm so happy for you. Maybe then you'll have a chance to meet with those teachers who... [[Minister of National Education Anna Zalewska: I will meet you.]] Now, Minister, I will read this letter: we teachers of junior high schools of Kalisz Pomeranian commune and all who have the good of Polish education at their heart are strongly protesting against plans for the liquidation of junior high school, euphemistically called suffocation. They continue to write why: firstly, it will be another experiment on young people, and a few yearbooks of students will be doomed to learn in chaos and uncertainty. Secondly, by eliminating middle school, students are forced to decide their further educational path a year earlier at the age of 15. Thirdly, the transformation of the educational structure, contrary to the Minister's assurances, generates enormous costs for many years. Fourthly, liquidation will be very expensive, money invested so far in the development of junior high schools will simply be wasted. Fifthly, middle school has been effectively preparing young people to face the challenges of the modern world for years. Sixthly, middle school has made it possible to equalise the educational opportunities of children and young people, as well as to integrate the local environment where antagonism had previously been dealt with. Seventhly, we contribute to the success of middle school students; they are the fruit of the work of thousands of teachers, teachers and directors. After eight, the elimination of middle school means breaking up teams of teachers who have many years of experience working with young people, including young people in difficult teens. After the ninth, the problem of Polish education is not middle school, but perhaps an adapted programme basis, which needs to be changed. After ten, middle school, contrary to what you try to tell the public, is not a cluster of difficult young people, and educational problems will not disappear with a change in the type of school, and additionally new ones will emerge, connected with the common functioning in one school seven - and 15-year-olds. After eleven years, for 17 years, we worked together to develop working methods, to improve our qualifications in terms of working with middle school youth. We're in favour of evolution, not execution. The reform is thoughtless, irresponsible, uncounted, without consulting teachers, parents and local governments Contrary to what the Minister says. Let's save the future of education. Thank you very much. I join this appeal, Minister, and we will cordially welcome you to the voivodeship... Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-15-senat-32-3.u314	Thank you very much, Senator. [[I fit in time.]] Yes, very well, Senator, it fits in time. Senator Alexander Bobko. [[Voice from the room: He's gone.]] Absent. Senator Joseph the Hare. [[Voice from the room: He's gone.]] There isn't. Mr Marshal Borusewicz You're welcome. It is.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-15-senat-32-3.u315	Mr. Marshal! Minister! Minister! High Izbo! I greet everyone who suffers from insomnia and listen to it, watch... [[Your marshal.]] ...this interesting discussion in the Senate It's 2:15 p.m. I am pleased to have the opportunity to speak on an extremely important matter, because the issue of education, changes in education... This change, which is announced, which destroys the old system and builds a new system, is a change even more important than those changes which concern the institutions of the state, judicial institutions. This is a change that will affect long, long years. And even if someone wants to take it back, it's gonna be very difficult because you can't change the education system every few years. And it would indeed be a very bad situation if we changed education, a system of education every few years, if we built it again. That is why this law is particularly important. I want to say... I am talking about the fact that it is particularly important to say also, Minister, that the discussion is just beginning, the social discussion. And these consultations, which you called a public consultation, are just beginning. And the outcome of this consultation may be surprising to you and to your government. I am saying this because my parents, many parents, came to me, and I also had a meeting with a group of directors, a few dozen, full of anxiety, asking me many questions, which I honestly could not answer. Also today, after this discussion, I cannot answer them. Because how can you answer many specific questions, specific questions, to which the answers are contained in two laws with more than 400 pages, amending dozens of other laws, and we were able to get acquainted with this material today in principle. You can tell me if you can say, well, there's been a discussion, and you should be aware of that. Yes, I listened to it carefully, I tried to listen carefully, but after all, these changes are contained in laws, not in press declarations, public statements. Even if such statements brought more information on the subject, these changes are recorded in the laws, and the problems lie in detail. I've been trying to get some answers about middle school, about what's going to happen next. Local governments have spent PLN 130 billion on this middle school since 1999, including 8 billion on investment. What about the investments? I didn't hear the answer. You either don't have information and you don't know how many of these buildings you're going to have to adapt to something else... Buildings after junior high, because yet you can fit into middle school, which are three-level primary schools, where there will be eight of these levels, eight levels... Well, it's not like you can get bigger schools into smaller buildings. I didn't get an answer, and I don't know what's gonna happen. Where this middle school needs to be eliminated, it won't be possible to adapt. Some gymnasiums were built with the help of European funds, so there will be nothing else to accommodate but schools. You can't sell them either. It's clear. I wanted to know how many situations like this were. I didn't get an answer. You either don't want to answer, or you don't have statistics, which I don't really believe in, because you should have that estimate, and you probably do. What about Catholic middle schools run by religious unions? What about middle school? Ladies and gentlemen, primary schools must be equipped with workshops for teaching, among others. Physics and chemistry. School libraries are adapted either to primary school or to middle school level. It takes time for all of this. I think if you want to do this kind of reform, 2019 is a good year. After this discussion, which has begun and which will continue, there will be new elections. And if it's accepted, well... But it'll be conscious. The speakers spoke about the concerns of local governments. Self-governments don't accept this change, and it's clear to me. In Gdańsk 49 public and 20 private gymnasiums will be closed, where almost 3.5 thousand teachers work, over 900 administrative staff. Mathematics experts said that it all fits in, that even more teachers would be needed. I don't believe it either. Maybe because I'm not a math specialist. But these numbers don't add up. In my district, a team of general education schools, middle school, good Junior High No.33 will be eliminated, and XXIV High School will be transferred. The primary school will be placed there. My parents come to me, my teachers come to me asking me to intervene, and I say, "Don't complain about self-government." The government will have to do so because the law comes into force and has to find a place for primary school. And he's moving high school somewhere else from this neighborhood to the city center. So have it. blame and have reservations about those who make these changes. Middle school in the country. After all, the middle school in the village evened out science, not • formed an elite environment. There's not gonna be an adjustment if this gymnasium gets shut down. This is a completely different situation. The wrong theory is that middle school didn't work out. The 1999 reform was contested, but it has been 17 years and this reform has been implemented, and teachers have implemented this reform. Now the government decides to blow up... [[Mr. Marshal, it's been ten minutes.]] Good. [[I ask you to come close to the conclusion.]] I'll give the conclusion next time. I'm signing up for another five minutes.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-15-senat-32-3.u316	You're welcome. Good. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] Senator Andrzej Spider. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-15-senat-32-3.u317	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Senate! I will say a few sentences, some reflections, and first of all I will mention my experience in the subject of education and schools. And I went through all things, and as a disciple once, and as a father, and as an governor, and as a governor, until today's reform. I went to 7th grade school, graduated as an 8th grader because it was changed at the time. Then I was told that there would be a ten-year-old Kuberski. That's the moment, too. Then as a uncle and an old man I worked on the introduction of junior high and junior high. When it comes to the education of children, I've been through everything because I have an eight. All the variants my kids had been through. Two 8-year-old high school and then four-year-old high school, five-year-old college tech boyfriend and college. Her daughter studied very well after this 8th grade school, even six months in Istanbul. In turn, the next sons worked 6 classes of primary school and 3 years of middle school, one profiled high school, the other four years of high school. One ended very well, because even as the youngest uncle In many 28 years, he became the governor of Zawya. He finished 2 faculty. The other one had a problem with the tech school. On the other hand, daughters, one, two, three, went to six-year-old school and three-year-old middle school, two to three-year-old high school, and one to four-year-old tech school. All the profiles, everything I've been through. And what can I tell you? The structure of schools is not about modernity or about human education and formation. Depends on who teaches, how he teaches, and what he teaches. It's a basic issue. As far as this reform is concerned, I fully supported the first aspect, in line with my experience as a parent. I mean, for kids to start school for seven years. Let me eat my own speech I had at the beginning of this school year at the opening of a new school. I have supported and supported the decision that, on the one hand, teaching a child at school starts at the age of 7 and, on the other hand, that everyone has the opportunity to start school at the age of 6 and even earlier, but on one fundamental condition: that is to be decided by parents and not by the state, not by a government official. They, parents, bear the cost of his upbringing and living, and it is up to them to decide, not to you, so far. You are to be at the service of your parents, your family, your nation, not the other way around. That's why we're changing this vector. The parents decide to go to school, and not the state, I think it is a very good start to this reform. With regard to the continuation of this reform, it is possible to dangle And it's gonna happen. But it must be admitted that the reform, in order to be effective and bear good fruit, must be carried out according to our old, Polish motto written on the building of the Collegium Maius of the Jagiellonian University: The argument cannot be force, it must be the force of argument. This should be the basis on which we will base this reform. As I said, the reform will not depend on the structure and this structure does not constitute modernity. That, once again, is who teaches, how to teach, what to teach. At the start of the reform, we who reform this must ask ourselves whether we really want Polish young people to grow up on Polish soil to be fed with our life-giving juices. Today, at first, teachers must also ask themselves this question. What ideals will a young man come out of this school with? What will it be saturated with? What will be the shape of his thinking? This is the foundation on which a school graduate will base his life. This foundation will determine the course and quality of his life. This is brilliantly recognised by Cyprian Kamil Norwid in the song "In the Guild's studio: For verily I will tell thee that the nations are fates. And the railroads of mankind, and the world, and the heavens. And the sun, and the stars of the choir, and the core of the mineral. ...and a ghost... ...and everything takes life out of perfect. What ideal are we going to give this young man? I often compare school to such a cradle and ask: what is to be covered with this Polish school, this school-cradle, to grow beautiful generations, with ideals encoded in their hearts and minds? What are Polish schools, these Polish cradles, supposed to be, so that the great generations of these schools will come out? And here again I will recall the words of the poet, only another, Adam Asnyk: The Dead Generations Perfect Sphere In the living humanity, eternal habitation, And the tomb of the prophet, the wise man, the hero The bright life becomes a cradle. And the graves of the national heroes with us are abundance from I and Bolesław Chrobry's dwellings to John Paul's II. We are not a nation on achievements, we have a wonderful story that is buried by national heroes, writers, scholars, poets, saints, people of culture, engineers, professors. The graves of famous and great, but also a multitude of nameless soldiers and insurgents. How many graves of Poles outside the country? Where aren't they? As in Monte Cassino, beautiful poppies grew, because instead of dew they drank Polish blood, so on our Polish soil will grow hosts of young people when they drink these life-giving juices flowing from their own Polish culture, from Polish history, from Polish identity and from the Christian system of values. The school has a duty to the nation to feed its sons and daughters with such food. This must be made clear in 2016, on the 1050th anniversary of Poland's baptism. Through this event we emerged from history as believers when the City of I and our ancestors accepted faith in Jesus Christ. What happened before 966 belongs to another era. What would we be if it wasn't for this event? What would Poland be? There was our beginning as a nation and the beginning of our nation. Today it is necessary to wish Poland when it begins this reform in 2016, which also begins another, forty-third centuries of history and history of the nation, so that Polish schools give it bright generations about the shape of thinking Danuta Siedzikówny nicknamed "Inka" which this year, 28 August, we buried in Gdańsk. It is necessary to wish that Polish schools give pupils who in the shape of thinking refer to the entire host of national heroes. With the hope that on this very 25th anniversary this reform will stabilise the system of schools and such people, such pupils with a beautiful shape of thinking Danuta Sidzikówny will give us, bring us, support this reform, with this hope I will vote in favour of introducing it. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-15-senat-32-3.u318	Thank you very much, Senator. And please, Senator Kazimierz Wind. Five minutes.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-15-senat-32-3.u319	Mr. Marshal! Minister! Minister! Gentlemen of the Senators! Of course, there are a lot of specific things that I started to talk about in my first speech, but it is late and time is little so that I won't talk about them. I would like to emphasise once again that these paths and short periods of education are not conducive to good general education. I would like to stress that a computer scientist who hasn't learned history is a worse computer scientist, and a historian who hasn't learned physics is a worse historian. If we want to implement the Moravian plan and the Gowin strategy, which means that we want to radically increase GDP by increasing the innovation of our economy, then the knowledge element in this project is huge and knowledge is created in creative action, i.e. in non-standard thinking. This is extremely important. This is extremely important. And the other thing. Senator Wach has said some thoughts here that I would like to discuss with you. I hope the senator is listening to this or reading it. Well, one can come out of such conditions that upbringing is to be by multiplying difficulties. You can assume that's what parenting is all about. It is only necessary to ask what limits we are facing and what difficulties they are building up and who we want to raise. This idea should be further developed, and there is no time. Senator Wach said about the constant changes in the environment, that it has its value. Well, it's an incomplete look, a partial look. It's worth it, yeah, but when a man is shaped, after graduation, after college, after a doctorate, not when he's 13 years old. When he's 13, it's man-made. A holistic approach requires peace, security, friendship. These are extremely important things. Senator Wach has a lot of experience as an academic teacher as a rector. But in college, it's about a different age of development. Then yes, it has value, but not before. So that I think those things that I've been talking about before and that I'm talking about right now are really very important. And I'm so convinced that these too short educational periods... puberty issues are extremely important. This reform is coming up against it. Once again, I wish us all the good fruits of this reform. I hope they will. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-15-senat-32-3.u320	Thank you very much. Thank you very much, Senator. Mr. Marshal Borusewicz, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-15-senat-32-3.u321	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I'd like to finish my statement. I will vote against this bill because I think it is a bad bill, also because I see a whole, a whole return to an ideological school... If this is going to go in that direction, and I'm afraid it's going in that direction, I think a few senators... We have adopted a change in the IPN Act, and the IPN sets out the country's historical policy. Then there are schools that have a curriculum, textbooks and exams. It's a triad. Historical policy, curriculum, textbooks And I see this triad is a closed triad. I'm afraid a school that should teach self-thinking and upbringing will be a school where new ideology will be involved. That would be a very bad situation. Because I remember that time when, at school, when it comes to interpretation of facts, even in history, ideology dominates and historical politics dominates. Historical politics isn't history, it's not history teaching. This is propaganda. If this reform were to go in this direction, and I'm so concerned that you're going to want to create a new man, a prayer for those who rule... [[Oh, my God! Oh, my God!]] However, I believe that the introduction of this law should be preceded by a thorough debate. And it takes a long time for this debate. I therefore submit an amendment to this Act for it to enter into force on 1 September 2019. There you go, Mr. Marshal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-15-senat-32-3.u322	Thank you very much. Thank you, all speakers. I inform you that the list of speakers has been exhausted. For the record, Senator Wiesław Kilian, Senator Władysław Komarnicki, Senator Czesław Ryszka and Senator Łukasz Mikołajczyk submitted their speeches to the minutes. I would like to inform you that you have submitted legislative proposals in writing to Senator Piotr Wach and Senator Bogdan Borusewicz. The joint discussion is closed. I'm declaring a recess until 9.30 a.m. today. [[Meeting adjourned at 2 minutes 43]]
