ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-11-senat-17-1.u1	Dear Senators! I open the 17th session of the Senate of the Republic of Poland IX term of office. [[The Vice Marshal strikes three times with a marshal's cane]] To the secretaries of the sitting... [[Talking in the O.R.]] Quiet, please. I appoint Senator Alexander Swede and Senator Robert Dowhan to the meeting. The list of speakers will be led by Senator Alexander Swed. Senators of the secretary's office, please take your seats at the president's table. In the absence of any objections to the minutes of the 13th meeting, I declare that the minutes of this meeting have been adopted. I would like to inform you that the minutes of the 14th Senate meeting in accordance with the Senate Rules of Procedure are prepared to be made available to the senators. If no one of your senators raises objections to it, it will be adopted at the next sitting. Mr and Mrs Senators, the draft agenda has been placed on senators' benches. I propose to supplement the agenda with points: the Act amending the Employment Promotion Act in Labour Market Institutions, the Law on State Labour Inspection and the Act on the implementation of certain European Union provisions on equal treatment and consider it as point five; the Act amending the Act on the Institute of National Remembrance of Crime against the Polish Nationals and some other laws and consider it as item six of the agenda. If I do not hear the opposition, I will consider that the High House has accepted the proposals put forward. [[Senator Rulewski.]] Senator Rulewski objects. Yes? [[Yes.]] To which point, Senator? You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-11-senat-17-1.u2	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I answer your question: regarding the sudden introduction to the Senate of the Act amending the Act on the Institute of National Remembrance. I justify the opposition as follows: yesterday, an emergency meeting of the Committee on Human Rights, the Rule of Law and Petitions, of which I am a member, was held and during the work of the Committee, the Legislative Bureau submitted at least twenty-four comments and many proposals for amendments. Also, so to speak, the main Gestor of the IPN, to which the Act applies, submitted a similar number of comments. In view of the fact that in these comments there is a statement that the Act is Sticked and cannot be applied, I believe, Mrs Marshal, that the High House is unable to decide the fate of this Act at this meeting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-11-senat-17-1.u3	Thank you very much, Senator. In view of the opposition and justification that you have submitted to the senator, we proceed to the vote on the proposal made by me to introduce a law on the amendment of the Act on the Institute of National Remembrance, the Commission for the Investigation of Crimes against the Polish Nationals and some other laws. Who among you is in favour of putting this item on the agenda? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 78 senators voted, 52 votes against, 24 against and 2 abstentions. (Vote No 1) In view of the results of the vote, the item was included on the agenda. Thank you very much. Would any of your senators like to speak on the agenda? No. Thank you very much. I state that the Senate approved the agenda of the 17th Senate meeting of the Republic of Poland IX term. Dear Senators, I would like to inform you that today at 12.15 a half-hour break will be ordered for the opening of the exhibition - Europe in the family. Polish landscaping in the 20th century. Tomorrow at 12:00 p.m., the exhibition will be opened for 35 years of activity of the Independent Self-Governmental Association of Individual Farmers. I would like to inform you that the votes will be held tomorrow. We proceed to the examination of the first item of the agenda: the Act amending the Act on granting protection to foreigners on the territory of the Republic of Poland. The text of the Act is contained in print No 144 and the report of the Commission In print No 144 A. I would like to ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Human Rights, the Rule of Law and Petitions, Senator Aleksander Potoj, to submit a report to the committee. You're welcome, Senator. [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The bill...]] [[Talking in the O.R.]] Wait a minute, Mr. Senator. Ladies and gentlemen, please be quiet. Please take your seats and please be quiet so that we can hear the senator's report. [[Talking in the O.R.]] Ladies and gentlemen, please take your seats. [[Talking in the O.R.]] Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators, please take your seats and remain silent. [[Thank you...]] Please, Mr. Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-11-senat-17-1.u4	Thank you, Mrs. Marshal. The Act amending the Act on the granting of protection to foreigners on the territory of the Republic of Poland amends the provisions concerning the rules of resettlement and relocation of foreigners. According to the justification of the draft law, the purpose of the law is to adapt the provisions of the Act on the granting of protection to foreigners in the territory of the Republic of Poland to the provisions of the Council of the European Union decision of 14 September 2015. The Act mainly extends the deadline from 7 to 45 days for the transmission of information about possible threats to the defence or security of the state or the protection of security and public order caused by the possible entry and stay of a displaced or relocated foreigner in the territory of Poland. The Act provides that resettlement or relocation will not be possible if the Head of the Office for Foreigners receives at least one information confirming the possibility of a threat to the defence or security of the State or the protection of security and public order. At the same time, the Act gives up the existing presumption that failure to provide information within a period of time means that there is no such threat. The last amendment provides that the Head of the Office for Foreigners will not submit a request for information on a possible threat to the defence or security of the State or the protection of security and public order against a foreigner who is under the age of 13. The law was the subject of a rule of law committee meeting and was adopted unanimously. The legislative amendment was also adopted unanimously. It was discussed why these regulations did not apply to foreigners who were under the age of 13. We have been answered that this is, firstly, in line with the European Union's regulations and, secondly, with other provisions which are not exactly in this law. This is, in line with the report of the President of the Office, whom we have heard, a regulation adapting our legislation to the European Union's rules. As far as the Legislative Office is concerned, the Legislative Office recommended one amendment, which was, as I said, unanimously adopted in the vote at the committee meeting. Thank you very much. [[The meeting is chaired by Deputy Marshal Grzegorz Czelej]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-11-senat-17-1.u5	Thank you very much. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the rapporteur's senator. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-11-senat-17-1.u6	Mr. Marshal! Mr. Senator! Is this extension from 7 to 45 days, because 45 days is a lot, it's a pretty long time, given how it has been so far... This record is maintained that it can be extended for another 14 days. So far it's been 7 plus 14, now it's 45 days plus 14. I know from experience that waiting for this information has always taken time. Right now, there's this rule that says that all the services, the chief of fire department, the police, the agency, have to provide this information by this date, which means that we won't have to wait if there's no such information. Therefore, I have a question about why these 45 days. Is this the result of EU legislation? I ask because given our current capabilities, it is still a long waiting period. I'd like to ask you what that means.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-11-senat-17-1.u7	From what I remember, the argument was that a 45-day period would allow when such queries could be several hundred at a time to be answered within the given deadline.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-11-senat-17-1.u8	Thank you very much. Ask questions, please. I don't see any volunteers. Thank you very much, Senator. The bill was filed by the government. The Minister for Home Affairs and Administration has been authorised to present the government's position during parliamentary work. I would like to welcome Mr Jakub Skiba, Secretary of State at the Ministry of Internal Affairs and Administration, and the Head of the Office for Foreigners, Mr Rafał Rogala. Does a government representative wish to speak on the bill under consideration and present the position of the government? [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Internal Affairs and Administration Jakub Skiba: In view of the thorough presentation of the matter by the rapporteur, it does not seem necessary, so if the marshal considers that there is no need, I may withdraw from this action.]] You have the right, of course, not the duty. Thank you very much. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of questioning to a government representative related to this item on the agenda. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? Mr. Senator Jackowski. You're welcome. Minister, I'd like you to come to the podium. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-11-senat-17-1.u9	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. Minister, I have a question. I believe that this law is a good initiative when it comes to the conditions that must be fulfilled so that the Polish party can ensure maximum protection and public security in our country, because it is a duty of the constitutional authorities of the Republic of Poland. But please tell me whether, in your opinion, this law provides a full guarantee in the opinion of the government. I mean, situations where later it might turn out that the lack of any information has caused unpredictable consequences. Is this a danger that has been eliminated in this bill? Does this law simply ensure full control of the relevant public services and administrations over the very complicated and difficult process that this issue is currently raised in the European debate? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-11-senat-17-1.u10	You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-11-senat-17-1.u11	Thank you very much. Mr. Senator, I would very much like to answer your question in the affirmative, but I can only say so much and so much so that it is a tool that perfectly strengthens the verification potential. Of course, in such difficult cases as the prevention of even the worst forms of pathology in the form of terrorism or organized crime, it is not possible to be absolutely sure. But certainly 45 days plus 14 extra days that the service can use will greatly enhance the effectiveness of this check.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-11-senat-17-1.u12	I'm asking you another question.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-11-senat-17-1.u13	In that case, I would like to ask what international cooperation is like within the EU countries between the relevant services and administrations on this matter. If the Minister could present the procedures in this area... I'll admit, I don't know how it works. I would very much ask you to answer that question.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-11-senat-17-1.u14	The principle of solidarity obliges all States to participate actively in these activities, to exchange information between services. This cooperation is, of course, being carried out. Poland is a link to this cooperation and receives information from various services of other countries, as well as this information is provided. Of course, it is never that we are completely satisfied with this cooperation. There are certain conditions resulting, as to how to say, from the intention of the service to maintain a high degree of autonomy in this matter, which is also reflected in the operational dimension. The point is to keep the most valuable information, so to speak, in proper protection. I think the High House understands exactly what's going on here. Therefore, there is a constant request, discussed at the JHA Council, the Justice and Home Affairs Council, for strengthening cooperation and for the full exchange of this information. Poland absolutely accepts this issue and appreciates the importance of this issue. Unfortunately, the danger of terrorism is not decreasing, it is still enormous, and it is an enormous mobilisation factor in this matter. There are many different international agreements, there are institutions in the form of Europol and other organisations, pan-European agencies which enable this cooperation. Finally, there are databases where all this information should be placed. Summa summarum can be said that the level of this exchange is significant, but it still needs to be improved.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-11-senat-17-1.u15	Thank you very much. Senator Florek, ask me a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-11-senat-17-1.u16	Mr. Marshal! Minister! The Head of the Office for Foreigners shall appear at the Headquarters of the Border Guard, the Police and the Internal Security Agency... And we still have a record: and if necessary also to other organs. I have a question as to whether there was any way to define these other organs, somehow enumeratively... Because it would be best if it were clearly defined, so that there was no doubt about who you were speaking to. Didn't you go to clarify that in this bill to the end?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-11-senat-17-1.u17	Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-11-senat-17-1.u18	These most important bodies, which are at stake here and which in principle have such information, are listed enumeratively, but there are other bodies that can be very useful in determining... And so on. tax inspector at the Ministry of Finance. Such information may also flow from intelligence agencies, counterintelligences, from various other services. This open formula gives the Head of the Legal Office the opportunity to also speak to other bodies. This seems to be a much more favourable formulation, taking into account the reality of the need for safety.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-11-senat-17-1.u19	Thank you very much. No further questions. Thank you very much, Minister. [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Internal Affairs and Administration Jakub Skiba: Thank you very much.]] I'm opening a discussion. I would like to inform you that none of your senators have signed up. We do not have legislative proposals. The discussion is closed. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. We proceed with the review of item two of the agenda: the Act amending the Personal Income Tax Act, the Corporate Income Tax Act and the Law on Business Freedom. The text of the Act is contained in print 150 and the committee report In print No 150 A. I ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Budget and Public Finance and the Committee on National Economy and Innovation, Senator Wiesław Dobkowski, to present a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-11-senat-17-1.u20	Mr. Marshal! High Senate! I have the honour to present to the High House, on behalf of the Committee on National Economy and Innovation and the Committee on Budget and Public Finance, the Act on the amendment of the Personal Income Tax Act, the Corporate Income Tax Act and the Freedom of Business Act. This law amends the rules for making payments relating to the economic activity carried out. The Act amends three laws, i.e. in the Business Freedom Act, the Personal Income Tax Act and the Corporate Income Tax Act. Within the scope of the first act mentioned by me, the change is that it is envisaged that the cost of obtaining income can be included... No, I'm sorry, it's about the other one... The first amendment is to reduce the limit on the value of transactions in which payments are to be made via a payment account, in accordance with current rules. It's a bank account. The current limit is EUR 15 000. The Act reduces it to 15 thousand PLN, which is about 4 times. The following amended laws are the Personal Income Tax Act and the Corporate Income Tax Act. The amendments to these laws will consist of the possibility to include in the cost of obtaining revenue only the part of the payment made which, in the course of transactions exceeding the limit of the Law on the Freedom of Business, has been made through the payment account. The Act is to enter into force on 1 January 2017. There are also transitional provisions which provide that the new limit on the value of transactions is to apply to transactions concluded after the date of entry into force of the Act. New rules on income costs are to cover payments made from the tax year beginning after 31 December 2016, except that as regards payments resulting from transactions concluded before the date of entry into force of the Act Only in the case of transactions not exceeding the limit of the Business Freedom Act. The new rules relating to the correction will not apply to payments relating to costs already included in the cost of obtaining revenue before the date of entry into force of the Act. What is the purpose of this law? The bill is simply to limit the so-called gray zone. At the committee meeting, there was a discussion about how much the state budget would benefit from this. It is expected that about PLN 2 billion. There were examples that e.g. in Portugal, when a similar law entered into force, the grey zone decreased from 19,5% to 17.6%. In Spain, on the other hand... There is a limit of 3.5 thousand euros, i.e. about 10,000 PLN, so less than ours. That's where the gray zone went down from 19.2%. to 18.6%. Mr Marshal, High Senate, at the meeting of the two Joint Committees, a legislative amendment was proposed by the Legislative Bureau to clarify... It was basically just to clarify one record. However, the senators did not take the initiative. Therefore, the joint committees recommend to the High House a resolution on the adoption of the law without amendments. At the meeting of the committee, the 8 senators were in favour, with one abstention. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-11-senat-17-1.u21	Thank you very much. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the rapporteur's senator. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-11-senat-17-1.u22	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Senator rapporteur, what is the difference between crediting in the cost of economic activity of cash expenditure and non-cash expenditure?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-11-senat-17-1.u23	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-11-senat-17-1.u24	If everything's legal, there's no difference. But here's the thing: when it comes to cash transactions, if the person who pays, the payer, spends on the purchase of something or pays for the service... he simply pays in cash above that limit, then he will not be able to include it in the cost of obtaining income in business. If the entrepreneur simply pays in cash. But that doesn't apply to those who accept cash. If someone accepts a higher amount in cash, then the revenue at all... This does not apply to revenue, but to revenue costs, i.e. those who pay, to payers.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-11-senat-17-1.u25	I'd like to ask you a question, in order... Senator Florek.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-11-senat-17-1.u26	Mr. Marshal, Mr. Senator rapporteur, I have a similar question. I'm talking about sanctions for not complying with that limit. Well, the limit is changing, it's shrinking four times, and that's why we're talking about sanctions of the type that you can't throw into the cost. I'm just wondering how it's gonna be procedurally possible that I can throw myself in the cost. Or I won't be able to pay for it if I violate those rules. How? Am I gonna have to, I don't know, invoice, copies, documents to join this? Because just the technical accounting... It's gonna be a problem, I see, if... we're talking about sanctions, but how do we enforce those sanctions? What's it gonna look like during the checkup? I see a problem here.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-11-senat-17-1.u27	Yeah, well, I see a problem, too. Surely there will be a problem, surely this will be linked to an increase in bureaucracy, but you simply have to choose whether it is worth reducing the grey area. This isn't exactly the main one, let's say, the base, when it comes to gray zones, but wherever possible, it should be done. I was wondering at all, because they were there, let's say... One association was against it. I'm surprised, because in this day and age, I think it's going to be an effort to make all transactions between entrepreneurs... Here, I would like to point out: between entrepreneurs. Because there were also questions, if for example. We want to buy a car Somewhere from the cash market, if we can buy it. If it is a private person, i.e. if it is not an entrepreneur, it can make such transactions. This only applies between entrepreneurs. Entrepreneurs, of course, have their reporting, etc. How this will be controlled is already a technical matter. We have not discussed this topic in such detail, I think there will be more bureaucracy than so far. But I think it's worth it, and in the future it's definitely going to happen that the payments between entrepreneurs are going to be made basically. It's just a wire transfer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-11-senat-17-1.u28	Senator Augustin's question, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-11-senat-17-1.u29	Mr. Senator, first of all, I would like you to inform the High House of the position of business corporations when it comes to this bill. Secondly, because this element has not yet been included in your report, I would like to ask whether we all understand the grey area well. Gray zone is unregistered turnover. Is the cash payment an unregistered turnover each time? No, it's an obligation to have a cash register and register cash payments. It seems to me, therefore, that this is a restriction on freedom of business rather than an opportunity to end the shadow economy. The path to this should be different, there should be a completely different path.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-11-senat-17-1.u30	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-11-senat-17-1.u31	So at the committee meeting, there was a position... I think it was the representatives of the trade association who asked a lot of questions, but at first they just kind of didn't fully understand the bill, that is, what is the scope of the law. For example, they confused entrepreneurs with non-entrepreneurs. It was only after the explanation that it turned out that it was only about entrepreneurs, only about payers. It's not about those who get paid, it's about those who pay, it's about the fact that they can't describe the revenue they've earned to the end. And when it comes to whether it's a gray area or not, it's a gray area... Well, from other countries' experience, however, it appears that the gray area has fallen partly thanks to such regulations. It was also mentioned that in Poland only about 1.6% are recovered. the overall value of all, let's say abuse, that law is ineffective and enforcement is ineffective when it comes to eliminating abuse. Only a very small number of them are detected. I think this isn't the only government action to limit the gray area, it's just one of the elements, and there's definitely gonna be another one. I think the VAT issue... it's known that when it comes to VAT, it's a louder case, with a higher rank and a bigger burden. Will freedom of business be limited? I don't think that's the way If entrepreneurs are not able to carry out transactions between themselves, paid in cash, more than PLN 15 thousand was limited by business activity. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-11-senat-17-1.u32	Thank you. Senator Blackbay, ask me a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-11-senat-17-1.u33	Mr. Marshal! Mr Senator, rapporteur! Two short questions. The first one concerns the answer that the senator had just given, because I was also at the committee meeting. Did I understand correctly your statement that after the translations which the representatives of the Ministry submitted in committee, Polish craftsmen came out of the meeting of this committee happy? I think we've been to another meeting, Senator. That is the first question that relates to your answer. And second question. I didn't have time to ask him on the committee because there was no way, so I'm gonna try to do it here. Why was none of the suggestions made by Polish craftsmen taken into account in any way during the vote during the committee's debate? Were you supposed to accept this without amendments, or did you think that the proposals of Polish craftsmen were wrong?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-11-senat-17-1.u34	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-11-senat-17-1.u35	Mr. Senator, we were on the same committee, I'm sure... [[Well, that's good.]] I didn't think they were happy to come out because they were still having second thoughts. However, I can say that these doubts were partially resolved and were no longer so against. That's all I can say. But they weren't entirely convinced, so I understand you... [[Voice from the room: We were at two different meetings.]] [[Joy in the Chamber]] They weren't convinced... I don't know why. I'm very surprised, because in the future, I'm sure... This means that everything is going in this direction, that transactions between companies will be carried out in the future only by transfers. Besides, not only between companies, but also between individuals, there is simply less and less cash transactions. So I'm very surprised... I can tell you we're not going back to the age of King Age, but I think we're progressing. You just have to move on. Such limits, as I remember, were probably already in 1993, I do not remember exactly, and such a limitation limit, i.e. the 15 thousand PLN, was already in 1993 and 2004. Only later, after 2004 was increased... [[It was amended in 2005. I don't know who did it.]] In 2004 or 2005, this was changed to EUR 15 000. I don't know why. Now it's back to the way things were. I think that this limit will be further reduced in the future. For the time being, the government is likely to want to see how this will work, whether the real gray area will be reduced and if there will be any serious problems with reducing business activity. And as far as the details are concerned, I would suggest that you just ask the government's representatives, because they certainly did a deeper analysis than we did.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-11-senat-17-1.u36	Senator Dowhan. I'm asking you a question... [[Mr. Marshal, if you don't mind, because the senator hasn't answered...]] Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-11-senat-17-1.u37	In describing the atmosphere, the senator did not answer the second question, why the Senators of the PIS did not include, although for decency, any amendment tabled by Polish craftsmen.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-11-senat-17-1.u38	Thank you very much. Mr. Senator, not only the Senators of Law and Justice, but also the representatives of the Civic Platform. No one has made any amendments, no one has tabled any amendments proposed by the craftsmen. No one took them for theirs and no one put them to the vote. As a result, as I said, the bill was passed, with eight senators in favour, one abstention, no one opposed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-11-senat-17-1.u39	Senator Dowhan. Ask me a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-11-senat-17-1.u40	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Senator rapporteur, apart from these figures, how much was it for, how much was it against, I can't really understand these answers. They're so imprecise... If you ask Senator Augustine, what did I want to ask you? First of all, have entrepreneurs been consulted? I also want to hear what opinions have been received from what organizations. Was it, I don't know, from Leviathan or from BCC or other groups that operate and bring together entrepreneurs? Here I would like to get a precise answer, because this is also binding on this point.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-11-senat-17-1.u41	Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-11-senat-17-1.u42	Thank you. From what I remember, it was the Polish Crafts Association. I didn't meet with another position. Maybe I don't remember. There were only representatives of this association I was talking about. They presented their position for quite a while, and rather at first they had a skeptical attitude, but then, after explaining it, this relationship became less and less skeptical.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-11-senat-17-1.u43	Senator Comfort. Ask me a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-11-senat-17-1.u44	I would like to start by saying that I am very pleased that the discussion on this point is under the aegis of your marshal, with whom we had the pleasure of creating a Parliamentary Group on Small and Medium Enterprises in the previous term and with concern to lean on the bottom line of entrepreneurs. This guarantees the highest substantive level of our discussion. In addition, I would like to address the rapporteur's statement with caution as to whether this will limit or not... It will certainly limit, because cash transactions between small entrepreneurs result mainly from the fact that in the sales contract... Most of the time in small transactions, it's about hand-to-hand. The moment we enter into the transfer transaction, we're gonna tear these two things apart. And that puts some effects on the failure of one or the other side of the transaction. So there's nothing here to argue about whether or not it's gonna limit... It will reduce a little or, in the case of some, very much because, as I said, there is a way of doing them. And as for the question I wanted to ask... The senator has already answered them on the way. I just wanted to make sure that someone was buying some good. For example, a set of furniture in Desa, which costs 20 or 30 thousand PLN, will have to pay by way of a transfer? Now I understand that no, because it's about settlement only between entrepreneurs. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-11-senat-17-1.u45	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-11-senat-17-1.u46	Thank you. About the first part, I don't think... You said... I mean, to some extent, Mr. Senator denies himself. You were talking about some small groceries. So if entrepreneurs trade among themselves, someone buys something for up to 15 thousand PLN, then I think it's a small purchase. And above that, it's not so small anymore. And just in this respect, the bill provides that up to the value of 15 thousand PLN can be bought and, as you said, from hand to hand... And only with higher values... Well, you can buy something, you can do it, but you can't put it in the cost of income. I don't think small shopping is more than 15 grand... Maybe for you, but I don't think it's a small purchase anymore, it's just a slightly more average purchase. But once again, it doesn't apply to the relationship between, for example. entrepreneurs and non-entrepreneurs. I'll add here, because maybe not everyone knows what an entrepreneur is. Thus, starting with the capital companies, i.e. the public limited liability company and the limited liability company. After a personal partnership, i.e. public limited companies, limited companies, limited companies, partner companies... And they're entrepreneurs. The entrepreneur is also a natural person operating. A civil partnership, as I recall, is not an entrepreneur, because it's a contract. And civil companies will also be able to enter into such transactions because they are not entrepreneurs. So individuals, companies, as well as civil companies will be able to pay in cash above this indicated value. Thank you. [[I'd like someone from the ministry to explain the answer to that question. It's about this civil partnership thing...]] Good.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-11-senat-17-1.u47	Of course. I'd like to ask Senator Rulewski's question.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-11-senat-17-1.u48	Thank you. Have the Committees considered the benefits of this for all And for those who have to keep the cashier's ambulances in cash, secure the cash, and for those who are the victims of the assault... Because if you assume that you can have huge sums in your pocket, in your home, that means you're provoking an assault, and that even means having a gun to defend yourself. And here, as my noble and well-educated colleague Senator Czarnobaj said, it matters. Only is it true? That the advantage of driving this modern... Well, it's more traditional than modern, because in a modern way there's a different currency of bitcoin. Anyway, this benefit is going to be 1%. gross product. That's 1%. We'll all be richer, and there'll still be security of life, safety, elimination almost to the end of granddaughter's way, because the criminal world is preying on backward technology. And here's the question: was the government's purpose to raise budget revenue or to increase quality of life? It's one question. And second question. How will foreigners, foreign operators, carry out such operations on the Polish market, since they have the euro, the dollar or any other currency?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-11-senat-17-1.u49	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-11-senat-17-1.u50	Mr. Senator, you answered your own question. Because really the risk is greater when cash is held in stockings or is held in your hand when a cash transaction is made. Then there's a much higher risk of assault and so on. So this bill is certainly for the benefit of the security of citizens at all, who will simply be able to pay less in cash. They're not gonna keep more cash in their wallet so they can pay cash, they're gonna pay by wire. That's one advantage. What else is the benefit? I'm sure there's a benefit to those entrepreneurs who pay... who just work honestly and don't try to work, for example. do not issue left invoices, etc., which pay all taxes, VAT and do everything openly by means of transfers and invoices. This increases competition between entrepreneurs. It's gonna be good for us, too, 'cause we're gonna get the goods, the costs... The prices of goods will certainly partially decrease, because there will be greater competition. Because how can the one who regulates all the obligations, with the one that we say He's avoiding it? This law is therefore partly intended to increase competition between traders. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-11-senat-17-1.u51	Thank you very much. I don't see any more people willing to ask questions. The bill was filed by the government. The Minister of Finance has been authorised to present the position of the government during parliamentary work. Welcome to Minister Leszek Skiba. Does a government representative wish to speak on the bill under consideration and present the position of the government? [[Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Finance Leszek Skiba: I can, because, I understand, there will be questions...]] You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-11-senat-17-1.u52	Thank you very much. (PL) Mr President, I would like to ask you a few questions. Ladies and gentlemen! I understand there will still be questions that have been raised. I'm just going to talk about two, maybe three things that are really relevant to this bill. The bill actually has a few goals. Firstly, it is intended to ensure that, as the senator said here, healthy and fair competition between entrepreneurs is true in Poland. We see that some entrepreneurs, while avoiding taxation, have a certain advantage over other entrepreneurs. Therefore, it adversely affects the functioning of honest entrepreneurs who simply want to pay taxes fairly and see that sometimes they lose This leads to bankruptcy, job losses It is with those who are dishonest. So competition in the business sector is important. On the other hand, of course, we hope that reducing the grey economy will bring tax revenue. But the second element is this. It's worth remembering. The fact that this law is not a great revolution is that, in fact, the Freedom of Business Act states that entrepreneurs should accept or make payments related to business activity by means of an entrepreneur's payment account. Payment account, i.e. bank account or other financial institution account, e.g. SCOCK. You could say it's written, I mean, it's not new. We're actually dealing with... What we want to do is to make this a reality, because entrepreneurs are already obliged to make non-cash payments today, but there is a problem with getting them to, to motivate them to just respect the law honestly. Third line. If we look at one of the latest NIK audit reports on false invoices, we'll notice that the number of these invoices diagnosed... actually the increase in this value in recent years is alarming. In 2013, tax authorities found an invoice for the total value of PLN 20 billion during the audit. In 2014, i.e. a year later, it was already PLN 30 billion and in 2015 PLN 80 billion. So we see that the real problem is that fictional invoices, which are a method of creating costs, reducing revenue, not paying taxes simply, are an avalanche that grows. Since it was 30 billion in 2014 and 80 billion in 2015, we can ask ourselves what the value of these fictional invoices will be in 2016 if nothing really changes. And that is the motivation behind this law, which is why I am asking for support in this regard. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-11-senat-17-1.u53	Thank you. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of questioning to a government representative related to this item on the agenda. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? Senator Florek, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-11-senat-17-1.u54	Mr. Marshal! Minister! I will go back to these sanctions, because what will be the limit, whether as it was 45 000 euro or 15 000 euro, is obviously a matter of balance. I'm talking about sanctions. As regards the Act on personal income tax and corporate income tax, it provides for the possibility to include in the cost of obtaining revenue only the part of payments made that have been made through the payment account. And now I have a question. Let me give you an example: I run a business, I run a book of income and expenses, I have a bill, an invoice for 16 thousand zlotys. And in the case of this 16,000 PLN invoice, as it turns out, I won't be able to account for the costs associated with it... [[Cell phone signal]] It's not mine, it's the minister... I won't be able to settle these costs in this case. And that's a problem for me because I don't understand how you're gonna do it. If I run an economic activity, I have various types of costs associated with an economic activity. How am I gonna specify the costs? Just because that invoice wasn't covered by a bank operation? So I see the problem, and that's why I repeat this question again: how will this settlement be possible? Is it reasonable to impose sanctions that will be difficult to apply? Because this sanction, I understand, wasn't, it's something new. Before that, as we said, there was a bill, there was a fixed amount of 45 thousand euros and everything was okay. And here you are imposing additional sanctions that this will not be included in the cost of obtaining revenue. What's it gonna look like?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-11-senat-17-1.u55	You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-11-senat-17-1.u56	The trader, clearing up during the accounting and accounting operation, will simply not be able to deduct this transaction, it will not be a form of cost of obtaining revenue and therefore it will not be an element of the settlement of CIT or PIT in the case of entrepreneurs engaged in economic activities. So that's really the result. For the calculation of CIT, those costs which do not meet the condition laid down in the Act will not be taken into account. And that is, you can say, the conclusion.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-11-senat-17-1.u57	If you don't mind me filling in the senator's question... Does this mean that if someone for an amount of more than 15 thousand zlotys buys commercial goods, then he will have, I don't know, zero cost? How will this be treated?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-11-senat-17-1.u58	If he pays in cash for the transaction over 15 thousand PLN, it will not be the cost of obtaining revenue. [[But all of it?]] All of it, of course. [[Not over 15 thousand zlotys, but all of it, right?]] Yeah, all of it, because it's a transaction over 15 thousand zlotys.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-11-senat-17-1.u59	I'd like to ask Senator Pociej's question.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-11-senat-17-1.u60	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. Minister, I'm going back to the question I asked Senator Dobkowski. The senator replied. It's like a little bit next to my question. Our... My deep concern is at this moment, due to the fourfold limitation of these cash transactions, this is the situation. Small entrepreneurs, we're talking craftsmen... Let's say a craftsman comes to some factory, he's a retailer, for example. when it comes to shoes. And now the question is: why does he receive such goods directly? Well, he has to look at every piece of goods, see if they're defective, see if there's a problem. At the same time, they are small businesses that no one will give him this product without payment. Now, if we remove the possibility of collecting goods from payment, we're going to have to introduce complicated procedures, and I'm not going to talk about credit here, because, of course, it would be bullshit... It's gonna take the shipment or take it away from payment. Aren't you afraid that on the one hand Because, of course, it is possible to limit the grey zone to some extent, but on the other hand, you will either prevent or make it very difficult for you to do those operations that have been natural so far? Because, of course, I cannot agree with Senator Dobkowski's suggestion that the transaction between two entrepreneurs, which is at PLN 50,000, is an average or large transaction. Well, Mr. Senator, this is... let's know some proportions, these are small business transactions. Putting a limit to 15 grand will make this kind of transaction... Well, no one's going to get those shoes four times. Aren't you afraid that somehow you're gonna cause a lot of inconvenience, not getting much out of it?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-11-senat-17-1.u61	You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-11-senat-17-1.u62	Thank you very much. As I understand it, we're dealing with a situation where someone runs a craftshop, comes to the factory, and the deal is that this craftsman buys some goods and pays, as it's supposed to be, cash. Well, that means, in fact, that we're dealing with the question: why does he pay cash? Is that businessman who's selling... Because I understand the risk is on the seller's side, right? Not on the side of the craftsman, because you can say that this bill is in this sense beneficial to the craftsman, that it allows him to take the goods, go home, make the transfer and this transfer, say, on this day or next will be to the account of who sells. Therefore, for this small company, which, in relation to the larger, one can say, conducts this transaction, in fact the intention of this law is beneficial in the sense that actually this small entrepreneur does not have to buy a cat in a bag: please, either you decide or you do not decide. So that's also... Please note that in the Polish economy it is a bit so that we are dealing with some inequality of parties in different places. There are companies that sell, farmers or agricultural companies that sell some goods to supermarkets, and are a little doomed to the fact that the larger ones can, you can say, choose or, like, impose certain standards, some fees to the smaller ones. And as a result of this law should be the intention in any case Indeed, it can be said, in these relations between the entrepreneurs of these small players. And of course it's kind of like there's a risk everywhere. Modern technologies are so extensive that quick payments are possible. Of course, this requires some adaptation. I do not think that there is so much distrust between entrepreneurs in Poland that it can be said that this is a huge problem. I'm sure that some of the entrepreneurs who force their smaller contractors today by putting themselves against a wall like this: you pay and take the goods or I don't do business with you... That's not the pattern we should keep. There is a buyer loan, there is the possibility of deferred payment within a specified number of days. And I have the impression that healthy principles of business-to-business cooperation are needed, that trust is really the essence of business-to-business cooperation. I also hope that this law will actually increase trust between entrepreneurs. 'Cause of course, sooner or later, there's gonna be somebody who's gonna be a fraud. But there is a lot of work to be done to improve information. This is happening at the Ministry of Development, for example. It's about information about dishonest contractors. These works at the Ministry of Development are conducted in such a way that access to information is more complete, more transparent. This will allow you to find out about the entrepreneur, find out that he is such an entrepreneur who comes, takes the goods, says that the next day he will pay, makes the transfer and does not do it. Of course, that can happen, but it's all in the short run. We count on trust between entrepreneurs so that the payment can be made the next day and that the trader at home can check whether the goods are of the right quality, so that this decision is not forced, please, you have 5 minutes to take the goods home and see if it suits him or not. I have the impression that this is quite a benefit for small entrepreneurs who are simply not put up against the wall.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-11-senat-17-1.u63	Thank you very much. If I may, I have two questions for the Minister. The first more general natures. How do you estimate the size of the entire grey zone in relation to the whole value, and what proportional effect do you hope to have after this change? That's my first question. It's about what proportion of money we're talking about at all. And the second thing is a continuation of the thread taken by Senator Pociej. Minister, the problem with entrepreneurs is that there are industries, e.g. construction, which are very sensitive to the system of reliability in paying. For small and medium-sized enterprises, which I present or present, as the senator mentioned, in many cases it is not possible to make purchases because no one will give them goods for a promise to make a transfer. It's just not and it's over. And it's not because he trusts or trusts, but because he's small, he's first shopping or he doesn't do much shopping. And that's the problem. Of course, in the case of many purchases there is the possibility to circumvent this, someone will simply take the goods not for 1 invoice, only for 8 invoices and this bill will not change anything, but the risk for entrepreneurs is that on the one hand it will be a handicap for small and medium-sized enterprises that will have problems with the execution of purchases And please take into account, Minister, that for cash purchases they often receive additional discounts, which they will now be deprived of. On the other hand, if the buyers are pushed towards transfers, then for the sellers there will be such a risk that any companies to whom they will give the goods with a promise of payment will not pay them. My question is sorry about the long talk. This is the case: have you taken into account the costs they will incur, the losses that entrepreneurs will suffer in this area? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-11-senat-17-1.u64	Thank you. I'll start over. The gray zone in Poland is estimated to be different estimates For between 12% a 17% GDP, that is over PLN 200 billion, well over PLN 200 billion, is a value of up to PLN 300 billion. Indeed, this is a value that strongly influences the way tax revenue is generated in Poland. I will point out here that we are really talking about the grey zone as an unregistered transaction, but the purpose of this law is not only to limit the grey zone, but also to limit what is the biggest problem, i.e. the functioning of fictional invoices, which are very often because they are bought from very questionable entities, are paid, as the report of NIK, cash. You could say that the effect... The question is: what will be the effect of introducing a limit on cash payments to reduce the grey area? Here we have two informations that we discussed at the committee meeting. Firstly, in Spain, this cash payment limit was reduced to EUR 2.5 thousand and after a year, according to reports, the share of the shadow economy in GDP fell from 18.6% to 19.2%. Secondly, in Portugal, where it was introduced... [[Voice from the room: Inverse.]] Yeah, 19.2%. to 18.6%. In the case of Portugal, the share of the grey zone fell from 19,5% after the introduction of the limit. to 17.6% GDP, about two percentage points. In the first case, in the case of Spain, it was a decrease of 0.6%. These are the values that show... If in Poland this decline in the share of the grey zone was at the level, I would say Spanish, it would be well over PLN 1 billion, and if at the level of Portugal Almost PLN 3 billion. These are values quite important from a budget point of view. The question is: on what scale can these effects occur in Poland? You can carefully estimate that these effects will be lower than higher. There are people who believe that such solutions can have quite positive budgetary effects, but it is worth noting that this is not just about budgetary effects As for the second question of Mr Marshal, we are aware that in some areas of the Polish economy there are problems in building trust between customers. The law is usually created in such a way as to take into account the interests of the majority, a large majority, of many sectors. There will always be someone who will have big problems, such companies could be several or several. It's really about scale. In the case of any law, it may be that a company will find that the whole change is actually detrimental because it makes life difficult because it creates a problem, and before that it was better. Of course it can be, but if we think in such categories that a minority, a few or a dozen companies are able to block any change... I have the impression that then any bill that would go to the honorable senators would ultimately be challenged. The question is: can there be a blocking minority in the democratic system that will have such strong arguments that simply a change will not have... It's a question of scale. According to our expert assessments and assessments, the scale of the problems is low. Of course, it requires what I am fully aware of, certain adaptation measures. We take this into account and we understand that every new thing raises concerns, but the balance for the economy, for businesses is positive, just positive.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-11-senat-17-1.u65	Thank you very much. Senator Comfort. I stopped asking questions, so please finish...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-11-senat-17-1.u66	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. Dear Minister, to answer my question, you have used an example, as I understand it, of a hypermarket. Well, again, I have to say, we don't understand each other at all. You're talking about an example that absolutely doesn't fit my question. If a farmer, an entrepreneur, a producer sells something to a hypermarket... Even if he brings 5 pickles, they'll pay him after a month and by wire. Your answer is absolutely not about the question raised in my question. I was talking about the situation of 100,000 buildings in Poland which... If you're an individual property owner, you're hiring a company under one contract... And this company. And that, among other things, was what the marshal said, he must go every 2, 4 or 5 days and buy a batch of goods. Surely, as an experienced man, you know that such companies work on certain advances that they have from whoever ordered them to build a house because no one pays the value of the entire material in advance. Because it's normal for a man to be scared. And, as I said, this company has to go to the wholesaler every once in a while and buy more. - No, I don't want to be sloppy. Bricks or other materials. I was hoping for such an answer from the Minister... She sounded somewhere, maybe at the end of your answer: well, maybe a few people will have problems. I would like to assure you that not a few people, but several tens of thousands of companies. They're gonna have to try to get five separate invoices. Because, unfortunately, life usually works out that when people get a law that's dead, they're looking for opportunities to circumvent it. And I would like to hear from the Minister a fair answer: have you considered this, or have you thought about it? That was my only question. Did you ever think that you could make it very difficult for a lot of honest entrepreneurs... Because you said in your answer that they could be dishonest. No. That's life. And honest people pay cash. And everyone in this room with any experience in life knows they're not crooks, they're normal people. And if they come for five bathtubs whose value exceeds the limit, they'll have to pay by wire with your initiative. It's dead. And that was my question: do you realize that?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-11-senat-17-1.u67	I'm asking for a brief answer. We have an opening in a few minutes and a half-hour break.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-11-senat-17-1.u68	Good. Firstly, of course, we have taken into account all the negative consequences and tried to build a bill so that these negative consequences would be as small as possible. Second of all, I'm gonna draw your attention so briefly... If someone comes for 5 baths and the price of one bath exceeds 3 thousand PLN... Well, it is, I have an impression, a rare phenomenon, because bathtubs are rather cheaper. In addition, please note that if we are dealing with a private person who buys various things in construction shops, then such a private person is not obliged to do anything under the law discussed here, because it concerns entrepreneurs. And if we're dealing with a businessman who regularly deals with development, then the question is: is this business known in the wholesalers concerned, or is it not known? Is it checked with suppliers, isn't it checked? Unless it's about a new developer who first shows up on the market and actually everyone sees him for the first time and wonders who he really is, they think: we don't know him, he never built houses. Well, as I understand it, this is the situation. About the new companies, the new developers who show up... And we have indeed considered these issues. So in this case, I understand the senator's concern. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-11-senat-17-1.u69	Thank you. Let's try to finish the questions after all. Senator Blackbay. [[And that's the end of the question?]] Ask me a question. [[Voice from the room: Break.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-11-senat-17-1.u70	Mr. Marshal, Minister, could you give us some examples of other countries... You gave examples of Portugal and Spain. Can I ask for examples from the old Union, especially the Scandinavian countries? That's the first question. Second question: have you met with other employers' organisations in addition to the Polish Craft Association? And what were the positions in this regard? Because there were only representatives of the Polish Craft Association at the committee meeting. Third question... Why don't we take a break, huh? [[Ask me a question.]] As for the issue of estimates, Minister... PLN 2 billion. This respect, as I quickly concluded from your statements, came from the fact that in Portugal there were 3 billion PLN, in Spain 1 billion PLN, so we will take 2 billion PLN. Why the 2 billion zlotys when it comes to the respect of revenues with seals? [[After all, the Minister discussed this in detail. Okay, but I'm asking for an answer...]] Mr Marshal, the Minister said that in Spain there were 1 billion zlotys of savings and in Portugal 3 billion zlotys. I would like to ask what is the result of estimates of PLN 2 billion in savings in terms of revenue to the budget in Poland.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-11-senat-17-1.u71	I'm asking for a brief answer.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-11-senat-17-1.u72	I'll start at the end. This is due to our respect that, as a result of this law, the grey zone may decrease by at least 1 percentage point. And that's the value that allows you to estimate this amount. In the inter-ministerial consultation, a number of business associations have expressed their views. We took these comments into account and looked at them honestly. Indeed, most of them were critical. Hey, hey, hey, The Accounting Association in Poland strongly supported the Ministry of Finance, for which we thank you. And in this respect, Indeed, the debate on this project took place at an early stage. And another question from the senator about other countries. In other countries, there's... In general Poland is at the very end, it is second from the end of the country in terms of the volume of cash payments limits. As a result of the reduction of this level from EUR 15 000 to PLN 15 000 Poland will be in the middle of the table, in the middle of this list. So that it's not really a radical change. The reduction will simply lead to the fact that, as the senator said earlier, the value before 2005 or 2004 will be restored and that Poland will also be at European average level.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-11-senat-17-1.u73	Ladies and gentlemen, I hereby announce a recess until 12.45 p.m. I invite you to the opening of the "Europe" exhibition in the family. Polish landscaping in the 20th century. The exhibition will be opened on the ground floor. Just to remind you, Senator Wcisla, Senator Bierecki and Senator Dowhan came forward to ask questions. Thank you very much. [[Adjournment from 12 minutes 17 to 12 minutes 46]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-11-senat-17-1.u74	I'm reopening the session. We return to asking questions to the government representative, the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Finance, Mr. Leszek Skiba. Senator Dowhan, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-11-senat-17-1.u75	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. I have a question for the Minister. In fact, before I ask, I'm going to share this reflection: I feel that it's more directed against normal entrepreneurs or people than against frauds, because they're going to be able to handle it anyway, and these amounts are neither obstructive nor unobtrusive. But also, since we're talking about the economy and business here, I'm going to say there's a smart device called a fiscal printer. Would you mind if I had a word with the Minister? Maybe not to me, because I am aware of it, but to remind everyone what income should be generated when it comes to natural and legal persons, in order to install such a device and to whom should they be installed immediately? And my second question is, who's gonna take responsibility for how a businessman pays by wire and the bank goes bankrupt? It is known that there is this amount of 100 thousand euros, but you can always have more. And then what? Who's gonna take responsibility for this?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-11-senat-17-1.u76	Thank you. Minister, do you want to answer from here or from your place? [[Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Finance Leszek Skiba: This is where I can...]] There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-11-senat-17-1.u77	Thank you so much for asking. I understand that this is about the amount of PLN 20,000, which is the amount of duty... Only that this applies to transactions between a trader and a consumer, in the sense of: a natural person. At which point the obligation arises, from what level the obligation to issue receipts... As if I were not fully able to catch the link between the question of fiscal money, used simply as part of the operation between the consumer and the trader, and the matter of this law, which concerns the settlement between traders. Because I have this suspicion that these are not necessarily similar cases and that they are limitedly connected.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-11-senat-17-1.u78	The senator wants to clarify. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-11-senat-17-1.u79	Maybe I can be more specific. My point is that every entrepreneur, as you have rightly said, is obliged to install a recording device in the company after exceeding the amount of PLN 20,000. And that's where it's all checked out, net amount, tax, etc. So this is one of the responsibilities that was imposed on entrepreneurs several years ago. Regardless of how they pay and how this turnover looks, this obligation has been imposed to keep records and to put an end to the very practices that you have spoken of here today. That's first of all. And the second question, Minister, was who would take responsibility if the bank went bankrupt.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-11-senat-17-1.u80	Thank you very much. However, let me remain with my sentence, because if, for example, we have a wholesale store or a store to which the consumer comes, it is indeed the case that in the case of turnover above 20 thousand PLN is the obligation to run a fiscal cash register. But it is worth noting that if an entrepreneur, who has an economic activity, is a company, comes to the other entrepreneur, then this transaction is not charged to the cash register. This is not charged to the cash register, so it can be said that there is no type of registration here. In this law, such transactions are realised, which means that high amounts are transferred between companies, in excess of 15 thousand PLN. And we're moving away from cash payments to non-cash transactions. If I understand the question of bank bankruptcy... As I suspect, the question is whether entrepreneurs should have bank accounts at all, because banks could collapse, therefore non-cash transactions can generally be risky. And I get it. In fact, I suspect The assumption behind this is that cash transactions, unlike non-cash transactions, are safer because a bank, which is some intermediary in non-cash transactions, may fall. But it is worth noting that the risk of bank bankruptcy is linked to a systemic problem which, of course, always exists, but in the case of the entrepreneur we are dealing with a guarantee of deposits. Nor is it that cash transactions are in some sense much safer, since having a high amount of cash in your hand, storing such money in your company or at home can result in theft. Therefore, I don't see any great advantage here... I mean, I can't imagine any great advantage in building an economy on cash transactions. And I suspect it's not like for entrepreneurs cash is the most important means of payment. They see the benefits of non-cash payments, so... I suspect that almost every company, the vast majority of companies have bank accounts or payments. Well, there's an obligation, as far as entrepreneurs are concerned, there's something behind it. Something's behind it. There's some arguments for cashless transactions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-11-senat-17-1.u81	Thank you very much, Minister. Senator Wczyła, you will prepare Senator Bierecki.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-11-senat-17-1.u82	Minister, the criterion for assessing the law is its enforcement. If we establish a law, and we don't enforce it, we make it inflation. We are quadrupling the criterion for these non-cash operations, while introducing sanctions for companies that do not apply this right. So we're increasing the number of operations that need to be controlled. I am interested in whether the number of officials who will carry out these checks will increase. And how much is that gonna cost? Is that taken into account? Because enforcement of every law just doesn't always pay off. Nobody in the hypermarkets puts guards in front of every pair of socks because the guard's gonna cost more than those socks. Could it be that we are not going to increase the number of control officers, and the statistics on the entities in which some irregularities have been revealed will be done, but at the expense of large transactions? The ones no one's gonna be able to catch... Isn't that a threat?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-11-senat-17-1.u83	You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-11-senat-17-1.u84	Thank you very much. If we look at the entry in the Freedom of Business Act which imposes a non-cash payment obligation... No sanctions that is, you can say, for most entrepreneurs or for minorities, you don't know for which group, empty law. Yes? That's an empty law. There is a record, or actually there is no sanction. And that's the answer to what the senator said. In fact, the introduction of sanctions is intended to make this provision realistic. Now let's imagine, 'cause I understand that's the question. What are the consequences, you can say, tax for entrepreneurs. Will the number of checks increase? Absolutely not. The purpose of this law is not to influence the conduct of the tax administration. So, uh... What does that really mean? This means that this number of checks Which, I hope, will be better targeted or directed in more appropriate places as a result of the reforms carried out in the Ministry of Finance... During the audit, all documents that are in the company are reviewed as standard. One of the tasks will be to check whether transactions in excess of PLN 15 000 have actually been paid in non-cash form. That's all. With the standard controls that are already happening now, and which will be in an absolutely unprecedented number, you can say, in a normal number, it will simply be an additional area controlled by officials. That's it. Entrepreneurs will have to demonstrate that these transactions were actually paid for. As this will practically work, it all depends on the tax authorities, which sample of the transaction will be checked. This will in some sense be a practice, linked to the fact that, of course, it cannot be too burdensome for the entrepreneur or for the office. Because it's hard to imagine that this one issue would dominate the functioning of all tax offices. There are many problems that are. This is certainly not the only problem that should be controlled. It is simply that the tax officials will also check such operations above 15 thousand PLN and expect that there is proof in the form of non-cash payments. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-11-senat-17-1.u85	Thank you very much, Minister. Senator Bierecki. You'll be preparing Senator Czerwinski.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-11-senat-17-1.u86	I did not participate in the whole debate, so I do not know if I will repeat the question. And I'd like to ask you why 15 grand is that limit. Did the Ministry consider scenarios for reducing this, e.g. To 5,000 zlotys? Because the Minister's speech resulted in a charity effect on the reduction of the grey economy and an increase in budgetary revenues due to the fourfold reduction in the possibility of cash payments from EUR 15 000 to PLN 15 000. That's a four-fold reduction. Why don't we move on? After all, entrepreneurs can use their bills very freely. I think the Minister has data that shows the number of entrepreneurs who do not have a bank account, if any. What is the number of entrepreneurs who do not have a debit card? 'Cause this is where Senator Pociej's friend talked about how it's awfully hard to pay for the bathtub when you go to the warehouse. As far as I can remember. Well, you can pay with a debit card. Right? So didn't the Ministry consider the scenarios of lowering this threshold, going even lower, for example to 5 thousand PLN? This would be closer to Spanish or Portuguese levels and then perhaps we would have more budgetary revenue. And while we are talking about the convenience of entrepreneurs here, I think that in the case of immediate payments, instant transfers, payment cards, the scale of inconvenience is completely irrelevant from the point of view of the benefits that the budget and the economy can obtain. Because the development of non-cash payments is a great benefit for the economy as a whole. So I would like to repeat the question: did the Ministry consider a scenario with an even greater reduction of this threshold, even to PLN 5,000?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-11-senat-17-1.u87	Thank you very much, Mr President. Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-11-senat-17-1.u88	Thank you very much. In fact, the aim of the Act is to restore the level before 2004, i.e. the threshold of 15 thousand PLN. Of course, it is worth a lower level of such limits. But we've been looking at cases of different countries, different experiences resulting from these changes, and we've really thought that what needs to be done here is a careful step. I understand that there are actually a lot of arguments in favour of restricting... We understand that and thank you very much for this position. I think it would cause... This law really raises some concerns and we felt that, in order not to be excessive, we should remain at the level which classifies Poland in the European average for the time being. In addition, it is worth looking at the effects of this law after a longer period of time and then once again to decide on a certain limitation, based on data that will indicate how effectively this affects the economy, business, behaviour in business-to-business transactions and, of course, on the budget. Although it is not that these fiscal issues are indeed the only ones that matter. And here's what's worth paying attention to: indeed, all entrepreneurs have an account, because this is an obligation, as it were, arising from the Freedom of Business Act. Therefore, it should not be so that there is a problem with this and that it is forced for entrepreneurs to set up a payment account. Such an obligation is simply already there, simply entrepreneurs already have the opportunity and it is worth it to use it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-11-senat-17-1.u89	Thank you, Minister. Now I'm asking Senator Czerwinski for a question, and you're preparing Senator Dowhan.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-11-senat-17-1.u90	Minister, I have questions of a more general nature. Six months have passed since the creation of a new government and a new parliament, and this is probably the first law. I hope that there will be more of them from a group of laws sealing the general tax system. I know that there is another one at the stage of the committee's work, it was considered yesterday, and it is related to IT tools that would help you. Question one: why are we getting our first project after six months so late? Secondly, what are your intentions for the nearest future, that is what you want to bring, both to the facts 'Cause, for example, there's a normal addition to the facts. And in the general legal sphere of tax collection, so as to seal the tax system? Is the new VAT bill, which is much said, also in the sphere of your intentions, or will you be healing the old law?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-11-senat-17-1.u91	Thank you. Minister, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-11-senat-17-1.u92	Thank you very much. I'm not convinced it's late. Please note that the Ministry of Finance is a Ministry which has one major limitation: the tax changes should enter into force from 1 January. So, really... Of course, the laws can be prepared earlier, faster, in a faster mode, but of course there is also a little bit so that these laws, which you are talking about, passed the whole government mode with full consultation. I would like to remind you that a law has already been prepared in the Ministry of Finance, which imposed the so-called law. bank tax. Therefore, it is not quite so that it is the first law. She is, of course, the first law to be seen in the Senate on tax issues. There is also a law introducing the so-called. The anti-law clause, but a certain limitation, is that, in fact, these laws, maybe with the exception of a clause that has also been debated for quite a long time, were discussed at the level of the Council of Ministers, because the Legislative Council had doubts that were finally resolved... In fact, these are very important laws that have a dimension... Whether it is, say, February or March, tax laws still enter into force on 1 January. Therefore, this law will enter into force on 1 January, and it is worth remembering that. But in addition to this, there are quite a lot of criticisms in the process, that laws are adopted too quickly, that the pace is excessive. Therefore, it can be said that it is difficult... What is most important is that you have to find a golden center between speed and just a certain sense that all parties could take part in the discussion, present their position. As far as the tax laws are concerned, this is indeed the law, and there is a law which concerns the amendment of the law It is also being processed in Parliament by the bill that you referred to as the senator, creating a special special purpose company, which is to introduce an IT solution called the Central Register of Invoices. Other changes are being prepared at the Ministry of Finance regarding VAT issues. I don't want to talk about them yet. I think this will be an opportunity for Minister Shamacha, who will be able to say exactly what the content of these changes is. The works have already been completed, they are at the stage before inter-ministerial consultations. What is worth paying attention to is that in fact these legal changes are in progress. At the same time, work is underway on a law that will introduce the National Tax Administration. Since this is very complicated matter and system, you can say these laws are, unlike the current... I'm talking about the KAS bill and just about the change in the VAT bill that's gonna show up. These are not short laws. This means also consultation, and waiting for the views of other actors, and just a little more reflection on how to prepare these projects to achieve the result. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-11-senat-17-1.u93	Thank you very much. Senator Dowhan. The next one will be Senator Blackbay.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-11-senat-17-1.u94	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. Minister, the fundamental question that the Senator rapporteur could not answer: what do you think is the difference between the cash expenditure and the transfer to include it in the cost of obtaining income... From a fiscal point of view, I don't think it matters at all. Yeah, you could say it's the same thing. I believe that imposing a duty that costs can only be included in the cost of something that costs more than 15 thousand PLN and is paid by wire transfer is the wrong solution. That's what my first question was. Two. We're talking about banks. Can the Minister answer what the cost of using banking is? I mean, I mean, the cost of cash being paid by entrepreneurs, because it's not the same thing as cash being paid by individuals to their bills. And what are the commissions right now? Because I've heard here about credit cards, debit cards, associated with the handling of such a card, and thus the deduction of the interest on the transaction? I would like the Minister to answer these two questions.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-11-senat-17-1.u95	Thank you very much. I'll start at the end. Analyses indicate that there are special banking services in the case of business services, which may even be free of charge when it comes to the use of an account when it comes to transfer costs and card costs. Of course, it is worth noting that this law does not oblige an entrepreneur to hold any cards. Because it's not like... It's a transaction obligation, it could be a transfer... As I understand it, there are a lot of banks that... so it can be said that if this bill creates any cost to the company, it's the cost of transfers. Because since there is a law on freedom of business that imposes an obligation to have a bank account today, this cost is actually already there. This cost is already if, of course, the entrepreneur has an account, so he is forced to pay a fee for having a bank account. The novelty is that the obligation to make payments for transactions, i.e. transfers, is introduced. And you can find companies, banks or payment institutions on the market, not necessarily banks that offer free transfers when certain conditions are met. But here I would not see the obligation to have any cards, this law does not introduce such a solution. I have the impression that discussing whether the card payments are high or low, or how much room there is to reduce them, is a discussion, certainly very interesting, but for a slightly different occasion. And when it comes to the first question, what's the difference between a payment that... As I understand it, every payment is related to a certain transaction, we are dealing with a certain transaction. It is worth noting that the law speaks about transactions, i.e. if someone breaks the payment for a transaction into several, and this transaction is a transaction worth more than 15 thousand PLN, in fact the trader is not able to accept this invoice for the cost of obtaining revenue. And it's really different. Because the cost of income is tax-based. Of course this payment will be made, but the difference is that the first businessman who paid according to the law It will be able to accept this transaction, this invoice amounting to more than PLN 15 000 for the cost of obtaining revenue in settlements to e.g. CIT, and the second trader will simply not be able to do so, and therefore this tax will consequently be imposed on this amount. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-11-senat-17-1.u96	Thank you very much. Senator Dowhan would like to clarify... You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-11-senat-17-1.u97	Minister, I agree with you that when it comes to cards, these are occasional cases. I can't imagine either that someone who's going shopping with a company is using credit cards, but probably some occasional, occasional transactions can happen. I will also agree that today bank transfers do not cost anything or cost really little, which is related to bank handling, probably in most banks already flat-rate for these things. But I was generally asking about the biggest cost that today is related to the bank, so the cost of paying live cash by entrepreneurs, because no bank will do it for free, and these costs are very high. Does the Minister know about these costs, if so, what are they? And can you, going further, in this matter somehow If you can do everything you can to impose an obligation on banks not to charge these costs, if this is to be included in the costs? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-11-senat-17-1.u98	Thank you. Minister, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-11-senat-17-1.u99	Thank you very much. We'll take a look, of course... We had no information that such payments were charged at any cost. I therefore thank you very much for this comment. We will look at this so that the effect of this law is not to bear any costs associated with the payment of cash by traders. We will examine this issue.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-11-senat-17-1.u100	Thank you very much, Minister. Senator Blackbay signed up as the last question. You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-11-senat-17-1.u101	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Minister, what you just said about the issue of division of transactions... Because, of course, what Senator Florek was talking about, the worst part is the law that's being implemented, and then it's not enforced. And that's what I'm talking about. I understand that if there is a trade transaction of 56 thousand zlotys divided into 4 which is 16 thousand with something, then this transaction in interpretation is not included in the cost of obtaining revenue. I understand that such interpretations of tax offices, entrepreneurs will have, there will be no problem here. But I'd like to ask you so hot, if you don't mind, Minister, to say, "Do you have an entrepreneur?" That's what you asked Senator Pociej. What is the transaction here: every purchase of material or transactions within a month? Is that clear in any way? Minister, if not, I would ask for a written reply, because this is a very interesting issue, in the sense of your interpretation regarding a given financial undertaking. How will you interpret this? If you don't mind, I'm asking you to answer me in writing. I'd even prefer it in writing.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-11-senat-17-1.u102	Thank you. Minister, will there be a written reply?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-11-senat-17-1.u103	Yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, We will prepare a full reply in writing so that the matter is as clear as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-11-senat-17-1.u104	Thank you. Senator Hare, right? You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-11-senat-17-1.u105	Ad vocem. I've just noticed this problem in the bill proposal. It seems to me that what needs to be done there is to enter the appropriate unit. Because the monetary value is not an entity, the monetary value in time is an entity. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-11-senat-17-1.u106	Thank you for this basically, not the question. I would like to inform you that the list of senators who applied for the question has been exhausted. I would also like to inform you that a government representative has undertaken to give a written answer to the question asked by Senator Czarnobaj. I'm opening a discussion. Senator Komarnicki was the first to speak. You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-11-senat-17-1.u107	Dear Marshal, Dear Senators! Today we are looking at a law on the amendment of the Personal Income Tax Act, the Corporate Income Tax Act and the Freedom of Business Act. I therefore ask you to discuss the issue of the limit on cash payments. At the meeting of the Senate Committee on National Economy and Innovation, I pointed out that the proposed amount of the limit on cash payments is too small. Let me remind you that the new law reduces the limit, as we have said many times here, from EUR 15 000 to PLN 15 000. The members of the economic committee were able to get acquainted, among others. with the opinion of the Polish Crafts Association. This opinion was also presented at our committee meeting. The union very much asked to raise the limit to at least PLN 30 thousand, and justified this request, giving as an example one-off purchases of machines or used cars. I think it's worth considering this request. As a business experienced person, I believe that we should always adapt the law so that it is particularly friendly to businesses if it concerns them. Such a drastic reduction in the limit in cash payments appears to be a serious problem for business operators. I will even say that this is an act against entrepreneurs and against the opinion of many business associations, an action that actually leads to even greater surveillance of entrepreneurs. Of course, on the basis of an amount free of accounting on accounts, which is, as it were, available in the case of cash trading, various people placed funds also from illegal sources on the market, simply taking advantage of this situation. Someone who knows a little about this and knows what it looks like also knows that the problem is not the amount itself as such, the problem is too late the system's response to the finding of these irregularities. Today, if someone uses cash transactions to put money from an illegal source into circulation with relatively small amounts of money, for example, they do so. Small deposits into bank accounts, IT systems are already advanced enough to identify such suspicious transactions. However, we still have a very narrow throat of GILF, because the General Inspector of Financial Information responds very late to such cases, Minister. The delay is up to three months. As regards the control of the actions carried out in relation to the irregularities reported, I believe that the response of the system should be much faster. In my opinion, reducing the amount alone is just a small part of the whole change. In this way, the problem will not be fully solved, but only And that's certainly how we're going to make it harder for all entrepreneurs. I very much hope that most senators will support my proposal. I am very pleased that the voices of Marshal Czelej, Senator Pociej and Senator Czarnobaj were similar. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-11-senat-17-1.u108	Thank you very much, Senator. Senator Dowhan, please take the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-11-senat-17-1.u109	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Minister! You can see that since the Phoenicians invented the money, there's still a problem with the money, or there's not enough money, not just in our pockets, or that sometimes too much, from unknown sources, and you don't really know where the gold center is. As for those countries that you mentioned when you said they found extra money because they limited payments, it may be true, but it's hard to prove whether this is the mechanism or not. I'm wondering more today... This is actually a debate against entrepreneurs and against people. If we assume that everything happens just to cheat, it's a bad assumption. I would like to assume that everything that happens when it comes to rotation, about our lives, is somehow based on trust. If we trust people, and certainly most entrepreneurs are trusted and 100% doing everything in accordance with the rules, we should follow this principle and support these entrepreneurs, based on the principles of trust. And if someone is doing the opposite, then there are proper services that may sooner or later be caught by illegal companies, as the press reports every once in a while. This isn't about a small businessman. Will you get rich because someone buys something there, doesn't charge themselves, pays in cash because they do, because they're at the fair, because there's an opportunity to buy something, they have money, they buy it, they bring it? Is that such a big problem? Here you can see the sealing of the system and the big money? I don't see that money, Minister. It really is a bill for the bill, a bill created to do something, to process something and show that here we are limiting, because there is a great gray zone, there will be great influence. There won't be any influence. 'Cause what's a gray area? Do people who operate there use transfers? Do they have registered companies? Is this, I don't know, a kiosk that doesn't invoke or buy a receipt and put up a couple packs of cigarettes or powder and sell it again? I don't think that's the kind of money this debate is about. I asked the Minister about the money because it's very expensive to turn this money around. We all know that. It would be best if we didn't spin that money at all, it would be best if only the cards were functioning. Then, first of all, money security, storage, transport, location would be 100%. Secondly, the costs associated with banks would not exist. No bank, Minister. And there's nothing to check; I know it. Entrepreneur's cash will not be accepted for free. Yes, he can accept, and in most cases that happens, from individuals who deposit some small amounts into their account. But you have to tell the difference between a cash deposit and a natural person and a cash deposit from companies. In normal exchange, this cash... As I said, it's not just the cost of the bank. It's not small because it's up to 3%. But... What if someone has a small enterprise and has a margin of up to 3%? Where's he supposed to earn all this money? Because of what is happening not only in Poland, but also worldwide, most companies, shops, petrol stations, the cash they store, carry through specialized companies. And that's the next cost of that cash. This isn't about the value of the money, it's about... I wonder how that's gonna affect... Why is this happening using the password Grey Zone? Someone who does it illegally will continue to do it illegally. If someone wants to make a limit of 15 thousand zlotys, and they have to spend 150 thousand zlotys, they'll break it into 15 invoices. Anything can be done. It doesn't make much sense for me to go in that direction. On my first trip... I've read a lot about America, about the States. I was preparing to leave and read in a few studies so that I wouldn't take a lot of cash with me, because there's cash in the shops that they don't accept that there's a problem with paying cash at restaurants, that most places are paid with credit cards. Surprisingly, cash is very welcome. If it's cash payment, even with a vending machine there are discounts in shops, restaurants and other places. They don't look at cards that much, because it's known to pay for it. It's the same in Poland. If the entrepreneur wants to pay with a card, the bank or Polcard service that handles the cards will charge him fees. As far as I know, these fees are up to 2%, and this is really a lot. If a person has a big turnover, he acts on a small margin and uses e.g. With cards, it's a really big expense for him. And it's not about bank transfers that are practically cost-free today, it's not about bank charges that are flat-rate and very small, it's about the cost of recalculation, the storage of cash payments. Besides, it can happen as it already happens in some countries: for having our cash in the banks... We know what inflation is. Besides, there could be a deflation. And that cash that's gonna be in the bank is gonna cost the entrepreneur, because he's not gonna have any interest on it, just like it is today. Small, because small, but those interest rates are still there. In some countries, they're gone. In some countries, it is simply necessary to pay the bank extra for the fact that the bank holds the cash. We were talking here... This example associated with baths may not be entirely hit. During this meeting, I received a text from a colleague who owns a shipping company who operates cold stores in Western Europe. He always has so-called. Cash emergency, like any driver. 'Cause he could be in an accident, a car could be destroyed or crashed, and you need to get there right away. The car is repaired. It's gonna be hard for him, and these situations, he says, he's got a lot... it's hard for the cooler to wait for the transfer to come. And if he pays in cash, he won't be able to charge it anymore. Well, that's a little off, Minister. Right? That's why I asked you why you think that if someone pays in cash and not in a wire transfer, they can't include it in the cost. What's with the extra red tape? Who's gonna check it all out? Who's gonna keep a wire transfer for five or six years, hook up, store? And it's not all gonna be done electronically, not everyone has a head for it, not everyone has people, tools. What's the point? What good is that gonna It all comes down to one thing. What difference does it make if someone pays by wire or pays in cash? If cash is illegal, then you're also here to ask a delinquent or an entrepreneur how he got it. Is that so hard? Why complicate someone's life? We're going to the election. Not only your party, but also ours with slogans that we want to make life easier for people, including entrepreneurs. Why make it more difficult today? Minister, you didn't answer that question either. The fiscal printer, of course, is to account for the transaction, but in every company, either someone buys an invoice or not an invoice. And it goes through the fiscal system. So the fraud of a legitimate trader is none, because either from this or from another side of the transaction is registered. And finding something here that suddenly someone won't cheat, because we're gonna reduce the amount, and that there's gonna be a lot of revenue for the budget... I believe, Minister, that this is a very unfortunate idea. Therefore, as an entrepreneur and Senator of the Civic Platform, I propose to reject this law in its entirety. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-11-senat-17-1.u110	Thank you very much, Senator. Senator Flork, please speak now.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-11-senat-17-1.u111	Mr. Marshal! High Senate! Minister! I would like to point out that 99% , with some ending, enterprises in Poland are small and medium-sized enterprises. 0.8%, I think. These are big companies. And now we have big companies, big companies that operate on the basis of the commercial code, i.e. companies from O.O., and we also have people who operate on the basis of the Business Act. It's been over 40 years... No, there was a Wilczek bill in 1988. That's 20 years since they could start a business in those days. There are single-person companies that run business, there are companies a little bigger and there are companies that do really little business, where such a transaction for 15 thousand PLN may occur once a year and the others are smaller. A businessman like that could be, too. And in this connection, I believe that it is precisely a reduction in the limit from PLN 45,000 to PLN 15,000 and the introduction of sanctions that were not before... When the limit was EUR 15 000, there were no sanctions. The state reduces from 15 thousand euros to 15 thousand PLN. And that's not enough, you're putting in additional sanctions. The sanctions that... I'm talking about businessmen, artisans, people who might not even notice that laws have changed. An entrepreneur, a small entrepreneur who's been operating on the market for 20 or 30 years, maybe something like that. I didn't even notice. And he will also be covered by this law, which will, of course, mean that if he makes a transaction at the level of e.g. 16 thousand PLN, then it will not be included in the cost of obtaining revenue. And for that, of course, he will have a problem. In the case of small business, it may turn out that this is very significant money, money which will be significant enough for a given entrepreneur that he will not be able to continue his business. So it seems to me that the purpose you're talking about is to add extra revenue to the budget... Well, I understand that you will now be in the Ministry of Finance looking for a lot, a lot of places like this to meet the needs that are in the budget. But in this case, when we're talking about small amounts... We must also think about small and small entrepreneurs. Reduction of quota... We can discuss whether she's the right one or not, as my previous speaker, the senator, said, at 30 grand, can discuss it. But if it's so drastically lowered and sanctions are being imposed, I don't think that's appropriate. For me, as a person who once, in 1989, started an economic activity, then dealt with commercial companies and knows more or less what this activity looks like, this is a sufficient argument not to support this law and not to support this change in the form in which it was proposed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-11-senat-17-1.u112	Thank you very much, Senator. Now you will speak to Senator Blackbay.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-11-senat-17-1.u113	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! During our previous term of office in the Committee on Budgets and Public Finance, we have repeatedly discussed matters relating to non-cash trading. I would like to say that there was a great deal of agreement here, and also political agreement on ideas. I address Senator Bierecki, who was the vice-president of this committee. An increase in non-cash turnover. I would also like to say that the important thing is that there were several symposiums organized by the Cashless Development Foundation, which presented the most important elements about why business is worthwhile, but also in everyday life to go away from direct payment with money. One important argument worth considering is that keeping money in circulation costs about 1%. I don't know if I remember correctly, but these were the statistics of the President of the National Bank of Poland. Security and other issues are, of course, an important argument. An important element is also what concerns the grey zone, and I would like to say why what you are proposing is so different... why it causes such dislike of environments. It must be said that the environments focused on the institutions operating at the committee meeting were reluctant to say hostile. According to Senator Dobkowski, I would like to say that it was hostile and then a little hostile. Therefore, I would like to say what this results from. Minister, the whole problem is that you're accentuating I wrote it down, and Senator Dobkowski spoke about it as rapporteur, and the Minister also pointed it out. The most important thing is to reduce the grey economy and increase budget revenue. I would like to say that there are two models for the implementation of such a law. It is an old Union model and Scandinavian model For many months, years have been shown how it should be done, good examples have been shown, it has been said that it is a good tone to avoid cash and to pay with cards. This idea has been promoted, it has been shown what the state and the entrepreneur have been successful about it. The state in your statements promotes the most important thing: 2 billion zlotys are needed for the budget. And no matter how many thousands of entrepreneurs operating on the Polish market will be lost by the way. Because what are they most afraid of, Minister? I don't know if the Minister spoke to them that honestly. I am talking about Polish entrepreneurs who were at a committee meeting, who were associated with a group of Polish craftsmen. If there are 2 billion zlotys in the budget, what must we do? Well, find them. However, the introduction of the idea of non-cash trading is not intended mainly to increase the revenue of the state. The important thing is what the Minister said: left invoices for 80 billion is a huge argument to think about it. But what Senator Dowhan was talking about... Senator Florek. After all, if we want to limit the gray area, it is not the only one, and it can be said that a small instrument. It was already raining out of this tribune: those who cheat, cheaters don't operate through banks. Therefore, it is important to consider very seriously what concerns the introduction of such a longer vacathio legis, the promotion of this idea, talking to entrepreneurs. And you're using this procedure again: we seal, we introduce 2 billion zlotys and we'll see what happens. And that is why the good idea in my view, in terms of sealing the system, introducing instruments that should help entrepreneurs, meets with such strong criticism. And one of the authors of this criticism was Senator Bierecki sitting here. And two examples. Once, in the budget bill, one of the ministers unsuspectedly wrote 2 billion zlotys of photo-radar on the revenue side. Of course, the main goal wasn't here. That's what the minister said, and I believe that's what happened. To obtain these revenues, these 2 billion PLN, but something else, i.e. to reduce the number of accidents on Polish roads. That was the main objective of bringing in the cameras. Of course, the issue was promoted in the assessment of some of the most important ones, namely the income of PLN 2 billion. And here's a similar mechanism. It's the right idea, but it's the right thing to do. It's a first. Secondly, it is a way of introducing this completely in isolation from the public opinion, the opinions of Polish entrepreneurs. And that's not true at all, Mr. Senator Dobkowski, that at first it was hostile and then just a little hostile. I want to say that at first it was hostile, and then maybe even more hostile, because these people just saw that you didn't listen at all, you didn't listen to their opinions, you didn't want to hear it. So I asked... I understand that the Ministry is determined, but I was just a little wondering why the senators, who also represent these entrepreneurs, do not listen to their words at all, but know one thing: what the Minister proposed is only right. Finally, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to convey something to you. During this conversation with Polish craftsmen they said a very important thing. Well, these people who run their companies long, long years, from the grandfather of the great-grandfather, who acted as Polish entrepreneurs even in the times of the commune, said this: when the power in the People's Poland spoke, we lit a green light for the Polish craft, they all rolled off the business because they knew that the power despite this green light would come to them. And now the government says, "We're gonna take these 2 billion to the budget, and even though we're gonna make it harder for you to do what you need to do, we're gonna do it." And this is what Polish entrepreneurs fear. There's absolutely no promotion of good, I think, of the idea, but it's a terrible, hopeless performance. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-11-senat-17-1.u114	Thank you very much, Senator. Mr. Senator Dobkowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-11-senat-17-1.u115	Mr. Marshal! High Senate! Maybe I didn't say everything during my speech as rapporteur. After the discussion and after the questions, I realized that not everything about this law is clear enough. I would therefore like to say once again that the law only applies to payments between traders. This does not apply to payments between an entrepreneur and a non-entrepreneur, i.e. a private person. Like I said, a civil partnership isn't an entrepreneur either. No one's ever questioned it, and I think that's what it is. In other words, such a company may carry out transactions with the trader over PLN 15 thousand. One private person with the other person can do the same, the limitation applies only to payments between entrepreneurs. It's just a reduced payment limit From 15 thousand euros to 15 thousand PLN. Senators from the Platform say it's not enough that it should increase. I don't know, how many, maybe more than... [[Talking in the O.R.]] As far as the Polish trade association is concerned, I did not say that they proposed, let's say, an intermediate amount. If we set this limit at PLN 30,000, then they think it would be good. I'm just saying it because I didn't talk about it by presenting the committee's report. Senator Flork is still here. Well, Senator Florek suggested that In addition to the fact that it does not fall within the cost of obtaining the income of the transaction over 15 thousand PLN, that this is a sanction In general, there was a ban on the payment of the trader's cash. It's like there's a ban, and then there's a sanction. It's a sanction that doesn't count as revenue. There is no such thing, there is no ban on making a cash transaction of more than 15 thousand PLN. You can make a deal like this. The entrepreneur can pay in cash more than PLN 15 000 to the other entrepreneur, but he has to face the fact that he will not be able to account for the cost of obtaining revenue. So what's she missing? He's just losing the opportunity to reduce income tax. It's all she's missing. And it's not a sanction. He can just, if he wants to, because for example. He prefers to do so, he prefers to pay a large amount in cash. There you go, but he's gonna have to pay a higher tax. So it's not a ban and a sanction, it's an option, it's a choice. However, entrepreneurs are paid not to make cash transactions, but to pay by transfer. It's kind of an incentive for entrepreneurs to do it. Here, Senator, I don't remember which one, I think, Senator Dowhan, was talking about the fact that entrepreneurs would be able to set up a deal, just writing it down for a few invoices. I think Senator Czelej said that there could be even 8 invoices or more, that they would simply circumvent the provisions of the bill, writing it out for many invoices, each for no more than 15 thousand PLN. Well, the Minister said that this is not about the fact that the invoice will amount to less than 15 thousand PLN. It's about the deal. It is simply not possible for the transaction to be over 15 thousand PLN, whether it is written into multiple invoices or on one invoice. But, as I understand it, the Minister will give a detailed answer to this issue, I think, to Senator Czarnobaj. [[It's written.]] Yes. It's written. And he'll explain how it's gonna be. Ladies and gentlemen, Senator Czarnobaj said that this is about PLN 2 billion in budget, that the government is looking for this money... I'd rather the budget didn't have any money for that. And where's the budget gonna get that money? The point is, there's gonna be a fairer competition. If there is a fairer competition, it will simply be more growth and economic growth. With this, the government may have more than 2 billion. I'd rather you did, like in the case of... [[The meeting is chaired by Vice-Marshal Maria Koc]] [[Mr. Senator, time is running out.]] Yes? I'm just finishing up. I just wish I could say yes. If there were no effects that would reduce the gray zone, this would not have been done in Portugal and Spain. But there was a reduction in the gray area. I hope that in Poland we will also get this effect and that this effect will be greater than in Spain and Portugal. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-11-senat-17-1.u116	Thank you very much, Senator. I'll ask Senator Mieczysław Augustyn to speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-11-senat-17-1.u117	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! Minister! We evaluate this law not only and not primarily in formal terms, but today we judge it for the purposes it sets itself. Aims that we would all think would be right. Because if this were to limit unfair competition, if it were to limit the size of the grey zone and, on that occasion, to provide more revenue to the budget, it would of course be appropriate to applaud it. But let's see if this law actually contains an instrumentarium to get it. Ladies and gentlemen, the gray area has two distinctive features. The first is not to document the turnover, no bills, no invoices. Only in the end would we say here that everything happens in non-bank, cash trading. Therefore, this instrument, which is foreseen here Thus, the loss of the possibility to include something in the cost of obtaining revenue, when the amount of 15 thousand is exceeded, is so missed that these turnovers, which we would prevent from doing so, go without any documentation. So to say that this scarecrow, so to speak, this sanction here will work, is absolutely, in my opinion, misplaced. It's definitely not gonna work, and it's not gonna fit into the gray zone. You won't have to do any runways, because those who do their business today without any documentation, of course they can't charge themselves for revenue costs, but they still won't be able to do it, so the bill doesn't change anything here. Therefore, we should ask: what effect will we have here? Well, I think we all agree that small and medium-sized enterprises are the greatest treasure in Poland when it comes to entrepreneurs. This is where the most significant part of national income is produced, where the most people are employed, and that is where the law refers, which will restrict economic freedom. Because the agreement that bank turnover, as Senator Czelej said, has its advantages and expands with each year After all, they appreciate these advantages and calculate them, and if they're profitable, they're in full banking business. But it is well known that still 18% small and medium-sized enterprises do not use electronic banking and 12% do not use electronic banking He doesn't need a computer to work. They're the smallest of the little ones, and they're probably the ones we're probably trying to say we're gonna choose to get extra budget revenue. And in this context, I consider this proposal And it's not just my opinion. It's totally unfair. Because you use a false argument to achieve a fiscal effect. That is why entrepreneurs focused on their organisations who are so keen to respect equal competition say this law: no. It is also the Business Centre Club, and the Association of Entrepreneurs and Employers, and the Union of Polish Crafts. They oppose this solution. And if it were what you say it would be, so that they would benefit from it, those decent, those associated, they would support you. But they're against it. And they're against it because this bill misses the target, completely misses the target.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-11-senat-17-1.u118	Thank you, Senator. Senator Robert Dowhan will speak for the second time.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-11-senat-17-1.u119	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Dear Minister! I forgot to mention two important points, although I wanted to talk earlier, because my colleague, Senator Pociej, said that he belonged to a parliamentary group that deals with small and medium-sized entrepreneurs... In my previous term, I also belonged to her, and I was the deputy of today's Marshal Chelya. We talked about things at the time, but we never touched on the subject. Most of the papers were written by a marshal today. I think that if it were so important from the fiscal point of view of entrepreneurs, in the last term, in the last four years, this point would appear at some point in our group's deliberations, and it didn't. I didn't add it either. But I think if I heard it right now, Senator Augustine mentioned it. In fact, if it were a good law that brought more good than bad with it, it would be supported by organisations such as the BCC, which had adversely assessed the law. I asked the Senator rapporteur about that. He didn't answer because he didn't know what opinions were. There was a negative opinion, Senator. The Association of Entrepreneurs and Employers also negatively assessed the bill. The Polish Crafts Association also negative. I do not know if there were other opinions, I do not have such information, because I do not participate in the work of the Committee on Economic Affairs, but if there were any other opinions, if there was one positive opinion, it would probably be the Senator rapporteur or the Minister who quoted it. I don't think we're gonna bring anything today, because the bill will be passed, but there's a question, Minister, or maybe good advice. The question is, why are we doing this? And why is there such a big gray area? Because I think it's big. This is shown by numbers; numbers that do not lie, just as mathematics does not lie and cannot be deceived. I'm sure the main reason for this is, among other things. High taxes. If the taxes that entrepreneurs pay today were relatively low... I'm not a specialist, and I don't want to get smart here. Perhaps there are studies on how the reduction in the tax paid by businesses affects the increase in revenue to the budget. In some countries, it paid off. We're also fighting tax havens. Why wouldn't Poland be such a tax haven in Europe? Why should external entrepreneurs not be willing to register, conduct business and account for themselves in Poland rather than at home? Wouldn't it be better to think about going to the hands of entrepreneurs and reducing taxes? Today, every legal person with a commercial law company pays from the vending machine 19% tax. Later, when he wants to pay the dividend, he pays the tax once again. This is also the case with VAT, because the difference between transactions unfortunately always has to be paid VAT if there is a profit, of course, and the trader works for profit. The 23 percent rate, probably the highest rate in Europe today, is also something to think about. Would it not be positive to increase revenue to the state budget? Not to mention the burdens associated with the U.S.S. or, for example, taxes with which I have been trying to argue with in some way for four years. Maybe it'll work now. The point is that the trader cannot account for the cost of obtaining the revenue of contributions to PFRON. I mean, it doesn't go anywhere either. How is it possible that, by running a company and paying a tax out of its own pocket, it cannot be included in the cost of business? Well, how can you continue to apply such a draconian law and then demand profits... But where are those profits, if they're all paid somewhere along the way? Perhaps it is good advice, Minister, to deal with serious things, such as tax reduction or at least a proper analysis of whether tax reduction will have a positive impact on the increase in revenue to the state budget, so that external entrepreneurs and ours do not flee abroad in search of other solutions. Because today every entrepreneur works for profit, and this profit is paying less taxes, that is to say, paying less and trading under less cost of doing business. This is the domain of every company today, because if someone starts a company and doesn't pay attention to the costs, to the taxes, this company will be gone in a month, a year or two. And, Minister, I wish the entire ministry would do such a profound analysis. Perhaps we will become a country that will have solutions that encourage others to develop entrepreneurship and pay less taxes, because today I think that these burdens are far too much. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-11-senat-17-1.u120	Thank you very much, Senator. And please take the floor of Senator Grzegorz Bierecki.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-11-senat-17-1.u121	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Everyone seems to agree that this must be done, that we must fight the gray zone. It is true that this law is unfair, that the objectives are wrongly declared, but the objective is clear: this law implements the plan for the development of non-cash turnover in Poland and the elimination of the grey zone. After all, these are the main objectives of this bill. As far as non-cash development is concerned, no one in this Chamber denied that by developing non-cash operations our economy would gain, we would be richer. The data presented by the National Bank of Poland is unambiguous: this is beneficial for the Polish economy, it is beneficial to increase non-cash turnover. Fantastic. What about the gray area? Are we supposed to prevent the grey zone from functioning? I don't think anyone in this room dares say that we shouldn't pursue that goal. Not long ago, I talked to a friend of mine who runs a small company in the construction industry who wants to pay taxes, who tries to carry out all his duties, including his employees, because he tries to take care of them, respect employees and their families. He said, "How am I supposed to do that if there are companies around here that operate practically in the gray area, where they pay in cash, where employers pay their employees cash?" And then: After all, they have lower costs, I am not competitive with these entrepreneurs. Should it be allowed to employ companies that are from a grey area that do not respect workers' rights, which pay their employees in envelopes, and cultivate this pathology? I mean, what's the feed for the gray zone? The food for the gray zone is the cash flow. There's no gray area without cash turnover. Someone's gonna say, of course, they're gonna pay... that we're gonna tell them not to pay in gold, we're gonna cut the money, they're gonna switch to dollars, or they're gonna pay with gold bars. Of course, it is not possible to eliminate the whole gray area, but it can be limited and the solution that is adopted by all developed countries is to reduce the cash turnover. As a curiosity, I will tell the senators that the central bank of Norway is currently considering not printing cash at all. This is the project they're working on. They want to get away from it completely. There'll be no bills. Of course, the old ones will be recognized, but the new ones will no longer print because there is no need. Cashless turnover, non-contact cards, debit cards, credit cards, instant transfers, all of this is now available, it's all there. If we have now, thinking about economic development of Poland and limiting the grey zone, also building honesty among entrepreneurs, equal to those who do not use a computer, for which making a transfer is an impossible challenge, I would say that we would probably do wrong. Let us not be equal to the bottom, or rather to those people who are not enjoying the benefits of modern technologies now, who do not benefit from it, help to learn it, help them to benefit from it. In a moment, the so-called laws will enter into force in September. a basic bank account. Every citizen will have access to a free bank account and 10 transfers a month, if I remember correctly... These are regulations that are designed. This is in line with the EU Directive. Everyone will have a cheap bill, a really free bill, 10 transfers a month in a normal life for an ordinary citizen absolutely enough. The level of banking, non-cash trading is constantly increasing, and it is very good. That's very good, because people get access to a number of civilization devices that allow them to live cheaper lives. Let me remind you that, for example, You can't buy it online, you can't buy it. cheaper, products without a tool, a payment instrument, right? You can transfer, you can pay by card to purchase on the Internet. Someone's gonna say, "You can pay the delivery guy when he gets the package." You can, but it's getting less and less used. After all, this access to cheaper online purchases is also related to banking, holding an account, holding a card. So let us not talk about the fact that this law is unfair to some extent, that it has hidden, unconfirmed goals. The fiscal objective is, yes, but that is not the most important objective of this law. The most important goal is to eliminate, reduce the scope of the grey area, help honest entrepreneurs, those who want to pay taxes honestly, who do not hide their income, who do not want to participate in the actions from which they should confess. There were voices in the discussion that there are high taxes for entrepreneurs in Poland. Of course they could be lower, anyone would want to pay less. But if you compare them with taxes in the European Union, we don't look so bad. I have experience in other countries, and I assure you, there is much more to be paid there, Senator. So... [[I know.]] Exactly. Of course, after this debate everyone could have misconceptions that Polish entrepreneurs dream of it and want to have 15 000 euro, or about 50,000 PLN in their pocket at the moment, traveling and paying it, counting notes one after another, in a shop or in a wholesaler in such a traditional way. There's no such thing as dreams. People want to pay comfortably by credit card, wire transfer. If someone clings to cash payments, we may suspect that they have some hidden reasons to do so. Because it's not convenient to pay in cash, it's traveling with money and worrying about falling out of my pocket or getting it out of my pocket. Let us not impudent our Polish entrepreneurs that they have such a desire that they want to pay in cash. I know what our entrepreneurs are afraid of and why they're protesting, why these letters... These aren't some big protest I'd say. They are due to fear that the costs of banking services will increase. That's what I'm talking about. The point is, in fact, what they're gonna gain from reducing the cash flow, because they're not gonna have that cash register, cash insurance, cash transport, they're gonna take away the bank in payments for those transactions. Only that it is the role of the government, financial supervision, they should ensure that it does not happen so that suddenly it does not turn out that what is to benefit entrepreneurs, what is to be beneficial also for the budget, will intercept banks, increasing fees for entrepreneurs. That's the thing to watch. If entrepreneurs are assured by the government that, following the introduction of this law, banking costs for entrepreneurs will be monitored and the government will try to influence banks so that they do not apply excessive charges, I think that honest entrepreneurs, those who do not operate in the grey zone, will certainly support this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-11-senat-17-1.u122	Thank you, Senator. Senator Leszek Czarnobaj, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-11-senat-17-1.u123	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Starting with my speech, I would like to say a few words to what Senator Bierecki said and what Senator Augustine said. Mr. Senator, in the previous term and now, when it comes to the idea of a non-cash trading, I think that we are all, as we are sitting here, regardless of political color, in favour. Because this brings benefits primarily to the Polish state, but also to the entrepreneurs that you spoke about. I'm talking about the fact that it doesn't seem like we're against the idea of cash-free trading at all. That's the first thing. Second thing. I would like to say that we are also signing up for what Senator Augustine said, that what is related to non-cash trading, safer, at lower costs, and by the way there is some budgetary impact... These are cases that we're signing off on as well. We stress something else, Senator, and it has already been said in your speech, something that was not at the committee meeting or during this debate. Entrepreneurs are afraid of the following thing: that there is an Eastern European model for the implementation of the law, and we are implementing it, just as we are doing now, so that we no longer go into details, and there is a model of the old Union, especially the Scandinavian countries, which, by introducing such conditions or principles of action, have done it differently. We merely postulate, enlisting in concerns of Polish entrepreneurs. Let's do it in a discussion with Polish entrepreneurs, let's not say that these are just any or bad proposals, let's just listen, let's try to bring something in. Several of these proposals are to be considered. We need to set ourselves a goal, so that it will ultimately be 1 000 euros, as Senator Bierecki said in the debate, but we need to achieve this in a civilised way, not a sudden way, not that we are waking up today, we are introducing 1 000 euros, and it is still in such an atmosphere that the main objective is to reduce the grey economy and increase budget revenue. This is not the purpose of trading non-cash. And I'm very appealing here... Excuse me, I'm going to refer to the words of both Senator Bierecki and the senate benches of Senator Rooster that the honest have nothing to fear. I am not a historian, but from what I remember, in the Polish People's Republic they always said: honest is nothing to be afraid of. Senator Rooster, you are the man who knows this saying more than I do, and you know it from life. After all, when you were locked up, they said, "Mr. Rooster, you have nothing to fear, you are an honest man or not." I would also like to say that in the history of the 1930s, and in one country they said that an honest citizen of this country has nothing to be afraid of. What I'm trying to say is that really on this kind of thing, it's not about that. The point is that this is a law which Polish entrepreneurs understand, accept, and when it is created they are heard, there is a common timetable for reaching the goal. [[Voice from the room: And is he dishonest...]] Should the dishonest be afraid? I want to say that this is an axiom, in life it should always apply and it is not necessary to emphasize that dishonest people have something to fear and honest people can sleep peacefully. This is not an argument, neither to this law nor to any conduct in life. I would like to say once again: let us not approach Polish entrepreneurs, to all together, as a whole, as people to whom we have great mistrust, and therefore we must introduce a lot of different restrictions. I want to tell you that there is no such system. The most important elements that build the system are trust, honesty and promotion of good, and not vice versa. Chasing and chasing only. So that I lack, in addition to introducing the right idea of reducing cash turnover for non-cash trading, that, so to speak, the overbuilding of the elements of cooperation and building a joint project, as was done in the Scandinavian countries. That's it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-11-senat-17-1.u124	Thank you, Senator. Senator Joseph the Hare.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-11-senat-17-1.u125	(PL) Madam President, I would like to ask you a few Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! As for the fact that there is nothing to be afraid of, I would provide some examples to anyone who is convinced to say so. I've been watching this example lately. I think the second ten controls are destroying the company. I'm convinced... I'm watching it all from the side, and I'm pretty sure the company's honest. But they're looking for dishonesty. What was mentioned here can be used when courts and police are perfect. Yeah, and you know how things are. I ask you to comment on this problem... Maybe I'll start with some sort of professional perversion. Well, when I listened to this discussion, I came to the conclusion that I would propose to my students a topic: the distribution of probability for the phenomenon of tax resistance. Because this shows us the following: big companies apply great tax resistance, and small companies cannot afford to apply sublime tax resistance techniques. And for this reason, it must be feared that those who are tax enforcement will have the opportunity to shift their enforcement pressure from large companies that our system is not very capable of... We see the data every once in a while, delayed by a year, two or three years... It's not the most interesting thing here. Companies run away with taxes in different ways, they don't pay. And it seems to me that many offices, very high level, kneel before this problem. And when we lower the threshold to such a low amount, those responsible for tax control will have an easy target. Because small businesses, small entrepreneurs can't afford a professional assessment. I used to observe a situation where a businessman employed four specialists, lawyers to handle control. Now let's imagine that he can't afford it, that he runs this small company. And then what? Then you'll bite him very easily. So it seems to me that there is, however, an idea here that we should move with tax executions on easier ground, on the one who is easier to say so, to get taxed. That's a big problem. And one more thing. Is the bill fair? I don't think it's very appropriate to apply the honesty criterion here. Is this a bill that... [[It was Senator Augustine who spoke of honesty.]] Yes. It seems to me that the bill is fair, there is no doubt, but it is not an important feature of it. It's not an important quality. Cash flow issues. I spent a few years in the U.S., and I know there's nothing worth more than having a cash. [[Like I said.]] Yes, the value of money in cash is the highest. As far as I can remember, even in some economics lectures, the finances I had the opportunity to listen to, it was said that this is what it looks like. I must say, in conclusion, that I am a little concerned that this will create the area of tax control and the inspection officer much easier. Very often, you have to be able to defend yourself against controls, and someone who has such a small turnover is generally unable to do so. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-11-senat-17-1.u126	Thank you, Senator. Now I ask Senator Andrzej Biesiołek to speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-11-senat-17-1.u127	Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! Minister! In economics, there's a law called Copernicus-Gresham's law, which says that worse money denies a better one. And indeed, as history shows, from the money that was beaten with real gold or silver, we went to copper, then to paper, and now we go to plastic. Is that a good thing? Well, you should ask yourself that question and look not so much at the Scandinavian model I don't agree that this is a good model. It's a model for American or even Austrian. Ladies and gentlemen, in Austria, you can't pay by card in some shops, you have to have cash, you can't pay for food by credit card. I don't know if going in that direction... This is a step towards moving away from cash payments. The next step would be to keep citizens from paying cash as well. What this has led to, e.g. Norway? This has led to the fact that in Norway, it is not possible to buy alcohol for cash at present, but by paying with a card. What does this work for the Norwegian authorities? And to control how many people consume alcohol. This results in the fact that if someone buys alcohol too often, the office comes to him and takes his children away from him. These are situations that are dangerous. There's got to be some way to protect yourself from that. Right? We don't want to... I think the colleagues on this side of the room don't want this to happen either. You've got to keep your head down so you don't go too far in that direction. And a note about the fight against the gray zone. This way of fighting the gray zone reminds me of treating a patient with a high fever by putting him in the fridge. Well, you can do that, you can cure the effect, not the cause. But the cause should be treated. And why do entrepreneurs run off into the gray area? Because labour costs are too high. If we lower labour costs, if we lower CIT, we would lower VAT, then, of course, revenue would increase to the budget. I will remind you that when CIT was reduced from 27% to 18%, revenue to the budget increased by about PLN 10 billion per year. So these are the tools that really can be fought against the gray area. And just increasing control, because it's just increasing control, nothing else... I don't know if this is a good way to cure this situation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-11-senat-17-1.u128	Thank you. And Mr. Senator Zbigniew Silence.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-11-senat-17-1.u129	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I will allow myself to historically examine the issue of the obligation to trading through banks. Well, such a law was introduced once, if I remember correctly, on the occasion of the Freedom of Business Act, but not in the version that is now in force, only earlier. I remember how shocked it was when God's spirit was that guilty people who were doing business suddenly received calls to the police because it was already after 1989, and criminal proceedings were brought against them for committing a crime. And I got this gentleman who ran a small printing house. He was unlucky to buy some printing machines, and at that time the amount was higher than, if I remember correctly, 1 thousand euros. Now it is, as I see it, almost the equivalent of EUR 4 000. And of course I, as a lawyer, honestly, didn't even know that such a provision had been introduced, but I studied the bill and I said, well, it is. And we defended the man so much that I even suspended the proceedings, caused the court to turn to the Constitutional Court or not to violate the Constitution. Of course, the Court said that everything is okay that the State has the right to such interference. Well, the court's reaction to happiness was so common sense that it accepted my idea of unawareness of the unlawful act justified by the fact that the law had just entered into force, was a complete novelty and that the entrepreneur had no opportunity to adapt to it for lack of legal awareness, because the introduction of such regulations always required time for society to become familiar with it. And luckily, it came to a wise, reasonable judge who thought that there was little social harm to the act, and he cut it off. As far as I know, after that, I think they even gave up on the criminalization of such acts. And now, ladies and gentlemen, we are putting this into tax law, which is a little bit of a back door, by imposing such a restriction that it will not be possible to include in the costs of the transaction that was carried out without the intermediary of the bank. The question is whether the measure used is proportionate and appropriate to the objective we want to achieve. Because we want to achieve this goal: so that taxes on these transactions are paid. Well, my question is this: is it worth it for anyone who conducts business to purchase any goods needed, for example. in production Let's say somebody makes bikes, folds them, and buys some parts. And not to include, not include in the costs of the business, the cost of the purchased parts? Of course, a man like that from a salesman will require him to give him an invoice. And this invoice proves that certain costs have been incurred, which are part of the cost of business. In my view, introducing an additional requirement for payment to be made through the bank only serves the interests of the banks. I remember, at one time, after 1989, I was at a conference at which the then president of Gronkiewicz-Waltz regretted that 60% the public has no bank accounts at all. I then took the floor and said: 'Are you wondering why?' Because 60% of society suffers so much poverty that they can't afford anything to put away, so they don't need bank accounts. The same is true here, in this situation we are dealing with. Well, I have some doubts as to whether the measure actually chosen is appropriate for the purpose we want to achieve. I'm sure the banks will be better off. And you know what kind of practices they're using. I recently met about my bank account for the Senator's office, so, please, that instead of a fee of PLN 6, I started to charge a fee of PLN 50. Well, I'm obviously not gonna let that happen, and it's gonna end in a trial. But, ladies and gentlemen, how many people can defend themselves against the different practices of banks that aim only and exclusively to achieve maximum profit, by all means, per fas et nefas? Therefore, I believe that although the purpose of this law itself is certainly glorious, it should also be considered whether we are actually taking measures proportionate to the objective we want to achieve. As I say... Anyone who conducts business is determined to include in the item "costs" any expenses he incurs and whether he will bear them by hand or by paying through the bank, that is a secondary matter. It's important for him to have an invoice so he can prove he paid. That is why I would be a little skeptical about the principles of this law here and I think it is worth thinking about. I want to add another thing. Ladies and gentlemen, when I saw the headline of this bill that we're supposed to be investigating, I was counting on, to be honest, we're finally going to introduce some pro-family solutions. It would be worth considering a revision of the article. 23. This article, ladies and gentlemen, prohibits the remuneration paid to the spouse who is employed from being included in the cost of economic activity. This is an outrageous provision, in my opinion. I've got a printout here. from 2009 to the year 513 when I applied, with other senators present here, to amend this provision. It was intended to modify it and to include that the costs of the activity should also include the remuneration paid to the spouse employed in such a company. I think that's what we need to think about in the future in order to really be a parliament that is pro-family. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-11-senat-17-1.u130	Thank you very much. And for the second time, Senator Grzegorz Bierecki speaks.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-11-senat-17-1.u131	It'll be short. Mrs. Marshal! Mr. and Mrs. Senators! Well, we're all business friends, as I hear here, but we understand this friendship differently and we want to show it differently. I think that the best thing we can do for entrepreneurs can help them in the future to pay less taxes or help them to benefit, as Polish citizens, from the greater spending of the state on social services. We'll have better roads, better schools, etc. Entrepreneurs will benefit from that too, won't they? Well, that's what we want. And the way that we can lower taxes is to increase the tax base. Increase taxpayers' base. After all, if this gray zone is reduced, we will eliminate unfair competition from people who do not pay taxes, do not provide income to the common budget from which we finance our country and our community. If we eliminate this gray zone, we will have a larger group of taxpayers and there will be more budget revenue. Then maybe we can reduce taxes, or maybe we can find another good place to use these increased budget revenues? The Minister pointed out what measures could be affected by this minor change. I'm not saying And I don't think anybody understands it that way. By means of this law, we will completely eliminate the grey zone. There are other steps to be taken to do this. But if we want to reduce taxes in the future, let's make everyone pay them fair and square. And this is one of the tools for this. So, of course, it is inappropriate to compare the ones that fell here, to the Third Reich or to communism. It's completely inappropriate, because this law has nothing to do with fighting solidarity with communism. Yes? If I was looking for a connection between this law and the spirit, with the ethos of the Solidarity, then it is precisely in such a way that he is going to make us jointly, together, jointly and severally responsible for the Polish state and all will pay fair taxes. And in order to make it easier, we ask entrepreneurs to use bank accounts, because this is how these transactions are recorded, because in this way their activities are transparent, and this is very important to ensure that entrepreneurs fulfil their tax obligations. Protection of personal data. There was a disturbing signal about Norway being recorded... Yes? Surely we would not want it to happen that then, by analysing the transactions carried out by the citizen, there will be sanctions against him. Furthermore, I would like to remind you that in the provisions on the protection of personal data there is a ban on the use This kind of robotization when imposing sanctions on a citizen. So we do not want to let that happen, and here we will protect freedom. And the protection of personal data is an element of civil liberties. We will protect this, but it has nothing to do with cashless trading and the pursuit of eliminating the grey zone. So I'm asking you to accept this bill. She is needed by our country, she is also needed by honest entrepreneurs, those who want to pay taxes. As a result, we will reduce the unfair competition that honest taxpayers are now subject to. So that I ask the senators to support this bill.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-11-senat-17-1.u132	Thank you, Senator. I inform you that the list of speakers has been exhausted. I would like to inform you that you have submitted legislative proposals in writing by Senator Władysław Komarnicki and Senator Robert Dowhan. The discussion is closed. Does a government representative want to respond to the proposals put forward? Thank you, Minister. As legislative proposals have been made, I ask the Committee on Budget and Public Finance and the Committee on National Economy and Innovation to respond to the proposals submitted and to prepare a joint report. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. We proceed with the examination of the third item of the agenda: the Act amending the Law on Public Blood Service and some other laws. The text of the Act is contained in print No 149 and the committee's report In print No 149 A. I would like to ask the rapporteur of the Health Committee, Senator Rafał Silesian, to submit a report to the committee. You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-11-senat-17-1.u133	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! It has been my honor to present to the State a law amending the Act on Public Blood Service and some other laws. Sejm prints No. 294 and 379. The Sejm adopted this law at its 16th meeting on 13 April 2016. It was voted in favour of 444 Members for 447 present. Senate prints 149 and 149 A. Note that I was honored, was not just a rhetorical remark. Today we are talking about a case which, I think, shows the well-being of our societies, and the name of the law itself, the name of the public blood service, is also in some way elevated. Here we are dealing with altruism that manifests the sharing of healthy people in their own blood with sick people. To tell you the truth, if you think about it, it turns out that it is difficult to even explain that a modern - day person who is selfish can share so generously and so generously with another person. Perhaps this is a certain reference and reference to what we have heard today, which is that there is more happiness in giving than there is in taking. Maybe that's an explanation. Of course, you must also be aware that this generosity toward your neighbor 'Cause I think you can use that term 'cause science is making it possible. It wouldn't have been possible if it hadn't been for the discovery in the field of transfusionology. There's a reason I'm gonna call at least one name here for a start. The man who discovered the principles of inheritance in groups A, B and 0 also discovered the role of RH factor in the serological conflict, Louis Hirszfeld. I remind them, especially that there are tendencies to reduce the importance of Polish science and contribute to world science. But, of course, in order for the gift of blood to be a full gift and without any doubt, everything must be subject to standards, quality must be preserved, safety must be assured. And it's important that these standards have some unified supranational character. In 2002, the European Union adopted Directive 2002/98, which regulated all issues of quality and safety related to blood collection, blood testing, blood preparation, storage, distribution and transport. This directive subsequently obtained, in subsequent years, a housing in the form of implementing directives which regulated the information to be provided to the donor before blood collection, the criteria to be met by the donor, how to record, record certain data, how undesirable reactions and events should be avoided. The principle was adopted that blood should be followed from donor to recipient and that it should be regulated and that technical requirements should be met by the laboratory and transported blood, and that quality systems, quality management systems and quality assurance systems should be implemented. This is all part of the directives adopted from 2002 to 2006. The problem is that, on 10 December 2015, the European Commission applied to the Court of Justice against Poland because of the failure to comply with the Treaty obligations, as Poland did not implement these directives into its law. And that's the main reason why we're doing an amendment to the Public Blood Service Act today. The scope of the amendment is very large. But it must also be noted that the amendment was subject to a dictionary in which we describe a number of phenomena occurring in the area of collection, testing, preparation and transport of blood. Consequently, a whole series of articles only amends the existing dictionary, which increases the volume of this amendment. Of course, the amendment introduces in a complete way all the recommendations that were made in these directives, so that we can be sure that we will implement what has been entrusted to us and introduce them into the Polish legal system. In addition, the amendment regulates several additional elements. Such an additional element is the solution to the problem that arose in the case of disabled people, with whom communication is disturbed. It is about how information is to be collected from them, which must be included in an interview with a donor before blood is taken. What is very important in this amendment? An IT system is introduced, covering the whole range of activities and activities in the area of public blood service, called e-blood. The issue of imports into Poland of blood from outside the European Union was regulated, stating that the standard cannot be lower than the one currently in force in Poland. At the request of the Chief Data Protection Officer, the scope of information that should be included in the blood donor's honor card was regulated. In view of the introduction of increased quality systems higher in terms of legal provisions, additional criminal sanctions have been introduced concerning, say, unauthorised blood preparations and the evasion of controls by the relevant institutions. Changes that are compatible with these changes have been introduced, which also introduces this novel. For other laws: the Act on Patients' Rights and the Ombudsperson of Patients, the Act on the Prevention and Control of Infections and Diseases in People, the Act on Pharmaceutical Law and the Act on Personal Income Tax. Several legislative and editorial changes were introduced in the Seym. A rather specific situation has been described in connection with the fact that people with blood clotting disorders have the possibility to report 24 hours a day for help and after removal preparations, at least temporarily, their problems with clotting blood into the field organs of institutions responsible for public blood service. Such a project was sent to the Senate Health Committee, which examined the Law on 19 April. The Legislative Office submitted a number of proposals to this law, which were largely divided by the Ministry of Health and were therefore introduced by the Commission as a proposal for amendments to the Act. These were editorial and legislative amendments, but the Senate Committee also introduced one substantive amendment, removing the automatic transmission of donor data between public blood service institutions and the Polish Red Cross. At the moment, it will require the donor's written consent. Since two legislative issues have not been fully worked out during the Senate Health Committee meeting and have already been announced, I would now like to make such a provision in the form of two amendments, because it is and I would like to give justice to the people who worked on this law at the Ministry of Health at the moment. There's a great will to make this act as good as possible. So there was a lot of openness to our proposals. I would like to thank you for working so well with us, and you did not insist on the records that could be improved. I would also like to point out that the Ministry of Health has taken extremely professional approach to the legislation itself, because it has been delivered with a number of implementing acts to this law, which allowed very much as if to go into the area that we want to regulate. I ask the High House to adopt this law with the amendments proposed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-11-senat-17-1.u134	I thank the rapporteur very much. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the rapporteur's senator. Senator Ambrosik signed up first. Please, Mr. Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-11-senat-17-1.u135	Thank you, Mrs. Marshal. Mr. Senator, I have a question. What is the current number of registered donors of blood in Poland, and is this number growing every year or decreasing?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-11-senat-17-1.u136	This was not the subject of the committee's deliberations. I think you can... There are probably almost 3 million honorary donors, but we refer to the annual parameters, so it's like it's activated or activated in connection with this act of blood donation 600 and 700 thousand honorary donors, and the number of blood donations, which is the number of donations per year. Any blood donor can donate blood several times a year, a man six times, and a woman four times a year is about 1 million 200 thousand.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-11-senat-17-1.u137	I would still like to ask if the amount of blood obtained in Poland is sufficient for the needs of Poles.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-11-senat-17-1.u138	That's a very good question. It can be said that this is to some extent the reason for regulating or introducing an IT system, because sometimes there is an incompatibility of the amount of blood taken with the amount of blood needed, that is, given. And from this point of view, such sensitive summer months are, of course, when there may be fewer blood types in some centers. There is no problem with this blood being completely gone, but then it is required to undertake some logistics projects to deliver blood where it is needed, because it may be available elsewhere.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-11-senat-17-1.u139	One more question, if I may. How much blood in Poland is disposed of annually, and how does this apply to the countries of the European Union? If you don't answer, maybe I'll ask the Minister...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-11-senat-17-1.u140	The problem with blood recycling is... I understand it's about blood being destroyed. You're asking in that sense, aren't you? It's not used. Of course, there's always a percentage... I know the numbers that came up in the NIK report, he was controlling this case. Poland does not deviate from European standards, according to which the amount of recycled blood is 2.5%. It's about 8%. Of course, if it translates into a number of devotions, it turns out that these are already quite large numbers. But one thing to remember is that one blood donation should not be directly linked to one blood transfusion. Blood contains many ingredients, so red blood cells, etc., are considered separately. In this area, I'd say that's probably the most connected with honorary donation. Finally, the symbol of the honorary donor is the red cross, etc. There is virtually no waste beyond this moment when for some reason later it may turn out that blood is not suitable for transfusions or that there have been some processes that prevent it from being passed safely. So that the Polish system... Although this directive or these four directives are only now being implemented, practically all these obligations are fulfilled in Poland. We have not only had legislation in this area, but in terms of functioning this system is now fully compatible with what is happening in European countries. [[Mrs. Marshal, one last question, if I may.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-11-senat-17-1.u141	Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-11-senat-17-1.u142	I have one more question. Is the number of honorary donors rejected increasing or decreasing, and for what reasons?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-11-senat-17-1.u143	That number of people, as far as I know. Once again, I refer to this report. Indeed, it is growing, i.e. We're doing better research... Of course, it is mostly about those who come for the first time, because there is a bigger problem with the primary donor, and a smaller one with multiple ones that have already been studied. In addition, there are obvious phenomena related to globalisation. People travel to different areas that are a certain risk from the point of view of blood transfusions, so there must be a withdrawal period. So someone can come back from such a country and there will be a refusal to take blood. Rather, it is a good system of supervision that shows that some blood donors are eliminated to a greater extent.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-11-senat-17-1.u144	Thank you very much. I'd like to ask you a question, Senator Józef Zając.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-11-senat-17-1.u145	I am fully convinced that the proposed provisions of the Public Blood Service Act should be supported, but I have three problems that I would like to put in the form of questions. The first is: is there any form of compensation for deserved first-degree blood donors, women who have given 15 liters of blood, and men who have given 18 liters of blood, e.g. In the form of free medications? Question two: is it considered to complete the construction of a blood-based drug factory in Mielec? So far these medicines are imported from abroad, and the cost of this import is very high. And question three. It is common practice for hospitals to charge the cost of blood and blood products administered to patients in hospitals by the regional blood donation and blood treatment stations and for subsequent recovery by companies recovering from hospital accounts amounts of some hundreds of thousands of zlotys. It is worth recalling that donors give blood honorably, not for payment. The service of blood, thus blood donation stations, should therefore be financed from the state budget and not carried out commercial activities in relation to hospitals. Is there any action to be taken on this matter? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-11-senat-17-1.u146	You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-11-senat-17-1.u147	These are, of course, issues which were not the subject of the committee's deliberations, except to some extent the first issue that the senator raised, namely compensation for honorary donors. This issue is quite extensive, because also the recommendations of the European Union, and common sense That's how it all came together. just as they argue, however, that it should be an expression of generosity and generosity, so that it would be voluntary blood donation not related to any privileges, even deferred ones. The introduction of additional privileges for honorary donors is, of course, such a risk that it will be the basic motivation for honorary donors, so the point is that this motivation is not strengthened from this side, but that it is based on the belief that it helps. These quarts that you gave refer to the golden blood donor's honor badge and the honor of the blood donor have such a privilege that the drugs are not quite free, but they are medicines with reduced costs, which means they can buy them a little cheaper. There are a number of privileges connected with the act of giving blood, a day off from work, a regenerative meal. But this is related to our legal area only in such a way that we have also modified the Tax Act because there was a record of an equivalent, and we want it to be a record of compensation. And we are introducing this provision to compensate at the present time, so that there is no such conviction that there is an advantage that there is any additional advantage. Some local governments introduce privilege, but with a little higher literature, as far as I know. In different local governments it is set differently Free travel by public transport in the area, say, under the jurisdiction of a given council which may issue such a resolution. I have not heard of projects to extend these privileges and embrace them with honorary donors. That's the answer to question one. In answer to the second question, I can say yes. I think that it would be beneficial for Poland to have its own plasma fractionation factory, it would be beneficial for Polish blood service for many reasons, even because at the moment we have to sell excess plasma and buy products obtained from it. This does not, of course, favour any special independence of Poland from foreign entities. At the same time this situation causes that we are at the moment an area of interest for several companies that supply these blood preparations to Poland, so we can conduct trade talks in order to obtain them cheaply. As far as I know, Poland obtains these preparations cheaply. Nevertheless, I think I would agree with the senator that it would be good for this problem, not for the subject, because this is already a problem with the story that concerned the plasma fractionation plant in Mielec, even though I feel that this is a sensitive subject because of, in short, the scandal that involved it. The money was spent and the money was lost. The question of paying for blood by health care units. Of course, you need to see it a little wider. These institutions receive a state grant, but not enough to fully carry out their tasks, including their statutory tasks, without regulating it in such a way that this blood is at the expense of healthcare establishments. Therefore, the Minister in the regulation sets out the cost and the blood-producing health establishments must bear this in mind. It's definitely a decision. Is this the right solution or not? I think it is conducive to the desirable behaviour of the heads of these institutions in the host of blood. Of course, the economic parameter cannot dominate all of this, but rather the sense of service, but I would not question this solution at the moment. It's a little bit of a compromise, there's a little public money involved, but there's also a little work to be done to make this institution efficient and efficient. That's how I see it.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-11-senat-17-1.u148	Thank you, Senator. Now I ask Senator Andrzej Wojtyla for a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-11-senat-17-1.u149	Thank you very much. [[Voice from the room: Card!]] [[Voice from the room: The card is not inserted.]] I'd like to ask you a few questions. At first, I would go back to the purpose of amending the blood service bill. The directives referred to here by the Ministry are the 2002, 2004 and 2005 Directives. Do we have to update this quickly? I mean, there's been a lot of years to... [[We need to be quick because the European Commission has been reprimanding us so far and has now gone to the tribunal.]] So for the last eight years, this should be done.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-11-senat-17-1.u150	This should have been done earlier, when she was just reproving us, not now that there was a clear conflict. I agree it's late, but I think we're trying to do it as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-11-senat-17-1.u151	I would also like to ask you about the following matter. There are still a number of issues that should be covered by this law. Has the minister been asked if there is any intention to discuss a comprehensive amendment of the bill? Because this bill was passed a few years ago, times have changed a little bit, and I see a lot of issues here that... This law should be amended holistically. Was there also a discussion about the condition of Polish blood service? I know a little bit about it, and I know that what we're trying to improve here, to write down in this bill, that's actually how it works. After all, the quality of our blood and blood replacements is no worse than in Europe. In Article 2, paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: Point 5, paragraph 17, is referred to as the blood immunology lab. It would seem that there would be an end to the blood donation points to date. Is that true or not? In Article 2, paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: The catalogue of sanctions shall be extended in point 1 (27). What is the reason for this? Were there any offences, any crimes that would justify such an extension of this category of sanctions? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-11-senat-17-1.u152	Thank you very much. Please, Senator rapporteur.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-11-senat-17-1.u153	Mr. Senator, yes. As far as I know, the Ministry's intention is to regulate the public blood service in general. In view of the urgency of implementing these directives, the principle is that... Since there are some controversial issues that would require wider arrangements, these controversial issues have been ignored and the amendment discussed has been carried out. She can actually seem huge. Wouldn't it be easier to adopt a new law? Well, there would have to be many additional elements in the new law. We know that it is the ministry's intention to prepare and implement such a bill. But, as I say, because of the haste we're updating the old one. Of course, we talked about the condition of Polish blood service. As I said in my main speech, Polish blood service, despite the lack of these regulations, functions practically as if they were. So we don't have to be ashamed of this area of our country's functioning. I think it's definitely optimistic information. When it comes to blood donation points or blood transfusion immunology labs, because we change the name from the term "serological lab," it's a phrase that's close to everyone who works in health care, because these labs have been called that for years... Now they're going to be called different, because the term "transfusion immunology" seems to better specify the scope of their actions. Nothing will change on this issue, the provisions in question do not pose a threat to those points that have existed so far. And... Sorry, there was a fourth question... Oh, sanctions. I mentioned that, too. We're putting in two articles. Since we impose certain quality standards and establish a person responsible for quality management, it must be a provision which will impose a criminal rule on failure to comply with these standards or to depart from them. We asked if these regulations were the answer to any phenomena. And indeed, there have been such phenomena that someone allowed himself to be prepared for blood without full authority to do so. It is therefore necessary to regulate this issue. There have also been situations where someone has been shunning supervision of this activity by the relevant institutions. That's what we wanted to sanction, this kind of evasion... This is an area that needs to be guarded. That's why there's an extra two records on sanctions.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-11-senat-17-1.u154	Thank you, Senator. And I ask you to ask Senator Arkadiusz Grabowski a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-11-senat-17-1.u155	Mrs. Marshal! Mr Senator, rapporteur! I will point out that I am not a member of the Health Committee, nor am I a doctor. Let me take advantage of your knowledge and experience as a doctor. I have two rather specific questions. One shall apply to Article. Article 15 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 2 laws. I'm talking about giving blood to people over the age of 17 with the consent of legal representatives. I have a question for you as a doctor, which affects the health of people under the age of 18. As a matter of principle, a blood donor can become a person who is 18 years old. What are the solutions in this area in the European Union? Is it practiced to lower this age, and if so, to what level, so to speak? Or, for example, A 15-year-old could be a blood donor in other countries? Is this the result of the directives? My second question is also about art. 15, but lips. 1. It's about foreigners. I met with publications about the fact that foreigners have trouble giving blood to us in the country, because it is, apparently, an obligation to speak Polish to a communicative degree. These people are quite a lot... I also ask this in the context of World Youth Days, for which nearly 2 million foreigners will come to our country, so many are expected. In the current state of law, is it possible that a foreigner will be a blood donor in our country, of course, after fulfilling formal requirements? I think it's also necessary to have a PESEL number, although I'm not sure... If you could zoom in on that, Senator... Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-11-senat-17-1.u156	Thank you very much. I'd like to see the Senator rapporteur.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-11-senat-17-1.u157	The construction of this article determines that you can be an honorary donor if you are over 18 years old. It's a reduction in the previous bill... I think it was over 13 in such special situations. At the moment, we clarify that, in exceptional circumstances, this is possible for people over the age of 17. Such exceptional situations in blood donation may occur in the case of e.g. rare blood types when there is a need to take blood and there is no adult to satisfy the health need of a potential recipient. This is an absolutely unique situation and at this point, according to general medical principles, the risks and benefits are calculated. Blood collection from a person under the age of 18 but over the age of 17 may take place only if, in the opinion of doctors, it is fully safe for this person. There's no risk here... So it's possible. The experience we have at a time when this threshold was lowered even further shows that under the supervision of a doctor The download is always under the supervision of a doctor Such procedures may be carried out. As for foreigners... I did not mention this, but one of the elements of the amendment we are introducing is the possibility of giving blood to people with whom direct communication is difficult. I called the example of deaf people. Another outstanding example is that blind people are willing to give blood. These people, for obvious reasons, have a problem, for example. with filling in the form. So far the records have been, well, quite restrictive, at blood donation points it was not known how to get out of the problem of ensuring the intimacy of such a person, because the questions in the form sometimes enter the sphere that people perceive, and rightly, as an intimate sphere. I'm thinking about sexual behavior or disease issues. This amendment allows the person who wants to give blood and the person who takes blood to determine the rules, how this information will be mentioned. So, in short, if a foreigner comes with a translator and agrees to cooperate with the translator in collecting the interview, then of course he can give blood. The circumstances mentioned by the senator were due to the fact that this issue was unclear and, without wanting to violate the law, refused to draw blood from people with whom it was impossible to communicate sufficiently.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-11-senat-17-1.u158	Thank you very much. And Senator Alicia the Hare:
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-11-senat-17-1.u159	Thank you very much. Blood service is based on two important departments: blood donation and blood treatment. There would be no blood treatment without blood donation. And I would like to ask if the honorary blood donors' organizations were invited to work on this bill. And what kind of organizations were they? My second question. In Article 2, paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: 3 (1) (a) 2 is such a record: state and local authorities, Polish Red Cross, honorary blood donors' organizations, medical entities, etc. They should support the public blood service... But maybe I'll ask the Ministry's representatives that question. What would these activities involve, especially those of the state and local authorities? Because it is known that honorary blood donors' organizations have such activities in their assumptions. That's my third question. The bill will require a certain amount of money. Are those which are presented in the Act for 2017 because the Act enters into force on 1 January 2017 sufficient? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-11-senat-17-1.u160	You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-11-senat-17-1.u161	Thank you. Well, the law has undergone a very broad consultation, and it can be said that a large number of stakeholders could be involved in the opinion of this law. Of course, clubs, honorary blood donors' associations participated, participated... There is a list of associations that may have been involved in the government's submission. So that they were informed, they were informed that such an amendment would appear, and they were able to comment on it. I understand that your second question is already ceding to the Minister. When it comes to expenditures... The highest cost will be linked to the e-blood IT system, which is to be such a register of honorary donors and provide a basis for full insight into what is happening in the public blood service. The Ministry intends to benefit from European funds from the Digital Polish programme, and I think that this proposal has already been sent and there is a chance that it will be considered positively. From what we have learned, it is clear that the calculation of the costs described in this amendment is a safe calculation and there is no risk that it may run out of resources for the implementation of this law.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-11-senat-17-1.u162	Thank you very much. And Senator Krzysztof Frost.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-11-senat-17-1.u163	I have a question for you. I don't know if the senator will be able to answer if that's more of a question for the representatives of the ministry. Especially in the West, in Germany there was a problem of giving blood for payment. Is it monitored somehow, or was it discussed at the committee meeting? What is the scale of this phenomenon? That's the first question. And second question. A few years ago, there was a problem in our area of liquidation of collection points, blood donation, which was replaced by mobile stations, i.e. by a bus, financed by the Ministry of Health. Well, it aroused a huge... They were convinced that this bus would be able to get anywhere, that it would be better. I agree that especially in small towns, this coach is an effective solution. But where there were more possibilities, where the stationary blood collection points were destroyed... As I know, replacing them with a coach has aroused great dissatisfaction among the honorary blood donors. There was a lot of resentment. And will this policy continue? Because, as we all point out here, the honor of the donor, as the name itself says, is honorable, so it's hard to make decisions or actions that raise opposition to the environment. I'm talking about the historical situation in our territory. But is there a problem somewhere, or is it already solved? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-11-senat-17-1.u164	Thank you very much. Please, Mr. Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-11-senat-17-1.u165	I'm from the border area, too, and I've heard about the matter of paying blood in Germany. That wasn't mentioned at the committee meeting. This is somewhat contrary, in my opinion, to what the European Union itself recommends, because it recommends not to recruit honorary blood donors. I don't know if it was some kind of disinvolution of some labs that didn't exactly work under EU law and encouraged Poles to give blood. I am not familiar with any action to investigate this phenomenon and try to counter it. About the so-called. mobile blood collection points, it was me who personally picked them up as some difficulty for an honorary donor because his place of residence suddenly disappeared the collection point, and a bus arrives, which is available in certain, and very narrow, hours, which could, at least can be thought, on the basis of the statements of honorary donors, threaten to reduce the amount of blood collected. The ministry's assessment is that this has not happened, that the amount of blood collected is still sufficient, sufficient, and these mobile blood collection points have not broken the phenomenon of long - suffering, which must be guided by the honor of the blood donor. So, in short, they have endured this inconvenience. In turn, there is a very important practical dimension to such mobile blood collection points. Well, this blood is later tested and prepared in uniform standardized laboratories, because these mobile blood collection points are always connected to one of the regional centers, and this is the quality that we have obtained thanks to the fact that such blood collection mechanisms have been introduced. It seems that in view of Polish experiences, other countries also want to go in this direction, and this would indicate that this solution is good. Although I understand, let's say, the frustration of some donors who have to change their behavior, because what has been convenient so far has become a little nuisance.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-11-senat-17-1.u166	Thank you, Senator. Do any of you senators still have a question for the Senator Rapporteur? You're welcome, Senator Ambrosik.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-11-senat-17-1.u167	Thank you, Mrs. Marshal. Mr. Senator, I'll go back to the article. Article 15 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 2. Does this age restriction result from the directive? [[Age restriction?]] Yes. It says here: over 17 years old.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-11-senat-17-1.u168	Yeah, it's from the directive. Isn't that right, Minister? Because we had a different solution, and we had to raise that age. [[Thank you kindly.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-11-senat-17-1.u169	Thank you. Are there any more questions for the Senator rapporteur? No. Thank you, Senator. Thank you very much. [[Thank you, Mrs. Marshal.]] The bill was filed by the government. The Minister for Health has been authorised to present the government's position during parliamentary work. We have with us today the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Health, Minister Katarzyna Głowala. Hello, Minister, very cordially. I would also like to welcome the Director of the National Blood Centre, Mrs Margaret Lorek. Welcome very cordially to the Minister and the Director. I'd like to ask the senators if you have any questions for the Minister. The questions are. Senator Ambrosik first. You're welcome. I would like to remind you that the senators are now reporting a maximum of one minute's query to the government representative related to this item on the agenda. Madam Minister, I would like to invite you to the podium. The question is Senator Ambrosik.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-11-senat-17-1.u170	Minister, a special document was adopted in Poland in August 2010 which addressed the problem of processing plasma surpluses. It included various options for developing these surpluses and thus obtaining blood products. It was then decided on a variant of plasma processing in Poland. Following the withdrawal of the investor from the construction plans for the factory in 2012, as shown by the audit, the report of NIK I'll read you how it's written. Did the Minister then take any action on the construction of the factory?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-11-senat-17-1.u171	Ladies and gentlemen, I have been Vice Minister for 6 months and I cannot speak for until November 2015, but I can say that as Deputy Minister of Health responsible for Public Blood Service, I have already taken some steps to bring Poland to a situation where it will have a plasma faction factory. But I'd rather not talk about the details, because these are very problematic issues. I can only say that advanced work is underway to ensure that Poland is self-sufficient and that in Poland there is a plasma fractionation factory. [[Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-11-senat-17-1.u172	Thank you very much. And Senator Alicia the Hare.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-11-senat-17-1.u173	Thank you very much. I'd like to go back to blood-gathering and honor-gathering organizations. I know that more than 30% of blood in Poland I do not know if it is commonly known, but it is obtained from honorary donors associated with the Polish Red Cross. What are the other organizations that take second, third, fourth place? I would like to relate this to another question concerning the distinctions and applications for the badge of the Honorary Blood Giver. Decent for the Health of the Nation. From my knowledge, Polish Red Cross has so far been involved in such decorations. I don't have that kind of knowledge. Maybe I'm wrong. That now there will also be other organisations. And then there's the funding. It is known that most blood donors, as I say, have been concentrated for years, registered in the Polish Red Cross. Senators' colleagues here spoke of 10 and 11 liters. In the Polish Red Cross there are blood donors who have already given 110 liters and more and still give blood. So the main burden of this e-blood system, the IT system, will rest on the Polish Red Cross. Will this be included in this funding? Because remember, this is an organization that has actually existed for almost 100 years, and blood donation as a movement has been working for almost 60 years, as part of such a mass movement actually since 1956. And will this funding go in the form of grants? What will this whole process of organizing and transmitting this data be like in the first place? Because they still have to be supplemented, because these collected at the moment are not what they are required... [[Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Health Katarzyna Głowala: Yes, yes.]] ...in the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-11-senat-17-1.u174	You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-11-senat-17-1.u175	To answer the question... This is about art. 3 (1) (a) 2. This provision is now the same as it is in force, but the point is that it has some sort of recommendation for local organisations to support the idea of blood donation. It was a proposal from associations that bring together honorary donors... [[So there's a legal title to support these...]] Yes. It's a matter of getting the local government to organize, for example. Some action of support, handing over gadgets, etc., had the legal basis for supporting the organization in the idea of promoting donation. As far as the Polish Red Cross is concerned, I honestly admit that the Polish Red Cross did not make any comments during the consultation on the issue of entering data. The e-blood system will mainly be used to quickly search for specific blood groups to identify the amount of blood of a given group that is available at a given location, and also, if there is a shortage of this blood group, possibly identify a donor to whom you can call and ask for blood donation. I can tell you from my own experience what it was like when I was in the hospital, I was in surgery. My blood type has been wanted for a very long time, and to find... And it was done on the phone. And the system that we're introducing in the bill is designed to get into this system and quickly identify the amount of blood available, as well as a donor who could come and give blood at a certain point. As for the transmission in some form to the Polish Red Cross... The point is, we're still in the middle of... I know that the proposal on the system has been formally evaluated and is now waiting for a substantive evaluation. And depending on how this is decided by the European Commission, what will be the decision... Then we can talk to specific organisations about the scope of data input. And I think if... if I suspect they might... But it is difficult for me to say this today, because, as I say, it is a matter of when the European Commission will examine the proposal. Then, once we know the specific costs and we know what it's gonna look like... In the course of the work, it will probably all be settled.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-11-senat-17-1.u176	I'm very sorry, Mrs. Marshal, but I want to make the Minister aware of a very important thing. Well, the whole movement of honorable blood donation is a social movement. There are simply no people who have paid salaries for the organization of this structure. That's why without special measures, it's just... It's gonna be really hard to do in... a year, right? [[Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Health Katarzyna Głowala: Yes.]] The transfer of all this matter, the knowledge of many years. Because, as I say, it's been almost 60 years, in some regions maybe less... 18 April 2016 The Polish Red Cross sent comments on the hands of Katarzyna Głowali, Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Health.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-11-senat-17-1.u177	Mrs. Senator, but that was after the project went to government work. Therefore, it was not possible to take into account any changes in the impact assessment. Because it was even at the stage after... the project was already at the stage of the Seym. Therefore, the change in construction, the calculation of costs could not be... It could not have been introduced at the time, because it had already been submitted to the European Commission, and therefore it was not possible to... And, as I say, this handwriting was really late. The Polish Red Cross submitted this letter with a large, long delay. [[I'm so sorry.]] [[The meeting is chaired by Deputy Marshal Bogdan Borusewicz]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-11-senat-17-1.u178	Thank you very much. Senator Andrzej Wojtyla. There you go, Mr. Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-11-senat-17-1.u179	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. I have a few questions for the Minister. This amendment talks about the eHealth system... [[Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Health Katarzyna Głowala: E-blood.]] ...e-blood. We have been preparing the ICT system, the ICT platform for many years and, as far as I know, it will not be used due to negligence in the last few years. It was 800 million... Did the e-blood system we're creating enter that platform too? I suppose not, because we can perform again... Which means he wasn't part of this platform. That's the first question. Second thing. I have comments on the qualifying standards for the cell manager. There are various competitions, among others. physicist. I don't know if a physicist should deal with such things at a blood donation station; I'm not talking about medical, pharmaceutical or even a biologist's profession. In the amendment of the Act we operate the definition of accreditation. Accreditation is generally a voluntary system throughout the world. From what I've read here, it's more like certification, not accreditation, because accreditation is something voluntary. If the establishment concerned Whether it's an industrial plant or a health care establishment It wants to, it voluntarily undergoes accreditation and it kind of distinguishes it from other establishments. And from what I've read here, it's clear that all those bets that turn blood should be establishments with appropriate certificates and shouldn't be accredited. Explain this matter to me. And the next thing. In Article 2, paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: Article 11 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 2 It is said that: At the request of the Institute, the Minister responsible for Health will determine, by regulation, rare blood groups, etc. The Institutes subject to the Ministry of Health are 16. Which one of the institutes... I think it should be the Institute of Hematology and Transfusion. But why isn't it written here that this is the Institute of Transfusionology and Hematology, just some institute? I mean, there's a risk that there's gonna be some kind of private institute that's gonna be able to do this kind of thing. It's obviously up to the top... But why isn't it written here that this is an institute of transfusionology and immunology? And here's another thing. The Senator rapporteur spoke about the fact that we will be working on a broader revision of this law. Do you think that the NCK, the National Blood Center, should be included in the Institute of Hematology and Transfusion? Institutes... How it was created, among others. The Institute of Hematology and Transfusion, it was he who was designed to define standards of conduct in the field of blood processing and marketing covering the whole of Poland, and he was to carry out tasks as if state. At the moment, in the current legal system, such tasks may be entrusted to an institute which is a state research institute. Does the Ministry think about this solution? Right now, there's kind of an organizational duality. There's the National Blood Center and the Hematology Institute... Instead of carrying out state tasks, the Institute of Hematology organizes in its structures such cells that are profitable for it in terms of contract with the National Health Fund. That's where the surgical units are formed, the angiology. I think that it is necessary to return to this, so that the institute is also one of the entities that effectively and organizationally supervises the service of blood in Poland. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-11-senat-17-1.u180	Thank you, Senator. There you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-11-senat-17-1.u181	As far as the e-blood system is concerned, it's not... The P1 system does not contain an e-blood system. This is a separate system. Most likely... It's just so mine, let's say, the dream of the e-blood system being connected to the P1 system in the future because it's supposed to be a whole complex, so... But, as I say, whether or not this solution comes out is probably a matter of years to come. As regards accreditation, the concept of accreditation remained because it was in the 1997 Act. Most likely, on the occasion of a large, comprehensive amendment of the law, all of this will be changed. We are planning to set up a team that will deal with a comprehensive analysis of the Public Blood Service Act, and this issue will probably be corrected. As far as the Institute of Hematology is concerned, it is currently outside the public finance sector. And the National Blood Centre is a budgetary unit that, on behalf of the Minister of Health, carries out tasks relating to public blood service. And in fact, the institute is just a substantive entity that supports the minister in the field of... And the question of whether the institute will absorb or the NCK... I think it's hard to answer that question today. This will be examined in the context of a major revision of the law, changing the whole system of public blood services.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-11-senat-17-1.u182	Thank you. I ask you to ask Senator Józef Zając.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-11-senat-17-1.u183	Minister, Mr. Marshal, the medical world is very intelligent in defending itself against modern computerization. If you're watching this, you can write some interesting stories about it. And the question is, would blood donation be able to be computerized? Because you can see a lot of problems, a lot of things that I could use to say, have in one hand, especially for you, at your disposal... You wouldn't have to do blood tests, blood type tests, etc. every now and then. When you go somewhere, to some station, they send you to a doctor, the doctor takes out the cards, translates... I think we're a little behind here somewhere. I'm counting on your youth in this case. Young people view such matters differently. Is what I'm asking possible?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-11-senat-17-1.u184	Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-11-senat-17-1.u185	Mr. Senator, yes. These issues have been analysed and I am convinced today that the project has the chance to enter into force and function well.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-11-senat-17-1.u186	Thank you, Minister. Mr. Senator... [[Voice from the room: Alicia.]] Oh, I'm sorry. Senator Alicia the Hare. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-11-senat-17-1.u187	Excuse me, Minister, once again I'm asking this question, maybe a little bit of a changed form. In one of the articles of the bill, we talk about honorary blood donors, and a little further away. It's about honorary blood donors' associations. I would like to get information about which I also asked the Senator of the rapporteur: what are the organizations, apart from the Polish Red Cross, the relatives, the Association of Honorary Blood Donors of the Republic of Poland or the clubs at the Polish Scouts Association? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-11-senat-17-1.u188	Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-11-senat-17-1.u189	Can I reply in writing? [[You're welcome.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-11-senat-17-1.u190	Then you're Senator Rafał Ambrozik.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-11-senat-17-1.u191	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Minister, I have a question. I'm gonna go back to the NIK report on the blood donation system and the blood treatment system. During the survey a survey was conducted among blood donors. They pointed out that the main motivation to give blood is to help other people. Nearly 90% of donors responded to this response. As a basic source of information about the idea of honorary blood donation, they most often pointed out family and friends, school or study and work, and only less than 3% The staff of a blood center or health care service. Only over 5% surveyed about the idea of honorary blood donation learned from the mass media, but at the same time as 60% The surveyed considered the most effective form of popularization and promotion of blood donation to be this form, the media. Does the Ministry provide for any action to promote blood donation, even through public television, which could thus carry out its mission?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-11-senat-17-1.u192	Thank you, Senator. There you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-11-senat-17-1.u193	Yeah, I'm off the phone with the president of TVP. The Ministry of Health has prepared many spots that will be broadcast on television. I can invite your senators cordially to the National Stadium on 11 June, where there will be a great action organized by me and by the National Blood Centre promoting the idea of an honorary donor. We're starting the so-called. a red thread campaign to be run in schools among young people. We're starting to promote the idea of honorary donation. [[What schools?]] Basics, as well as junior high.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-11-senat-17-1.u194	Thank you. Senator Robert Dowhan.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-11-senat-17-1.u195	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Excuse me if I repeat the question, but I wasn't in the O.R. for a while. I want to ask you about the e-blood system. Another thing. Since blood transport hasn't been regulated so far, how do you do that? did it take place, how it was controlled, whether it was done under appropriate conditions? And one more question. At the moment, trained nurses and midwives are entitled to blood transfusions. Why don't they have a paramedic?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-11-senat-17-1.u196	Thank you, Senator. There you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-11-senat-17-1.u197	As far as the e-blood system is concerned, blood transport is functioning and specially equipped cars are used. The e-blood system is intended to speed up the response to the needs of a given unit that lacks blood. We enter the system and see where the blood type is, where we can find it. A hospital that needs blood for surgery or in other emergency situations will be able to identify where in the immediate vicinity it will find the type of blood it needs. If there's not enough blood, there'll be information about where the donor is with this type of blood type. You'll be able to ask that donor to give blood immediately. The second question was about medical rescuers. We're thinking about it, we're analyzing... This is not obvious, and therefore some analyses are needed.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-11-senat-17-1.u198	Senator Dowhan would like to ask you another question.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-11-senat-17-1.u199	I have one more question. Last one, I promise. Does this law include cord blood?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-11-senat-17-1.u200	No. umbilical blood issues are regulated under another law.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-11-senat-17-1.u201	Thank you. There are no more questions. Thank you, Minister. I would like to inform you that a government representative has undertaken to give a written answer to the question asked by Senator Alicia Hare. I'm opening a discussion. Please take the floor of Senator Thomas Grodzki.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-11-senat-17-1.u202	Mr. Marshal! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! I must say that I listened with great curiosity and interest to this substantive discussion and questioning session. By the way, I must point out that for the first time in a long time, the questions were asked by representatives of the ruling party, not representatives of the opposition, but that's good, because the blood has no political colors, except that it's very red, and when you look at it under a microscope, it looks different. This is an important bill, and I fully agree with the opinion of the rapporteur, Senator Silencer, because every now and then the world has been shaken by various matters relating to the service of blood. Some even claimed that the AIDS epidemic wouldn't spread so fast if we didn't carry HIV through blood. In general, Poland against the background of negligence in the field of blood service in other countries, despite all the imperfections mentioned here by the senators, has always come out not worst, defensive hand from this type of turbulence associated with great damage to the sick. Many topics have been raised here, including the issue of paying by hospitals, the blood donation of young people, buses for blood collection, etc., but it can generally be said that this regulation is another step in the right direction, progress. An outstanding Polish hematologist, Professor Jędrzejczak, said in one of the interviews that Polish blood was never so safe. She's getting safer, although we have to remember that blood is a miracle medicine that often saves lives, which I personally experienced by operating on severely bleeding patients, but at the same time it's a dangerous drug. I propose to treat this regulation, once as a formal adaptation to EU requirements, and two, more importantly, as a further step in the pursuit of perfection, in terms of Polish blood collection at Polish blood donation points. I think that we are still far from what you have been polite to raise, and we will probably have to carry out further improvements to this law after a shorter or longer period of time regardless of EU requirements. Regardless of this, I would like to thank the Ministry for taking this regulation relatively quickly, for having carried out a relatively broad consultation, which is not often the case, which is not the case with many laws, Senator Silesian, for presenting in a very compact form a report, and also you for an interesting discussion. I would like to say that, with all the minor reservations that this document raises, the Civic Platform Club will generally not oppose this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-11-senat-17-1.u203	Thank you, Senator. Please take the floor of Senator Robert Dowhan.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-11-senat-17-1.u204	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. I want to thank you, too, first of all. If an expert like the senator Grodzki speaks positively and so most senators also say, it is certainly a good bill and of course we will vote yes. I also want to show you that I've had an episode in my life, although I'm very afraid of needles. Well, when we had such a very drastic test at school, we went with half the class to give blood, because in this way we were to have a very strong justification. I experienced it very strongly, and later I wondered many times whether to give blood or not, but somehow I didn't feel up to it, although I was perfectly healthy. I also want to show you that this is also a great social movement. Well, on the occasion of running a sports club, several times we have organized the arrival of a bus to collect blood and give the opportunity to give blood to fans and, the other way around, for example. free entry to one of the events organized by our club. And what I'm trying to say is that every time the size of an action like this went through any of our imaginations. Was the propulsion engine the ticket offered to enter the sports facility? We don't really know that. I think it might have been the cause, but not the big one. Surely there was also a desire to help, solidarity, and the fact that it was under the slogans of the sports club that this blood was given. And that's what this was all about. I know, too. I don't have the exact numbers right now, but I don't think they're needed here. The fact that such actions were so successful that our Lubuskie branch had so much blood in store that after the collection he gave it to other centers that needed this blood. I'm sure there's a big bow here. Today, too, I want to thank all those who have given blood and will give it back, because this is certainly a great challenge. Everyone can't afford it. I'm a good example of that, because fear of the needle and before the blood runs out, I've got it encoded somewhere. But there is certainly a great social movement in this area, and it is good that this is going in this direction. It is also good that we regulate and adjust the rules so that the blood can be tracked. That there are special codes... This is certainly valuable and will facilitate communication. This will also make it easier to standardize blood transport. Sometimes we see cars bearing the inscription "Blood," driving on sound signals, and hopefully they carry the blood they need immediately and that it goes in the right direction. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-11-senat-17-1.u205	Thank you, Senator. Please take the floor of Senator Andrzej Wojtyla.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-11-senat-17-1.u206	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. High Senate! I would also like to thank the Ministry for preparing the bill. It is a pity that this draft law implements the directives that came out of the European Parliament in 2002, 2004 and 2005, so that it is only now that the European Union is at risk of financial sanctions that this is being implemented. I would also like to confirm that actually what we write in this little one, as I understand it, is an amendment. 'Cause that's the need for a moment. In Poland it already works mostly. Because it's a long-term process. In 1993 I worked on a program to secure Poland's blood and blood replacements, and then we designed such a plasma fractionation plant to make it profitable. There were even signed agreements with the Ukrainian government to take account of the larger population of people, so that we in Poland would fractionate this blood and not take it outside for a few pennies and then pay heavy money to those who fractionate this blood. It is very good that, as the Minister said, the government goes back to the subject, because after the incident with the plasma faction factory, none of the later governments wanted to grasp it because it was very dangerous, especially politically. This amendment must be supported, but I hope that there will also be a large law amending the 1997 Act or a completely new law, because, over the years, the reality has changed completely since 1997. Technological progress is worldwide, also in Poland, and therefore this law must be amended. We're talking about a so-called wake-up system, a shame, so that in the case of blood service there are no rules that are written, for example. in the Food Safety Act, in relation to the HACCP system. Because it's nothing more than a specific HACCP system that tracks how blood is moved so that if there are any threats, it can reach the one who gave the blood. That's what it's all about. Of course, all these provisions should be supported, but I hope that the Ministry will be working on a new law on public blood service and for example. it will solve this duality between the National Blood Centre and the Institute of Hematology and Transfusionology. The Institute of Hematology and Transfusion was... Not everything that was called back in the old days was stupid. It was referred to in such a way that he cared for, supervised the Institute of Hematology and Transfusionology, because he had scientific, laboratory, substantive and organizational facilities. It's been separated for different reasons, but right now it's time to get back to it. This is a legal possibility, it is a state research institute, which is a research institute, it is not really subject to public finance, but it is carrying out state tasks, such as. National Veterinary Institute in Puławy. It is financed in the field of state tasks, is cleared and controlled, supervised by the Ministry of Agriculture and carries out State security tasks concerning e.g. infectious diseases. The next issue is that we should fractionate the plasma in Poland. This is not just a financial issue, it is also a question of our defence security. If we were to be cut off from plasma fractions abroad right now, we'd be vulnerable, and that's a huge threat. A lot of times you have to... Of course, financial considerations must be taken into account, but defence issues must also be taken into account. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-11-senat-17-1.u207	Thank you, Senator. Please take the floor of Senator Alicia Hare.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-11-senat-17-1.u208	Mr. Marshal! Minister! Director! Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! It is good that we are discussing such a special law in this House. It is also a promotion of honorary blood donation. I would like to say from this place that for many years I have been working with honorary blood donors in Podkarpacie. And there we created some very interesting programs to get new blood donors. The first programme in Poland, which was called the Social maturity certificate, is conducted in agreement with the education curatorium. He was temporarily suspended, but now we're reactivating him to include giving blood to young people after he was 18 years old. Why is it so important? Because the signs of lack of blood are usually received during the holiday period, when there are no young people. Because well-functioning regional blood donation and blood treatment centres, in cooperation with honorary blood donors' organisations, do not have blood supply problems because they know their donors, they can reach them, and often people working there on the phone can download a blood donor with a rare blood group. Often people who work long in blood centers know the name, the name of the donor and his blood type, just a rare blood type, because to them he is also a valuable person. And I would like to thank all honorary blood donors, ladies, who also give blood in these ranks, of course, to minorities and men to donors, but also to all those who work in regional blood centers and blood treatments. We have just experienced some anxiety in recent years when we have seen changes in the functioning of these centers, when regional facilities were being removed, and when we have often heard signals from blood donors that they, coming to the point, will be informed that blood will no longer be collected from them today. Often they are people commuting from the area where the centers are located. After intervention, such situations did not take place later. I am therefore very pleased that the Ministry will continue to work on these issues. I highly recommend to the Minister these new programs. Finally, I will mention also a very well-accepted program with a pretty name, Firefighters in honorable blood donation. The fire rescuer, the hot blood. Volunteer firefighters and firefighters at the State Fire Department are active donors and have established honorary donors' clubs, where we can get blood from. Looking at Professor Grodzki, I would like to say that blood is a priceless gift, and yet what the Professor did not say: you cannot replace blood with another medicine. Blood is just blood, the gift of life. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-11-senat-17-1.u209	Thank you, Senator. [[My blood!]] Hot? [[Joy in the Chamber]] [[Voice from the room: Hot.]] [[I mean, Senator Hare is like my blood.]] Okay, Mr. Senator. I would like to say that the list of speakers has been exhausted. You have made proposals of a legislative nature to Senator Rafał Sillysmith. The discussion is closed... I'm sorry. For the record, Senator Rafał Ambrozik made his speech in the minutes. The discussion is closed. Is the representative of the government, Deputy Minister Katarzyna Głowala, willing to respond to the proposals put forward? [[Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Health Katarzyna Głowala: No.]] Thank you very much. As legislative proposals have been made, I ask the Health Commission to respond to the proposals submitted and to prepare a report. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. We proceed with the examination of the fourth item of the agenda: the Act on ratification of the Agreement on social security between the Government of the Republic of Poland and the Government of Quebec, signed in Quebec on 3 June 2015. The text of the Act is contained in print No 145 and the committee's report In print No 145 A. I would like to ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Family, Senior and Social Policy and the Committee on Foreign Affairs and the European Union, Senator Antoni Szymański, to present a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-11-senat-17-1.u210	Mr. Marshal! Minister! Mr. Senators and gentlemen of the Senators! I have the honour to present the position of the Committee on Foreign Affairs and the European Union and the Committee on Family, Senior and Social Policy on the Law on the ratification of the Agreement on Social Security between the Government of the Republic of Poland and the Government of Quebec, signed in Quebec on 3 June 2015. The reason for this agreement is that Quebec has a separate social security system from Canada as a whole. Therefore, a significant part of Polonia has resided in Canada in Quebec province is deprived of the possibility to benefit from the provisions of the Polish-Canadian social security right agreement in force since 2009, since it does not apply to persons covered by the pension scheme in Quebec. This agreement is in line with international standards and is based on the basic principles of coordination of social security systems, i.e. principles: equal treatment, export of benefits, preservation of acquired rights, aggregation of insurance periods required to acquire or maintain the right to benefits. The agreement deals with vitally important issues such as old age benefits, incapacity for work, accidents at work and occupational diseases, or death-related benefits such as benefits funeral or family pensions. The lack of possibility for the Polish community in Quebec to benefit from the provisions of the Polish-Canadian agreement in force since 2009 aroused dissatisfaction and allegations of unequal treatment of Polonia living in different provinces of Canada. The implementation of this agreement will undoubtedly have a positive impact on the image of the Republic of Poland as caring for Canadian Polonia. Polish citizens entering or moving within the territory of the Member States of the European Union, the European Economic Area and the Swiss Confederation have similar guarantees of protection, as well as those with which the Republic of Poland joins bilateral insurance or social security agreements. The Senate Legislative Office did not submit any comments to the present law. Following the presentation at the meeting of the Joint Committees of the essence of the law and a brief discussion, a vote was held in which all present senators voted in favour of the bill; no one voted against, no one opposed it. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-11-senat-17-1.u211	Thank you very much, Senator. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the rapporteur's senator. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? No. I'm the one who wants to ask. There's a question for the senator. [[Mr. Marshal...]] Yeah, yeah, I want to ask you a question. Is this the first agreement between the Polish government and the province of one of the countries? Quebec is a province. Do we have any other contracts like this? What I'm trying to say is... well, answer the question of whether it's...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-11-senat-17-1.u212	I'm the committee's rapporteur, and I remember that this question didn't come up at the committee meeting, it wasn't explained... [[Thank you. I'll ask the minister's question.]] I assume that the Minister who is present will be able to answer the question of whether similar situations have taken place in other provinces.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-11-senat-17-1.u213	Thank you very much. [[Thank you.]] The bill was filed by the government. The Minister for Foreign Affairs and the Minister for Family, Labour and Social Policy were authorised to present the government's position during parliamentary work. Since there is only a representative of the Ministry of Family, Labour and Social Policy, I would like to ask you my question. There you go. Shall I repeat that question? No. Minister, Undersecretary of State Marcin Zielenecki.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-11-senat-17-1.u214	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! As far as social security contracts are concerned, this is an unprecedented agreement. This is the first of the agreements concluded with the province, i.e. with the part of the Federation State, Canada. The reasons for this are as follows. An international agreement was concluded with Canada in 2008. And this agreement includes an article. 27, which provides that it is possible to conclude a separate social security agreement with those provinces of Canada which have a separate social security system. Since Quebec has such a separate social security system, the parties, i.e. the Government of the Republic of Poland and the Government of Quebec, have benefited from this mandate contained in the 2008 agreement with Canada. The aim is to avoid unequal treatment of Polonia living in the province of Quebec in relation to Poles or people of Polish origin who live in other provinces of Canada. And if we look at this issue from a broader perspective, that is, from the perspective of international agreements on other issues in general, then such agreements with parts of the state, usually Federation, were concluded earlier. So that this is not a situation that has not occurred before. [[I understand that this agreement previously concluded in 2008 with Canada was not in force in the province of Quebec. Yes?]] Yes, because the scope of this agreement included provinces in which Canada's social security system was in force. The province of Quebec has a separate social security system, only for people living in the territory of the province. It can be said that this agreement did not cover persons covered by this separate social security scheme. [[It's about the French-speaking Polonia.]] Yes, sir. [[It's not that they speak French, it's that I understand there's a separate security system at all.]] I mean, the issues of a certain tradition play a role here. It can be said that Quebec is a province that operates in a certain tradition of continental Europe. Continental Europe is a classic social security system. The rest of Canada is in line with the Anglo-Saxon tradition. These solutions in the area of social security are characteristic for the countries of the Anglo-Saxon tradition, so I would say in general. So that the issues of a certain tradition matter.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-11-senat-17-1.u215	Thank you, Minister. Mr. Senator Czerwinski.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-11-senat-17-1.u216	Does Quebec province, in addition to a limited international subjectivity, I understand, with regard to the specifics of social security, have such limited international subjectivity elsewhere? Are we gonna make any more deals with this province? Because it's pretty interesting from our point of view.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-11-senat-17-1.u217	You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-11-senat-17-1.u218	I can't answer that question. That's actually a question for the Foreign Minister. The situation is that the province of Quebec simply has a separate government. The agreement that we are now concluding or which we are going to ratify is not an international agreement. I draw your attention to the terminology used by this agreement, as well as the Act of 13 April authorising the President to ratify this agreement. We're talking about a deal. Right? It's not a random term. This is an agreement. And this is an agreement that has the rank of an intergovernmental agreement, not an international one. So that the question of the Treaty capacity of the province of Quebec was the subject of a fairly thorough analysis of lawyers. It can be said that from some of the expertise that has been prepared, this subjectivity, this limited Treaty capacity of the province of Quebec, is actually derived from three sources. I mean, first of all, with the art. 27 Polish-Canadian agreement on social security, which I mentioned, which clearly indicates the possibility of such a separate agreement concerning one province. Secondly, the constitution of Canada. There are provisions in the Constitution that relate to this issue. These expert reports also refer to, generally speaking, Canadian regulations. The third issue and the related doubt that arose during the legislative work on the draft law concerned the procedure to be followed for an intergovernmental agreement, but concerning social security. The question arose as to whether this ratification procedure, with the consent granted by law, should apply here at all. It decided on the content of the article. 89 constitutions. The same procedure as for international agreements on social security issues was considered to apply.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-11-senat-17-1.u219	Thank you, Minister. I have one more question I want to ask you. The Federation structure is not only Canada, it is here, it is not such a precedent, the Federation structure has the Federal Republic of Germany, it has Brazil. Yes? [[One system.]] I get it, it's not going to be a precedent when it comes to, for example. The Federal Republic of Germany, because here I would be afraid of this... There's one system out there.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-11-senat-17-1.u220	Yes, sir. There is one social security system, traditional, bismarcowski and there is virtually no room to conclude separate agreements e.g. for persons living in individual lands. For this reason, I have talked about such an unprecedented situation, precisely because of the distinctness of the social security system that is in force in the province of Quebec. As I said, we do not have examples of other agreements which in the area of social security would apply only to part of the country. I asked the representatives of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs about this, and I received an answer that such agreements, international agreements from other areas, concerning matters which, in some sense, fall within the scope of some isolated part of the country, usually of a federation nature, were concluded earlier.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-11-senat-17-1.u221	Thank you. Senator Szymanski.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-11-senat-17-1.u222	Minister, the agreement between the Republic of Poland and Canada was signed in 2009. Polonia lived in Quebec Province. Why is it taking so long? Why is the rather obvious thing done only in 2016? After all, it was known from the beginning that this population group, Polonia, which lived in Quebec, had to be included, and many years passed.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-11-senat-17-1.u223	You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-11-senat-17-1.u224	I can't answer that question. The Polish-Canadian Agreement was actually signed in 2008 and entered into force on 1 October 2009. As regards the agreement we are discussing today, it was signed on 3 June 2015, so that it can be said that it has been about 6 years since the entry into force of the Polish-Canadian agreement. I can tell you what considerations have decided that work has now been done to ratify this agreement. I think that it was largely the pressure of Polish people living in Quebec, who simply felt hurt by the fact that when applying for pension benefits under Canadian law they could not take into account the earlier periods of insurance, those from the Polish social security system. I think that this has largely decided that last year work was started on ratifying this agreement, signing it and ratifying it.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-11-senat-17-1.u225	Mr. Senator Czerwinski. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-11-senat-17-1.u226	Minister, as far as the act itself is obvious, this shell, incidentally, is quite interesting. The first question is this. Do you know And if you don't, I'd ask you to fill in a written reply, because you're not from this department. Other cases of intergovernmental agreements that need ratification? Our constitution does not foresee this, it only talks about international agreements, there are various degrees listed, among others. agreements which require ratification. Second line. Do we have the option of agreeing to ratify such an agreement if this is not provided for by the Constitution? It is about applying the procedure for international agreements to the agreement between the two governments. It has a status lower than the international agreement. And one last thing. If this is what life requires I understand that this is about securing the Polonia living in Quebec, but the constitution does not regulate it... What then? [[Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Family, Labour and Social Policy Marcin Zielenecki: I will try to explain this.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-11-senat-17-1.u227	There you go. And will the president have to sign this? Does the president sign this? It's such an additional question from me to you about Senator Czerwinski's question.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-11-senat-17-1.u228	What decided that this procedure, i.e. the need to adopt a law allowing us to do so, I think that here we cannot talk about the obligation to ratify - The president. Has the President's authorisation to ratify this agreement been applied? I agree that the Constitution does not directly regulate issues relating to the conclusion of such intergovernmental agreements or intergovernmental agreements. However, we must bear in mind that this intergovernmental agreement or this intergovernmental agreement concerns matter which is regulated by law. In Article 2, paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: 67 Constitutions have the right to social security. In the mouth. 1 and 2 for the various risks guaranteed by the social security system... The second sentence states that the scope and principles of social security are laid down by law. So it's a matter reserved for a normative act of the nature of a law. Because this bilateral agreement concluded with the province of Quebec in a sense interferes... affects the matter constitutionally reserved for the law, that is social security issues, e.g. Taking into account the periods of insurance achieved in Canada when determining the right to benefit under Polish law, summing up those periods, was adopted quite unanimously in terms of interpretations or opinions which were formulated during the legislative process, that in this case the procedure should be followed as in the case of international social security agreements, i.e. contracts for which a statutory authorisation is necessary. This is the logic of the legal reasoning contained in the expert reports that have been formulated in this regard. [[May I, Mr. Marshal?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-11-senat-17-1.u229	There you go, Mr. Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-11-senat-17-1.u230	As to whether there were other cases, I would ask for an answer in writing. [[Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Family, Labour and Social Policy Marcin Zielenecki: In writing, yes, sir.]] I would ask you to include in this reply copies of these expertises, which, as I say, have aligned the procedure for this agreement with the procedure used for the international agreement. What arguments were used? It's kind of interesting.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-11-senat-17-1.u231	Thank you, Minister. [[Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Family, Labour and Social Policy Marcin Zielenecki: Thank you.]] There are no more questions. I'm opening a discussion. Please take the floor of Senator Robert Dowhan. [[An expert on everything.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-11-senat-17-1.u232	Dear Marshal, Dear Senator Mammoths! Maybe not an expert, but I've been reading... I'll repeat after the Minister and tell him we're in a historic moment, because so far... [[Mr. Senator, don't answer the benches.]] It's a nice fight. I like the senator very much... [[I love you, too.]] We're at a historic moment because we haven't signed such a deal so far. You can take it back, in a way, of course, because reality is quite different... It's kind of like we live here. in Lubusek, which has a contract signed with Rzeczpospolita Polska and has also signed a separate agreement with some country, because some other system is established. It's a little out of line with our reality, and yet in many countries, even in Canada, it's possible. For the record, I'm going to give you some information that didn't come up here. Maybe not everyone knows, but Quebec is the largest province in Canada in terms of surface area, and as far as the population is concerned, it only disappears Ontario. It is also worth noting that the only official language is French, and many people in this province do not speak English at all. It's kind of weird because... well, it's hard not to know, you can say, the native language that English is for these people. According to the encyclopedia, many English people do not know and do not need it at all, because the official language, surprisingly, is French. [[There's two in Canada...]] [[There are two in Finland, too.]] And in Finland there are two... It was Russian in Ukraine, and today it's gone. [[It's Russian in Ukraine.]] [[There it is.]] Is he still Russian as an official? [[Not as an official, but...]] That's what I'm talking about. Quebec is divided into 17 administrative regions with significant differences in the area. Interestingly, this region has a thriving economy that generates over $240 billion a year... [[Canadian.]] ...and alongside traditional sectors also includes the high technology industry. You could say it's such a country in a country. Looking at this incredible revenue that is generated, I am very grateful. I am happy to sign this agreement between our government and this province. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-11-senat-17-1.u233	Thank you, Senator. I inform you that the list of speakers has been exhausted. For the record, Senator Maciej Łuczak has made his speech to the minutes. I also inform you that the Minister has committed himself to answering in writing the questions of Senator Jerzy Czerwiński. The discussion is closed. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. We proceed with the examination of the fifth item of the agenda: the Act amending the Employment Promotion Act and the Labour Market Institutions Act, the State Labour Inspection Act and the Act implementing certain European Union provisions on equal treatment. The text of the Act is contained in print No 164 and the report of the Commission In print No 164 A. I would like to ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Family, Senior and Social Policy, Senator Alexander Swede, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-11-senat-17-1.u234	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour to present a report on the meeting of the Committee on Family, Senior and Social Policy, which on 10 May worked on the amendment of the Act on Employment Promotion and Employment Market Institutions, the Act on State Labour Inspection and the Act on the implementation of certain provisions of the European Union in the field of equal treatment. The proposed amendment is a government project, and the draft was presented to the Sejm by Bożen Boris-Szopa at the committee meeting. The government represented e.g. Deputy Minister of Family, Labour and Social Policy Stanisław Szwed. The essence of the proposed amendment is the introduction of Directive 2014/54/EU of the European Parliament and of the Council of 16 April 2014 on measures to facilitate the exercise of rights conferred on workers in the context of their free movement in the field of the Polish rules not yet regulated. The law was passed by the Sejm at its 17th meeting, voted in favour of it by 436 Members, 1 Member opposed and 2 abstained. The Act was adopted in the form of a government submission amending the title of the Act and minor legislative amendments. The Act extends the scope of legal advice provided by the State Labour Inspection to workers who are nationals of other countries of the European Union and of the European Economic Area in Poland and extends the competence of the Minister responsible for Labour by giving the function of the Contact Point and the task of monitoring and applying the provisions of Regulation No 492/2011 as regards equal treatment of mobile workers in the European Union and the European Economic Area. As Directive 2014/54/EU prohibits discrimination on grounds of nationality, Article is amended. 1 Act on the implementation of certain provisions of the European Union on equal treatment by adding paragraph 1 to it. 2 providing that the provisions of the Act relating to nationality apply mutatis mutandis to the nationality of persons enjoying the free movement of workers. The Senate Legislative Office notified at the committee meeting 2 amendments relating to the prohibition of discrimination on grounds of nationality. In the opinion of the Bureau, the amendment was also required by Article. 2a Act on the Promotion of Employment and Employment Market Institutions and Art. Article 2a (2) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013 shall apply. 1 Act on the social security system. In the opinion of the Government which consulted on this issue at the stage of the draft law, there is no such requirement as the EU Regulation applies directly and Directive 2014/54/EU does not alter the scope of the substantive powers conferred on Regulation No 492/2011. The proposed amendment would create chaos. During the discussion at the committee meeting, a proposal was made by Senator Stanisław Kogut for the adoption of the bill without amendments, which as far as possible was voted and accepted by the committee, while the amendments tabled by the Legislative Office were taken over by Senator Mieczysław Augustyn and Jan Filip Libicki as minority proposals. Following the adoption by the Committee on Family, Senior and Social Policy of the Act on Employment Promotion and Labour Market Institutions, the Law on State Labour Inspection and the Act on the implementation of certain European Union provisions on equal treatment without amendments, I also recommend that the High House adopt this amendment as adopted by the Sejm. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-11-senat-17-1.u235	Thank you, Senator. I ask the minority rapporteur of the Family, Senior and Social Policy Committee, Senator Mieczysław Augustyn, to present the proposals of the minority of the committee. [[It's a fake smile.]] There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-11-senat-17-1.u236	No, no, no, no. Mr. Marshal! Minister Stanislaw Swed! (PL) Mr President, Sweden. [[We passed the law to the Swedes.]] Hence the smile, as did the president. I would like to present the conclusions of the minority. Of course, we did not question the substance or the need for this law. It could be said that it comes at a very good time at all, when you try to limit the right to free movement of workers and you strike directly at Poles who are trying to work in the countries of the European Union, often using arguments not fully proven, not fully tested. So far, there has been no obligation or instruments to deny anything. Or maybe a reference to some statistics, some research. This law regulates the whole of the Union and is part of the action of those countries which demand full compliance with the principle of one of the pillars of the European Union, namely the free movement of workers. However, they spoke to us as a minority of the argument of the Legislative Office, which suggested that not only in the Equality Act, but also in the other laws to which this amendment relates, where there is equal treatment, a prohibition on discrimination on grounds of nationality. For it can happen that our work will be fruitless, that although the equality law is lex generalis and covers all areas, the question remains open: if so, then why in the specific laws on discrimination on the basis of other grounds? Because if the anti-discrimination law were to apply to everyone in its entirety, it is likely that those provisions in other laws would have to be eliminated. However, if we believe that they should remain there, then we will have such a specific exception: in all matters, the anti-discrimination law will agree with other laws and other directives, only in this one. I understand that from our Polish point of view this may not raise doubts, but we think that it would be okay if we extended these regulations, in line with the suggestion of the Legislative Office, to other laws, to other laws, and both the addressees of these laws and the European Union itself would have a facilitated task in applying these new rights. That is why I call on the High House, even though the Ministry was convinced to stop with the proposals which it has made, but to make the changes requested by the Legislative Office, because they, I think, fully implement the intentions of the European Union regulation and certainly protect us better from any allegations that we have not done so properly.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-11-senat-17-1.u237	Thank you, Senator. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the senators of the rapporteurs. Does anybody have any questions like that? Senator Dowhan. You're welcome. Which senator?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-11-senat-17-1.u238	I'm here to see a fellow secretary. Senator rapporteur, recently it has been loud about Polish truck drivers, actually more about employers... Germany imposed an obligation to pay in their territory the same rates as theirs and not Polish flat rates. Does what we're working on now also apply to this issue? Is this related to this?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-11-senat-17-1.u239	Mr. Senator, this was not the subject, so to speak, of a discussion in committee, so that it might be useful to address this question rather to the representative of the Ministry. I'm sure he'd have more information on that.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-11-senat-17-1.u240	Thank you very much. No further questions. The bill was filed by the government. The Minister for Family, Labour and Social Policy was authorised to present the government's position during parliamentary work. Would you like to speak on the bill under consideration, Deputy Minister Stanisław Szwed? [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Family, Labour and Social Policy Stanisław Szwed: Yes.]] You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-11-senat-17-1.u241	Mr. Marshal! High Senate! Just a little bit. I will no longer discuss the bill, because the rapporteur, Mr Aleksander Szwed, has discussed it thoroughly as part of the committee's report. But I will briefly refer to the minority's claim that you spoke about, Senator Augustine. We talked about this at the committee meeting. I would reiterate that the directive which is being implemented relates only to Regulation 492/2011 and points out mechanisms for the enforcement of rights which must include those regulations. So that the solutions we have had so far do not change the principle that we have today. And an important piece of information about it. We discussed citizenship and this request of minorities with the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, which is most appropriate for assessing the impact of the implementation of the Directive, and the opinion of the Ministry was unambiguous here, such that there is no need to clarify these provisions in other additional laws, as this directive results in clear and specific provisions. So that we do not share the senator's view on minority proposals in this respect. We are asking the High Senate to adopt the committee's report, which is a government project. With regard to the senator's question, I would like to say in advance that this directive does not concern the subject... Another directive, which is currently being examined, notabene in parallel, because it is currently on the Social Policy Committee, is the Posting of Workers Directive and to what extent. This directive concerns our employees, i.e. those employed in our country, does not apply to posted workers. So at the next stage we will be moving to you with the Posting of Workers Directive. And I've got some good news too. At the same time, I thank the Senate for deciding to support the Polish government on a new initiative by the European Commission to amend the Posting of Workers Directive, a basic directive which would significantly impede the sending of workers across national borders. That yesterday the so-called yellow card procedure was implemented. This procedure will result in the European Commission having to reconsider whether these proposals are being submitted again or whether to seek additional information. Thanks to our government's efforts, but also thanks to the Senate and the Sejm's resolution, we have managed to create a coalition that has led to the implementation of the new basic directive or the amendment of the new basic directive being somehow postponed at present. We have talked about the implementation directive before, and I would like to remind you that we are still implementing previous solutions which must be implemented by 19 June this year. Thank you, Mr. Marshal.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-11-senat-17-1.u242	Thank you, Minister. Are there any more... Oh, Senator Robert Dowhan. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-11-senat-17-1.u243	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Minister, the other way... This does not apply to Polish entrepreneurs, and it is good, but we have a lot of employees from Ukraine, for example. And they do a lot of work that our countrymen aren't really doing today. Isn't there going to be a conflict of interest here because we're going to have to pay them more right now?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-11-senat-17-1.u244	There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-11-senat-17-1.u245	Mr. Senator, this case will be included in a separate directive, the so-called seasonal directive. We are at a consultation stage; this directive will be being examined in the Seym and later in the Senate in the near future. In general, this new revision of the directive is supposed to somehow... well, not so much hinder the employment of seasonal workers as to seal a system that, unfortunately, is not tight today. We are preparing solutions that we will also present to you at the right time.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-11-senat-17-1.u246	Thank you, Minister. [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Family, Labour and Social Policy Stanisław Szwed: Thank you very much.]] Thank you very much. I don't see any more people willing to ask questions. I'm opening a discussion. I inform you that none of your senators have signed up... [[What about me?]] Oh, I'm sorry! Excuse me, Mr. Senator, on behalf of the secretary. Please take the floor of Senator Mieczysław Augustyn. By not paying attention... It was out of the blue, I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-11-senat-17-1.u247	Mr. Marshal! Minister! Minister! Director! Dear Senators! I would like to stress that this law concerns a very important issue, which is important for us Poles, which is important for this two million people working outside Poland in the European Union. In accordance with EU legislation, we join those countries that implement a directive that gives workers in the European Union working outside their country quite broad powers, broad powers for information, and we join those countries that speak decisively, decisively, in activities that facilitate work outside the country, within the European Union. This is an important voice, because, as we all observe, this issue, which has now been pushed further by the problem of immigrants, just a moment ago, as part of the discussion about Brexit, was very alive. In many countries this right to free movement of workers, to free employment is questioned. Ba, the equal right to access social benefits is being questioned! And when we read the right directive, even through the provisions which contain the amendment of the laws presented here, we see that our fellow countrymen have and should have a full right to social security and that it is no one's favour. Of course, she's the problem. whether it will be a problem in a moment, how to implement this agreement Which has been concluded and which allows all countries to specifically treat workers with regard to access to social security for workers working in other countries will have to do with these provisions. Perhaps we'll have another change to make. Nevertheless, it is also worth considering that, as we have said here, we are discussing our actions in the European Union with the reporter. It is difficult to call what happened in these negotiations a success, as they tried to do. Unfortunately, this is a failure. All of us. And you can't say it was a step forward. Just as this directive is a step forward, what the European countries have agreed to so that the United Kingdom can stay in the European Union is a firm step backwards because it allows countries to restrict access to certain benefits. Temporary reduction, however, is limited. The logic that addressed internal issues has overcome the fundamental principle of freedom of movement and the search for work on an equal footing in all the countries of the European Union. Let us hope that if these storms over Europe calm down, we will return to equal treatment for all workers within the European Union, wherever they come from. And then this bill will be even more complete. However, I would continue to defend the position of our Legislative Office. I encourage the senators to vote in favour of the amendments I tabled on behalf of the minority.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-11-senat-17-1.u248	Thank you very much. [[I think it's in the Kingdom of Heaven...]] Senator Ryszka would like to speak? [[No, I just wanted to say...]] But no, Mr. Senator, if you have anything to say, sign up. I inform you that the list of speakers has been exhausted. The discussion is closed. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. We proceed with the examination of item 6 of the agenda: the Act on amending the Act on the Institute of National Remembrance of Crime against the Polish Nationals and some other laws. The text of the Act is contained in print No 161 and the report of the committee In print No 161 A. But I see that there are no ministers authorized on this bill... that Minister Wójcik is. [[Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Justice Michał Wójcik: Yes.]] All right. There are no ministers of Jakie and Sellin, but since you are Minister Wójcik, of course we continue. [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Justice Michael Wójcik: Yes.]] I would like to ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Human Rights, the Rule of Law and Petitions, Senator Michael Sewerynski, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-11-senat-17-1.u249	Mr. Marshal! High Senate! The Committee on Human Rights, Rule of Law and Petitions presents a report on the proceedings which it held yesterday on the Act amending the Act on the Institute of National Remembrance and on certain other laws. The bill was sent by the Senate Marshal to the Committee on Human Rights, Laws and Petitions on 29 April. Let me briefly state what this bill is about. Firstly, it extends the scope of the issues to be dealt with by the Institute of National Remembrance, the search for resting places of persons who have lost their lives due to the fight against the totalitarian system or through totalitarian repression or ethnic cleansing in the period from 8 November 1917 to 31 July 1990. Secondly, the Act contains changes related to the fact that the Institute of National Remembrance will conduct extended scientific research and educational activities and related to the search for resting places of victims of totalitarian systems and ethnic cleansing. Thirdly, the Act introduces appropriate provisions concerning the conduct by the Institute of National Remembrance of activities related to commemorating historical events and places in the history of fighting and martyrdom of the Polish people, both in Poland and abroad, as well as places of fighting and martyrdom of other nations on the territory of the Republic of Poland. The Act also introduces provisions concerning the organisation of the Institute of National Remembrance. In particular, the Act modifies the manner and conditions for the appointment of the President of the Institute of National Remembrance, abolishes the Council of the Institute, and introduces the Institute of National Remembrance established on amended principles. It also modifies the requirements of the Institute's staff and prosecutors and changes the scope of the President's and College's competences. In addition, it introduces changes in the structure of the Institute's organisational units and cells. The Act also provides for the liquidation of the so-called. protected collection, i.e. subject to special protection and identified in the archives of the Institute of the secret set of documents designated by the Head of the Internal Security Agency and the Head of the Intelligence Agency or the Minister for National Defence. Finally, the amendment aims to enforce the judgment of the Constitutional Tribunal. It shall make it possible for the party to make known the reasons for the decision of the administrative court to refuse access to the documents contained in the Institute's resources and shall make it possible for the party to make known the reasons for the decision of the administrative court in this case. During the committee meeting, several proposals for amendments were tabled by the Institute of National Remembrance and proposals for amendments by the Senate Legislative Office, which were even more than 20. It can actually be said that what the Senate Legislative Office reported included also the amendments of the Institute of National Remembrance, they overlapped. And now I'd like to brief them, tell them what they were all about. These amendments were designed to extend the category of wanted persons, the graves of wanted persons. It was also intended to give a stronger definition of the legal basis for prosecuting communist crimes since 8 November 1917. The point is that there was no Polish criminal law at the time, and an appropriate modification would give the basis for the implementation of this extension so as to prosecute crimes since 8 November 1917. There was a proposal for an amendment to add that the College of the Institute of National Remembrance can apply not only for the appointment but also for the cancellation of the President of the Institute. There is also an amendment to clarify the prohibition on the conclusion of civil law contracts by members of the college in such a way that this is a restriction only to contracts concluded with this institute. There is an amendment which aims to clarify the beginning of the term of office of the members of the College of National Remembrance, as the provision in the current editorial office may raise doubts about this. There is also an amendment that would clarify the challenge of the President of the National Remembrance Institute's decision to exhume the corpse. And there's an amendment that gives us the opportunity to carry out investigations involving special forces officers as well. There were also invited institutions from outside: the Jewish communes union, the Council for the Protection of Remembrance of Fight and Martyrdom. The chairman of this council made a critical request concerning a provision that allows the exhumation of corpses from war graves, war cemeteries and the transfer of them to other graves. The discussion that followed during the committee meeting raised further concerns about this law. Against this background, the following 2 farthest conclusions were made: the proposal to reject the law and the proposal to adopt the law without amendments. The Commission voted in favour of the law without amendments and at the same time a minority request to reject the law was submitted. The Commission therefore asks that the High Senate adopt a law without amendment. [[The meeting is chaired by Vice-Marshal Adam Bielan]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-11-senat-17-1.u250	Thank you very much, Mr President. I ask the minority rapporteur of the Committee on Human Rights, the Rule of Law and Petitions, Senator Jan Rulewski, to present a proposal from the minority of the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-11-senat-17-1.u251	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Although I have a mandate to present a proposal from the minority committee on human rights, the rule of law and the petition on the law amending the law, I speak briefly. The Institute of National Remembrance and the main commission for the prosecution of Nazi and Stalinist crimes... I am directly following you, and at the same time the chairman of the committee. With due succinctness, and even to say it, he has meticulously presented the work of the committee, which, however, had a much deeper character. Many of the provisions of this law were discussed. I was under an awful obligation to make a very strong motion to reject this law. Many senators have witnessed decision-making and even participated in decision-making related to our history, a distant history that dates back to 1939, a story whose depositary is the IPN, and in which are written books of disgrace, books of honour, books of things that should not be written at all, books showing heroism, but also betrayal of Polish citizens struggling with two totalitarians. These are books about death, but also about life. The latter is important. There are written deeds, accomplishments present here, but also hundreds of thousands of Poles living outside this room. Poland has been struggling with these problems for almost 20 years. These were sometimes dramatic events. Let us mention the letters of Macierewicz, Wildstein, but also matters in the Catholic environments, the case of Archbishop Wielgus or other clergymen who worked with John Paul. II... I remind you of these facts because this law by PiS alone, and thus deviates from the existing consensus principles in the creation of such laws, excluding, of course, the defendants, or the environment of the SLD... It seems that this bill is going back to these historic corners. Here are the PiS Members who have taken the initiative to build this social peace around our past again in an unjustified manner. Destroy what was and build again. It won't be an abuse if... there is a desire for one of the parties to take over the management of files, i.e. the resumes of Poles. I remind you that these Poles are still alive and still have aspirations for shaping patriotism. I have a title to speak in such a tone, because beside many here on one side and the other... We were an opposition. We were subject to persecution. We've been through this rehearsal. Mr President, it would be a good habit to build the agreement that President Duda is calling for if all opponents were involved in this bill. Not only the PiS and not only the Platform, but all the opponents, especially since the opposition was in the whole society. The one who's in the Senate, and the one who's outside the Senate... [[There's never an opposition here, Jack.]] I'm talking about the anti-communist opposition. The Senate set an example in the previous term of office, that it is possible to work together, for example. over the anti-communist opposition law and the persecuted. He set an example of a possible compromise. In this regard, the PiS community decided to assassinate and unilaterally recognise that it would be the spiritual and material host of this law. When I speak of a material host, my conclusion is based mainly on the belief that this bill is in fact used to shoot the current IPN. The point is that the first games around here, with respect for me, Senator Anders, indicated that society would not know what these changes were for. And yet, in the case of this law, the first runs were launched at a time when it seemed right that Mrs. Anders, a person, came from this world in which our national memory is present, will be able to preside over the Council for the Protection of Remembrance and Martyrdom. Just after three days... a few days, and lyingly, this person was called off, called off by a noble name, subjected to a cyclical political game; I express Mrs. Anders' sympathy for becoming a political player. And there's a connection here that it's in this law that then, but in the meantime, it's been announced and done that the Council for the Protection of Memory Fight and Martyrdom is involved... it doesn't include it in the IPN, but it's being terminated, and part of its tasks is to be taken over by the newly created institution. This is one of the first accusations that confirms that this game of law is not about giving it a new spirit, it is not about further building an agreement or specifically sharing information that is, but only about staff changes. So on the eve of this bill somewhere behind the scenes, it was decided in secret from the public, from the environments that formed the material basis of this law... they hid the proper intentions. Let's follow this path of changes to the bill, which I would call without exaggeration. In the first record, she says that the current council of the institute, the president, just a few days before the end of his term of office, is cancelled. There is no justification for this, because no accusations were made against the President, the Council, unless it is the rumors that Mr Mularczyk drew, that such wonderful people, professors, participants of the independence route were collecting wrong or too large sums. Notabene here Senator Zaryn Sorry that I'm addressing you directly. He signed these amounts. Mr Mularczyk himself also signed to his representative the allowance for the additional work of the members of the Council. This bill is breaking with socialization. This leads to the fact that from now on politicians, or perhaps one or a small group of politicians, are setting human rules for the game at this institute, so who will be on the council? In this law, of course, the name "rada' is changed to the name "collegium' under which rules the members will be selected, who will choose. And here's one nuisance. It's rare in the Senate... This solution is not only bad, but also funny. Please note that this college will, as the legislators say, exercise advisory and advisory functions for the president of the institute, it is said that in order to strengthen the role of the Institute's president. This view may even be discussed, it may be criticised, but legislators have the right to report... And notice what funny is. Namely, these 9 members of the college will be elected: the President, the Sejm, the Senate. If he weighs in on the likes... If this compares with institutions such as: The Labour Protection Council or the NIK College, it turns out that there are single-person decisions taken. After all, these are consultative bodies, opinions. It's true that the role of the contest has been awarded... If someone is not more familiar with this law, then I would remind you that in the current legal order, the council, which arises as a result of the civil activities of the Polish Academy of Sciences, universities, the National Council of Judicial Affairs, legal environments, has at least 2 sovereign orders, can appeal the President of the IPN if he does not accept his report, and can also revoke it if he violates the law. These powers are disappearing. Therefore, it is all the more emphasized in this act that the Polish areopag will be looking for advisors for the President of the IPN. The path doesn't end there, because the bill assumes... Staff chase path Lenin said that mostly the staff, and if there are too many opponents, then shoot them. The aim is that before the deadline, however, in conditions of major change, which may be justified, because it is not so that everything is wrong in this act, there is a rapid change in staff. Does she only reach the president, or just the college, or the council? You don't know what's gonna happen now... The aim is to build a new IPN structure, a field structure. There is no guarantee in the Act that what was the sole of this law is that here are ordinary citizens, inhabitants of those who live in Poland, and those who came from abroad. They were able to visit the archives at their residence. It says here, but conditionally... There's a question that the piss buddies might answer. What is behind this provision, which was not debatable and did not result from the election campaign, so that the inhabitants of Bydgoszcz, Warsaw, Krakow could have direct access at the place of residence to the files that concern them? Because in terms of further availability of the file in this bill, nothing new has been invented, and even, I suggest, this law may limit... What's behind this? Does anyone want to be the sole owner of files again? Does anyone want to play briefcase centrally again, prepare new lists for the new election campaign, want to reverse history? These questions were not answered at the committee meeting. As I said, it was painful for a man who, through all governments, I think I'm talking about Dr. Kunert. He was either a member of the Council for the Protection of Remembrance of Fighting and Martyrdom, or a secretary of it, and PiS is suddenly carrying out revolutions and this man, and this institution is eliminating, despite obvious successes, because it is a success that in Katyn's fields there were monuments that exhumed corpses from war graves. It is a Polish success that Monte Cassino has only attracted 40 groups from all over the world this year. [[And they'll drive. There's nothing to talk about.]] I'm talking about the fact that there's no guarantee that your colleagues, my friend Mammoths, will be able to continue this political tension. [[They're ……]] I'd like it to be so, but since there are deadlines, since there are things that I'm going to talk about in my own written speech, I'm able to say that there's going to be problems for sure. Problems over Polish graves. It can also be hidden that, after the change of head and deputy college of the council, there will be a string of staff activities covering several hundred employees. He will deepen the path that Senator Ryszka tells me to finish. So, in conclusion, this bill serves nothing except staff security for the customers of one party only. It would be good if this bill consisted only in the replacement of stools. However, people recently decorated, elevated to the rank of outstanding heroes are also heroes of Wildstein and Macierewicz's letters. [[And Kaminski.]] I believe that in a tense situation that takes place around the world, in Europe and in Poland, this is an irresponsible vote for weakening Poland. For this reason, both on behalf of the Civic Platform, on behalf of the opponents and on behalf of ordinary people, I am proposing that the bill be rejected. After all, I would like to say that it contains positive elements, although vaguely outlined. The fact that you are going to As Mr Mularczyk said, to make available the proprietary archives... However, the fact that this refers to the decision of Minister Macierewicz and the archives will not be opened until a year later and by negotiation does not indicate that they will be sufficiently open, as expected. The fact that a certain pier is created does not mean that it will be more efficient, which is understandable. We've had some earthquakes. You might ask... If there is a prosecutor working in the institution, otherwise he will be subject to the Minister of Justice and the Prosecutor General, then one might ask why he would follow the example of this prosecutor's office. The Protection and Remembrance Council of Fight and Martyrdom was not included in the IPN structure. Why is this institution being dissolved? Why should the existence of this social function, as is the advice itself? The Council will not, and the Council consisted of many experienced people who had contacts in different countries: historians, scientists, activists. Of course, it is also beneficial that educational activity will be strengthened, that the promotion of patriotism is emphasized. It is also important that in the new formula IPN is granted the right not only to promote Poles' bravery on different fronts and on different issues, in different theatres of action, but also to counter their unfair talks about activities incompatible with human rights. But these are all declarations. I don't know what force the IPN will have in relation to the media, let's assume, western or eastern, if it's not run by the government itself, by the ministries, especially the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. But let us accept with good will that it will certainly strengthen, not hinder. Nevertheless, in summing up, I will say that this law should return to the Sejm and in a better time, after better preparation it should be presented to the Senate, because my proposal becomes clear and timely. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-11-senat-17-1.u252	Thank you very much, Senator. Senator Żaryn in corrigendum mode, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-11-senat-17-1.u253	Mr. Marshal, High Izbo, thank you very much. For the time being, I have been corrected because Senator Rulewski was gracious to mention my name as the person who signed, as I understand it, orders to carry out a review for scientific purposes, during the period when I was director of the Public Education Office, i.e. in 2006 and 2009. [[That's what happened, that's what happened.]] At least that's how I understand your statement, because I didn't sign everything as it was going, just when I had some competence to do it. Indeed, in 2006 and 2009, when I was director of the Public Education Office, of course, in agreement with the then president of the IPN, Professor Janusz Kurtyka, we established some tough rules regarding the review of typotypes that came to the publishing houses and were to be subject to clear assessment criteria from now on. Within these clear evaluation criteria, we have established that each work will be subject to two reviews. One reviewer will be called. external reviewer, the second reviewer will be so-called. Internal reviewer. And I kindly inform you that there was one criterion In a moment, I'll tell you what it was all about. Which decided who would be the reviewer, that is, the criterion of competence. If, perhaps... I'm not gonna swear, I just don't remember what the practice was in three and a half years when it comes to members of the college back then. If actually a member of the college at that time, e.g. Professor Andrzej Paczkowski, he was recognized by us as the best expert in the field, regardless of whether he was in the college or not, we simply asked him for a review. If anyone on the outside was an important historian considered by us to be a person who guarantees the quality of the review, no matter what. At the time I had classes at the University of Warsaw and earlier at the University of Warsaw In fact, regardless of whether I had colleagues at the University of Warsaw or UKSW, or at the University of Warsaw, we decided that a person would receive a job to review. This criterion in the scientific world is obvious, and the IPN, at least at the Public Education Office, has been developing scientific integrity standards from the very beginning. So that this charge, Mr. Senator, if it is not to be proved, it is rude to me, because it suggests, in conjunction with the sentences that Mr. Arkadiusz Mularczyk once said, that I made some decisions that make the IPN, and me personally, in a row of people strengthening corrupt pathologies. So either prove to me that I've actually ever signed an agreement with an external or internal reviewer... And I couldn't sign with the I.A. at all, because these people didn't get the money for it because they were employees of the National Remembrance Institute, so they did it as part of their work duties, of course. In general, I believe that IPN has tried very rigidly to be on the highest floor of Polish humanities, especially historical sciences, throughout this period of 15 years when it comes to the Public Education Office. The issue of reviews is one of this field of scientific activities, which are also subject to very clear competences and rules of the game arising from the competence of the reviewers.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-11-senat-17-1.u254	Thank you very much. [[Mr. Marshal...]] But in what mode? [[In the mode of misunderstanding by your senator of my intentions...]] But there's no such thing. [[...and judging me to press charges...]] Okay, if the senator promises it's short. Because there's no mode of misunderstanding of intent, but...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-11-senat-17-1.u255	Mr. Marshal! Mr. Senator Żaryn! My comment on the reasons for the lack of confidence in the current management of the IPN, the council and the President, pointed to the right of your conduct, but rejected the position of the applicant, Mr Mularczyk, that the reason for this appeal was the abuse of civil law contracts or, as he called it, the committee between the council and the President. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-11-senat-17-1.u256	Thank you. Senator Ryszka in what mode? [[In corrigendum mode.]] Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-11-senat-17-1.u257	Senator Rulewski mentioned my name. I would like to say, to point out that I did not want Senator Rulewski to finish his speech, on the contrary, I wanted him to speak as long as possible, because I understand he was preparing his speech for the future march of the Committee for Democracy Defence. [[Voice from the room: Excuse me.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-11-senat-17-1.u258	Good. Thank you. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the senators of the rapporteurs. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? You were the first to speak to Marshal Borusewicz. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-11-senat-17-1.u259	Thank you. I'd like to ask Senator Severinski a question. Senator, the Council for the Protection of Remembrance of Fighting and Martyrdom is being resolved, I understand. If so, what about the security staff?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-11-senat-17-1.u260	Mr. Marshal, you know the text of the bill and I know the text of the bill. The bill says what's gonna happen. We didn't discuss this at the committee meeting. My report concerns what happened at the committee meeting. The Act also provides for certain provisions that will decide what will happen to the dissolved individuals. There's a whole section of legislation that talks about reorganizing the internal Institute of National Remembrance. I'm not going to describe it in detail anymore, because it's in the bill. I suppose that if the applicant had been here, he would have said this in more detail. I am not able to look in the law for a detailed answer to this question at the moment. We've all had a chance to get to know it... [[Mr. Senator...]] I'm sorry, but... [[But you're the Senator Rapporteur. Excuse me, please don't push me away. Okay? I'm asking what's gonna happen to the employees. Will they be fired or transferred to a new institution? What's gonna happen?]] [[Voices from the room: They will be transferred.]] [[Moved.]] Mr. Marshal! [[The Ministry of Culture.]] [[Calm down, please! Calm down, please!]] I'm answering. There are rules that predict what will happen to these workers. There are laws that talk about reorganizing and moving employees, but I'm not going to quote the details because I don't remember it so much in detail. We've all had a chance to read the bill. [[Minister Sellin said...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-11-senat-17-1.u261	Thank you very much. Senator Rybicki. Who's the question?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-11-senat-17-1.u262	Also to Senator Sewerinski, the rapporteur of the committee. Mr. Senator, was the matter raised during the committee's deliberations And did the foreign minister's representative take over the IPN from the Security Council take part in this meeting? Because in the discussions there is such a fear that, in view of the conduct by the IPN of various kinds of actions which are aimed at the elimination of, for example, monuments of the glory of the Soviet Army, the IPN will at the same time be forced to negotiate with the Russian administration rules of access to Katyn, for example. Was there a question or was there such a concern that the Russian party would consider the liquidation of an entity operating in Poland, i.e. the Security Council, as a reason to terminate the agreement concerning the care of Polish cemeteries and graves? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-11-senat-17-1.u263	You're welcome, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-11-senat-17-1.u264	Firstly, there was not a meeting of a representative of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. Secondly, no committee member spoke of such concerns and this matter was not the subject of our deliberations.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-11-senat-17-1.u265	Thank you very much. And Senator Fedorovich, and then Senator Wcislo. [[It's tight.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-11-senat-17-1.u266	I have a question for Senator Sewerinski. Of course, I'll have my speech in due time, because I'm in the Katyn Family Association, because my mother's husband, my mother's first husband, was murdered... Hello, Mrs. Iza Sznąpska, who is in the O.R. This is very important for us, members of the Katyn Family. [[Applause]] Because, Mr. Senator, already in a series of our meetings were considered these very quickly, on the knee prepared laws, I was worried about it. Especially since I spent 10 years in the Sejm and I know the procedures. So tell me how it can be that the committee is voting the bill without amendments, although the Senate Legislative Office is making 20 amendments. Are we the Senate committee, or does the Senate's Legislative Office have no idea what we're doing? Answer me: why is it like this? [[You're a rookie, and that's why you don't know.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-11-senat-17-1.u267	Mr. Senator, what do you expect to answer that question? The Commission has listened to the proposals for amendments which have been tabled by the Legislative Bureau. None of these amendments were taken over, so the committee did not vote on the amendments. This is committee law. What other answer could there be? Of course, this may surprise you... [[Maybe I did ask...]] ...but it's not my thing to comment on surprise. It's my job to do what the committee did. There have been amendments, but no amendments have been tabled and have therefore not been put to the vote. [[Okay.]] I'll fill it up, Mr. Senator. [[You're welcome.]] Two applications were submitted: to reject the law and to adopt the law without amendments. And that was put to the vote.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-11-senat-17-1.u268	If I may... I just wanna make it up to you. Mr. Senator, I'm not talking about the amendments that the opposition is proposing or the senators are reporting. I'm talking about the amendments that the Senate's Legislative Office is reporting. And that was the logic of my speech. I don't expect an answer from you right now... [[Senators report amendments.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-11-senat-17-1.u269	Mr. Senator, the Senate's Legal Office isn't making any changes. [[I don't understand... I understand the rules, I just don't agree with philosophy.]] That's not a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-11-senat-17-1.u270	Thank you very much. Mr. Senator Stubborn, and then Mr. Senator Klich.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-11-senat-17-1.u271	I also have a question for Senator Sewerinski, and even two questions. The IPN is an institution that does not enter into the calendar of any current events, it is rather an institution that shapes the identity of Poles, our awareness. So this institution, like no other institution, should be based in creating its framework on the opinions of Poles. Why, then, was such a procedure chosen for amending the Law, which prevents large crowds from consulting and participating in the creation of the Law? Even senators have limited rights to discuss and limited opportunities to read the law. I have another question. The IPN has so far dealt with Nazi and communist crimes after 1939 and it had its logic, because Poland was not a sovereign country in that period, after 1939. But now we go back to 1917. Do we want to be reviewers of the government of the Second Republic of Poland? He dealt with crimes in his own way, both of them and others. So what's our role here? We want to speak for Piłsudski, for Polish prime ministers, that they did not cope and that we will now fix this country? Are we gonna correct history? I don't understand these intentions, Professor. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-11-senat-17-1.u272	Mr. Senator, the answer to the second question, at least partial, is, I believe, in the justification for the bill. Please excuse me from quoting the justification of the project because we could all read it. As for the first question, please refer it to the representative of the applicants of this law. The law shall be dealt with at the request of a group of Members of the Sejm. Probably they will be closer to explaining what they were going to do, that they chose this mode. This is a mode, I will remind you, acceptable according to the Constitution and many laws in this mode have already been notified.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-11-senat-17-1.u273	Thank you very much. Senator Klich, and then Senator Zdrojewska.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-11-senat-17-1.u274	I have a question for Senator Sewerinski. Mr. Senator, we are today at the Seniors' Convention meeting asking that this discussion be held in accordance with an earlier plan, i.e. at a meeting next week, including. In order to take into account the voices of the environments which are of the essence very interested in the Institute and incorporated into the Institute the Council for the Protection of Memory of Fighting and Martyrdom function efficiently to carry out their tasks efficiently. At the convention meeting, I was talking about a dramatic letter from the Federation of the Katyn Families. There was no time to say that this is an open letter The President's office, the Prime Minister's office, the Ministers of National Defence and the Minister of Culture, as well as a few other state institutions. This letter expresses its highest concern about what has always been and should remain a fundamental matter for all of us in this Chamber, I would say, above all divisions, that is, the further functioning of our military necropolises, the further functioning of these sacred memorial sites, which are war cemeteries in Katyn, Kharkiv, Miednoje, Bykownia. The Federation of the Katyn Families, which brings together tens of thousands of people, fears that by maneuvering the liquidation of the council and including it in the Institute of National Remembrance there will be collapses in the protection of these places. We, too, in this part of the room, share these concerns. Did you consider this danger at the committee meeting? Is that a threat? Have you thought about it? Are the provisions contained in the Act sufficient guarantee that such collapse will not occur? Because we don't think that's a guarantee. Professor, please answer me honestly.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-11-senat-17-1.u275	Firstly, Mr Senator, all the institutions concerned, the organisations that called for a committee meeting, were invited. And so on. The Jewish community union came forward at the last minute. His secretary was invited to attend the meeting. Secondly, the matter of the Council for the Protection of the Remembrance of Combat and Martyrdom was presented. This institution was represented by the Secretary-General himself. That aspect of the case you're asking, the secretary didn't deal with it, although he did speak twice. He only dealt with exhumation from war cemeteries, as provided for in the bill. No one else mentioned it.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-11-senat-17-1.u276	Thank you very much. Senator Zdrojewska, then Senator Ambrozik.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-11-senat-17-1.u277	Dear Senator, you have recently said to Marshal Borusewicz that both you and I believe the Marshal are well prepared and well aware of this bill. I would just like to remind you that this bill was put on the agenda today at the meeting a few hours ago. So I'd like to ask you. 'Cause I didn't have the pleasure of participating in your committee's work. Or anyone, you, or perhaps another of the senators attending this meeting, objected to such a procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-11-senat-17-1.u278	I'll remind you, senator, I read about it at the very beginning. That the Senate marshal sent this bill to the committee on 29 April, and that no protests of the nature you spoke of were reported during the committee meeting.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-11-senat-17-1.u279	Thank you very much. Senator Ambrozik, and then Senator Oremski.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-11-senat-17-1.u280	Thank you, Mr. Marshal! I'd like to ask Senator Rulevski a question, but I don't see him in the O.R. right now... [[I'll introduce myself...]] [[There it is.]] Oh, I'm sorry. [[There it is. He's in the front row.]] I'm so sorry. Mr. Senator, I have a question. During the committee work, we received information that the members of the board of the institute concluded civil law agreements with the President. Tell me: don't you think that this is a conflict of interest that prevents, makes it difficult for the members of the board of the institute to perform supervisory or opinional functions towards the President?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-11-senat-17-1.u281	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. [[But Professor Żaryn answered...]] Mr Senator, actually the answer should be addressed by the author of this plea, i.e. the applicant's representative present here, who, directly at the sitting of the Sejm, made this plea, which you have gently formulated, very gently and with culture, made publicly. Mr. Senator, whether something is justified, whether something is moral or not, in the Polish legal order, constitutionally decides the law. The law allowed it. Senator Żaryn confirmed that. He responded to your doubts. The members of the IPN Board had a number of responsibilities: adoption of reports, designation of directions, opinion of the adoption of documents. The law defines the scope of their duties, but they could not have been obliged to sit in jury competitions for the best book, related trips to different places, so the consequences... There was no obligation for them to write books, to review these books, and there were a lot of them. On the other hand, it must be admitted that they gave their copyrights to electronic versions of these books free of charge. It must be acknowledged that they attended many meetings that were not due to their responsibilities. But of course these contracts weren't compensation. Let's add that there are about 90 of them in the case of 9 members of the memory council. Not everyone was involved. The average annual amount for the professor was about 900 PLN gross. How does that happen? To the fact that, for three days, I believe the former Mr Hofman received several thousand PLN compensations? Well, I'm not talking about the others. So that this charge may even be admissible, because in a political debate some people use grips below the belt... But it was important. He's not here... but you're Minister Sellin, maybe he'll answer. This is the main allegation that the whole management structure of the IPN is being demolished. So he refers to the President in the extraordinary mode, the Council of Memory is removed, the representatives of the Polish Academy of Sciences, professors, including Professor Paczkowski, the man of the Liberty Route are recalled. Somebody deny it, I'm gonna fight. But perhaps also Professor Chojnowski, who at the time when it was necessary to spend the paper with their own money, they were publishing it. And today, they're being charged with killing 900 zlotys. It's not just below the waist, it's below hell.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-11-senat-17-1.u282	Thank you very much. Senator Oremski, and then Senator Grodzki.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-11-senat-17-1.u283	I'm here to see Senator Rulewski in the current misunderstood mode... You used the term "social peace." At first, I thought that a disturbance by this social peace bill meant either a mode or a way to appoint a new president. But he was mentioned in this context and Bishop Wielgus, and the Wildstein list, so I realized that the idea was that the destruction of social peace was to reveal the data who had betrayed himself, who had broken down, who was wearing the moralizer's robes, and was an employee of the Security Service and took a high pension. Did I get that right? It's better that after 27 years we still don't pass things on to the public? And to Senator Sewerinski, I have a question as to whether there was a certain danger at the committee's meeting that the scope of the IPN's duties would become more than 20 years old, i.e. that a certain essence of research and achievements of the IPN was connected with crimes and profanity of the Polish People's Republic, if we expand it, then perhaps something from the essence and from the future success of this institution we will lose. That's one thing. And second question. Does the adoption of this law mean that the President-in-Office may be dismissed before the end of his term of office on 27 June?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-11-senat-17-1.u284	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-11-senat-17-1.u285	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Mr. Senator Oremski, when I was thinking about social peace, I was thinking about the experiences of the nation. In fact, some of the cases are still going on, the Wałęsa Casus The fact that rules have been laid down in the field of mirroring, publishing in the institute itself, rules that protect against hysteria, from tensions of the kind that occurred during the disclosure of the list of Macierewicz in the Seym, such as those related to the leaks from the IPN on the Wildstein list or the leaks that divided the Catholic environment in connection with the case of Wielgus. The IPN, to which the Platform gave a civic character as regards the choice of authorities, was to be of course a curator of our memory, but from a social mandate, a civic mandate, not politicians. Let me cross the limits of my answer a little bit. I personally participated in many different kinds of actions alongside many different wonderful people, but I would not take the role of judge not only because of character, but because of judging on my own case, because if we ever acted together, we were guilty or winners in the case, but it was always our case and it meant that we would be judges in our own case. That is why it is moderate in terms of the consent to be taken over by one political orientation.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-11-senat-17-1.u286	Thank you very much. Senator Grodzki and then Senator Ryszka. [[Mr. Marshal...]] Oh, I'm sorry. You're still Professor Sewerinski. Excuse me. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-11-senat-17-1.u287	Mr. Senator, as regards this extension of the period to which the research and research competences of the institute are now to be referred, we have not considered this in detail, but I was wondering, but it was not presented in the discussion. It seems that the answer to this is in the new version of the article. 1 in point 5, which states that the Institute's competence will include the search for resting places of people who have died in the struggle for independence, the unification of the Polish state, and especially those who have lost their lives as a result of the fight against the imposed totalitarian system, as a result of repression or ethnic cleansing, and then there is a date. Well, the scope of this, if I may say so, has been extended in such a way that these tasks can also be transferred to a period, let us say openly, since the October Revolution. As regards the position of President, the Act provides that the term of office of the President of the Institute of National Remembrance shall expire at the time of the entry into force of this Act, except that he shall remain in office until the next President is elected.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-11-senat-17-1.u288	Thank you very much. Senator Grodzki and then Senator Ryszka.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-11-senat-17-1.u289	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! In part, Senator Severinski answered the question I was planning to ask. But further down there, Professor, there is a general definition of communist crime, and it says that it is an act constituting a crime according to the Polish criminal law in force at the time of its commission. That's the thought of the record. Meanwhile, in 1917 there was no Polish penal law. Moreover, it was not until 1932. Because before that, it was the law of the killers. And I can't imagine, under Russian criminal laws, deciding communist crimes. Did the committee do that?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-11-senat-17-1.u290	This case was raised in the opinion of the Legislative Bureau, as well as in the proposals for amendments by the President of the Institute of National Remembrance. It was therefore the subject of the committee's comments but did not raise any discussion. It was lifted, but it wasn't discussed.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-11-senat-17-1.u291	Thank you very much. Senator Ryszka and then Marshal Borusewicz.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-11-senat-17-1.u292	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. I have two brief questions for Senator Rulewski, the minority rapporteur. He can answer from the spot because they're just short questions. First question: did you file a minority request on behalf of yourself or the Civic Platform? And the second question is, do you or the entire Platform fear that this restricted collection will be revealed?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-11-senat-17-1.u293	Thank you very much, Senator, for the grace that I can answer from the place, because I have participated in a very long and numerous march of CODE and I am tired. [[Joy in the Chamber]] And you signed me up for that CODE. And I'm getting ready for my next march. But I'll get to the answer to the question. This is a triple conclusion. He is on behalf of the Civic Platform, which defends a project that was previously agreed in 2010, which, I remember, has a good opinion of the President, is dead. Lech Kaczyński, who sought to keep these environments connected. And at the same time it is This is, of course, the statement of citizens who, by virtue of this law, will be removed from the influence on the Institute of National Remembrance, also on the Council for the Protection of the Remembrance of Fight and Martyrdom, and even on museums devoted to fighting and martyrdom. Excuse me, please repeat the second question. [[It was a restricted collection. Are you afraid your colleagues will be there?]] It's a restricted collection... In my promise it was very positive, I supported this proposal myself to open it. Nevertheless, the bill, contrary to promises, and even contrary to my opinion, contains another regulation according to which it will be open within a year and in agreement with the Minister of National Defence, read: well, even my colleague, Macierewicz.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-11-senat-17-1.u294	Thank you very much, Senator. You can, of course, answer from your place. And we wish you a quick recovery. Although your tiredness after all these days shows... [[No, it's the other way around! I'm alive!]] ...how harmful the CODE marches are. Mr. Marshal Borusewicz, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-11-senat-17-1.u295	First, I have a question for Senator Rulewski. And I'm gonna ask him to come to the podium after all. [[Voices from the hall: It's not easy.]] [[But Senator Rulewski can answer from the spot. The rules allow it.]] [[Thank you, Mr. Marshal.]] Mr. Senator, in the light of the amendment of the law, which reduces the academic level of the college in relation to the council... Because there must be people in the council with a science census, that is, professors, habilitated doctors. And with regard to the college, this cenzus is being abolished in the amendment of the law in question. Would it not be so that the possibility of additional work, which was previously possible, would be eliminated, explained by Senator Żaryn, because the members of the college without a census would not have the opportunity to review or evaluate these scientific works? Am I right?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-11-senat-17-1.u296	Yes. Indeed, in this respect the law is inconsistent, which is also one of the reasons why this minority proposal is. Applicants are bragging. And you're right. The Census of the President of the IPN will be raised by the obligation to have a scientific title in history or other fields, but the scientific census is demoted... [[Advice.]] ...in the college, because the council is being dissolved, allowing other people. I'd answer you. 'Cause you deserve the truth and respect. So that you make this college something like a work council, you have this town: somewhere there's someone from the class, say, from welders, someone from writing articles... I think it's going to be to the detriment of those people who will be called, because they won't always be able to participate fully in debates at the institute. According to the Institute's name, the Institute is a scientific institution, not a collection of any citizens and if it is to promote something abroad, it must be a kind of scientific study. Therefore, it may be that the costs of the college's activities will actually be lower, but there will also be no reviews, and this will be to the detriment of the Institute itself. [[I have another question for Senator Sewerinski, if I may. I didn't have time to ask that question because Senator Rulewski started answering right away.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-11-senat-17-1.u297	You're welcome. [[Excuse me, Mr. Senator. Can I answer your first question?]] [[Of course. There you go.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-11-senat-17-1.u298	Senator Rulewski didn't quote an article. 15, where we talk about who might be a member of the college. I was also interested in what your marshal was doing in terms of possible professors. I read this provision in such a way that a member of the college of the Institute may be a person who stands out for the knowledge useful in the work of the Institute of Memory. I don't think professors are excluded here. [[Voice from the hall: It could be a hobbyist.]] [[But they're not necessary, Professor.]] Anyway, I don't see the possibility of shutting them down. But I'm sorry, it's just an addition.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-11-senat-17-1.u299	Which is why I'm asking you if you can't see the difference between this record... [[The difference in the wording is.]] There it is. [[But I see there's a place for professors.]] That's what I'm talking about. Now I have a call for you... There was a requirement, a certain scientific census, and there is no requirement here. [[There were only...]] Of course it doesn't turn off... Mr. Senator, I wanted to ask you if you could see a contradiction in the rules of the article. 1 paragraph 1a, which says that this law gives the IPN the competence to act from 8 November 1917. I understand that this is the date of the so-called. The October Revolution. I happen to think this is an unhappy date. But don't you see the contradictions of art? Article 1 53 and other articles. Art. Article 53 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 2 says that the Institute of Memory conducts research on post-dissection and the latest history of Poland? The post-partum period was much earlier, as I recall, it was the 18th century. Art. The most important one, because the first one says that the institute has been dealing with the period since November 1917, and other articles introduce the time range since the first cutting period, probably this is the limit date. Don't you see the contradiction here?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-11-senat-17-1.u300	Mr. Marshal, I'm still so worried that I'm going beyond my powers, and you're urging me to. I should be dealing with what was mentioned at the committee meeting, and you are already encouraging me to give an analytical opinion on the provisions of this law, which is rather the place for me to take part in the discussion. But since you asked me an easy question, I will answer right away, even exceeding my competence, that I do not see contradictions, because in this first place there is talk of a period of time... of time, because the period always refers to time, is about looking for resting places. And in the second provision you're quoting, we're talking about scientific research. There is no contradiction between the fact that the search covers one period and research another period, because these are two different types of activities.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-11-senat-17-1.u301	Thank you very much. Professor Żaryn, please... [[No, no, I'm sorry. Professor...]] [[It doesn't go to him.]] [[Professor, art. 1 speaks of recording, gathering, storing, drawing up, securing, making available and publishing documents of state security authorities from this and this... This is also research.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-11-senat-17-1.u302	Mr. Marshal, I've already answered that question. [[But it's also research.]] Yeah, but here we're different about the interpretation and the opinions, the conclusions we draw, it doesn't matter anymore... This is not a report from the committee meeting. The Commission didn't go that far if they had such a historical preparation as your marshal, they might have reached deeper, but we didn't.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-11-senat-17-1.u303	Thank you very much. Senator, Professor Żaryn, you're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-11-senat-17-1.u304	I, if you don't mind, have two questions for Senator Rulewski. I listened to your first speech and the next one for a long time, and since you haven't had such a reflection so far, because you represent, as it turns out, the entire Civic Platform Club, I have a question for you, but indirectly to the entire club, one and the other only to you. This is the first question, holistic, as to whether you have taken note of not acceptable, but for information That the basis for the amendment of the Act on the Institute of National Remembrance is a very concrete reality, namely the need to create a new department for the search for temporal remains of the victims of 20th century terror. And now, because it has not yet been written by any of you and your country, I have a question as to whether the Civic Platform has taken this opportunity to consider that this, and not otherwise, was the basis of the decision to amend the law, because this foundation had to bear further consequences, e.g. Asking about overlap in the competence sense of two institutions that have so far operated separate, i.e. the Institute of National Remembrance and the Council for the Protection of the Remembrance of Fight and Martyrdom. I am not saying that you would accept, I was only hoping that one of you, however, would make such a canonical statement that he understood the intentions of the initiators of the amendment. This is an amendment resulting from a certain need, which has grown due to the consequences which have grown somewhat as a result of further reflection, but a basic function, the main purpose of this amendment was to prevent a situation that has taken place in the last more than 2 years, when on the Link, in Służewie, it was not possible to carry out extensive exhumation work to the end. And I would very much like to ask, for the good relations between the Civic Platform and the PiS in this area 'Cause we're discussing an issue that can be considered a matter beyond divisions. However, in order for one of you to give such a signal that he believes that the intention of the applicants, in this case Members of Law and Justice, was to deal with an important matter that we have all discovered together in recent years. As part of the dialogue in kind and not just political terms, I ask you very much, Mr. Senator, that the intention was to answer a very serious question about how to make it possible for us to honor our heroes, in short. And the second question, not to the Civic Platform anymore, but to you, Senator. Have you considered possibly boasting about the fact that the council, which is actually being abolished by the proposed law, is not fully introduced into the National Remembrance Institute? All these issues which raise your doubts about the representation of the Polish state outside, concerning problems related to Polish-Russian relations, with Katyn, etc., the initiators of these changes have taken into account. According to the Act under consideration today, a significant part of the competence of the council is transferred to the Ministry of Culture and National Heritage. So, in view of the honesty of the dialogue between us... If you don't say it, then either you don't know it, but you know it... In that case, you say different things just to say something. Without this fundamental sentence, which indicates that competence has been properly distributed in the name of not having such doubts... Can you write that sentence on behalf of a minority claiming rejection of the bill?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-11-senat-17-1.u305	Mr. Senator, you're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-11-senat-17-1.u306	Thank you for that insightful question. The answer is simple. Both myself and colleagues, on the other hand, have already expressed their appreciation for the work of the IPN on their own initiative, the IPN initiative on extending work on the Link, work in other areas, etc. There was a lot of social activity in this area. And it's in this bill that's good. I would remind you that perhaps the first official who visited... and admired the work of IPN, was the first official of the Polish state at that time, i.e. President Komorowski. Other IPN topics, Soldiers Cursed also... I'd say yes. In the presence of Mrs. Katyn's family, who I hope will express her opinion at the committee meeting, and who has not been able to participate in the committee's work on a temporary basis... The Council of Memory has developed such good patterns, such meaning and such a brand that in the name of HR movements there is no justification, even economic, for its elimination. Well, since you've noticed that this is an idea, I think you've also noticed that the Council of Memory isn't just one clerk, Dr. Kunert. It is a group of outstanding professors, activists, also from the IPN. I'd reverse the situation. Sorry, I'm not allowed to do that. And he asked why you consented to the resolution of this counsel. As for the Platform, maybe the head of the club will speak or... [[But that question was for you, Senator.]] [[Voice from the room: What do you mean? To the platform.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-11-senat-17-1.u307	There's no question formula for the head of the club. [[Voice from the room: This is a discussion.]] [[But that question was for the Platform.]] But in the Rules of Procedure, we have only the opportunity to ask questions to the rapporteurs. Thank you for your answer. Senator Florek, and then Senator Rybicki.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-11-senat-17-1.u308	Mr. Marshal, Senator Barbara Zdrojewska spoke about the procedure. I'm trying to get some feedback right now, but it's very difficult in such a short time. It is not possible to proceed in this way, all the more so since there are so many comments to this law that it actually qualifies for rejection. Professor Żaryn mentioned an exhumation here just now, a transfer of a corpse. From what I recall, these decisions were made by the voivode and it was all regulated, I myself made many times such decisions. I have a question for Mr. Severinski, I mean the Voivodship Committees for the protection of memory of battles and martyrdom. I'm asking because I didn't get to know it. In this regard, will there also be liquidation of the Voivodship Committees for the protection of memory of battles and martyrdom that the voivodships are calling? The governor is at the head of such a committee, and in general such a committee is very useful. I recall that I had two committees, a medal committee, as regards the guardians of national memorial sites, and a memorial committee, which was very important, which also gave opinions to the council. There were a number of outstanding people, many outstanding professors, among others. Professor Lech Trzeciakowski, whom you probably know, and many, many others. Therefore, I have a question: will these voivodship committees protect the memory of battles and martyrdom in connection with this change also be eliminated, or not? I'm asking because I'm having a hard time finding it right now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-11-senat-17-1.u309	Mr. Senator, I know there are field units out there that will perform these functions, but I can't recall them right now if they're going to be called what the senator says they're going to be called otherwise. Anyway, there's this kind of field structure.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-11-senat-17-1.u310	Thank you. Mr. Senator Rybicki, and then Mr. Senator Klich.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-11-senat-17-1.u311	Mr. Marshal, I have a question for Senator Jan Rulewski. Has the Civic Platform, as well as other parliamentary clubs in the Seym and Senate, taken an active part in the work on the bill, which was initiated by former President Bronisław Komorowski, and the Act ended with the President's signature in June 2015, the Act on amending the Law on cemeteries and the hiding of the dead, the Law on graves and war cemeteries and the Act on the Institute of National Remembrance? This law allowed the exhumation of the victims of communist terror, including "Lupask" and many, many other heroes of the Polish underground. This is a bill that the Platform, I believe, has adopted in 2015 with the support of the Law and Justice. I have a question for Senator Rulewski: was the Platform active and how she voted? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-11-senat-17-1.u312	The answer is clear and simple. Of course we voted together and I think it was unanimously adopted. This law regulates the situation which has suddenly arisen, as a result of the IPN initiative, in the sense of compliance with Polish law, which dates back to 1932, with the law on military cemeteries and war cemeteries. However, it does not seem that this law, as I heard at the committee meeting, solves this problem, and even it violates the legal order which has been adopted worldwide.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-11-senat-17-1.u313	Thank you very much. Mr. Senator Klich, and then Mr. Senator Jackowski. [[Could Senator Rulewski come to the podium after all?]] Maybe, but he doesn't have to. [[Voice from the room: Threat.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-11-senat-17-1.u314	In his explanatory memorandum to the minority proposal, the senator spoke of political concerns about the law that we are pursuing. I would very much ask you to express these concerns precisely. Is it so that you are afraid that people without academic titles may find themselves in a college, which will be a work that has a significant impact on the election of the president of the institute, and the President of the Institute by force To create your own team? Or are you afraid of what we talked about, that here is the politicisation of the Institute of National Remembrance, which in its assumption, as we planned it in the AWS coalition The Union of Liberty a dozen years ago was supposed to be a public institution, but not a government institution? There are still many such institutions in Poland, which are public and not government, although it is regrettable that there are fewer of them, video: public media, which have become government. Are you afraid of the way in which the authorities are elected and of the fact that the scientific community will no longer have a significant impact on the composition of the college, and that political bodies such as the Sejm, us in the Senate and the President will have an impact on this? Is that your concern or not?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-11-senat-17-1.u315	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Exactly as it seems, I have said that the choice of both the College and the President, as well as the human consequences of these elections, which are already outlined in the Act, indicate that this will be a purely political choice, because it is made by political institutions. Come on. I am afraid that the demoted role of the college, limited solely to the announcement of a competition for... However, the amendment was introduced as a result of social pressure, because previously such a function was not foreseen for the board... not intended for the president of the competition. This role means college... In the intention of the initiators of the establishment of the IPN it was to be a scientific institution, and thus subject to the discipline of professorship, scientific, to say, and legal, connected even with vows at the time of obtaining the degree of scientific or legal, an institution which will not be political and will not arise known to all politicians, even to all sinners in this matter, the phenomenon of clientelism. And the choice of this college will be made by politicians. Clientship causes that national, social rations are not given, and the institute has in its national name, only HR rations are given and perhaps even programmed only one political group. It just so happens that right now this one political group, according to the verdict of democracy "Democracy" and only democracy It has a majority of the authorities. It was the opposite: another political group had the same character. But this was what caused the tensions which, as I say, gave birth not only to the political crisis associated with the fall of the Olszewski government, but also to the deep divisions that remain in society today as a result of this, Mr President, of the parliamentary procedure, of the fact that it was carried out in hysteria, unprofessionally and without the participation of scientists.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-11-senat-17-1.u316	Thank you, Senator. Mr. Senator Jackowski, and then, apparently, Senator Shark wanted to ask you a question. Yes? Good.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-11-senat-17-1.u317	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. I have a question for Senator Rulewski. [[I'll write a new bill...]] Mr. Senator... [[Can you sit down, or would you like Senator Rulewski to stand?]] No, no, he can sit. [[Mr. Senator, you're welcome to respond.]] I have respect for Senator John and he can sit. [[The senator has already sat in his life.]] [[Joy in the Chamber]] [[Your senator wasn't in the O.R. when Senator Rulewski complained about the CODE march that he was preventing...]] [[Mr. Senator...]] But, Mr. Marshal, I would be very pleased if the senator sat down and calmly answered my question. [[We need to practice marching towards democracy, better democracy, the greatest.]] I'm the one with the question. It's for the senator right now. Since you're so proud of this bill, especially in these aspects That's what we're gonna call them. Why did you file a motion to reject this law? Why did you file it if it's such a good bill? And my second question, ancillary: is it not by chance the essence of this proposal that this law proposes disclosure of a proprietary set, which, as you know, may be emphasized: it may apply to many prominent people still active in public life, of which the public has so far not known or knew nothing?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-11-senat-17-1.u318	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I'll answer the second question. Well, in that second question, you betrayed the intention that it might be about the promenades. Maybe you're not convinced that this applies to the promenades. [[And you know it doesn't apply?]] Secondly, you're giving all those who are going to do the analysis, something that could turn into an even more likely assumption. And it was, it was. Especially since the evaluation of the reserved set will not be carried out by a well-defined body, because the law gives the right to that assessment to the Minister of Defence and the head of the IPN. And a random coincidence of names, unfortunately, leads to caution. As far as the merger case is concerned, as I say, we took it with almost enthusiasm. But in his own words, as if it were an author's... I think it was exaggerated with the role of the Institute in carrying out the undertaker's work. It is a beautiful initiative, but there is supposed to be a share of IPN, and implementation activities should rest on government, government organisations. Unfortunately, this bill runs, in a central sense, this process, although it was right here to reserve Senator Klich that the IPN had not yet been strict. a government institution. The Security Council was a government institution, i.e. the government had a duty to write both in the law and in the division of the ministries... In this case, it seems that the Ministry of Culture was obliged to technically and financially implement this and all that is involved. Note that IPN is not a strict government institution. Moreover, even some decisions cannot be made, and if so, only as a result of the illustrative processes, let's say, the pensions that we have assigned him by law. And in this sense, the position of IPN vis-à-vis foreign partners is weaker than the Council of Memory, because there is no government behind it, although it can, of course, support it. Now it is such a modification that it is not known whether it is a government institution, although it is a state institution, it is understood that there is no government delegation. The Council of Memory had a government mandate because the Council was appointed by the President of the Council of Ministers and appointed the head of the office himself, in the rank of secretary. And that is why, when I answer to the senator, I will say that this initiative is actually taken as something that we may not be able to deal with legally today, but we must. Therefore, with this openness, I and my colleagues from the Platform will undoubtedly support this.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-11-senat-17-1.u319	Thank you. Senator Jackowski wants to ask, right? You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-11-senat-17-1.u320	I'm addressing Senator Rulewski because I'm concerned about your answer to the second part of my question. Namely, you suggest that I assume that there may be some materials there. So what I'm trying to say is that I don't know what materials are there. [[He doesn't know yet...]] And I have a question for you. You've ruled out conjecture, which means you know something about what's in the restricted set? And two: didn't you by any chance insinuate that the future President of the IPN and the Minister of National Defence would somehow manipulate these materials, and in guessing that they would somehow, I don't know, counterfeit them? If that's what you're addicting to revealing this collection... And if high-ranking state officials reveal these materials? Well, that's procedure. Someone's gotta do it physically. as an authority to take such a decision. Right? In this case, the Act proposes that it is the President of the IPN in agreement with the Minister of National Defence. So why do you imppute that there's supposed to be some kind of abuse of these materials? Why do you presume that this would happen? I'll admit that I was worried, because that would prove that we've been dealing with a situation of tampering with these materials so far. And in my deep conviction, this situation hasn't happened so far. Therefore, my question is this: on what basis do you say that these materials can be manipulated here, or can they be supplemented, or can there be some extra parts? This is an objectively existing set that is closed in time and space. Disclosure is purely technical. The conclusions of this will be an individual assessment of those who will be familiar with these materials. So I don't really see... I'm not sure I understand what you're saying. Perhaps you'd like to dispel my doubts, especially in terms of why you're insinuating that there might be some maneuvering of these materials. Thank you. [[The meeting is chaired by Deputy Marshal Grzegorz Czelej]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-11-senat-17-1.u321	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-11-senat-17-1.u322	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo... [[Mr. Marshal, the question can be said, not as supportive as the additional question. Mr. Senator, who's the Minister of Defense?]] Who? What? [[Who's the Minister of Defense?]] Uh-huh. Indeed. [[Joy in the Chamber]] [[Currently.]] Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The easiest way to answer that question... [[Who is the Minister of Defense now?]] ...Mr. Marshal Borusewicz... You know the answer best, Senator Jackowski himself, because he was probably involved in shaping Mr Macierewicz, and my colleague from the front, and certainly knows him from other achievements. I do express a lack of trust, but not so personally... Even if it's personal... I pointed out that the process of judging, albeit due to the resolution of the Sejm, was not well, professionally presented and had the condition of such impulsive action. The point was to make a restricted collection. According to the definition, this is a set of difficult behaviours, situations and people, it has been defined in terms of criteria. As I recall, And Marshal Borusewicz remembers even better because he was on this committee. We were the ones who had no doubt that everything should be disclosed. I'm gonna talk about this right now. We were only concerned about the interests of the state, because in the restricted collections there are agents from which Poland has used and continues to use. By protecting these people abroad, we protect their families and protect Polish interests. At least we're giving them a chance to evacuate. And these are agents in different places. And that was the reason why we showed abstinence and did not throw everything at the so-called opinion. public, especially the media. The point is that, in fact, when we proceed with the revision of this collection... Although let us add that a very democratic state, albeit monarchical, does not disclose all data related to allied activities during World War II. I'm talking about the General's case, Prime Minister Sikorski. But there are no criteria here. What kind of action is that gonna get us to let go of this briefcase, and we're gonna keep this one? This is the first issue. Two. When two people sit down, it is already a team, it is true, but it does not indicate that it is objective, especially since the list of those who will decide to disclose these documents must also be extended to the college. And the college, as we have shown here, will also be political, not professional. Hence such doubts, reservations. However, as I repeat, Poland cannot For reasons of security and various interests, to expose the identities of those who trusted Poland, at least in such a way. [[Mr. Marshal, as a correction.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-11-senat-17-1.u323	Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-11-senat-17-1.u324	Senator Rulewski used my name and said I was on this committee. I'd like to answer that I wasn't on this committee. [[Which one?]] [[But which one?]] I didn't do the archives after the ex-service. [[What were you in?]] [[Thank you...]] I've been on a lot of other committees, but I haven't been on this one. [[Mr. Marshal, but you were Vice Minister. I must disagree with you. You were Deputy Minister of Interior.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-11-senat-17-1.u325	Thank you very much, Senator. Mr Marshal, we are at the stage of asking questions to the rapporteurs and these questions should concern committee meetings. I ask you to ask Senator Shark a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-11-senat-17-1.u326	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. Since I don't see any representatives of the IPN in the room, there are representatives of the Ministry of Culture, probably for fear of becoming an agenda, God forbid, the Ministry... The question is to Professor Sewerinski. This may not apply directly to the provisions of the bill, but I'd still like to ask. Were the representatives of the IPN actively involved in the work of the committee, or were they excluded? Given the material that we have all received, very rich, did they just attend the Human Rights Committee meeting? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-11-senat-17-1.u327	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-11-senat-17-1.u328	Mr. Marshal, will you allow me to respond? [[Yes, you're welcome.]] As I said at the very beginning, of course there was a president of the IPN with colleagues and the president of the Institute presented some 14 proposals for amendments, if I remember correctly, which I have referred here, in a huge part that coincides with the proposals of the Senate Legislative Office.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-11-senat-17-1.u329	Thank you very much. Senator Żaryn, ask me a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-11-senat-17-1.u330	Thank you very much. I have another question for Mr. Rulewski. But he's sitting right here, so maybe I can talk to him about it... [[Joy in the Chamber]] I'm moved by the answer to Senator Jackowski's question. Well, the matter of the proprietary collection, Mr. Senator, is a very serious problem. And there's a deep difference between keeping a reserved set and eliminating a reserved set. These are two key sentences. To this point, the existing set of reserved in practice of its existence has led us to have some far-reaching doubts about the reasons why the parties who influenced the content of this reserved set made such decisions rather than other decisions. Why the knowledge of doubt? So that whatever was left of the reserved collection of documents was removed and transferred to the public collection. And at the moment, ladies and gentlemen, when these files became public, we were suddenly able to find out or presume that since such files were reserved, such as those of the '57 Bogdan Piasecki murder case, for example, Lost... [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[Quiet, please.]] ...or, for example, in the case of a cryptonymous case involving people suspected of being homosexual, it is very possible that those who have power also have a proprietary set In fact, it's the only so-called hooks. Therefore, in order to avoid such suspicions, it is this law that makes a radical return of the situation, i.e. eliminates... But, of course, liquidation cannot only be caused by a single-purpose statement that something is being wound up, but must be the parties that will carry out the liquidation. And please indicate to me, Mr Senator, from the point of view of the security of Poland, which other persons, other than the President of the Institute of National Remembrance, should be involved in the process of liquidation of the reserved collection, for reasons of substance and the Minister of National Defence. Because it's not about the name... [[Lech Wałęsa.]] ...only the function. How would you see such a solution that would make it a better chance to maintain the security of the Polish state if it was not the Minister of National Defence. Because as far as I understand it, the Minister of National Defense is the one who defends the nation.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-11-senat-17-1.u331	Please answer me.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-11-senat-17-1.u332	He's militaryly armed. And rather defends the state, not the nation. That's most of all. The solution, Mr. Senator, is precisely what was included in the present law: that the transfer of proprietary collections for public inspection Although he is limited, it was that the assessment... That was the council's job. And the college is also fortunately maintained. The Council isn't just made up of professors. Who, let's be honest, also represent different schools, nowhere is it said that they are curators of the only truth But also with lawyers. And the combination of these elements, the professionalism of the council and the participation of these parties, subject to review of the council, the professional council, would result in no allegations of political control of the whole process. It all arouses my distrust also because I read the reservation... I don't know if the senator read that reservation. It must be known very well by the current applicant's representative, Mr Mularczyk. It is written in the explanatory memorandum that the necessity of the liquidation of these collections is due to the fact that somebody here does not specify who, but supposedly it was the former crew that hid the facts related to cooperation with the communists, and the FOZZ case is mentioned in detail. The point was that there was a political interest of the predecessors to hide the facts contained in these restricted collections. For God's sake, I don't know if there's anyone here who had any interest in this, first of all, and second of all, he had the intention of protecting the FOZZ. Unless I misread the justification. Because it was a charge. We have accepted the IPN reports, we have put forward a case to limit this collection, we have been assured that this is going on as you do, with a great knowledge of things, he has stated that this process is selective, taking into account different reasons.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-11-senat-17-1.u333	Thank you very much. I'd like to ask you a question from Marshal Borusewicz.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-11-senat-17-1.u334	Mr. Senator Minority Rapporteur, I would ask you about your collection of reserved Hyacinth, but in my opinion This is not a question for the senator of the minority rapporteur. Therefore, I will ask the Minister what is the matter with the restricted collection or, in other words, the inactive.Hiacint. It's a closed collection, created in the 1970s, about homosexuals. It also contains various data on customs matters. Because I heard from Senator Zarin, who tried to answer various questions, using his knowledge of an IPN employee... So I'm gonna ask... If the collection of the closed collection of Hyacinth is included in the restricted collection and is to be disclosed, then... I think it is absolutely unacceptable. As I understand it, you don't know where this collection is. Is he in a restricted set? [[I've had no experience, Mr...]] Yeah, I'm sure that wasn't the case. Then I'll ask the Minister. I asked you to prepare the Minister for this question. [[Can I ad vocem?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-11-senat-17-1.u335	Professor, Senator... [[One sentence. I promise, one sentence... invite you to read Mrs. Joanna Siedlecka's last book.]] I just want to remind you that we're... Mr. Marshal, Mr. Senator, we are... [[I don't read all the IPN books. There were a lot of those books.]] [[But only one.]] Professor, Mr. Marshal, we are at the point of questioning the rapporteurs. The subject of the questions should be a committee meeting, not a problem that is widely understood. The bill was introduced by Members and the Senate. Does a government representative wish to speak on the bill under consideration? I would like to welcome Minister Jarosław Sellin. Welcome. You're welcome, of course. Minister, your vote is... [[Excuse me, I didn't have time to ask the senator the rapporteur, who said some things about talking to me...]] Mr. Marshal, but... I gave you my vote on the question, and now we're at the next point... Well, I'm sorry. [[Okay, well, I'll ask you, Professor, the minister is a question about...]] Minister, come in.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-11-senat-17-1.u336	Mr. Marshal! Dear Senators! I think I dare to put up such a thesis, that in this political composition of the Senate of this term, we certainly have one thing in common that we positively appreciate the existence of the Institute of National Remembrance for 17 years and the effects of its actions. This is the result of long-term work, long-term work, which caused significant changes in public awareness, in the historical consciousness of Poles, in a positive direction compared to what we had in the 1990s. And we recall the time when there were defenders of various communist holidays, when there were parliamentarians in the Polish parliament who called soldiers cursed by bandits, when they spoke of Wojciech Jaruzelski as a Polish patriot, and about Kuklinski as a traitor. And I think that this institution, the Institute of National Remembrance, is one of those institutions that, in the long term, caused such voices to be less and less, they are marginal or have disappeared from Polish public debate at all. And that, of course, is due to this institution. I will immediately say that the project you are discussing today is a parliamentary project, it is not a government project and the government does not have an official opinion on this project. But it is natural that we are interested in him, especially in my ministry, in the Ministry of Culture and National Heritage, because, according to the Law on Government Administrations, the Ministry of Culture and National Heritage are the obligations of activities in the field of the widely understood historical policy, memory policy. Therefore, the fate of such an important institution, which deals with this, like the Institute of National Remembrance, is close to us, we observe these works carefully and we have made important suggestions for changes which have been made at the stage of the Parliament's work. In general, it seems to me that the intention of the Members of the applicants was to bring about a situation in which such an important and experienced institution, so respected by most Poles, would receive some new tasks, because it deserves it. It is a proven, positive institution doing important work on behalf of the Polish State and these new tasks can be given to it. There were also questions about extending the scope of interest in the Institute of National Remembrance, chronological extension, for 1917 or 1917... Here also there were answers in this matter. But it seems clear to me that... It is worth to emphasize once again that it is clearly written there, that it is the examination of the actions of the communist state not only that which was installed in Poland after 1944, but also that which was created in 1917 and which had a significant confrontational impact on Polish fate from the very beginning of its existence. Here, among others. The point is that... from the very beginning of this communist state, the Soviet Union, we've been in a confrontation with him. The Bolshevik war resulted, for example. that we have concrete graves, specific burials, specific cemeteries, also the specific necessity of searching for places where Polish soldiers lie. They result from that confrontation. But also, I believe, the intention of the applicants to amend the law was that the time of interest of the IPN could be extended for an earlier period. For example, on the basis of the order of Commissioner Jezov of 11 August 1937, which resulted in the first mass genocide of an ethnic nature in Europe in the 20th century, on Poles. This case also requires an in-depth examination and is suitable for searches in which the Institute of National Remembrance has experience. I'll try to answer a few questions. They were reported as some doubts or simply some senators wanted to supplement their knowledge of what this law brings. It is simply worth answering these questions. Mr. Marshal Borusewicz asked about the fate of the office staff Not the Council for the Protection of Remembrance of Fighting and Martyrdom, but the Office of the Council for the Protection of Remembrance of Fighting and Martyrdom. Those employees There aren't many of them, 30 of them. They will simply be transferred to the Ministry of Culture and National Heritage. We're going to want to take advantage of the experience of these employees. By the way... [[No, no, I asked...]] [[But that's when we're at the question stage. Let us allow the Minister to finish his speech.]] [[Okay, okay.]] By the way, in connection with Senator Rulewski's statement from an hour and a half ago, I would like to point out that of course we respect the work and science and the official secretary of the council of Andrzej Kunert, but it is not like you said that for many, many years, actually only Andrzej Kunert... I remind you that until 2010 for several years the Secretary of the Council for the Protection of Remembrance of the Fight and Martyrdom was a sacred memory, lost in the Smolensk catastrophe, Andrzej Carrier. It was a person who actually carried the weight of the Council for the Protection of Remembrance of Fighting and Martyrdom. It was an operational officer who handled all the difficult matters that the Council was dealing with, including in international dialogue... It's worth paying attention to, too. Indeed, the Council for the Protection of Remembrance of Fighting and Martyrdom was It exists, but the government will cease to exist in a moment and the IPN is an independent non-governmental body. Some amendments have been made under this law. They cause that responsibility for commemoration and graves that are outside the country and for international agreements under which these commemorations may have taken place remains in government structures. It simply goes to the Ministry of Culture and National Heritage and will continue in agreement with the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. The concern you expressed to Senator Rybicki about these international agreements... I've already answered that. This will not be run by the IPN, but by the government, so here there is no fear that someone will not want to talk with the institution of the Polish state. It's still gonna run the government. As for the specific Polish-Russian agreement of 1994 on graves and memorial sites, in this law, as to how to read it carefully, there is no designated working institution that would, so to speak, consume this Polish-Russian agreement of 1994. So here we have a certain degree of freedom. But I also immediately calm down that predicting such a situation, that maybe. Russian political factors, but perhaps not only, would not want to talk about these matters with an institution of fornication... These matters will be handled by the government, by the Ministry of Culture and National Heritage and by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. Yesterday I was present at least during part of the work of the Senate Committee, which considered this project. There was such an emotional speech by the secretary of the council, Professor Kunert. Here one of the senators repeated this anxiety On individual applications for exhumation from mass graves outside the country. Well, I am reassured that this possibility has existed so far. The individual family could apply for the exhumation of its relative, close to the mass grave outside the Republic of Poland and submit such an application under the current law to the voivodeship. And the voivode made a decision whether he would agree or not. Now, according to this law, this decision will be in the hands of the President of the IPN. And I don't understand any of that yesterday's voice of Professor Kunert, because I don't think he can suspect that any president of the IPN, whoever it is, will make decisions against common sense in this case, as well as the voivodeships, have made very different decisions that are not in line with common sense in this case. Mr. Marshal, I actually only wanted to speak on these issues, because it was appropriate to answer a few questions that have been asked here. There is no official opinion of the government, but we were active in the preparation of this project, at least my resort, and we believe that the changes planned by the Members of the applicants are going in the right direction. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-11-senat-17-1.u337	Thank you very much. At present, senators can report no longer than a minute of questioning to the government representative, Minister, I think there will be questions, so please remain here. Following the item on the agenda. Do any of you senators wish to ask such questions? Maybe I'll read it. The list includes Marshal Borusewicz, Senator Rybicki, Senator Rulewski... [[I can do it now, right?]] Mr. Marshal Borusewicz. I'm asking you a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-11-senat-17-1.u338	Minister, I may have been wrongly asked, but I'm talking about what's going to happen to the members of the Council for the Protection of Remembrance of Fight and Martyrdom, not the office itself. So the question is, how many people have worked on this council so far, and what will happen to them? Do they go to the ministry on what basis they go through? So these are questions about employees. And two more questions. First, preliminary. I understand that there is no government position. But do you support this bill or not? Because I wouldn't want you explaining this bill to me if you didn't approve of it. And that's a preliminary question. The next question I have is also the issue of the Council for the Protection of Remembrance of Fighting and Martyrdom. Was it working well or bad, according to your assessment? What's the reason she's no longer functioning in the light of this bill?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-11-senat-17-1.u339	Minister, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-11-senat-17-1.u340	Mr. Marshal! Art. 13 of this law states that employees and councils, and the Offices of the Council for the Protection of Remembrance of Fight and Martyrdom will be transferred to the Ministry of Culture and National Heritage. Of course, we in the Ministry will make a free decision on what organisational structure within the Ministry we will continue these tasks. I would like to stress very clearly that the tasks that should remain with the government, which have been fulfilled by the Council for the Protection of the Remembrance of Fight and Martyrdom, will continue to be carried out by the government. Therefore, we will want to benefit from the experience of many of these employees. The question is, do I support this project... [[How many employees?]] Thirty-six office employees. The question is, do I support this project... Mr Marshal, you know very well in the panorama or political scene, and you know that, apart from being a minister in the government, I am a Member of the Law and Justice, and the project is parliamentary and has been submitted by a group of Members of Law and Justice. So the answer is clear: yes, I support this project, I voted in favour of this project in the Sejm and I will vote for it after any amendments that will come from the Senate. The third question slipped my mind. There wasn't...? [[Voice from the room: There wasn't.]] [[What do you mean? There was a third question. It was, it was.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-11-senat-17-1.u341	Please, Mr. Marshal.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-11-senat-17-1.u342	It comes down to... The question is: why is the Security Council being liquidated? I mean. Are you... [[The Memory Protection Board...]] Yes, the Council for the Protection of Remembrance of Fighting and Martyrdom. Why is this institution being liquidated? Has she been assessed negatively by you or by the PiS, or has her functioning been assessed as bad, defective, bad? What's the cause of the liquidation? Because it's liquidation.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-11-senat-17-1.u343	This is indeed a question rather to the Members of the applicants who stood at the origins of this law. It seems to me that we are simply judging that the IPN can perform these tasks better. I, too, subjectively assess this, that the Ministry of Culture and National Heritage in this part that we are taking over as regards the tasks performed so far by the Council for the Protection of Remembrance of Fight and Martyrdom will carry out these tasks no worse than the Council for the Protection of Remembrance of Fight and Martyrdom. [[Mr. Marshal, you didn't listen to Senator Jarin.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-11-senat-17-1.u344	But I'm sorry, I didn't give you the floor, Senator. Senator Rybicki. Ask me a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-11-senat-17-1.u345	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. I cannot ask the representatives of the applicants, so I will ask the Minister about a change in the law, which introduces the separation of the Public Education Office to the Office for Historical Research and the National Education Office. Among many IPN employees, historians, this raises concerns and suspicions that it will be a tool for getting rid of historians who have slightly different political or ideological views than those currently in power.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-11-senat-17-1.u346	You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-11-senat-17-1.u347	Mr. Senator, I'm not familiar with the ethics of suspicion. I don't think I follow it. And I can't answer that question. I think you'd have to change some procedures. on the sitting so that it is possible to ask the Members of the Committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-11-senat-17-1.u348	Mr. Senator Rulewski. Ask me a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-11-senat-17-1.u349	Minister, I have made a strong accusation of politicisation, and I find evidence of it in this bill. In the previous Act, the President of the IPN, as well as the officials of the IPN 'Cause they're officials. They were forbidden to participate in political parties. And in the present law, you allow the President of the IPN to be an official or a member of a political party. How do you respond to this accusation that you're trying to embezzle an IPN based on a party alliance? Two... [[It might refer to the Platform...]] Second question, budget appropriations. This bill comes into force in a few hours. Sorry to cut it a little short. And the budget allocated to the committee... What's happening to them? Will they be passed on and what right Because this is not the case in the transitional provisions. The IPN that takes over a number of tasks? Third question. The liquidation of the council, what Senator Borusewicz said... [[Talking in the O.R.]] What about the advice of memory, the social body? I remind you that Dr. Kunert was on this council for 16 years, not only was he her secretary. And the third question. What is your attitude towards the amendments that have been tabled, proposed by the IPN during the parliamentary debate, and now they have been renewed as amendments... But I'm not saying that in a substantive sense, it's logical.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-11-senat-17-1.u350	You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-11-senat-17-1.u351	Mr. Senator, you have provoked me to the answer that I dreamed of, so that I could finally answer such a question. Because I'm actually meeting you in the media, in polemic programmes, with other policies of the Civic Platform as well, and I've been asking you this question for years, and I still don't understand why the political charge used as an invective is being used. We're all politicians... [[I didn't say it was an insect.]] No, but you always make such an accusation that something is politicized, political, and in the context of negative emotions it is wrong. [[I didn't say...]] In a context of negative emotion. And I always ask politicians the question: why are you confusing politics and describing it almost like criminal activity? I don't get it. I entered into politics, the Youth Movement of Poland, in which Sławomir Rybicki also worked, with such conviction that political activity or politics is an action for the common good, is a noble action. I will say more: maybe some of the senators have escaped this statement, but the current Pope Francis said that politics is one of the noblest forms of making love in terms of value. [[Voices from the hall: Ooh!]] [[Applause]] That's what he really said. In the sense of acting for the people. And that's how I want to understand politics. But I understand that you're using shortcuts, and you might want to talk about stubbornness, not politics. Only on the other hand... Because you're also talking about democracy, that the verdict of democracy... The senator also admitted it. Don't be offended by this verdict. I believe that institutions such as the President of the Republic, the Sejm of the Republic of Poland and the Senate of the Republic of Poland are worthy of respect, due to democratic mandate, are the representation of the sovereign, i.e. the nation and have the right to choose institutions such as the National Council of Radiophony and Television, and soon the Council of National Media and the College of IPN, because they are authorized to do so. And the fact that you don't like the composition of these authorities... But don't tell me it's a politician thing. Because these bodies are political and have the right to political decisions. There's nothing wrong with that. And you, when you were in power, used this opportunity to make political decisions for eight years. Also among your electoral slogans were such as "Let's not do politics." Let's build bridges. Again in the background such a suggestion that politics is a bad thing. I'm asking you to give up this rhetoric. Because it also spoils the view of politics as a whole or as a whole political institution. And perhaps because we ourselves, so to speak, spit in our own backyard and say that politics is bad, the public has such a bad opinion about politics, political parties, political institutions. Let's make sure it's better. As for the Council for the Protection of Remembrance of Fighting and Martyrdom... What about the Council for the Protection of Remembrance of Fighting and Martyrdom? Well, it just doesn't exist. The tasks of the Council are partially transferred to the IPN, partly transferred to the Ministry of Culture and National Heritage. [[About the social representation, not the office...]] [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[No, budget, money... sorry, Mr. Marshal.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-11-senat-17-1.u352	Senator Fedorovich, ask me a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-11-senat-17-1.u353	I will repeat the question of Senator Rulewski, to which the Minister was gracious not to answer, which is the question of the budget which will be. Because the bill comes in... [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Culture and National Heritage Jarosław Sellin: I immediately say that I will not answer this question.]] Uh-huh. [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Culture and National Heritage Jarosław Sellin: Really, come up with a procedure to ask the rapporteur.]] Oh, good. In that case... No, because it wasn't my question. I have a question... I'd like you to kindly explain... I represent here the Association of the Federation of the Katyn Families, because I belong to the Association, and of course we have a huge number of doubts here. First of all, first of all, tell me what it means to go to the voivodeship and ask for the exhumation of the corpse of my loved one, who is at the cemetery in Starobielsk. That's one thing. How did you... Because I didn't know a voivode could do something like that. Second question: why were no proposals made by the Federation of Katyn Families at all? Because they've been folded. Minister, I don't know where you are, I don't see you... [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Culture and National Heritage Jarosław Sellin: I consult.]] Oh, you're consulting. Good. But you, in consultation, understand what I'm saying, right? [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Culture and National Heritage Jarosław Sellin: Yes.]] Good. Then I ask why they have not been accepted at all to acknowledge the reservations of the Federation of the Katyn Families, even though they have been submitted to all possible organs, including the Marshal of the Sejm, and were not at all... even though it is confirmed that they have been accepted. That's the problem. The next case that raises our biggest concerns. I'll also talk about it in the next part. We are concerned, and I say this on behalf of the entire Federation. Which is said to be divided, which is not true. Two very dangerous articles in our understanding that have entered into the bill in some other mode, I do not know exactly which and when. The point is that the President of the Institute of National Remembrance, the Commission for the Investigation of Crimes against the Polish Nationals, has the right to order the exhumation of corpses from the war grave and to transfer them to another grave. Am I to understand that exhumation of corpses from the war grave in Poland and abroad? Because there is another passage that raises our resistance: the President of the Institute of National Remembrance due to the motivated request of the family A person buried in a war grave or a social institution's request may allow the exhumation of corpses from a war grave and their transfer to another place in a country or abroad and the bringing of corpses from a foreign country to bury them in a war grave in a country. Minister, this raises our very serious concerns, because we have opinions. I'm gonna leave you here or leave you to the marshal. I'm gonna deliver them to you. The opinions of professors who participated in exhumations and say that such treatments are very... no, they are not possible to carry out. I will give you the details of these opinions in my speech. That's it.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-11-senat-17-1.u354	You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-11-senat-17-1.u355	Mr. Senator, the current law on graves and war cemeteries in Art. Article 4 (4) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013 shall apply. 1 says: "Wojewódy has the right to manage the exhumation of corpses from the war grave and to transfer them to another grave. And lips. 2: The governor may allow the exhumation of corpses from the war grave, transfer them to another place in the country or outside the country and bring the corpses from a foreign country to be buried in the country in the war grave, either because of the motivated request of the family or the surroundings of the person buried in the war grave, or because of the request of the social institution. This is the current law. This right could be exercised, addressed to the voivodeship. Question: "Is it wiser for such proposals to be submitted to 16 voivodeships with different personalities, sometimes views and sometimes different sensibilities, or better to be under the care of one particular officer responsible for these matters, a very important, reasonable public institution, which is the President of the IPN?" I think this is a much safer solution.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-11-senat-17-1.u356	However, Minister, I will ask you to explain this, because what is different is that the request or request is made by the family, and what is different is when it is done without the consent of the family. Is there a record in the previous law that this can be done without the consent of the family?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-11-senat-17-1.u357	And is there a record in the new law that this can be done without the consent of the family? [[I don't know if it is, but...]] There isn't.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-11-senat-17-1.u358	Turns out it's not there. But in the current situation, we hear I'm talking about media facts that the minister responsible or the prosecutor has the right without the consent of the family... [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Culture and National Heritage Jarosław Sellin: Please find this recipe because I go...]] ...bring to exhumation. I'm quoting the press release here.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-11-senat-17-1.u359	I don't know what kind of press release you're quoting. I suggest you focus on the law we're prosecuting. [[I mean...]] What has so far been the voivodeship's authority will be the authority of the President of the IPN. Is that a better solution or a worse solution?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-11-senat-17-1.u360	I think it's worse, but... [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Culture and National Heritage Jarosław Sellin: We disagree.]] Well, Minister, you gave me your theory, which I like, the theory of politics... We say that a public institution is being stubborned, aren't we? That's how we understand those words. Indeed, let us not use the words: politics, politicized. Yeah, but let's just assume there won't be... It's about not having a situation like this happen. And it could turn out that way. That, as a result of someone's request, the corpse of our loved ones will suddenly be exhumed and transported to Poland. And there's a danger.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-11-senat-17-1.u361	Mr. Senator, I assume... Such a decision will only be made by the President of the IPN, in the light of the new law. And I assume that it will be no less responsible than several dozen or several hundred voivodeships, who in the history of Poland in recent years have changed and who have not made such decisions, even if there have been such requests, and perhaps there have been.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-11-senat-17-1.u362	The senator asked two more questions. Was the answer sufficient? [[Do you remember what questions I asked? 'Cause I forgot, too.]] [[Joy in the Chamber]] Senator Zdrojewska's question, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-11-senat-17-1.u363	Thank you very much. Dear Minister, I'd like to ask you something like this. Both you and Senator Żaryn spoke about the good intentions of strengthening the institute, broadening its competences, etc., and we are talking about stubbornness. I would like to ask you just how to do these good intentions is the fact that you have simplified the criteria, the way the President is elected, you have introduced a simple majority in the Sejm, which in the current political situation means de facto that it will be a party candidate and can be chosen by one party sitting in the Sejm with an ordinary majority. In addition, the director will have to, as far as 100 employees are concerned, a hundred posts, as if to consult additionally, which has not been the case so far, because the director, however, had much greater independence. I just wanted to ask you about your intentions and why you introduced the ordinary majority, causing it to be a candidate of one party. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-11-senat-17-1.u364	I'd like another question from Senator Bonisławski.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-11-senat-17-1.u365	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. I wanted to ask a more technical question. For many years I worked in the Main Commission for the Investigation of Hitler's Crimes, and later as an advisor to the voivodeship I also dealt with such matters. At the moment, the voivode will be deprived of the Voivodship's Memory Protection Committee. There were usually several people who were involved in collecting documents, carrying out some offers and cetera. What's gonna happen to these employees? That's the first question. Second question. In this act it is written that the function of the Institute of Memory, one of many, will of course be scientific research, but conducted on the post-group history of Poland. I wanted to ask you something like that. Up to now, the memorial committees have dealt with memorial sites starting with the Kościuszko insurrection, providing care for cemeteries such as November insurgents and January insurgents. There is nothing from this law as to what will happen with it, who will continue to care for these oldest places of memory. Maybe it'll be the Ministry, I guess. And now another third question resulting from such a small analysis of the projects that fall on the memorial institute, namely the institute may continue to order the voivods to take care of the graves in its territory. But who in the voivodeship is technically going to do that? Because until now he had weapons in the form of a seat protection committee. There was money being transferred and it was realized by the committee. In today's structures of voivodship offices, I do not see a body that would take care of it, because it requires some historical knowledge, etc., etc. Is it well written here? Because maybe it should be commissioned in these branches of memory institutes, not passed on as it was before, to the voivodeship, because in this way we do not change anything, but merely receive competence. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-11-senat-17-1.u366	Please answer me.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-11-senat-17-1.u367	Dear Senators, my ministry has only dealt with this law in this respect in order to reasonably separate the powers of the liquidated Council for the Protection of Memory of Walking and Martyrdom between the IPN and the Ministry of Culture and National Heritage, so I am sorry, but if you do not find a procedure for hearing the intention of this law in other points and obtaining an answer from the Member of the applicant, I will unfortunately not satisfy your inquisitiveness, because I cannot answer these questions. As far as the division of powers is concerned, it's right... The senator said he sensed it intuitively. Yes. Yes, it is. This chapter of competence is more or less such that the IPN is to continue to be responsible for the search, exhumation, protection of remains, research, and the Ministry of Culture and National Heritage for the protection of places to be commemorated, the commemoration itself, the form of commemoration, and the promotion of these places and building, based on the history of places connected with memory and martyrdom, elements of historical policy or a memory policy. This is the division of tasks between the IPN and the Ministry of Culture and National Heritage resulting from this law. As far as Senator Zdrojewska's attention is concerned, unfortunately, I must quote her again with a statement that there is nothing to be offended by the verdicts of democracy. Someone has to choose a college, a college has to propose someone to be president of the IPN and a representative body chosen by Poles, approve or reject this candidate. Don't be offended that it's a representative body in which a party you don't identify with dominates. Well, that's just the voter's verdict. [[I'm just ad vocem, if you don't mind, Mr. Marshal...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-11-senat-17-1.u368	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-11-senat-17-1.u369	I understand that, of course. Maybe I'll clarify the question. It is the only State body elected by the Sejm, which chooses by simple majority. And that's what I asked. Furthermore, I would like to point out that the introduction of a larger majority in such a case will result in the support of most of the representatives of society. With greater social support, the director would have a stronger mandate to perform his duties. That was the only intention of my question. And it is the only one, as far as I am concerned, that kind of body in a country that is elected by a simple majority by the Sejm. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-11-senat-17-1.u370	Senator, I've been a parliamentarian for 11 years, and I might not remember anything. Or be wrong. And if so, please correct me immediately. But it seems to me that the Ombudsman is elected by a simple majority, the Ombudsman is elected by a simple majority. There are plenty of single-member bodies that are elected by a simple majority. [[But it's not a single-person organ, it's a huge institution of the state.]] Like the IPN, it is a huge institution employing many employees.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-11-senat-17-1.u371	I'd like to ask Senator Wczyła's question.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-11-senat-17-1.u372	Minister, before I ask a question, I'll share a brief reflection. You talked about the beauty of politics, the need for its affirmation, the political values. I, too, believe that politics is a noble thing to do. When I listened to you like that, I was thinking about sex. Sex is good too, it's beautiful and gives good fruit. And it has to be confirmed. But sex is also rape. I don't think anybody's gonna approve of that kind of sex. I wonder, in the context of the amendment of this law, whether we are committing... or whether the applicant is committing a certain rape. This law should unite us around our values, which will be the subject of IPN research. So why, by introducing this law, we do not use the wisdom of the nation, we do not ask other backgrounds, not even the parliamentary opposition, for an opinion on this law. You are basically introducing it with the strength and wisdom of the Members of Law and Justice. You don't ask other backgrounds. This is a form of rape. What's cheering you guys up to push this bill through with your forces and at this rate? I can't understand that.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-11-senat-17-1.u373	That was the first question. I'm gonna need another one. Mr. Senator Klich.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-11-senat-17-1.u374	I will do my part, Minister, to try to answer your question about why politicising this institution, like a few others, is wrong. Because that's the question you asked. This is due to the profound difference between the state and us in terms of the philosophy of politics and the philosophy of the state. Namely, we believe that not all public institutions should be subject to political control, that what is public is not the same as what is political. In order for the state to function, there must also be an area of public life which does not belong to you. And that is the fundamental difference between what the ruling majority in Poland is doing at the moment and what we believe should be done. Because we think the public media should be out of control of current policy... [[Excuse me, Mr. Senator, but we're about to have a discussion.]] But I want to ask you, I'm going to ask the Minister... [[Now there are questions that last no longer than a minute. You're welcome...]] ...like the Institute of National Remembrance should be outside the scope of current policy. That's why I'd like to ask you... Because we've already talked about the effects, i.e. we are able to imagine the effects of this law. I would like to ask you what is the reason why it turns really upside down an institution that has been operating in Poland for 16 years, the Institute of National Remembrance, instead of being subjected to some kind of modification once again, if such modifications were. the kind Senator Zaryn mentioned They're needed. The Lord answered the question of why you are removing the Council of Memory. And I want to ask you why the revolution at the Institute of National Remembrance is actually being held. What did the Institute of National Remembrance do wrong to the ruling majority at the moment that it should be subjected to such a revolution? There is no one in this Senate room who was in favour of the liquidation of the Institute of National Remembrance. There's no one like that in the Seym after the last election either. We regularly discussed IPN in the Senate every year during the IPN President's report we talked about IPN with concern... [[Mr. Senator...]] ...and it's both sides, and the PiS, and the Platform, trying to help the Institute and support the Institute of National Remembrance. So what happened to blow up this Institute of National Remembrance?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-11-senat-17-1.u375	Thank you very much. Mr. Senator, we meet at the Convention... [[I asked three questions.]] Seniors. We can change the rules so the questions don't last a minute, just two minutes or three or five minutes, and I urge you to discuss it. So we either change the rules and extend the question time, or we try to stick to the rules. And since I've never, since I've been a senator and I've been a senator for nine years, I haven't heard her offer, I have a heartfelt request that we be at the stage of asking questions that last no longer than a minute. In a moment we will move on to the speeches and each of you will have 10 plus 5 minutes for a comprehensive speech. And that's what I'd like to appeal for. Please answer me, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-11-senat-17-1.u376	Mr. Senator, I'm amazed at the thesis you've placed. Because these thesis are as true as the thesis that appeared in the public debate after the announcement of the Minister of Culture and National Heritage of mid-April about the merger of two museums, which were to say that a museum was being liquidated. The merger was interpreted as liquidation. The connection isn't liquidation, it's just a connection. You're saying this bill is eliminating the IPN. Where did you read it? This is a bill amending the operation of the Institute of National Remembrance. The Lord says that this institution is being overturned, and at the same time he says that it should be modified. It's a question of interpretation. No one is eliminating this institution, it is actually modified, modified, not overturned, as you said. And in my opinion it is changed in such a way that it will be even more important for the Polish state, even more important for building the historical awareness of Poles or the international position of Poland in the area of memory policy, historical policy and will receive additional instruments. So, how did you get all this about the liquidation, about turning this institution around, I can't figure it out. And since you already allow yourself such a publicistic remark that not all public institutions should be subject to political control, and in this context it mentions e.g. Public media, it's me with the senator 100% I agree. I am therefore reflecting on the last 8 years of government practice that we have faced in the years 2007 to 2015. Indeed, those years were a warning against such action. [[And who was the president?]] [[Eight years.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-11-senat-17-1.u377	Thank you very much. I'm asking you to ask me a question... [[Voice from the hall: Who was the president?]] I'm sorry, I didn't give you the senator's voice. I'd like to ask Senator Czerwinski's question.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-11-senat-17-1.u378	Minister, I fully agree with the idea of this law and with its main provisions. But, unfortunately, some of these records can lead to absurdity in case of misreading or because of bad will. I'll quote one of the laws introduced by the law. He is already at the beginning, namely in the article. 1 which regulates the scope of the Act. The law regulates And I read the introduction of point 6 of the activity related to commemorating historical events, places and figures in the history of fighting and martyrdom of the Polish people, both in Poland and abroad. And now it's important. As well as places of fighting and martyrdom of other nations in the territory of the Republic of Poland, between 8 November 1917 and 31 July 1990. What does that mean? If we read it literally, it means that the law allows the commemoration of places of fighting and martyrdom of other nations on the territory of the Republic of Poland. As far as I'm concerned, these are the other nations who fought in our territory... You can speak here, among other things. of the German Wehrmacht, the German SS, the UPA banners, such examples could be multiplied. The question is, is that really what this was all about? Because in the bill that we repeal, namely the Act on the Council for the Protection of Remembrance of Fighting and Martyrdom, this entry was a little broader, but healthy. The talk was about the close places of fighting and martyrdom of other nations on the territory of the Republic of Poland. That meant it was possible to make a selection. Well, close to the Polish people are certainly not Wehrmacht, SS and UPA banners. This is then repeated in subsequent records related to IPN tasks. And that's the first question. The second question concerns transitional provisions. By abolishing the Council for the Protection of the Remembrance of Fighting and Martyrdom and handing over its tasks to two bodies, the IPN and the Minister for Culture and the Protection of National Heritage We didn't say anything about the acts issued by the Council for the Protection of Remembrance and Martyrdom. One such act is the 1995 resolution, which regulated very much at the time the problem of commemoration, which the German minority had placed or restauranted. Although in fact it was usually the reconstruction of the Opolskie Voivodeship, in which the German minority confirmed the soldiers of the SS or the Wehrmacht. They were monuments in honor of fallen soldiers, not victims. And in this resolution of the 1995 Council of Remembrance for Combat and Martyrdom. I am from Opole, so, you can say, I felt this conflict on an ongoing basis and partly also participated in it, on the known side, the anti-German Every once in a while... This conflict broke out again in 2004 and it's exploding again now. It just so happened that another monument, which is... [[Time.]] [[...in the debate.]] [[Mr. Senator, once again, I ask you a question.]] But I think the Minister should know that. Another monument causing discord is currently being analyzed, in the local community, in regional media. And here's the question: what happens if we don't uphold the acts issued by the Council for the Protection of Remembrance of Combat and Martyrdom? Well, of course, it will be said that they do not apply. There's no advice, there's no act. What does that mean? This means that any monuments can be erected and that the German minority has free will in this regard. Minister, shouldn't this law be supplemented by a transitional provision that upholds acts issued by the Council? Alternatively, such acts are repeated by the IPN or by the Minister of Culture... And the last question that may seem marginal, but it matters to the local community. In the Act on the Council for the Protection of Remembrance and Martyrdom in Article. Point 3 (4) is clearly indicated that it is up to the Board to exercise an opinion and caring function in relation to museums of fighting and martyrdom. And this is where the museums are listed. One of them is the museum in Łambinowice. I will give you a hint, because not everyone needs to know that this is a central POW museum, so to speak, dedicated to the memory of the prisoners who were imprisoned in those Łambinowices. Here's the question. Since we don't exchange these museums in this revision, The museum is now under the supervision of the Marshal's Office in which the German minority co-organizes Whether the museum will not lose its character as a central memorial of prisoners not only imprisoned in these Łambinowice, but in general prisoners during the Second World War, and whether all attention will not be directed to the transitional camp which was in those Łambinowice after the Second World War and in which they were imprisoned for a certain period of time the Germans who were then... They may not have been displaced, they left this camp alone in Germany as a result of the Potsdam agreement. The question is, what about the museum in Łambinowice? Will we leave such a text of the bill unchanged? Then the Ministry of Culture takes it upon itself or are we supplementing this text with provisions regarding the care of this museum?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-11-senat-17-1.u379	Minister, you're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-11-senat-17-1.u380	For the third time, I would like to remind you that the official position of the government in relation to this law does not exist, and the Ministry has engaged in the work of this law only in the separation of tasks of the liquidated Council for the Protection of Memory of Walking and Martyrdom between the IPN and the Ministry. We are not the government or the Ministry applying for this bill, but I will try to answer these questions. I think other nations whose places of struggle and martyrdom deserve to be commemorated in the territory of the Republic... That doesn't just apply to those who might be in doubt, which the senator has reported. It's obvious he's walking around, too. for Jews who fought in the Warsaw ghetto uprising, in the rebellion in Treblinka or in Sobibor. It's... You only mentioned UPA. Here Polish sensitivity is indeed violated. And it is also about the soldiers of Petlura who fought on the right side from our historical point of view, or the cemeteries of many nations of Central Europe scattered in Podkarpacie, but not only, from the time of the First World War, which deserve protection of the Polish state. These are graves or graveyards really multi-ethnic, just look at the names on those graves in Podkarpacie from World War I. I think all this requires national care and it will be the care of the Ministry of Culture and National Heritage. These resolutions of the Council for the Protection of Remembrance of Fighting and Martyrdom are in force or should continue to apply and this will be the concern of the Ministry of Culture and National Heritage, because this task passes to the Ministry of Culture and National Heritage. As for the Central POW Museum in Łambinowice, we are Our team, the new team, after two talks with representatives of the Opole voivodship authorities in the matter not only of raising the rank of this museum, but also of taking responsibility for this museum by the government, but not only by local or regional local authorities. We are moving towards the co-hosting of this museum by the Ministry of Culture and the authorities of the Opolskie Voivodship. The prisoners from the Warsaw Uprising were held there, although briefly, by the rottmaster Pilecki, there were prisoners from the First World War. This museum is, you can say, an event on a European scale and deserves that the care of this museum, including the content exhibited there, is a concern not only of the voivodship authorities, but also of the central authorities, the Ministry of Culture and National Heritage, and in this direction we are going.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-11-senat-17-1.u381	Thank you very much. I'd like to ask you a question from Marshal Borusewicz.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-11-senat-17-1.u382	Minister, there's a reason I asked you about your attitude towards this bill. You said you supported her, voted for her, and therefore all these questions to you are justified, because it is impossible to vote if you do not know the law. Minister, when it comes to exhumations, I would like to say that the change in these matters is fundamental. The former exhumation could only be carried out with the consent of the family, and now the President of the Institute of National Remembrance will have the right as a result of a motivated request from the family or the surroundings of the buried person or the request of the social institution, I stress, the social institution, to order an exhumation. Hence the concerns of the Katyn Family Associations, the Federation of Katyn Families. So it's not like you said nothing's changed about it. And here's the question for you. Don't you think that the division of powers between two institutions, the Ministry and the Institute of National Remembrance is a bad solution? Why? For formal reasons, especially competence. This law divides, divides the competences that were in the Council for the Protection of Remembrance of Fighting and Martyrdom, between two institutions. And one more question. The Act gives the Minister of Culture competence in general care I'm gonna find it. Over graves, burials, etc. and in principle, the Ministry of Culture and National Heritage is the subject of foreign presence. And why not the Foreign Ministry? Why isn't there a rule of cooperation with the Ministry of Foreign Affairs here? There are consuls mentioned here, but there is the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, which should enable contacts, support in contacts with governments of countries where Poland has graves of its citizens, people of Polish nationality. Can you tell us how to work with the Ministry of Foreign Affairs on the basis of this bill?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-11-senat-17-1.u383	Thank you very much. I'm asking you another question, Senator Shark.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-11-senat-17-1.u384	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. Minister, I'm only going back to the issue of stubbornness for a moment. I, too, believe that institutions such as the prosecutor's office, the judiciary should not be stubborn, in my opinion the IPN should also be removed from this catalogue. Minister, having the opportunity to reach consensus during the work on this bill or amendments to the previous law, which I will remind you of, in a very difficult, but in consensus, why did you give up this possibility? Why, if, as Professor Żaryn said, there are people in this Chamber and in the Seym, who are certainly in advantage and who would gladly support these changes, and this law, are you deliberately giving up the possibility of obtaining such consensus? And my second question. So, uh... Because even though it was a parliamentary project, you asked for consultations. My question is whether any proposal for amendments to this project has been taken into account. And another question. I'm talking about the prosecutors at the IPN. I'm sure you'll say again that you only respond to this narrow issue of the Ministry of Culture and National Heritage, but you're a representative of the government, so I'll ask you. Have competence been established or do prosecutors who are employed in IPN? Is that going to be a subsidiary of the President of the IPN or a subsidiary of the D.A.'s office? Was this included in this bill? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-11-senat-17-1.u385	You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-11-senat-17-1.u386	I answer to Marshal Borusewicz. Mr. Marshal, there are clearly two types of powers in the current law on graves and war cemeteries. Today the voivode can order the exhumation of the corpses from the war grave and transfer them to another grave, and today the voivode can do so as a result of a motivated request from the family or the surroundings of a person buried in a war grave or a request from a social institution. Exactly the same powers are given to the President of the IPN. It's just a matter of evaluation. In my opinion, this is... [[Nothing changes.]] ...move in the right direction, because it's better that they don't make decisions like this... Because there may be different decisions, one voivode will make that decision, another won't make it, I've talked about different sensitivities, different political options of the voivodships, they're changing too. It is better that such decisions should be taken by one responsible government official, who will be president of the IPN, both in justified cases and at the request of the family or important social institutions. So that in this matter there is simply a transfer of competence from the voivodships to the President of the IPN. With regard to the division of powers that you have been asking about, I believe that now, following the amendments that have been made at the stage of the parliamentary work, this division is appropriate. As I said, exhumations, search, research, identification are on the IPN side, and security, commemoration, commemoration competitions, monuments, proper shape of cemeteries, building historical politics, memory policy based on this element of historical politics, which are places of struggle and martyrdom, all this is on the side of the Ministry of Culture and National Heritage. Mr. Marshal also asked why MKiDN, not the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, is the subject of foreign talks. But I suggest we at least get started. It's not easy, every group in the room already ruled. Leaving the departmental government because you have to leave it and we're determined to do it. The law indicates a leading resort, but that does not mean that it is prohibited to cooperate with other resorts. Not much, nothing forbids this resort to lead cooperation with other state bodies, e.g. with the President of the Republic of Poland, if his assistance in some important matter would be necessary. So please accept as a good coin that we will try to be effective in this matter in talks with foreign countries, and this effectiveness means, of course, commitment to our request from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and all its resources at its disposal, all of its contacts at its disposal. Senator Shark asks why we don't want consensus. But from what I've heard here, there's been an incentive for consensus. We're just encouraging him. Since there is a belief in this part of the room that this is a good law, this part of the room encourages consensus. [[Joy in the Chamber]] You also asked if any proposals for change were taken into account. Several dozen changes were taken into account at the seymical stage, including a significant change which was introduced by the opposition, i.e. that the new President of the IPN is to be selected by means of a competition. This has also been taken into account. But as far as the D.A.'s office is concerned, I don't have much knowledge here. I'll tell you that there's a government representative sitting in the courtroom, Deputy Minister of Justice Michał Wójcik, so maybe he'll be more able to answer that question about this part of the amended bill.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-11-senat-17-1.u387	I understand there's a questioning will. I didn't say hello to the minister because when we first started looking at this point, you weren't here yet. But now I cordially welcome you. I'm asking for an answer.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-11-senat-17-1.u388	Dear Marshal, Ladies and gentlemen! While I'm replacing Minister Jaki, of course I'd be happy to answer. I recall the law on the prosecutor's office, which I had the opportunity as a representative of the applicants at the time. I remember that we had many hours of heated discussions about the military prosecutor's office and the liquidation... but not liquidation as far as the IPN prosecutors are concerned. And let me remind you that the Attorney General, thanks to this bill, has a greater influence on the IPN prosecutors, he is the attorney-in-law of the prosecutors we are talking about today, he has access to the files of the proceedings, he can issue orders, as I remind you, we talked about this. In some sense, the separation of IPN prosecutors was guaranteed. This also applies to remuneration I'm answering to the senator who asked me at break. This distinction has been guaranteed. The only thing that causes, to be honest, my doubts, I had the opportunity to attend yesterday's session of the Senate committee, is the remark that the Legislative Bureau drew attention to. It is about the proposal of Amendment 6, which requirements should be laid down. And here, in fact, in the case of this law, those requirements imposed on prosecutors are slightly different from those contained in other laws. What the Legislating Bureau has signaled is right in my opinion. And here, if I may, I just wanted to share this attention, as I was saying, in fact, Amendment 6, which was proposed by the Legislative Bureau among the twenty-six amendments. And if anything, it is worth actually leaning on the proposal for this amendment here. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-11-senat-17-1.u389	Thank you very much. I'd like to ask Senator Fedorovich's question. But before that, if you don't mind, I'm gonna do a little digression, because there's still a little bit of politicalization... [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[Wait, we can't hear our marshal.]] I was just trying to relate to what the senator said. Senator, I just wanted to remind you of a fact a few years ago. In my first term of office, I was a candidate for the National Council of Radio and Television, and I was a candidate for the Senate and the State of the opposition did not include anyone in the Seym, nor did you President, and I lost this election... Maybe it's okay, because I'm a vice marshal now, but when you had the majority, I didn't see this kind of climate and care that we have our representation, even one-man representation, on the five-person National Radio and Television Council. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] [[It's worth remembering...]] Sorry about the digression. She's off the record. [[But don't duplicate bad habits.]] I give my vote and ask Senator Fedorovich for a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-11-senat-17-1.u390	Mr Marshal, we didn't want a politician in the National Council, and in your time two senators... were Senator Boron and Mrs Bubula. But let's close... let's separate this dark card of our lives with a thick line, because Minister Sellin was also on the National Council. Minister, first question. The second one will come from the answer to the first one. The question is, did you sign up for this... Are you the petitioner of this law as a Member?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-11-senat-17-1.u391	There are dozens of signatures, mine wasn't necessary. [[Your signature is, isn't it?]] Mine wasn't necessary.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-11-senat-17-1.u392	Good. Well, in that case, as far as everything you've said so far as the government is concerned, you're experiencing déjà vu... but don't worry, that's what we've been doing for the last few months. Since the bill is parliamentary, but you signed off on it, please tell me why, even though you've asked for consultations. The opinion of the Federation of the Katyn Families, which was submitted to the Sejm's Justice Committee, was not accepted. This is completely incomprehensible to me, because this is a matter entirely outside of any policy, because there are colleagues from all sides in the Federation of the Katyn Families. And the second thing that still raises my concerns. I'm theorizing. If one of the loved ones wants to exhume their loved ones, they get permission to do so, the drugs go back to Poland. But if a social institution wants to apply at the same time, at the same time, to exhume drugs and move a loved one, which is unfortunately impossible for both projects, then there could be a situation in which, for example, suddenly. from the cemetery in Katyn I repeat, as a result of a request from some social institution, some of the drugs or even the majority will be transferred, let's assume, to Poland, why the Federation of the Katyn Families obviously opposes. Explain to me if my reasoning is logical. These are two questions, because the first one has already been answered. The second concerns the consultation and the third concerns the matter.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-11-senat-17-1.u393	Senator Zdrojewska's question, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-11-senat-17-1.u394	I'll be quick. That is not a question, just 2 comments, if you can ad vocem, to the Minister's previous statement and to the Marshal's statement. This is the first time I've been a senator, and this is the first time I've ever been in Parliament, so please don't include me in this group that's been doing something. It's just a remark. Although I'm on the Platform, I don't deny it and take responsibility. And I would just like to say to the Minister that I checked quickly and for example. The Ombudsman is elected by an absolute majority, not by a simple majority, so that the Minister's memory unfortunately failed. It's just a remark. I haven't checked it for all the authorities yet, but I've checked the NIK, etc., and I suspect that most of these bodies, like ministers, do. whether the President of the Council of Ministers is elected by an absolute majority. Meanwhile, there is an ordinary majority in this bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-11-senat-17-1.u395	I'd like to ask Senator Wczyła's question.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-11-senat-17-1.u396	Minister, I don't really want to ask you another question, I understand that perhaps looking for an analogy between politics and sex has knocked out the Minister's answer to the fundamental question I wanted to ask, and I meant this case. Why is the procedure for debating this law so hasty that it does not give us the opportunity to consult and reflect on the provisions of the law with other environments?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-11-senat-17-1.u397	You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-11-senat-17-1.u398	I can't answer the last question. Ask the Members of the applicant for this question. A political decision was made that this is a parliamentary project, in accordance with Polish law, in accordance with the Polish constitution. A group of Members may submit any bill, so they submit it and proceed over it. Does that prevent any debate? It seems that we are debating the fourth hour, and in the Sejm there were also many, several hours in committee. Does that make it impossible to debate? Does this prevent the submission of comments, e.g. notification. those things you're asking Senator Fedorovich about? Taking these comments into account or not taking them into account is another matter. But does that make it impossible to comment? No, it doesn't. Of course we all know, because we are politicians, that the parliamentary mode is faster. But everyone has the right to do so, every club, every group of Members and every group of Senators has the right to submit a legislative proposal in a parliamentary or senatorial manner. Mr. Senator Fedorovich, I repeat: not the family decides, not the social institution decides, but the president of the IPN. They're just making a motion. If you think or suspect that there might be an irresponsible decision in this case, you should have a grudge against the President of the IPN in the future. I assume that since of so many voivodships Maybe it was a few dozen people, and maybe a few hundred people have already gone through it. No one has made an appalling decision that would cause a national or social storm, and it is all the more so that one person, who will be an important, well-known person, certainly responsible, certainly on the basis of common sense, will not make any unwise and irresponsible decision. The decisions are in the hands of this person, not individual families or social institutions. Villages are on the side of individuals and social institutions. I cannot answer the question of why some conclusions of the Federation of the Katyn Families, in your opinion, have not been taken into account, because at this stage of the work on this law I simply did not participate.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-11-senat-17-1.u399	One word, no longer in the form of a question. I thank you for what you said in the previous paragraph. And this is registered in the Senate protocol. The words of the acting Deputy Minister and Member who so falls will apply to the person who will be able to make those decisions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-11-senat-17-1.u400	You're still a Senator. Filling in the question like a brain. Yes?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-11-senat-17-1.u401	Minister, let me ask you a different question. I'll ask you that question as a politician. Do you not think that, in the case of such laws, which are more reflective than those related to current policies, it would be better if consultations were as broad as possible.?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-11-senat-17-1.u402	Thank you very much. Senator Bonisławski's question, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-11-senat-17-1.u403	Mr. Marshal! Minister! I would like to deepen my view of the division of competences. For the Council for the Protection of Remembrance of Fight and Martyrdom transfers all its competences to you at the highest level, and a member of the National Remembrance Sites is now added to the name "Council for Museums." Of course, I don't know if those who do museums are gonna be happy with expanding their competences, but I assume so. And now I'd like to ask you if you're planning to create a similar body at this lower level, a voivodship level. Or maybe the museums of independence traditions... 'Cause I don't really know who's gonna take over the grave-care orders in the voivodship right now. Because you didn't answer my previous question. The more that all documents from the Regional Committees for the Protection of Memory Sites go to the institution that is currently being processed here. So the voivode stays without anything, only gets some jobs to do, and I don't really know which department either. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-11-senat-17-1.u404	Thank you very much. I ask you a question, Senator Shark.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-11-senat-17-1.u405	Minister, paying attention to what you just said about the enormous powers of the President of the Institute of National Remembrance, who will be called... Tell me: is the composition of the competition committee 'Cause I didn't know what the composition of the competition committee was gonna be. Is it really a guarantee that it will make the choice of the absolute best, most competent and non-partisan president? [[No.]] [[The voice from the room: There's no such...]] Yes. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, [[There's no obligation.]] But I'm asking... [[The Minister has already said that.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-11-senat-17-1.u406	Mr. Senator Rulewski, please don't interfere with the senator's questioning. You're welcome, Minister. [[It's best he's on the Platform, but... he's not.]] [[But the last one was yours, too.]] [[Talking in the O.R.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-11-senat-17-1.u407	To answer this last question, I will repeat once again: at least in my public activity I try not to direct the ethics of suspicion And I encourage you to do the same. I trust, therefore, that the composition of the competition committee will be such that you will have no objection to the objectivity of the evaluation and the choice of the right person to run this institution. As far as museums are concerned, I'll draw the senator's attention to the fact that we have all kinds of museums. There are museums that present works of art, there are museums presenting contemporary art, there are narration and historical museums, but there are also museums that are places of national memory. That's why we wanted to do it, we made sure that under the care of the Ministry of Culture and National Heritage there were places of national memory, because for example. The Auschwitz-Birkenau Museum under our control is a place of national memory, the Stutthof Museum under our control is a place of national memory, the museum under our control in Majdanek is a place of national memory. We plan to take responsibility for Treblinka, take it from the Regional Museum in Siedlce, and we plan to build a subsidiary of Majdanek in Sobibor. These are all places of national memory. In a sense, the Museum of Soldiers Cursed in Ostrołęka can also be seen as a place of national memory. These are museums of this kind and, of course, we want it to be as it is so far, that the Minister of Culture and National Heritage is responsible for such places. As far as attention is concerned about socialising at regional level about these places and possibly looking for a procedure or even a structure that would help us to achieve this concern, I simply accept that. I think that's the point. not necessarily a legislative solution, but simply a simple policy that the Ministry is already pursuing.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-11-senat-17-1.u408	Thank you very much. Thank you, Minister. I'm opening a discussion. Please take the floor of Senator Ryszka.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-11-senat-17-1.u409	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. I thought I'd never see it again today. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Gentlemen of Ministers! I am one of the Members who appointed the Institute of National Remembrance on 19 January 1999. At the time, we strongly stressed that the tasks of the IPN were to collect documents from State Security Authorities drawn up from 22 July 1944 to 31 December 1989 and, of course, to manage these documents. by issuing illustrative certificates. It's one pawn. The second pawn is to prosecute Nazi and communist crimes, and the third task of the IPN is to carry out educational activities. I will admit that for me research and educational tasks of the IPN were particularly important, including among others. dissemination of positions in Poland and abroad, opinions on the most important historical events for the Polish nation. I think that over the years, thanks to the Institute of National Remembrance, activity has increased significantly in spreading Polish history in Poland and abroad. I am thinking, in particular, of numerous publications, including exhibitions in Poland and abroad. I value the IPN for the fact that much has been achieved when it comes to explaining e.g. an assassination attempt on John Paul's life II, the case of the Augustow Oblast. I'm waiting for a full explanation of the tragedy in Silk. My appreciation is also aroused by the fact that the Institute of National Remembrance carried out its mission regardless of who ruled it. Even when he ruled the Democratic Left Alliance, openly hostile to the Institute of National Remembrance, seeking to liquidate the Institute, reducing its budget, the Institute did not associate politicians with itself with the effects of work. While remaining on the subject of historical education, I am very pleased to say that among the new tasks of the Institute will now also be countering the dissemination of information in Poland and abroad and publications about false historical content, hurting or defaming Poland. I mean especially falsely accusing Poland of participating in the crimes of the Holocaust, i.e. the so-called. Auschwitz lie. I would like IPN in the new formula to be much more informed about the methods, places and perpetrators of crimes committed against the Polish nation, and to support social projects aimed at creating patriotism and national identity. In other words, the Institute of National Remembrance should be the main institution of the state's historical policy implemented jointly with the Ministry of Culture and National Heritage. Historical education will certainly serve to extend the scope of research into the deleted restricted collection. The files stored in this collection should, of course, be made public after possible secrecy of the material threatening the security of the State. Poles have the right to know the truth about people who already in the new sovereign Republic, after 1989, instead of serving the Polish state, used foreign governments and also unfairly built their own property. The amendment of the law has, of course, this most important condition, concerning the extension of the scope of the temporary research of the Institute of National Remembrance, namely to the time until 8 November 1917, i.e. to the times of the revolution, which caused many Poles to lose their lives on the Kres. This gives the Institute the opportunity to conduct research and exhumation not only in the case of the victims of World War II, but in connection with events almost all over the 20th century. And here is the clou of this amendment. Here's the genesis. More specifically, here is the genesis of the liquidation of the Council for the Protection of Remembrance of Fight and Martyrdom, whose competence is to be taken over by the Institute of National Remembrance, and a large part of which is also taken over by the Ministry of Culture and National Heritage. In short, the integration of the Council's existing activities into the competences of the IPN will allow, among others, to initiate and coordinate activities related to commemoration of historical events, places and figures in the history of fighting and martyrdom of the Polish nation in Poland and abroad. The law introduces on this subject e.g. the possibility of carrying out such work on the basis of the provisions of the Code of Criminal Law. Specifically, in the event of the discovery of the remains of the victims in any proceedings, an investigation will be conducted by the prosecutor of the Chief Crimes Commission against the Polish Nationals. This will result in a much faster and more accurate exhumation procedure than has been done so far by the Council in administrative mode. Since the tasks of the Council for the Protection of Remembrance of Fighting and Martyrdom were to take care of the places of fighting and martyrdom of Poles With graves, war cemeteries, popularization of sites, events and historical figures, IPN's competences and councils would largely duplicate. So the IPN and the Council deal with the martyrdom of the Polish nation in commemorating burial sites and do so both in the archival and research sense. Therefore, concentrating efforts for a uniform and clear historical policy in one place will certainly take place for the benefit of the Polish state and the historical awareness of Poles. I know, I know, the experts indicate that this connection involves many consequences that have not been fully resolved in this bill, because we do not yet know all the consequences of this merger. I will mention, for example, that the so-called issues. War tombs belong to the statutory powers of government administration, the voivodships, and the IPN is not an executive authority and should be independent of it in accordance with the law. So, to put it simply, the voivods have the entire office apparatus and funds in the budget to deal with the so-called. burial, including the maintenance of war cemeteries, including those outside Poland. The Act states that it all now passes to the IPN and the Ministry of Culture and National Heritage. You don't say there, for example. about the transmission to the IPN of documentation concerning the records of war graves. There may be other doubts. But here is the field of interest of the Ministry and the Institute of National Remembrance. I will also add that with the IPN there will be a database of genetic material of victims of totalitarian repression or ethnic cleansing. It will store data, information about relatives of victims and bodies or remains of persons who have died as a result of the fight against the imposed totalitarian system or as a result of totalitarian repression or ethnic cleansing from 8 November 1917 to 31 July 1990. Mr. Marshal, High Izbo, it will be in practice whether all the changes in the bill are correct. I know that opposition protests are raised by the election of the President of the IPN, of which it was loud here, as well as the selection of 9 members of the College of 5 elected by the Sejm, after 2 by the Senate and the President. But only one who doesn't do anything is wrong. Good changes do not always meet the expectations of all parties. Let us, however, allow the President of the Institute of National Remembrance to decide personally in case of doubt and thus fulfil the tasks imposed on his shoulders by Parliament. Mr. Marshal, there have been questions in the discussion about the workers of the Council for the Protection of Remembrance of Fight and Martyrdom, and I would therefore like to make amendments. And so in the article. 22 Final provision for the entry into force of the Act... This is where I propose two shifts. In item 1 after the words.art. The words "and Article' shall be inserted after the words "Article 13'. Article 10 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 Three and four. In point 2, the words "and 3" and "art" are deleted. The words "Article 15' shall be inserted. Article 17 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 4. These amendments... [[Time's up.]] The first amendment will allow for the early entry into force of the provision on the establishment of an winding-up office so that during the period until the entry into force of the entire law it can carry out liquidation operations efficiently and prepare the financial data required for the preparation of the draft regulation of the President of the Council of Ministers on the transfer of planned revenue and budgetary expenditure between parts of the State budget. And by adding two words to the pkt. Article 17 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 The Minister of Culture and National Heritage will be able to take over the tasks arising from international agreements after the Council and the Office have ceased to operate, not during the vacathio legis period, when the Council and the Office are functioning and running matters on an ongoing basis. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-11-senat-17-1.u410	Thank you very much. Please take the floor of Marshal Borusewicz.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-11-senat-17-1.u411	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I was wondering what the new bill was for. Why? Did the IPN work wrong? Didn't the IPN work out? Or maybe the current IPN authorities don't correspond to the parliamentary majority, the PiS? If we respond positively to the first two questions, it remains the third. PiS, Minister, another institution subordinates... politicy, restricts the places that were intended to serve depreciation between policies and the activities of the institution or essentially eliminates them. It's another change like that. Minister, we have witnessed the submission of public media to one party. And don't tell me you did, which is why you did. Because there's even a difference between Janusz Daszczynski and Jack Kurski. We both know these presidents, present and former, the last, or Janusz Daszczyński. And if we compare the party career of Jack Kurski and Janusz Daszczyński, we will see where this change is going. And giving the Minister of Justice to the D.A.'s office isn't politicising? What's that got to do with... You say it's just a change of structure, a change of appointment, etc. No, this is a serious quality change. And in this case... Let's take a look at this bill. The Council turns into a college. The scientific positions of the members of the college shall be reduced. Previously on the Council, there were supposed to be professors, independent academics, and not at the moment. [[They're gonna be here now, too.]] This law also concludes the possibility of the influence of scientific institutions... [[The term of office is adjourned.]] ...such as the Polish Academy of Sciences, Institutes of the History of the Polish Academy of Sciences, as well as other entities, including the National Public Prosecutor's Council. Does this strengthen the position of the head of the IPN, the president of the IPN, who will be elected by this college? Does the transfer of all competences to these three bodies, to the Sejm, to the Senate and to the partyless president strengthen the independence of the IPN and its leadership, or weaken it? It's clear to me that she's weakening. And this is the direction, this trend of change that PiS has been making since the beginning of its term of office. Unfortunately, this road continues. An institution which was established by consensus and cooperation between AWS and the Freedom Union 17 years ago, i.e. two entities from which many Members and Senators originate or went through because a significant part of the Law and Justice passed through the AWS... [[Let us not forget the changes after 2010...]] [[That's a good change.]] Mr. Marshal, I'd ask you not to disturb... [[Please don't speak without...]] And you're destroying that consensus right now. Because this institution will be seen as an institution of one party as a tool of one party. And you should understand that. [[But maybe we can pick someone from the Platform.]] [[Please do not speak without...]] [[Good change, good change.]] [[Quiet, please.]] Gentlemen Senators Ryszka and Mammoths, I do not disturb you and ask for some culture, and your marshal to deduct the time devoted to calming these two senators. [[The voice from the hall: My gray cells are dying out.)]] [[Mr. Senator...]] [[We're all extinct.]] [[But it's different.]] [[Mr. Senator...]] I'm gonna go back to that bill. In addition, the Council for the Protection of Remembrance of Fighting and Martyrdom is being abolished. And I have a similar question: what is this all about? Was this institution malfunctioning? Were there any serious charges against her? She created a whole range of cemeteries in the areas where the Poles were murdered. In Russia, where there was a huge reluctance to do so, she refurbished and renovated the Orląt Cemetery in Lviv, after all in a very reluctant area of this renovation. We managed to do it, and that's what this institution was doing, not someone there, just this institution and the heads of this institution. And now you're shutting down this institution for no reason at all. It's probably personal, too. And that's basic. But I have to say that on the occasion of this revision of the law, you are introducing a provision which is a provision announcing interference in research and publications, especially in publications which form the Ministry of Truth, an institution that will determine what is the interpretation of the message outside. In Article 2, paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: Article 53a (1) (a) (ii) (ii) (ii) (ii) (iii) (iii) (ii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii)) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii)) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii)) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii))) (iii) (iii) (iv) (iv) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) Point 4 concerning the educational function of the memorial institute is said to counter the dissemination in Who's gonna judge that? How will this be implemented? What is false content, and what is true content in historical research? History isn't math. History isn't math. It is the announcement of censorship in historical publications. This is a very dangerous record and I want to say that soon we will see the result of this, we will see the result. Next issue, also relevant. In the IPN, after the adoption of this law, the Public Education Office will be liquidated and 2 other offices will be set up at the place of the Public Education Office. What does that really mean? The fact that the office is being decommissioned, the positions are changing, and you can just fire the people who work there. So the Public Education Office is either this place or this is an office from which the PiS is very dissatisfied. Yes? Those people, or at least the management of this office, will have to get new job engagements after this reorganisation. Will they? Isn't it about these people and these historians, the good historians raised in the IPN, by the IPN, moving away because they won't counteract false and harmful historical content? I remember how in the Polish People's Republic such records were realized, who watched the real historical content. Is that what this is about, getting us back to PRL encore? I will vote against this bill. I propose 4 amendments to amend parts of this law, which include. they restore the advice of the IPN, which I think is crucial, and delete the record that may be the basis for the introduction of censorship of scientific, historical works. They're still there, it would seem, small things, but quite important things that... you said the mistakes would come out in the laundry. Well, they will, but at the same time they will create serious problems. I argued that the scope of this new IPN, the new institution, covers the period since the October Revolution... I don't know why applicants want to emphasize this date. They could pick another one. After all, the so-called Polish action is the 1930s. Polish action, which I heard you refer to here, Polish action OGPU, Jeżów, Jagoda... It's the 1930s. The subject of the research, the activities of the IPN are to cover on the one hand the time since the October Revolution and on the other hand, since the post-election period. I mean, this bill, so to speak, it's going down. And there's a lot more internal slip-ups like that. Art. Six cases involving prosecutors... I'm not gonna propose a change in this article, let somebody else take it on. I submit 4 amendments to this bad bill, which ends the life of the IPN in its current form. Because that's what it looks like, Minister. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-11-senat-17-1.u412	Thank you very much. Please take the floor of Senator Rybicki.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-11-senat-17-1.u413	Mr. Marshal! High Senate! In my speech, I would like to put the law under critical scrutiny with political assessments, because I believe that the law can lead not so much to politicalisation as to stubbornness of this institution, which will thus lose its independence. It is a pity of the institution, which, despite critics from different parts of its activities, has been permanently included in the body of institutions which have formed the foundations of a democratic rule of law in Poland. But to the point. First of all, the way in which the Institute's chief executives are elected. The President of the IPN has special authority Under the law, he is responsible for the management of the institution, appoints the institution, authorizes the projects. It is a design similar to the Ministry. All high officials of the IPN are appointed by the President The exception is the main committee And he alone is responsible to the College of IPN and the Sejm. Thus, who the President is, what competence he has and what personality he is, he determines in a fundamental way the functioning of the entire institution. The Council of the Institute, now decommissioned, had the opinion of the President, but could not force him to do anything, unless by giving a vote of distrust, i.e. by not adopting the report. This principle of limited rights of a collegial body has not been substantially amended by law. The position of the Council, the college, therefore, depends primarily on reasons of non-legal authority of its members and their substantive competence. We know that the council or college opinions, among others. other works of individual verticals, may make demands, accept research plans or encourage them to be corrected. The credibility of the board, the college can be a support to the President, but it can also be ignored in the current work. The Council appointed by the previous amendment consisted in a majority of 7 candidates selected by academic historians, and the political factor, i.e. the Sejm and the Senate, made a choice among those so designated. Similarly, the President of the Republic elected two members of the Council, but from a list presented to him by the National Council of the Court and the Public Prosecutor's Office. This gave the scientific community a sense of influence on the leadership of the IPN, but it also created opportunities for contacts and cooperation in everyday situations. Conferences, research projects, the flow of knowledge in personal contacts. In this construction, one could see a philosophy. IPN is not something created against the environment of Polish historians, scientists. Knowledge of the past is shared, and the IPN is a place of general debate about history, historical research, the investigation to the truth, understanding its multifacetedness, as well as the place of educational activity. High Izbo! At present, this dependency is broken. This gives rise to reasonable suspicions that the IPN could become a centre for building a second history, another and opposition to what researchers will determine through querying, studies, created also for the needs of academic degrees. Disregarding competence This is the absence of a higher education threshold for college members It brings to mind Lenin's malicious maxim that even a cook can be a minister. In practice, however, this means that at least part of the college will have no knowledge of research undertaken in other centres, no knowledge of the achievements of history, no knowledge of the rules of profession and criticism of sources, but will be entitled to opinion on research projects, principles of archiving collections, rules of popularisation of knowledge, etc. The College is to be appointed as a result of the free appointment of members by the Sejm, the Senate and the President. Therefore, they will all come from the nomination of one party, Law and Justice. [[Eight years from now, it's gonna be different.]] Even if most propose a candidate outside of their friends, it will be a person whom PiS has to agree to, i.e. choose. This means simply translating the party's will into an IPN college, the greater that its members may be deprived of authority in scientific circles, professional historians. [[There are no professors in the PiS, not one.]] [[Mr. Senator!]] This team is going to elect a new president of the IPN. This means that only a person who is well-established in the PiS has the chance. No one else has a chance. The competition is therefore illusory, it is a fig leaf covering the ownership of IPN by Law and Justice. The legal position of the President of the IPN means that the entire Institute will be, by personal nominations and subsequent research, publishing, exhibitions, but also activities at the level of historical policy, owned by one party and placed in contrast to the scientific community of universities, the Polish Academy of Sciences. It's very real that there'll be two truths, two stories. The stubborn state will put millions on propaganda created against and against historical knowledge. [[On what grounds?]] This sharp charge is said to have been followed by 2 well-established candidates for the college: Andrzej Stara and Krzysztof Wyszkowski. People I know; we have a community of historical ways at a certain stage, I have respect for their accomplishments, although we are different views at the moment. It is indecent that prominent opposition participants, representing in addition one faction that has been fighting against other movement activists for many years, may have an impact on the opinion of research projects which concern them personally or their political competitors. This is a clear conflict of interest. As you know, the proper creation of the past, or memory and tradition, is essential for the PiS; I understand that. He's entering the place of ideology. It is to arouse emotions and create division between ours and aliens. It is hard to imagine that PiS, by taking over the IPN, intends to respect the autonomy of research, researchers, historical truth, different sensitivity and views on the meaning of events. In addition, the amendment significantly extends the scope of the Institute's activities and responsibilities. The Council of the Protection of the Remembrance of Walk and Martyrdom was added to the existing works, i.e. archives and the Office of Public Education, and 2 prosecutors' posts, to the Council for the Protection of the Remembrance of Walk and Martyrdom. IPN is already an institution too big for normal management from the position of CEO. It has almost 2 000 employees And it was added new and very different tasks, creating bureaucratic supermolochs. It will simply be impossible to manage it efficiently. It should be realised that the Security Council takes care of war cemeteries and memorial sites in Poland and 22 countries of the world, including Russia, Kazakhstan and Iran. There are graves of Polish soldiers everywhere. This requires cooperation with the governments of these countries, knowledge of local laws, good relations to reach and carry out relevant work. Such principles have been developed by the Security Council over the years, avoiding involvement in issues of a different kind. The introduction of the Security Council into the framework of an institute dealing with something else, which has not so far carried out systematic activities abroad, but which is involved in disputes concerning war crimes, or historical policy, may result in completely unpredictable consequences. High Izbo! It is worth noting the next element of the amendment. So far, IPN has dealt with specific matter: ordering and sharing archives, scientific research, popularization of knowledge, illustratoring. Now it is to take extensive action in the sphere of another philosophy of action: building memory, worshiping heroes, creating such or other traditions. And these are activities of an ideological and educational nature, eluded by clear methodological assumptions related to the profession of historian, researcher, scientist. Thirdly, there are provisions in this amendment which can be interpreted in a dangerous way, because there is no proper precision in determining what the legislator meant. E.g. in Article 4, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: Article 11 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 7 It is concluded that an IPN employee may be a person who does not carry out a public activity incompatible with the activities of IPN. Such a record can mean nothing or very much. Who's gonna rule on that? According to what criteria? Or, for example, a critic of some controversial aspects of IPN activities under the new regime will be eliminated as an employee? Or will she refuse to hire her? This record can certainly be used to suppress internal discussions on the directions of IPN involvement. The amendment does not contain a strong emphasis on the establishment of the institute Let's look back to the time when the Institute was established, the principle of apoliticity, the ban on the participation of IPN employees in the activities of political parties. [[You're the ones who threw Zyzak away!]] This opens up a formal path to the stubbornness of the IPN. [[You guys kicked the zizaka out.]] Mr. Marshal, may I? [[Mr. Senator, may I see you for a moment?]] [[Voices from the hall: To the ear, to the ear...]] [[Talking in the O.R.]] Continuing... [[I'm asking you to continue.]] The article mentioned above. Article 53a (1) (a) (ii) (ii) (ii) (ii) (iii) (iii) (ii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii)) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii)) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii)) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) It is widely interpreted as a tool to resist claims about the existence of Polish extermination camps. However, the content of this article allows for a much wider interpretation. First of all, it is surprising to see the state and the nation in one place, as if it were the same. The IPN, as proposed, is also to control the history of the 19th century and the beginnings of the 20th century. So will it not become dangerous to address topics that are not well-informed about certain groups of the nation or certain aspects of the state's action, e.g. concerning the history of anti-Semitism, the propaganda of ONR and its comparison to fascism, but also the destruction of the church in Chełmszczyzna by Polish Army troops in 1938 or even the conditions prevailing in Berez Kartuska? There will be uncertainty as to whether taking up such subjects is a humiliation of the state and the nation. It should be noted that this article does not concern the work of IPN, but the entire space of historical publications in Poland and outside Poland. There are other dangerous wordings in this article, not precise, not precise, not precise, e.g. such that the IPN draws conclusions on historical education. But it didn't specify who or what mode. Or, for example, Is it supposed to define curricula in schools or television programs? [[Time's up, Senator.]] Mr. Marshal, but my predecessors If I may say so, without mentioning the names, they have exceeded much of the time and I am going to the end. Thank you very much. There are many other shortcomings... The opportunity was not used to match the boundaries of the IPN branches to the borders of the territorial administration. They still have a structure that fits the limits of the appeals courts. As a result, such troops... There is no Świętokrzyski branch, and Olsztyn is in the structure of the Białystok branch. You could take the opportunity, you couldn't take it. Finally, a few words that go beyond the amendment itself. Over the past years, the practice has developed that the IPN was a co-organizer of important, often expensive scientific conferences, as well as a co-editor or sole publisher of many valuable publications; here we can point out the printed transcript from the first convention of The state of research, which was created with the participation of experts from various academic centres. And the glory of the IPN was that he also appreciated the studies that were created outside the IPN, and that he supported scientific activities outside the IPN. It is only a concern that this amendment and the new construction of the IPN authorities will make it pessimistic to think about the prospects of cooperation of this kind. High Senate, I fear that the IPN in the new construction may be an institution not only implementing the ideology program of the PiS, but also serving its expansion in schools, local communities, sublime smaller academic centers and pushing to the margin of academic critical, analytical history, capable of communicating with the outside world, showing different points of view, different trends, which do not inspire citizens to indoctrinate. In the thinking of Law and Justice about history I see many elements of thinking from the times of the Polish People's Republic, especially in terms of political usefulness and administrative support for certain narratives and trends, the possibility of creating among the so-called. masses of politically comfortable heroes and removal into the shadow of others, building a community by cutting themselves off from strangers, and stimulating plebetically understood pride in ours. This is a vision of national history, a very ideological one, not a state one, because the history of the state assumes the existence of many... [[Mr. Senator...]] ...ideal nurtures, balancing the right between them, emphasising the importance of what connects between divisions, and emphasizes the importance of state structures integrating society. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-11-senat-17-1.u414	Thank you. You've used your time and your essentials and your extras. [[I won't.]] I take it you won't use the extra time. I ask you to take the floor of the senator, Professor Jarin.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-11-senat-17-1.u415	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I will immediately say that I would like to take advantage of the extra time, so I will try not to prolong my speech. I must, of course, begin with a sentence which, in my case, is obvious. I was an employee of the Institute of National Remembrance from 2000 to 2015 including very different positions, both managers and the chief specialist, i.e. it can be said that a serial scientist who was able to prove himself there with his talents. I would like to tell you, of course, and remind you that it is one of these institutions, unfortunately few, which were created in free Poland and did not have to be decommunised from the beginning, because they were decommunised, i.e.. There was a very wide range of voices and positions inside the Institute of National Remembrance. Over the past 15 years of the existence of the National Remembrance Institute, the principle of balancing the right of historical memory has always been protected within the Institute of National Remembrance. Therefore, I kindly inform Mr. Rybicki that we have already made this terrible mistake in the IPN and have issued e.g. journals of Mr.Szpakowicz, a national-radical camp activist before the war, and during the silent war, who died during World War II, without reaching Poland. He's the kind of criminal we've published in our journals. We also spent e.g. Adam Doboszyński's biography. At the same time we published books about Roman Zambrowski, about Jakub Berman... I'm already giving some extremes, but the whole palette is obviously much bigger. This is not the work of one person, but it is the work of a great institution in which about 2.5 thousand people work today. And now my fundamental objection, the kind with the facial grimace, to what the State here says from the Civic Platform. Despite all respect for you and the fact that you probably don't really think so, I can't understand why you think by definition that any democratically elected authority in Poland, in this case Law and Justice . and maybe in particular Law and Justice, when it comes from a solidarity trunk, will want to destroy the achievements of such a beautiful institution. [[Applause]] And in all of you, so to speak, there is an unspoken package of speeches, but after all there is a clear, clear allegation that, for example. Jan Żaryn is the one who's gonna blow up the IPN because he worked there for 15 years and stopped. Well, this is absurd. Or just say that you don't trust our intentions, which means you think we're totalitarians. But I kindly ask you to prove it, or have the courage to admit that we are doing some creative work, which is not a creative work that we are destroying, but that we are trying to enrich it. And now: why is there a time for enrichment in the case of the Institute of National Remembrance? It is appropriate that each institution, as well as this institution, is sometimes subject to some reflection on whether for 15 years of the institution's existence certain tasks are slowly beginning to shrink and whether there are some tasks on which life has shown that they need to be introduced into Poland. And the question which institution is best prepared for this. I repeat: IPN is an institution that did not need to be decommunized. Under the conditions of independent Poland, it is a crazy asset when entrusting the institution with new tasks. And you can clearly see the intentions of the parliamentary initiative. One of these intentions is as follows. It is very clear that some departments of the Institute of National Remembrance have been extinguished. It's nobody's fault. E.g. An investigative pawn. Today there are over 80 prosecutors. After a few years, it'll probably be 70, 60, then 20. It's a clear extinction. Not because they're bad people, bad prosecutors, just because we exist in biology. And the effect is what it is. The institution we are talking about is therefore under consideration, with the question of whether it will carry out other tasks that have emerged in the meantime. And there is no doubt that this is the task that has so far been to some extent in recent years. I'm speaking in shortcuts now, so please don't take my word for it. He performed Krzysztof Szegrzzyk's syndrome. This is, of course, a thought shortcut, because Professor Krzysztof Szwagrzyk did not do it himself, it was done by many other institutions, many people. And it turned out that there is a phenomenon, in the form of this authentic opportunity to make amends for years of shame that touch us, today living, because not the cursed soldiers, but the fact that we have not done this task. And now the question is, what institution is called today to take on this undoubtedly very important task. Not because the PiS came up with this assignment. Life came up with this task. It has shown us...because we have gained our own knowledge about e.g. Soldiers Cursed That we've seriously neglected something. The work of Krzysztof Szwagrzyk caused us to discover an authentic need. And the intention of the legislators was undoubtedly to show that the Institute of National Remembrance is this well-deserved institution, which we do not want to destroy, but which we are about to honor, because it is an institution that has proven itself and which can take on new opinions. The trouble is, of course, that if you think about creating some changes in an institution, it's obviously a temptation, and it's right to run an entire avalanche of effects like a domino, where something pops up and starts to appear that everything is connected. In the original plan, in the event of the establishment of this department, that is, the search department, which was supposed to secure not only the interests of the institution but the interests of the phenomenon, that is, the tasks... This has led to the fact that the competences of the new task force, which I will express so uglylyly, are very strongly connected with the powers of the Council for the Protection of the Memory of Combat and Martyrdom. And there must be a question as to whether the tasks of these two institutions should be duplicated, but whether one of them should be surrendered and the competence transferred to the Institute of National Remembrance in which it is possible. Of course, it can be discussed for a long time whether this is a good way to do things. Because, of course, just so we're clear, I see some flaws in this revised bill today, too. I'll get right to it, probably in the second part of my speech. Some of which, I hope, we will still be able to improve here, and others will not be able to improve, because perhaps only time will show, the functioning of the new president and the new college, whether this reflection based on theory is really right. I mean, like, you know, like, you know, like, you know, like, you know, like, you know, like, like, you know, like, like, like, like, like, like, I am very happy about this because I can connect to the same voice, but the fact is that the IPN remains in an anachronistic territorial structure. Anachronistic because historically the IPN was founded on the basis of the Main Committee on Crimes against the Polish Nationals, which was organically linked to the prosecution, and therefore this separation of prosecutors and judges, regional and lower levels, still results in this structure. He'll be here. Maybe it will, but we don't know it, let's check it out. This may have resulted in some tensions in relations, e.g. Director of the Department of the Institute of National Remembrance with 3 voivodships. And I get it, it's reasonable to notice... And why three voivodships? Because it is precisely this territorial scope, which is defined, does not coincide with the territorial division of Poland. This may cause some tension precisely as regards the tasks that have so far been on the Council for the Protection of the Memory of Combat and Martyrdom. Let's see how much the CEO of IPN can handle. And I stress this role of President because, ladies and gentlemen, Once again it's my opinion, I don't think the whole law and justice club At least my experience as an employee at different levels of the Institute of National Remembrance is... [[Ten minutes.]] Okay, in this sequence, the last sentence. My experience is this. With all due respect for legislation The second point really is how the President of the Institute of National Remembrance will be elected. A much more serious issue is who will be. But, ladies and gentlemen, that doesn't mean that someone is going to be someone else's slipper. No. Look at the history of the Institute of National Remembrance. If we're looking for a rule in the history of the Institute of National Remembrance, of course that's my opinion and it doesn't have to be divided... [[Twelve minutes.]] ...it is the history of the Institute of National Remembrance that shows that the IPN performs best its tasks when the Institute of National Remembrance is headed by a man with a huge internal and external authority. Because both authorities are important here, internal authority, which is inside the institution, and outside... [[Voice from the room: 13 minutes.]] I'm almost done. And evidently such a time was the president of the holy memory of Janusz Kurtyki, about whom various bad things can be said here by the sitting state, but he certainly had authority. I assure you, if you were asleep. Janusz Kurtyka was chosen one way or another, it would be completely indifferent, he would always be the same person. I hope that's the main important point of reference to the future of the IPN. Take care of this as an opposition, make sure that the man chosen for this position is a man of great scientific and ethical authority. We will take care of it, but let us unite in this care, and you do not immediately tell us that it will be a inferior figure and spoils of Law and Justice. You have no right to say that today because there is no such danger. That's what's gonna happen when you know the name of the president of the National Remembrance Institute. Thank you. And then there'll be five more minutes. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-11-senat-17-1.u416	Professor, it's been 14 minutes. Mr. Senator Rulewski. You're welcome. [[If you don't mind, I'm gonna have to leave.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-11-senat-17-1.u417	Yes, I accept. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! My speech will be a continuation of the minority proposal, but it will be shortened, limited to actions or substantive proposals. Allow me to sum up this speech, which is the result of experience from the work of the Senate in the current term of office related to the Constitutional Tribunal, the Civil Service Act, the Public Prosecutor's Office Act. I don't feel like I'm overreacting when I remind you that in all these laws, they sounded, yes, the lyrics for a change for good, and it ends with a crocodile policy that devoured everything in its destruction. This bill depends on the intentions you speak of, Mr. Senator, in the way you speak. In almost every detail, it speaks not only of the assassination of the existing reality of the IPN, but it is also an announcement of further changes, including, as you rightly pointed out, Two and a half thousand people. Am I wrong? Then answer: why didn't anybody report to the open competition? [[I'm not a prophet.]] I'll answer you, because they're afraid of you. For the second time in post-war conditions, citizens are afraid of their representatives, representatives of their own people. They were afraid of the secretaries before, now they're afraid of you. No one has applied to apply for the honorable title of President of the IPN. Thirty-eight million people, several thousand historians, 50,000 lawyers, and no one had the courage to claim this honorable title. Because they're afraid of you. And fear is what John Paul warned of. II. In your speech there were these fears, too, demons. We won the election! Yeah, 16%. You've been backed up. You won the election. But democracy isn't what you said yourself when you talked about who's going to be president of the IPN, math, that's also quality. As an experienced person, I find that in the entire post-war period, maybe with little exceptions, the parties ruled. And indeed, parties aren't bad, but the nation has always considered, admonished, reminded that apart from the 1% Party is 99% partyless people who want to participate in this country's life. And you deny it to them by deleting the phrase about belonging to the party. You mentioned, Mr. Senator Żaryn... And here you are an important apostle of some thought, among others. by work, but also by current activity. What are the formulas that create authority? I'm gonna jump right to the conclusion. The best choice was made in Germany That's where the pastor was. Well, you're smiling... [[No, no.]] How simple is it that it is obvious that various parties with great authority in Germany gave up digging in the past, gave it back to the pastor who later became President of the State?! Maybe that's the way to go, not to prove it. Mr Sellin is in charge here. That party and politics are worth it. If so, since you are announcing on your own path, which I have proven, rapid and huge personal changes ranging from the president himself to the education departments, including the stripping of field delegations and branches, thanks here for your support Their right to maintain archives and education... I, however, am proposing a compromise. This proposal is made within such limits: the principle of shaping the IPN Council and the election of the President is restored while maintaining its apoliticality, maintaining control and supervisory functions, which are not in the present law. This does not mean that the PiS is deprived of a decisive vote on the shaping of this institution, its board of directors, because, as you know, the election of the Council itself and the President is the ordination of many elections. There is more than one candidate present or you can refuse to choose the one chosen by the council, and the same candidates choose in excess and the IPN has the right...I'm sorry, the PiS will, according to the current law, have the right to choose the one they like most in the field of politics. That's one condition. The second condition is evidently, immanently linked to the change made, only that the state in haste forgot about it. Since the various issues of the Council for the Protection of Remembrance of Fight and Martyrdom are handed over to the IPN, they are also taken from the voivodships, it is logical that these tasks should be taken over by the IPN centres. So it's all about what was agreed here, so that the IPN centers should be established in all voivodships and have the tasks that the voivode has been fulfilling so far. This would complement a certain gap and allow full implementation of these obligations. Okay, here's the deal... I think it was a mistake, after all, that the I.P.A.'s attorney must also be an apolitical person, because that's what we decided in other laws. So I don't know why the Ministry and Minister Sellin are avoiding their statements here. There are a number of other amendments that the IPN pointed out in agreement, or actually in accordance with the Legislative Office, and which indicate not another, as Mr Mularczyk said, editorially, but point to a hole. Well, it's a hole in the possibility of vetting special forces. It's obvious. This gap concerns a very sensitive group of citizens. It is also a gap that the prosecutor and the judge are unable to use the documentation. Luka is also a matter which, however, is substantive. Well, already in the first article it is said that it is to deal with burials, graves of people... well, heroes, in particular murdered or persecuted during the fight against totalitarianism. Well, it's discrimination. [[The meeting is chaired by Vice-Marshal Maria Koc]] This means that the graves of the Silesian insurgents, Warsaw, if they were, for apology, covered with graves of agents and other people, will be ordered in the second order, because they are people of another sort? This is unacceptable, this must be eliminated. They're all equal because they're all fighting for freedom. So that, Mrs Marshal, I believe that these amendments restore social dialogue, including in the High House, restore the public's right to shape the positive image of patriotism... [[Mr. Senator, it's 11 minutes.]] ...and secondly, they remove obvious gaps and errors in the bill, without which this law may be dead, or at least may be brought before the Constitutional Court. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-11-senat-17-1.u418	Thank you very much. Please take the floor of Senator Jerzy Fedorowicz.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-11-senat-17-1.u419	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I'm a senator, it's a fact, but first of all, and first of all, I'm a member of the Federation of the Katyn Families, as I mentioned before. And on behalf of this federation I will speak, and I will also read a letter that has been addressed to all government and legislative institutions in Poland because our opinion has not been taken into account in the legislative process at all. I'd like to tell Senator Żaryn that you sometimes use harsh words, that we want to tear something down or that we have doubts. We're looking at our hands, and that's because we're allergic. If you're allergic to us, look at our hands or mention it to us. Nevertheless, I would like to say to those who are listening to me now from all over the Federation that Minister Sellin, when asked about the exhumation issues, said that he did not imagine that anyone could lead to this... so that the newly appointed head of the IPN could lead to the situation that we are talking about in our letter. And that's what we're gonna stick to because it's in the protocols. So I'm starting to read. An open letter to the Federation.... The Federation... I'm gonna cut it short, or I'm gonna hand the letter over to your marshal. For several months, the media announced that one of the elements of the new Act on the Institute of National Remembrance would be the liquidation of the Council for the Protection of Remembrance of Fight and Martyrdom. On behalf of the Katyn Families, representing this multi-thousandth environment, the Federation of Katyn Families sent a number of letters to the authorities of the Republic of Poland on this matter, to all ministries that deal with it, to the President, to the President of the Council of Ministers, to the Minister for Defence, Culture and National Heritage, Home Affairs, Administration, Marshal of the Sejm and the Parliamentary Committee on Justice and Human Rights. We have received no reply to our writings. Our position was not taken into account during the legislative work. This outraged me, of course, because among us there are children and grandchildren of people who gave their lives for Poland, which is something we do not forget here and thank you for that. In the Council for the Protection of Remembrance and Martyrdom, we lose the advocate of the Katyn case and a partner tested in difficult actions. Since the beginning of the Katyn Family it was the council that was the body of the state which helped us in the most important for the environment of the Company: the construction of Polish War Cemeteries in Katyn, Kharkov, Miednoje and Bykownia. Since there are Katyn necropolises, it is the Council for the Protection of Remembrance of Fighting and Martyrdom that has been their guardian: thanks to complicated diplomatic activities, it has concluded many international agreements and cares about securing these sacred places for us in the territory of the Russian Federation and Ukraine. The liquidation of the Council means that many years of work have been lost and that new arrangements have to be negotiated. In the meantime, who's gonna take care of the Katyn necropolis? For an indeterminate period of time, the hope for the construction of the fifth Katyn cemetery in Kuropaty near Minsk in Belarus is postponed. Who will continue to search for all yet undisclosed locations of the Katyn Murder? Who's gonna build another cemetery there? As an environment, we regret that such serious consequences have not been taken into account in the legislative process. However, the greatest concern of the Katyn families raises a different record. In the draft Act on the Institute of National Remembrance approved by the Sejm, there is a passage concerning the handling of war graves as follows: the President of the Institute of Remembrance, the Commission for the Investigation of Crimes, etc. have the right to order the exhumation of the corpses from the war grave and to transfer them to another grave, art. Point 4 (1). Paragraph 2: The President of the Institute of Remembrance, as a result of a motivated request from the family or the surroundings of a person buried in a war grave or a request from a social institution, may authorise the exhumation of corpses from a war grave and their transfer to another place in the country or abroad and the removal of corpses from a foreign country to bury them in a war grave in the country. We are extremely concerned about the creation of a legal option that can also be applied to the Katyn necropolis. Our concern is not unfounded. For several months now, there has been an irresponsible and demagogical appeal in media discourse to bring to Poland the remains of Katyn Crime Victims. The same is true of people who do not identify with the Katyn movement and who treat the Katyn case instrumentally. Self-appointed activists reach the public, preying on the lack of universal knowledge of what necropolises in Katyn, Kharkov, Miednoje and Bykownia look like. In 1940, the NKVD killers threw the bodies of our Middlemen into the pits of death in the forests of Smolensk, Kharkov, Twer and Kiev. Nameless graves in Katyn were exhumed in 1943 by Nazi committees and then desecrated by Soviet crews. The graves in Kharkov were ground with geological drills, and Bykownia was dug repeatedly, using heavy equipment as well. It is too scary to tell exactly what these places looked like when in 1990 2000 Katyń, Kharkov, Miednoje and Bykownia took care of Polish teams of experts, with the utmost care and respect for the murdered preparing places for the construction of necropolis. The families of the victims of Katyn Crime are best aware of the conditions under which these works took place. Prominent specialists in many areas, which consist of a widely understood archaeology of crime, support our position to preserve the integrity of these sacred places. There was no way and there is no way to distinguish and identify the remains of individual individuals, once thrown into the pits of death, and today, in the parish graves dedicated to the Polish War Cemeteries. Giving any institution the right to exhume the graves of our Middles would mean the possibility of once again desecrating their remains, which had previously been done by Soviet barbarians. The demagogical appeal for the transfer to Poland of Katyn necropolis is also a call to destroy evidence of Katyn's crime there, on the spot. As a result, after years of unwillingness, pseudoscienceists would have argued that this unprecedented murder on Polish prisoners of war from 1939 had never happened. These issues of the Katyn Family together with the 1939 Police Family clearly resolved in the 1997 resolution. The aim of this multi-thousandth environment was to build Polish War Cemeteries in Katyn, Kharkov, Miednoje, Bykownia and wherever the victims of Katyn's Crimes rested. No one and nothing will change our position. Mrs. Marshal, I'm submitting a draft of this resolution to you. I'll join the others as well. This is from 1997. Our loved ones rested in consecrated ground. They are protected from the barbarism of any subsequent exhumations by their cornerstones, which for Katyn, Kharkov and Mednoje blessed Saint John Paul II on Christmas Eve 1994. This was done in the presence of representatives of the Katyn Families and priest Chaplain Zdzisław Peszkowski. As a family of victims of Katyn Crime associated with the Federation of Katyn Families, the Polish Police Family 1939 and the Warsaw Police Family 1939, we do not explicitly agree to reopen the collective graves and exhumation of the remains of the victims of Katyn Crime. Signed: President of the Management Board of the Federation of Katyn Families Izabella Sariusz-Skąpska Mrs. Marshal, this is the letter I'm putting on your hands. How much more time do I have? I'd like you to add to that... Okay? One more minute, I just want to tell you what I'm gonna do. I will also join the opinion of experts, i.e. the opinion of Professor Andrzej Kol and experts in exhumation, Professor Mark Dutkiewicz, historian, and Professor Lorkiewicz Anthropologist. I am adding this because no state institution has used these documents and this opinion, nor has the Sejm benefited, so Mrs. Marshal, please take this to our archive very kindly. And at the end of the day, I allow myself in your hands, Marshal, to make 22 amendments that have been made... Thank you for your attention. There you go. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-11-senat-17-1.u420	Thank you, Senator. And I'll ask Senator Rafael Ambrozik to speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-11-senat-17-1.u421	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I would like to amend the Act on the Institute of National Remembrance to make 2 amendments, they are linked. I propose in my article. 1 point 27 of the Act in the added Chapter 6b.Executing tasks in commemorating fights and martyrdom, delete article. 53n. This deletion is related to the dreaming of this regulation to the Museums Act, while granting the Minister of Culture and National Heritage the power to award a medal to the National Remembrance Site Keeper. Amendment 2 provides for this in Article. 4 of the Law amending the Law on Museums after point 3 add a further point in the wording of the deleted article. 53n. I believe that this amendment is a logical consequence of the Government Departments Act, which leaves matters of care for memorial sites in the hands of the Department of Culture and the protection of national heritage, confirmed by the changes resulting from the new article. 6a Museum Act. To date, this medal has been awarded by the Council for the Protection of Remembrance of Fighting and Martyrdom. The medal may be awarded to caretakers of places of national memory not only those to which partial rights are obtained by this Act of the IPN, but also e.g. Insurgents of November or January, commemoration of national heroes from various epochs in the history of the Polish nation. I would add that the President of the IPN has an independent and exclusive right to request the President of the Republic of Poland to award other awards or awards. In the event of leaving the President of the IPN also the competence to award this medal, i.e. the guardian of the places of national memory, the constitutional minister, who is responsible for maintaining and disseminating the national and national traditions and for the places of memory, was deprived of the possibility of honoring the entities deserved for this care in any way. Let me just remind you that the proposed article. 6b provides that the Minister of Culture and National Heritage will also be able to award a medal at the request of the President of the IPN. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-11-senat-17-1.u422	Thank you, Senator. So there are adjustments, right? Please. Thank you very much. Senator Bogdan Klich, please speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-11-senat-17-1.u423	Mrs. Marshal! High Senate! With a view to preserving the memory of the great amount of victims, losses and damages suffered by the Polish people during and after the Second World War, the patriotic traditions of the struggle between the Polish people and the invaders, Nazism and communism, the actions of citizens in favour of the independent existence of the Polish State and in defence of freedom and human dignity, the obligation to prosecute crimes against peace, humanity and war crimes, and the obligation of our country to make amends to all those who have been victimized by the State violating human rights, as an expression of our belief that any unlawful action by the State against citizens cannot be protected by secrecy or can not be forgotten, is the end of the quote. This is the preamble to this law, which we are debating today. This preamble remains, although practically everything changes in the Act on the Institute of National Remembrance. I'm telling you almost everything because the most important records are changing, the ones that actually determine the institutional shape and the IPN mission. In the earlier discussion in which the Minister attended, I mentioned that there was no one in this Chamber who was opposed to the Institute of National Remembrance, and in the previous term, if I remember correctly, there was such a person or there were such individuals. In this term of office there is also no political group in the Parliament which would seek to eliminate the IPN from Polish public life, although in previous terms there were such groups. So there is an atmosphere that would encourage us to adopt in consensus what would improve the work of the institute rather than what we feel about it. It's especially addressed to Senator Jarin... And this is an authentic feeling and genuine fear, Mr. Senator, here no one tells anyone to say anything. It's a genuine fear. We are concerned that the good functioning of the Institute of National Remembrance and the fulfilment of this mission set out in the preamble may be disrupted by these fundamental changes which the State wishes to introduce into this law. I, contrary to what Senator Żaryn said, and this is not the political difference between us, but this is the difference in how we approach public institutions, I think... I agree with you, Senator, that it is extremely important who will be president. But I believe that the necessary condition, although insufficient to be a good President, is the procedure for the election of this President. In general, I believe that procedures and institutions depend very much in public life. It is that bad procedures prevent good results from being achieved, and good procedures give good results. In this case, the good procedure, which I believe has been in place from the very beginning, the procedure concerning both the election of the board and the appointment of the President, will be corrupted and will become a bad procedure. Because so far, let's say it was an open text, that a member of the Board of the Institute of National Remembrance had to meet certain criteria, had to have certain qualifications. And without those qualifications you just couldn't, you just couldn't be a board member. And at the moment, if in accordance with Article. 15 point 4 will only have to be a person whose knowledge is to be useful in the work of the Institute of National Remembrance... Well, for God's sake, my daughter was one of the best students in history in middle school, and now she's in a class with an extended historical-social profile. But when she turns 18, when she gets her M.A. in New York, I'm not gonna say anything, and I'm not gonna think she's qualified enough to run for a member of the National Remembrance College. And according to what you propose in this bill, Kinga Klich will be able to do it after passing her Matura in an expanded historical profile class because she will be eligible. Well, I'm sorry! However, according to the rules in force so far, it must have been scientific qualifications or legal qualifications. Second, the way you choose... I was talking about qualifications, and now I'm going to talk about how college members are chosen instead of council members. Art. 15 point 2 states that in place of higher education institutions which have the authority to award degrees and degrees, instead of the Institute of History of Science of the Polish Academy of Sciences, in place of the Institute of History of the Polish Academy of Sciences, in place of the Institute of Political Studies of the Polish Academy of Sciences, which, by virtue of its membership, we know who is at the Institute of Political Studies of the Polish Academy of Sciences, you should not be afraid, as far as views are concerned, to replace the National Council of Courts and the National Council of Public Prosecutors... Well, all of a sudden, it's the Sejm that's the Senate, because with the senate's permission it's happening, and the president has the power to establish the composition of this college. So I ask: what did the Polish Academy of Sciences do to you, what did the legal environments of Polish universities do to you, what did the National Public Prosecutor's Council do to you, what did the members of the National Judicial Council do, that you eliminate them from this selection process? What have they done? Did they blame their knowledge of whether they were guilty of their qualifications or something else? And that's why, Mr. Senator. I'm going back to Senator Zarin, whom I like to argue with. We're worried sick. We are fully concerned because we are able to imagine the effects, but we are also able to imagine the intentions. This will be the next institution, after an autonomous prosecutor's office, after civil service, after public media, owned by politics. Embezzled by politics, i.e. by the ruling majority. The majority that won the presidential and parliamentary elections. Embezzled because it never belonged to the majority, but it belonged to the general public. [[Time...]] I'm almost done, Mrs. Marshal. This will be another example of fatal change. And I wanted to speak so loudly about this fear, agreeing that the work of the Institute of National Remembrance should be improved. He should be helped, subject to cosmetics, but I am strongly opposed to the revolution that is currently taking place. And if your marshal will allow it. In the next 5 minutes, I will only say at the end of the speech that Senator Fedorowicz read about the social protests in question and that Andrzej Wajda also joined. He writes to us that he strongly supports the position of the Federation of the Katyn Families and the Association of the Police Family 1939 on the liquidation of the Council for the Protection of Remembrance of the Fight and Martyrdom and changes in the Act on the IPN, and that he, as the son of an officer of the Polish Army, Captain Jacob Wajda, murdered by the NKVD in Kharkiv and buried there in the cemetery... He writes that he does not imagine that the Senate of the Republic of Poland, in which he had the honour to sit during the first term of office, could support the Act on IPN in the shape which was unfortunately passed, as Andrzej Wajda writes, by the Polish Sejm. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-11-senat-17-1.u424	Thank you, Senator. You're welcome, Senator Zbigniew Silence.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-11-senat-17-1.u425	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! My speech, unlike the speeches made by my previous speakers, will be perhaps less emotional, and more substantive, because I believe that the law should first be read carefully and then criticized. Ladies and gentlemen, I will start with a specific thing, namely these allegations and alleged support of these allegations by the positions of very respectable institutions or people from public life. According to these positions or concerns, these people are given some special powers to the president of the Institute as to the ticking of graves when they do not express the consent of the most interested persons, i.e. families, and it would suffice for example. consent or even a wish from the surroundings of the buried person. Of course, ladies and gentlemen, it is possible to make such accusations, but first of all it is necessary to realise whether a new regulation is actually being created, such that, first of all, it would violate someone's rights, secondly, it would only happen if the president of the institute were to assume that he would act in a completely inhuman, irrational way. Come to your senses one thing. And that's why I'm saying it's worth reading the texts of the laws, not only the IPN Act, but also the texts that are being amended, i.e. the law on graves and war cemeteries. 'Cause I don't think you've all noticed that this is a regulation already contained in the law on graves and war cemeteries, and it doesn't give anything new except that it's changing the dispatcher, which is the authority that's supposed to decide on this issue. Because so far there has been an identical sounding rule, only that it assigns this right... Yeah, who? Warehouses. I don't think any of you have noticed that, and you've all taken criticism, including the people you're referring to here. And I ask: who is the more political factor here, the voivode, who is, after all, the contractor, the representative of the government in the field, or the president of the IPN? So the situation isn't getting worse, it's getting better, because the voivodeship's powers are turning these issues to the authority of the President of the National Remembrance Institute. This is not a new solution. Therefore, the creation of fears here is probably completely inappropriate. Such regulation worked for many years, and no voivode came up with any absurd idea that, contrary to the will of those who have their loved ones buried in a war grave, they should carry the burial to another place. Of course, the law on graves and war cemeteries was written X years ago and is probably about some extreme situations. We can imagine what this could be like. Well, let's imagine it, God forbid, never happened. That some madmen, like the self-proclaimed Islamic State, are taking over the land in which these graves are located is a war cemetery. Ladies and gentlemen, in such an extreme situation, it would indeed be wise to make such decisions. Up until now, this decision had been made by the governor, and now he has the power to take it by the president of the Institute of National Remembrance. Thus, in the name of the higher reason which would be to respect the dignity of those who are buried in a war cemetery, such a situation might exceptionally exist and then would be a competence to use. But we cannot assume that the President of the Institute of National Remembrance, whether it has bad will or will take crazy actions and will benefit from the competences that have existed so far, except that the voivodeship belonged. That's one thing. Of course, I, although I support this law, am not blind and I see some inconveniences, some solutions that may have resulted from impreciseness at some moments during its formulation. That's why I'm making some adjustments. E.g. I believe that it is legally incorrect to say that those who are the closest ones, namely those who are identified as having a side relation to the fourth degree, also have the right to request information from the IPN. Well, it's obviously some kind of law lapsus, because you don't use the phrase that we're dealing with... [[Side relatives.]] Of course. ...with persons of the fourth degree of lateral kinship, only the wording of relatives in the fourth degree side line is used, and my amendment aims to use such a term. Besides, ladies and gentlemen, in all proceedings And here I am referring to my previous speaker, Senator Klich. The procedures are important. Ladies and gentlemen, procedures are often a guarantee of good judgment. That is why I have a proposal for procedural changes regarding access to the files of the Institute of National Remembrance by, first of all, eliminating the existing discrimination of people who were victims of the totalitarian system, in relation to the preference of those who used this terror and persecuted them. For please note that the current regulation provides that the victims must appear personally in the IPN and submit an application. They can only establish a proxy after they have been granted access to the file, which seems absurd because it deviates from the general principle that it is not necessarily possible to participate in the proceedings personally. Any administrative procedure And this is also the case. This letter may also be submitted by means of a proxy, not necessarily on a personal visit to the office. Therefore, I propose to delete the relevant regulations which introduce this decision, in my opinion, in a somewhat absurd way, this is something that has happened for many, many years now, and it is necessary to bring these people's rights into line with the rights of those who persecuted them. I would like to point out that these people may not be able to file an application in person. They may submit it by a proxy, and may also submit it in writing, as an ordinary letter, without requiring, as is the case with those who were victims, that, in the case of sending such a request, the letter should be notarial to authenticate the signature in that letter which is directed. These are the changes I consider necessary here. There are a few others, among others. about the definition of communist crime. I believe that it should be clarified so that there is no such situation that we have here a formulation which does not allow for the actual inclusion of the term of communist crimes of certain acts, as we refer to Polish legislation in relation to the time when it did not exist at all. Because I would like to remind you that Polish criminal legislation, which is mentioned in the definition of communist crime, occurred only in 1932, when the famous code of Professor Makarewicz was adopted, one of the most modern. And until 1932, we did not have a Polish criminal law, we had only foreign criminal laws, which were requisitioned to the legal order. I therefore make these amendments of a purely legislative nature. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-11-senat-17-1.u426	Thank you, Senator. And please take the floor of Marshal Bogdan Borusewicz. Mr. Marshal for the second time, yes, Mr. Marshal? Is it the first time? [[No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, ……]] Going twice. Good. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-11-senat-17-1.u427	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! It just so happens that Senator Rulewski and I were working on this bill 17 years ago. This, of course, does not give us any additional privileges, apart from the privilege of remembering what it was like, what the discussion looked like, how the voices were broken down in the discussion. Of course, this bill was due to the necessity of the vetting. I was more in favour of the South African model, the Committee on Truth and Reconciliation. There a service officer who committed crimes came, confessed, and if he told the truth and told everything, then the commission under the direction of Bishop Desmond Tutu accepted it, documented and completed the procedure. If he lied, he went to jail. But I supported this law, and I supported it because it organized this wild illustration, which, I say, spilled out and had to be organized, taken into some kind of legal framework. That's what the institute was built on. And it is good that he kept not only the matter of the vetting, but also documentation and research. And for 17 years, the institute has established itself as a serious institution. The criticism of this institute, at first very strong, decreased clearly in a situation where it turned out that under the various presidents, this institute did not have any sharp heels. And that's why I'm a little surprised that Senator Żaryn, who worked at the institute, has supported this bill and thinks that the law, which, above all, completely changes this institute, also changes the way the president is elected... However, the President is the most important person in this institution. And the senator says, well, we don't know who's going to be president. But, Mr. Senator, who will be president of the Institute of National Remembrance will be decided by another president. [[I don't know.]] After all, you are well aware that another president will depend on who will run this institution. It is important for social life, but also for research into the history of the newest period. I agree that some functions... The activity of these functions is extinguished, these functions are basically dying. It's not limited, it's not shutting down the DA's office, but it's shutting down the education office. [[Mr. Marshal, time.]] [[He's sharing.]] Oh! It splits into two parts, and that means liquidation, which means verification of these employees. If you think it's gonna be different, it's really... Look at what's going on in other institutions. That's what it's gonna be, unfortunately it's gonna be. And that is the problem, which combined with the new task of the institute: to determine false historical content or harming content... It's gonna be a major task. [[Mr. Marshal, it's been six minutes.]] And this will be headed by a politicized president who will be elected by the president. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-11-senat-17-1.u428	Thank you very much. And please take the floor of Senator Jan Zarin.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-11-senat-17-1.u429	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! It makes me crazy to respond to all the voices, but I'm gonna put it together in one synthetic sentence: it's really hard to argue with fears. Therefore, stay with these concerns, and I will stay with the problem that we cannot dispel them. I hope that the future will verify the correctness of these concerns or their wrongness. These five minutes I'd like to use not for polemics, but for moving forward. I would like to introduce, in particular, various amendments resulting from the work of the heads of the Institute of National Remembrance and the Legislative Office. After reviewing these amendments, I came to the conclusion that some of them were well founded and worth introducing. First of all, in the article. One point 2 is, as you said, Counselor Silence, some inconsistencies. The only pre-war law that is clearly starting us with the Polish legislative path is the 1932 Penal Code, which is clear from a well-known issue. The integration process, among others. The integration of law, during the period of the Second Republic of Poland, took place for a long time, throughout the period of the Second Republic of Poland, and until then the law was in force under partitions. There is therefore some apparent, I think, inconsistencies that suggest that crimes that have been committed, for example. within the Soviet Union, they are governed by the Russian Empire legislation. I'm saying shortcuts, but we know what's going on. In order to ensure that there is no doubt, I propose that such a statement or a provision be made which, in connection with the previous wording, reads as follows: Communist crimes within the meaning of the Act are committed by the Communist State officers between 8 November 1917 and 31 July 1990 consisting in the application of repression or other forms of human rights violations against individuals or groups of the population or in connection with their application, which constitute crimes according to the Polish Criminal Act. That is to say, the one from 1932. or other provisions of Polish law in force at the time they were committed. This could possibly be replaced if legislators consider it to be a better provision, an equivalent de facto sentence, i.e. to refer to the 1932 regulation of the President of the Republic, which referred to how the existing law, which operated until 1932, was no longer in force in connection with the creation of the Criminal Code. Whether we accept such a variant or not, the fact is that we will give a clear signal that the Polish law applicable on the lands of the Second Republic, regardless of its origin, is appropriate for the years 1917 and 1932. This is the first amendment. The second amendment proposed by me concerns this unfortunate service on the basis of a civil law agreement, which also caused various storms here. In case there is no doubt, I propose that this paragraph be read as follows: a member of the College of the Institute of Remembrance cannot be an employee or a prosecutor of the Institute of Remembrance, nor can he be a party to a paid contract with the Institute of Remembrance. It is known that it is the Institute of National Remembrance, and it will be the abbreviation of the Institute of Remembrance. I also have a proposal to make a small, but quite important amendment. Namely... [[Mr. Senator, it's been five minutes.]] Oh, right. Then I'll make all these adjustments... [[Of course.]] ...after they've been neatly organized. I'd like to talk about one more short one, because I think it's important, too. Namely, there is a problem how to do this, i.e.. how deeply the legislator is to enter into the structure of the IPN, how much power we give to the President, and how much power we give ourselves. The point is whether it is worth dividing these central offices established in the Act immediately into their branch counterparts, or to leave it to the Statute, or de facto the President of the Institute of National Remembrance. Here the legislator has come to the conclusion that it is necessary to trust the President and that, when he is elected, he will not want to destroy the existing content, but will sustain him at the level of the constitution. I will still try to think over tonight whether this is a better option, because perhaps it is necessary to make such an amendment. Other amendments follow these 2 documents, i.e. the comments of the President of the Institute of National Remembrance and the comments of the Legislative Bureau. Thank you so much for both of them.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-11-senat-17-1.u430	Thank you, Senator. Please give me the amendments. Senator Jerzy Czerwinski.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-11-senat-17-1.u431	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! A few hours ago, I asked Minister Sellin 3 questions which I believe are directly related to the changes we have introduced by the law we are considering. To my first question, regarding the status of the Central POW Museum in Łambinowice, the Minister answered in a comprehensive and thorough manner, here I am calmed. Unfortunately, the answers to the other questions I thought were not satisfactory, and that is why I am placing some amendments on your hands. One concerns issues related to resolutions issued by the Council for the Protection of the Remembrance of Fight and Martyrdom, which cease to function. The question is, what about the files she was the author of. In the transitional provision that I proposed in the amendment, I assumed that these acts retain their legal force, among others. so that there are no such situations as those in the Opole Voivodeship, when the German minority led to monuments of gratitude to their soldiers, unfortunately, famous, namely Wehrmacht soldiers. This is not the case, and the resolution of the 1995 Council for the Protection of Remembrance and Martyrdom, which is still in force, is an effective dam against this kind of commemoration. I hope it continues to be. And proper commemoration, or actually removing them from public space, will be addressed in the future. It is not only about commemorations connected with Wehrmacht, with communism, which we have recently spoken about, but also about what is still supposedly restauranted in Opole, and actually re-taken, namely commemorations glorifying Prussian militarism. Perhaps you do not know this, but after World War I, in the 1920s and 1930s, in the area of the Reich, also Silesia, there were mass monuments which were exhibited to refresh the hearts of the Germans who lived there. Then the Germans. And these monuments glorified Prussian militarism. [[After all, these monuments were dedicated to the memory of people who died during the war.]] Something like that. You'd have to see what a statue looks like. It is usually a symbol of the Iron Cross, an image of a fallen soldier in Prussian uniform, oak leaves and inscription to the fallen heroes. Not to the victims of the fallen heroes. [[But that's often...]] And it's exposed, interestingly, not in a cemetery where our culture normally pays tribute to the dead, the victims, but it's in the middle of the village, at the crossroads. We in our culture do not bring, in quotes of course, corpses into the middle of the village. That's what it looks like, Senator. It's just a fact, it can be seen. If you need anything, I'll bring you some pictures for the next session... [[Talking in the O.R.]] ...with these commemorations that still exist, which the authors have up to now, even though over 20 years have passed, they have not followed the recommendations of the Council for the Protection of Remembrance of Fight and Martyrdom. That's what it looks like, unfortunately. So, in conclusion, maybe this discussion is unnecessary and I am making an appropriate amendment in this regard. I also make 3 amendments related to the partial, unfortunately, transformation of the tasks of the Council for the Protection of Remembrance of Fight and Martyrdom, soon to be a former, to the Institute of National Remembrance. In order for no interpretation to be possible, in my opinion in several places it is necessary to add to the wording about places of fighting and martyrdom of other nations in the territory of the Republic of Poland sentences of the Nationals of Poland. The point is, we don't have to. Just because of the sloppyly formulated law, praise the soldiers of the Wehrmacht, the Red Army or others who fought on our lands. Because perhaps some nations will want to commemorate their soldiers, e.g. exhibiting monuments. As part of the summary of the discussion, because I am one of the last to speak: I do not know what you gentlemen and, unfortunately, Lord, are afraid of in this bill. I'm telling you because this is about the Civic Platform. This bill is actually needed and kind of forced by life, because of what's happening right now, for example on the Link. Well, maybe not because of what's happening right now, but because of what happened on the Link. This bill doesn't really threaten anyone. Speaking of which, Why are you scared? Why don't you want this bill to come into force? [[Is the Link closing or what?]] [[We're not afraid of the bill, we're afraid of the people who...]] Exactly. The question is what you are really afraid of, what is in this law and what may threaten some people who, in the sphere of action of this law, find themselves. I don't want to formulate this sentence because it's going to be a hypothesis, but if we declassify this proprietary set, we'll see who it really was and what it was really about in fear of this novel. Unfortunately, I have the impression that the level of emotion that was expressed here can indicate that this is what this is all about, the problem that has actually been following us since 1989 through 1992 and subsequent years. [[It's building a mystification.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-11-senat-17-1.u432	Thank you very much. Thank you for the correction. Senator Grzegorz Pekkis. You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-11-senat-17-1.u433	Thank you, Mrs. Marshal. Ladies and gentlemen, like my colleague, I am from Opole, and I am very grateful that this amendment contains a record referring to the time before 1939. At present, in Opole there is a very dynamic process in which our past is being compared, the Prussians' exploits in this area are relating, referring to the generally understood cooperation between Poles and Germans. It is said that what happened during the Silesian Uprising was an internal game of some groups, that it was not an answer to the terror and stigmatization of the Polish civilian population. You try to show it in different colors, claiming it was some kind of local game. The unfortunate thing is that the historical consciousness among our elites is very small. So small that this year the anniversary of the outbreak of the Silesian Uprising will be celebrated on May 21st, that is the day on which the biggest defeat of Poland occurred. On the day of the battle for Mount St. Anne won by the Germans. This is a problem because Germany, the German minority, uses it to achieve its own goals. Every one of you who was on St. Anne's Mount, the contemporary St. Anne's Mountain, and saw who this place was sacrificed to, how it was promoted Next to the Polish names are German names, and will understand who really this area of Poland is, so to speak, dedicated. Returning to more modern times, I would like to say that since it was as good as you say it was, why it was so bad a year ago that Professor Szwagrzyk had to look for funds to conduct his research in private individuals. I'm talking about a very specific study on the so-called. the field of death in Barut, the district of Strzelce Opolskie. That's maybe a small number, because about 200 soldiers... about 60 of them. We do not know exactly how many, because these studies were not carried out by a ruse collected in such a palace... It was a palace or a raccoon; it's hard to figure out now. It happened in 1946. This palace had previously been mined and after the assembly of these soldiers blew up in the air. The remains that I'm going to say were all of them. The pelvis, skulls, were carefully collected and exported to another location. Why, since the I.P.N. was working so well, the professor had to drive around town... We were literally organizing a fundraiser. I can't understand that. I can understand, however, that very specific people high up, highly titled, derived from a bar that had their ancestors also high up after the war Only this enabled them to achieve scientific success was to block the removal from the alley of deserved graves under which the remains of the Cursed Soldiers were buried. Today there is no doubt that in many cemeteries the avenues of the deserved were formed on the remains of the Cursed Soldiers, on this ground. The possibility of conducting research is blocked, referring to respect for the remains of those deserving of the Polish People's Republic. Why is there no doubt about this; history is already known to have greater rights than victims who have been deprived for many years, as well as their children, of the possibility of any meaningful development? We have no doubt about that because their descendants live, who for long, long years could not develop normally. So if this IPN still worked so well today, it's really great that you didn't have to change anything, then why haven't these elementary issues been explained? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-11-senat-17-1.u434	Thank you very much. Senator Kazimierz Klein.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-11-senat-17-1.u435	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I am somewhat sorry that I have endured until the end of this debate and have listened to these speeches, especially the last ones. In a special and extraordinary way, they upset me, especially the speech of Senator Czerwinski, who has been calling ghosts for a long time, so to speak, dead, those that are not there. Sad and difficult. I'm not afraid of the IPN bill. In general, I'm not afraid to set up. But sometimes I'm afraid of people who will put them into life, and that's a much harder and sadder thing. Sometimes, like even a good bill, a perfect bill will come into the hands of irresponsible, incomprehensible and contemporary people, and the past, it comes to complete distortions. I welcome the voice and speech of Senator Zarin, who has worked for the Institute of National Remembrance for 15 years in various situations, but I think that colleagues from Law and Justice have not listened to this speech. Of course, every institution has its weaknesses, but he has generally shown it great merits and various publications, which may have aroused controversy over these or other people haunted or fairly looking at Polish matters. But it upset me a little in Senator Czerwiński's speech about the monuments of the Wehrmacht soldiers who died during World War I. Of course, it was people who served in the German army and served the German state, but if you read these plates well, you would notice one important thing which, from the point of view of the Polish national and national interests, is of extraordinary importance. I myself have even committed myself to the preservation of some of these monuments, especially on the border, especially in those areas which were joined to Poland after 1945. They were even people who were Germans in their consciousness. But if we look at these plates, the inscriptions on these plates, we'll see that all these names in our Pomerania are Polish or Kashubian. So this contradicts what German and later communist propaganda tried to tell us: that they were always German or fully Germanized. Probably Germanized, yeah. But the names, the names of the towns, keep what is the nucleus and the essence of the place. That's why I always keep a lot of haunted people so that before they talk about traitors, salesmen and all sorts of other people, they just analyze what is the essence of some document. or even such a monument. Only his good interpretation, showing him, showing the young man at school, the student: see, from this monument you draw quite different conclusions than you might think after the first simple simple look at the case. This is extremely important, especially on the border. If you don't understand it, you don't understand Polish history. The past and the present. We're talking about minor amendments here, and I don't quite understand it... Senator Żaryn was talking about the important weaknesses of this bill, for example. concerning administrative divisions. But no amendment has appeared on this issue, and there are amendments on minor issues. For example, the question It can be saved, of course. . concerning the law applicable on Polish lands until 1932. It was Polish law. After all, it was accepted into the Polish legal system. It was not the law of the German State, the law of the Russian State or the Austrian State, but it was the law which was in force in the Polish territory, adopted by the Polish Sejm, but it was not changed, because it was impossible, only the penal code of 1932 merged it all. But this does not mean that German, Austrian or other law was in force in Poland until 1932. It was the law prescribed from that time, but it was already the law incorporated into the Polish legal system, as it was. So it really doesn't make any sense to mess with the IPN Act and these regulations, there's no need for that, because nothing new or unusual comes out of it. The issue of regulation e.g. these boundaries of the branches or IPN delegations would be a better solution. By the way, there's one more thing I'd like to say. .about all these heroes and all these other things and about discrediting what was in Poland or in Polish lands before World War I and after World War I. I mean, almost everyone knows that, too. But simplifying all these heroes is just embarrassing. Most of the Polish officers in the Polish Army after the First World War were former officers who were educated and served in the armies of the possessive states. To those who were loyal citizens of the Polish state, no one claims anything. Speaking, as suggested by one of the senators, that it was simply not so Polish, so real... It's a sad thing. Sometimes I think that such a nationalistic view is simply detrimental to Polish affairs. And finally, I want to say again: I'm not afraid of legislation, I'm not afraid at all of the new I.P.N. Act. She's gonna be okay. I'm just afraid of people who can manage it. I hope that according to Senator Żaryn, they will be responsible people who understand the history of Poland. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-11-senat-17-1.u436	Thank you, Senator. And there's Senator Czerwinski.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-11-senat-17-1.u437	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Actually, I shouldn't be in on this, but there's some sort of polemic that belongs to Senator Klein. First of all, I'm not gonna use vulgar epithets. Although it is really a matter of understanding the present situation in which we are as a country and the purpose we are aiming for. Unfortunately, I am also speaking here with you about the Civic Platform and people who may not be in the party as much as they share the same views... With your participation, a minority is restauranted, which actually was not in the region, and this is an economic minority that simply pays off to be German. And this minority to its existence calls, builds, renews, it is different The monuments symbols. These aren't memorials to the victims, because they're more like cemeteries in our culture. These symbols are shown in the middle of the village, at intersections and are complemented by such symbolism and such motives, which the Council of the Protection of the Remembrance of the Fight and Martyrdom warns and forbids. It is about militaristic symbols, helmets, iron crosses, which are so and not different, especially after World War II. In addition, these symbolic commemorations are supplemented by letters of people who served in the Wehrmacht during World War II. Not to mention the fact that there were lists of SS men on several monuments, including military degrees. It's not a coincidence, it's not a memory... This means perhaps it is a reproduction of historical memory, but contrary to the Polish state rhyme, simply. It's not Europeanity. This is losing Polishness in these areas. That's where they come in. I'll talk about it again. The attempts not to celebrate the holidays which we as Poles have always celebrated. E.g. the anniversary of the Third Silesian Uprising. You walk away from the monument and temporarily, and spatially only so that the young generation would not be aware that the Third Silesian Uprising was an uprising for Silesian Polishness, not a fraternal struggle, not a civil war or a fight for minority rights. Unfortunately, you've moved these celebrations. I say you, or Civic Platform, from May 2rd and 3rd to May 21st, the date of the battle for Mount St. Anna, losing by the Silesians, or at least not winning. What are you celebrating, gentlemen of the Platform? What are you celebrating on May 21st? The question is, which way are you going to Opole? I hope that the Institute of National Remembrance will be a good follow-up to the Council for the Protection of Remembrance of Fight and Martyrdom, and we must enable it to do so precisely by good law, especially the division of competences. ♪ 'Cause if it really is ♪ I'm going back to the law, there may be problems with this law, that is, with the division of competences between the Institute of National Remembrance and the Ministry of Culture. There may indeed be problems here and perhaps we will return to this law. But now we should at least try to eliminate these problems in a maximum way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-11-senat-17-1.u438	Thank you very much. Mr. Senator Klein.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-11-senat-17-1.u439	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Mixing into this law, the subject of this law problems of Poles who served in the Wehrmacht during World War II, and even problems earlier, because also from World War I, but now there is a Wehrmacht, that is... It shouldn't be, it's harmful. I felt that at some point I would have to explain that I was not enough Polish or not quite enough, in front of some committee, because that's what this is all about. That's how they treated us, the Kashubians for years. When I say, "I am Kashubian," the question is, "What does that mean?" Then who are you? You're not Polish? No one in Lublin, in Warsaw, is asked about this, but always us, people living on the border. And that's exactly what I feel in these speeches. We, people who live on the border, who have had different dramatic times in history, always account for how much we are better or worse Poles than those who live or come from Lviv, from Vilnius, Lublin, Krakow, we do not know what. We will not be pushed into the margins of the Republic of Poland. We're not gonna get pushed. And I'll be right over here. I'm also asking Senator Zarin, who is the chairman of the history group, and I'm a member. of this team In order to make a meeting, invite all senators, especially those wandering in border matters. Because it is simply harmful to Poland, it offends us, also our grandparents, who lived in difficult times and difficult conditions. My grandfather did not serve in the Wehrmacht during World War II, although it is worth remembering that during World War II more Poles served in the Wehrmacht than in both Polish armies, in the west and in the east. These are tragedies. And for some, it's as simple as a wire. That's not how you write the present, looking through history. That is why I ask the senator, the president of this team, to start an educational campaign on issues that concern such sensitive and sensitive matters of our present day. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-11-senat-17-1.u440	Thank you very much. And then there's Senator Pekkis. [[Is there any mode I can relate to?]] [[There's nothing to refer to here.]] [[There isn't.]] [[I'll talk to you later.]] Mr. Senator, let's get this discussion over with tonight. Mr. Senator, you're welcome. [[It's gonna be a little while.]] Yeah, just a little bit.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-11-senat-17-1.u441	I haven't heard Mr. Czerwiński's words, nor the Kashubian words, nor the Wehrmacht. But as a representative of the Opole region I was chosen from that area. I can clearly say that representatives of the Wehrmacht murdered Poles during the war, that it was a formation... [[Of course I do. There's no denying that.]] Please don't disturb me. Please don't disturb me. ...that it was an invader formation. Explain this to the descendants of the murdered, please explain this to those of my family who lie in their graves because the Germans came and murdered them. Please try to explain that the Germans with their group, which... Now he's trying to pretend they were shooting... Where'd they shoot? In the air? Then why did people die? Who entered, crossed the border in 1939 and murdered people? Who murdered tens of thousands of civilian Poles in the time before the Silesian Uprising? Who did this? Were they some good people who wanted an agreement, and just a little bit of an accident killing civilians? They weren't good people. They were invaders, they were oppressors, they were criminals against whom the tyranny of the Polish nation was created during the 3rd Uprising in the night from 2 to 3 May. Not on 21 May, as representatives of the German minority would like now, but at night from 2 to 3 May, then the Polish nation was raised against tyranny. A tyranny that led to the murder of many thousands of Poles. These were not mutually-living, collaborating groups, for those who murdered were brought from the depths of Germany, from the depths of the Reich. Those were the militias that were brought in just to murder. We know these groups, we know these hosts, there are pictures of those worshipped to this day unfortunately in some places. It's completely unwarranted. It's just criminals. And against it the Polish people should act. Because we have our identity, we have our faith, we have our origin, we have our tradition. And only on the truth can you build the future, only on the truth. We need not be ashamed that during World War II we were invaded by a criminal nation. And it wasn't a SS nation, it was a German nation. The Wehrmacht was also involved in these armed activities and was one of his main forces. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-11-senat-17-1.u442	Thank you very much, Senator. I am convinced that Senator Żaryn will arrange such a meeting of a group of history lovers and it will be a good place to discuss these important but sometimes sensitive topics. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you that the list of speakers has been exhausted. I would like to inform you that the proposals of a legislative nature were submitted in writing by the senators: Czesław Ryszka, Bogdan Borusewicz, Jan Rulewski, Grażyna Sztark, Tomasz Grodzki, Jerzy Fedorowicz, Rafał Ambrozik, Zbigniew Cichoń, Jan Żaryn and Jerzy Czerwiński. The discussion is closed. Now it should be a question to the government representative whether he wants to respond to the proposals put forward, but it will not be possible today, probably the representative... [[But the question may come up.]] The government representative will probably respond tomorrow at the committee meeting. As legislative proposals have been made, I ask the Committee on Human Rights, the Rule of Law and Petitions to respond to the proposals put forward and to prepare a report. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. Ladies and gentlemen, I'm about to announce a recess by tomorrow, which is Thursday, until 11:00 p.m., but before that happens, I'm going to ask the senator to read the messages.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-11-senat-17-1.u443	Messages. The meeting of the Committee on Human Rights, Rule of Laws and Petitions on proposals for amending the Act on the Institute of National Remembrance, the Commission for the Investigation of Crimes against the Polish National and some other laws will take place tomorrow, 12 May, at 8.15 p.m. in room 182. The meeting of the Health Commission on the examination of the proposals submitted during the debate to the Act amending the Law on Public Blood Service and certain other laws The joint meeting of the Committee on Budget and Public Finance and the Committee on National Economy and Innovation on the examination of applications for the Act amending the Act on Income Tax on Individuals, the Act on Corporate Income Tax and the Act on Freedom of Business will take place tomorrow at 8.30 am in room 217.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-11-senat-17-1.u444	Thank you very much, Senator. I'm declaring a recess by 11 o'clock tomorrow. Thank you. [[Adjournment at the meeting at 22 minutes 28]]
