ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-sejm-22-2.u1	Resume session. I would like to call Catherine Osos, Wojciech King, Luke Schreiber and Piotr Olszówka to the secretaries of today's proceedings. The first part of the session will be Mr Katarzyna Osos and Mr Wojciech Król. The minutes and lists of speakers will be led by Katarzyna Osos and Piotr Olszówka. I ask the Secretary to read the messages.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-sejm-22-2.u2	I would like to inform you that the following Commission meetings will be held today: - Economics and Development in conjunction with the Committee on Justice and Human Rights - h.m. 9, - Public Finance - hour. 9.30 a.m., - for Petitions - at 10 p.m. 9.30 a.m., - Agriculture and Rural Development - hour 9.30 a.m., - to the European Union, at 3 p.m. 10, - Infrastructure - hour 10, - Legal notice - hour. 10, - Public Finance - hour. 11, - Maritime Affairs and Inland Navigation - h.m. 11, - Administration and Home Affairs - hour. 12, - to Energy and Treasury - hour. 12, - to the European Union, at 3 p.m. 12, - Justice and Human Rights at 10 p.m. 12, - Health-- hour. 12, - Public Finance - hour. 12.30, - Foreign Affairs - hour 12.30, - Economy and Development - h.m. 13, - Agriculture and Rural Development together with the Health Commission - at 3 p.m. 13.30, - Public Finance - hour. 14, - Culture and Media - hour 14, - Public Finance - hour. 3.30 p.m., - Digitization, Innovation and Modern Technologies - h.m. 16, - Infrastructure - hour 16, - Social Policy and Family Policy - hour 16, - Local Government and Regional Policy - h.m. 4:30 p.m., - Public Finance - hour. 17, - Physical Culture, Sports and Tourism - hour 18, - Public Finance - hour. 6:15 p.m. I would also like to inform you that the following parliamentary teams will be held today: - Parliamentary Group for: Basic Health Care and Prevention - h.m. 10, - Parliamentary Group for: Solutions to Drug Addiction Problems - hour 10, - Parliamentary Group for: public health - hour 11, - Parliamentary Group for: Patients' rights - hour 14, - Parliamentary Group for: Africa - hour 2.30 p.m., - Parliamentary Group for: Oncology - hour 15, - Parliamentary Group for: Organisation for Health Protection - h.m. 16, - Parliamentary Women's Group - at 10 p.m. 4:30 p.m., - West Pomeranian Parliamentary Team - at 10 p.m. 17, - Parliamentary Group for: Protection of the Białowieża Forest - hour 5:30 p.m., - Parliamentary Group for: Energy - hour 18, - Parliamentary Group for: Culture and Tradition of Hunting - hour 18. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-sejm-22-2.u3	Thank you. The relevant committees have submitted reports on the draft laws: amending the Law on Minimum Compensation for Work and certain other laws, and on the ratification of the Protocol to the North Atlantic Treaty on Montenegro's Accession, signed in Brussels on 19 May 2016. The reports shall be printed in 687 and 676 respectively. Therefore, after obtaining the uniform opinion of the Senior Convention, the Marshal of the Sejm decided to supplement the agenda with items covering the examination of these reports. In these cases, I propose that the Sejm consent to the application of the article. Article 44 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 3 of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm and in discussions on these items of the agenda listened to the five-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and the circle. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the proposals. I can't hear you objecting. We proceed with the consideration of item 15 of the agenda: Questions on current matters. I would remind you that the question must not last more than 2 minutes and that the answer must not last more than 6 minutes. Only the Member asking the question shall have the right to raise an additional question. The additional question may not last more than 1 minute and the supplementary answer may not last more than 3 minutes. The Marshal of the Sejm may agree to extend the time limit for answering an additional question. The first questions will be asked by Katarzyna Czochar and Anna April from the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice. The question concerns the state of implementation of the Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities by the Government and is addressed to the Minister for Family, Labour and Social Policy. Minister Krzysztof Michałkiewicz will answer the Secretary of State at the Ministry of Family, Labour and Social Policy. The first question is asked by Catherine Czochar. You're welcome, my fellow Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-sejm-22-2.u4	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! In 2012, the Polish Parliament ratified the Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities. It is one of the pillars of the United Nations human rights system and has been a party to it since 2010. The Convention is an extremely important document for the environment of people with disabilities, as it gives hope for full participation in public, economic, social and professional life of people with disabilities. The Polish State in 2012 gave an important signal that it is considered a country fully ready to fulfil the numerous commitments concerning the guarantee of the rights of persons with disabilities contained in this document. Poland has committed itself, among others. to establish: cells in government structures for matters related to the implementation of the Convention, government coordination mechanism, national action programme, independent mechanism for promoting, protecting and monitoring implementation activities in the field of the Convention. Over 3 years have passed since 2012. Minister, I have a question. Please tell us at what stage the implementation of this Convention is at. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-sejm-22-2.u5	Minister Krzysztof Michalkiewicz will speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-sejm-22-2.u6	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen, the question is important in various ways. One element worth highlighting is that this year has been 10 years since the UN prepared the Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities. She pointed out that more than three years ago this convention was also ratified by Poland, it can be said that almost 4 years. The next year will be the 5th anniversary of its ratification by Poland and it will certainly be a good time to sum up and assess the functioning of the Convention. By ratifying the Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities, Poland also stated that most of the articles, most of the rights contained therein, are adequately reflected in the legal system of our country. We've only introduced two exceptions here. It's an art. Article 12 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 4 and Article 4 Article 23 (2) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 (a) (i) (ii) (ii) (iii) (ii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) As a result, Poland has benefited from the possibility provided for in the Treaties' law to raise objections and to make an interpretation declaration. The ratification of the Convention was possible because a number of amendments to the law were made. The application of all other articles, the provisions of the Convention is therefore guaranteed in Polish law. As you said, a team was set up under the leadership of a government representative for persons with disabilities, who is responsible for implementing the provisions of the Convention when it comes to government administration. There are representatives of various resorts in this team. Ten meetings of this band have already been held. There we raised a number of issues important for the implementation of the Convention. Recently, two weeks ago, there was a 10th meeting of the team - it was 21 June - and at this meeting we dealt with the availability of Internet services when it comes to people with disabilities. The subject is very important, as digital exclusion has specific consequences for many groups of people with disabilities. Access to the Internet, access to digital information offers an opportunity to participate in social life, to communicate, to contact and to participate. At this meeting there were representatives of the Visual Foundation, who presented the "Availability Report 2016" on the application of the accessibility standard by public administration websites and conducted a workshop for web editors, where the software used by people with various disabilities was presented, most commonly found on websites errors and methods of avoiding them. The important thing is that progress could be seen in this area. Of 118 services audited 22% received a higher than sufficient assessment. This is still the beginning of the road, but I will remind you that in the audit carried out by the Visual Foundation in 2013, the percentage of parties that could be considered as available was 1,7%. , in 2015 - 12.8%. As I am saying, at the moment 22% of the websites run by the administration have been assessed as good or very good. As part of the meeting of this team - I am talking about this longer, because I believe that it is digital exclusion or digital inclusion, in order to put it positively, it is extremely, extremely important - the proposal was made to set up a special subcommittee that will take care of it, so that all websites are accessible to people with disabilities and that the errors that occur in them are eliminated. Of course, it is very important to monitor the implementation of the Convention by the environment of people with disabilities. In fact, what is important at the moment is a project that concerns it: implementing the Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities - a common matter. This project will be implemented between March 2016 and February 2018. The result of this report is the identification of legal, administrative, organisational barriers to the implementation of public policy conventions, as well as recommendations for the desired directions of action. As I mentioned, the project is fully implemented by the environment of organisations that bring together people with disabilities. She wears, among other things. consultations in all voivodships. We hope that this will be a strong voice showing at what stage we are in the functioning of the Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities in our country. As I say, the convention on the legal side is guaranteed. Changes in the law have been made. However, it is really about society as a whole, about government administration, but also about local government, about the whole sector of non-governmental organisations. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Only with joint action can we guarantee that the Convention will be respected and implemented. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-sejm-22-2.u7	Thank you, Minister. The additional question is asked by Mrs Anna April. You're welcome, my fellow Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-sejm-22-2.u8	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! The Convention is of particular importance to persons with intellectual disabilities, of course with other disabilities as well, but the situation of persons with such disabilities, with intellectual disabilities, makes the Convention a specific document for such persons, mentally ill, because the lack of a uniform system of ruling, harming the institution of incapacity, impunity of abusive persons with intellectual disabilities These are only some of the reservations regarding the implementation of the Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities. As far as I know, these reservations have found their documentation in the report that was developed in 2015. I would like to ask what the conclusions of this report are. [[♪ The bell ♪]] I know that report was prepared by NGOs. What are these organisations and what are these conclusions, especially with regard to persons with intellectual disabilities? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-sejm-22-2.u9	You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-sejm-22-2.u10	The subject is very important, so I am glad that you have mentioned it. As I said before, the convention was ratified in its entirety, but reservations were raised regarding two articles: Article. Article 12 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 4 and Article 4 Article 23 (2) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 (a) (i) (ii) (ii) (iii) (ii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) and which relate precisely to the exercise of legal capacity and the conclusion of marriages by disabled persons. Of course, full legal capacity for all people with disabilities is still a road ahead, which will take a while. In particular, changes in legislation are required. However, as you said, the disability associations have prepared reports on this issue. It is known for such a report that the Polish Association for Mental Disabilities, which was just about the functioning of the article, has developed. 12 conventions. In fact, this report shows that the restrictions on the rights of persons with disabilities are often abused, and this is certainly a matter that we will continue to deal with on many occasions. At the moment in the Committee on Justice - I believe - or human rights is being examined by a parliamentary project that talks about healthcare professionals. The point is that those who have no legal capacity have appointed healthcare professionals who will not make decisions about the type of treatment, the decision to take the treatment. For many people with disabilities, especially with intellectual disabilities, it is often impossible to decide whether to undergo dental treatment or hospital treatment. There is a need for legal regulation so that someone, a healthcare professional, can make such decisions. So, as I say, the ideas for regulating this problem are. It seems to me that this idea with healthcare professionals meets expectations and people with disabilities, and families with disabilities, concerns a very important issue in which the lack of a decision can often have very negative consequences, but this requires, first of all, changes in a number of legal provisions. We are discussing with the Ministry of Justice how to regulate whether this should apply only to persons with intellectual disabilities or to all persons with disabilities who are unable to make decisions on living, property, such matters. [[♪ The bell ♪]] As I said, it seems that these health issues are the most important, and hence the idea and proposals for the creation of health care professionals. It seems to be heading in the right direction. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-sejm-22-2.u11	Thank you very much, Minister. Let's move on to the next question. This time the question will be asked by Mrs Zofia Czernow and Mrs Małgorzata Płępek from the Civic Platform club. The question concerns the lack of funding for the judicial activities of the district teams. Disability rulings. The question is also addressed to the Minister of Family, Labour and Social Policy. Minister Krzysztof Michalkiewicz will also answer. The first question is asked by Mrs Zofia Czernow. You're welcome, my fellow Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-sejm-22-2.u12	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! Minister! District Teams Disability rulings alarm the very difficult financial situation concerning the judicial activity in 2016. The vast majority of district teams received less funding for this purpose than in 2015 and significantly less than the actual expenditure in the previous year. In extreme cases, the money ended already in May this year, while in others - it will happen soon. Everyone is looking forward to launching the special reserve. Until then, they limit judicial activity to maintain continuity of action. In all teams in Poland the situation is similar: either there are no more resources or they will be missing in the near future. In the meantime, the priority should be the timely handling of cases. Here I would like to stress that the district of Grodz often subsidises this activity, but there is also a difficult situation. The absence of a judgment given within the time limit is the deprivation of people's right to benefit from social assistance benefits, such as loss of employment, scholarship or other benefits. These are important social issues. There's no excuse for that. It's very urgent. Minister, when the county's teams are in charge. disability rulings will receive the necessary financial resources and will their amount secure the proper functioning of the teams by the end of this year? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-sejm-22-2.u13	Thank you very much. Please take the floor of the Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-sejm-22-2.u14	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Of course, the subject is important, as the honourable Member has stressed, and it must not be allowed for district teams to rule because of the lack of funding, but also to be remembered. that these funds are reserved and planned in the Budget Act adopted by the High Chamber. 86 492 000 are planned in the 2016 budget bill. zł as a total expenditure for the activities of the teams. disability rulings, including 76 809 000. for the activities of district teams and 9683 thousand. for the activities of voivodship teams. Compared to 2015, this represented an increase of 105.36%, i.e. by an amount of 4401 thousand. zł as expenditure of 82,091 000 is planned in 2015 in the Budget Act. zł. In addition, the 2016 Budget Act provides for additional appropriations under the special reserve of PLN 20 million. This appropriation is intended to cover the financing of tasks carried out by the teams. judgment on disability and the execution of a parking card. In 2015, this amount amounted to 16 100 thousand. zł, so again, with regard to the special-purpose reserve, it is higher than in 2015. I would stress this because the analysis of the number of applications for disability and disability decisions made for the first half of 2016 indicates a decrease of more than 19 percent compared to the same period of 2015. In 2016 there were 380 719 applications in the first half of 2015 and in the first half of 2015 - 471 466 applications, i.e. there is a significant decrease. On the other hand, I agree with the Member - we too have such signals - that the funds are running out in the district teams. So in July we plan to dispose of this reserve, which is, in favour of district teams. We are only surprised that the voivodeships, in which the budgets for the district teams are included, do not report our needs. Only 3 of the 16 voivodships asked the government's representative to include in the work on the distribution of the special reserve of the deficiencies they reported. So that the subject is important. You have secured funds in the Budget Act so that the teams from the budget reserve can be co-financed during the year. It seems to us that after this six-month period, which has ended and which shows how the tasks of the district teams are being carried out, there is a good time for us to try on the division of this reserve and for the signals you mention to continue to be taken into account above all. But, as I say, we divide the reserve through the voivod's budgets, so it's up to the voivods to signal that there's a shortage of resources and that they should run... [[They're ……]] ...additional resources. And we have these resources. We've got them in the budget reserve. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-sejm-22-2.u15	Thank you, Minister. And as the second question is asked by Mrs Margaret Navel. You're welcome, my fellow Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-sejm-22-2.u16	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! The District Family Help Centre in Żywiec has had a similar problem for a long time. Just now, money has run out for the judicial activity of the disability panel. The Centre needs to borrow them from the old-fashioned, so that they don't stop the judicial activity. At some point, a special-purpose reserve is triggered to pay off the debts. There have already been alarming letters from the PCPR to the Ministry, but the Ministry continues to refer the matter to the voivodeship. In turn, the voivode claims that there is not enough money for this purpose. The circle closes because the planning of the expenses on the basis of which the teams receive money is based on the performance of last year. The money from the voivodeship is sufficient for only 4 months of the first period of operation. The amount of the grant provided by the voivode for the performance of the team's tasks is insufficient, which is the basis for proper operation and timely issuing of decisions. [[♪ The bell ♪]] In turn, the number of applications per year is increasing. I wanted to ask: will the Ministry consider changing this way of calculating and financing teams to finally solve this problem because the problem is huge? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-sejm-22-2.u17	Thank you, Member. Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-sejm-22-2.u18	Thank you. In fact, I have already answered a little in my previous speech the question of the Member. Let me repeat once again that this year we see a decrease in the number of applications - not judgments, we are talking about applications - submitted in district teams on disability, which does not change the fact that the situation can be different in individual powiats, of course. The analysis concerns the whole country and here we see the decline. I think we even know why. Changes in the parking card have caused many people to make a decision, and I suspect that this is why there were more decisions in previous years. This year, this drop is clearly visible. However, as I mentioned, funds for district teams are planned, transferred to voivodships. As far as the voivodship has well divided these measures, how much it has collected relevant information in terms of demand, from individual counties, we can discuss. Surely the signals that you have notified will be the reason why we will ask your Silesian voivode for information about how the funds are secured in individual counties. And depending on whether or not the funds in the voivodeship are actually over, we will first start the reserve for the Śląskie voivodship... [[And Lower Silesian.]] ...and Lower Silesian. But as I say, resources go through the voivodships. It is the voivodships who analyze the demand in each county. From what you say, this analysis was inappropriate because there was a shortage in one district or another of these measures. However, once again - you may say this to me - that in July we will split the budget from the budget reserve, feed the voivod's budgets. However, the Voivodeships must do this analysis of needs in a responsible and appropriate manner. If there were no funds in one county, it was only because they were badly divided between individual counties. There's no other option. As I mentioned, these amounts are higher this year than in the previous year, and the applications are less. So only the issue of division could have affected the fact that some counties had run out of funds before, although there were more in the voivodeship. Here the logic would indicate that the voivode simply misdivided them. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-sejm-22-2.u19	Thank you, Minister. The next question will be asked by Members: Ms Agnieszka Ścigaj, Mr Paweł Grabowski, Mr Maciej Masłowski, from the Kukiz club15. This is a question about the right to early retirement of those looking after children who need constant care, so-called. benefits of the EWK symbol, to the Minister of Family, Labour and Social Policy. Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Family, Labour and Social Policy, Minister Marcin Zielenecki, will answer. Ms Agnieszka is the first question to be asked. You're welcome, my fellow Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-sejm-22-2.u20	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! According to the Social Insurance Institution, the right to receive a pension paid under the Regulation of 15 May 1989 on early retirement rights for children who require permanent care, so-called. benefits of the EWK symbol, at the end of 2015 amounted to almost 47 thousand. persons. I have two questions, then. Does the Social Insurance Institution have up-to-date data on how many people currently receiving this benefit, so-called. EWK continues to take care of a disabled person who fulfils the conditions of Article. Article 6b (6) (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013 is replaced by the following: 3 points 7 and 8 of the Act of 27 August 1997 on occupational and social rehabilitation and employment of persons with disabilities? Please, if possible, provide data at the end of 2015. And what amount per year are the payments of benefits with the EWK symbol, which are less than PLN 1300 net per month and include a group of persons currently taking care of a disabled person fulfilling the eligibility criteria for care provision? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-sejm-22-2.u21	Thank you. And please take the floor of the Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-sejm-22-2.u22	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, We have been able to obtain information from the Social Insurance Institution on the topics that have appeared in the question of the Member. As regards the annual payment of pensions for disabled children, this is an amount of 684 900 000. zł. On the other hand, as far as those who are taking a pension of this type are concerned, according to the data at the date of the last valorization, i.e. on 1 March 2016, among them people who have benefits below 1550 PLN - that is the equivalent of providing care in the net amount of 1300 PLN - is 39 thousand.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-sejm-22-2.u23	Thank you. I have another question about this amount. I understand that this is the amount that is already after the verification, which means that these people are still taking care of - these are the verified persons - people with disabilities fulfilling this condition, right? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-sejm-22-2.u24	It needs to be developed. The answer to this question needs to be developed. So, yes, we have to remember that we are talking about benefits that are based on no longer binding provisions. This regulation, which gave rise to the granting of such a pension, was repealed from the date of the start of the pension reform, namely on 1 January 1999, so we are in fact dealing with persons whose powers were fixed by decision of the pension authority before 1 January 1999. In fact, as we look at the legal situation, we will see that we are dealing with a pension which is life-long, i.e. that these are life-long entitlements, rights that belong to insured persons who receive these benefits, regardless of the continuation of child care. Once this right has been determined by the decision of the pension authority, this condition, which was the personal care of the child included in the I or II disability group, because so these conditions were defined, already, can be said, does not matter at the moment. So these are actually all the people who take this witness, whether or not this need for child care still exists.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-sejm-22-2.u25	Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-sejm-22-2.u26	I can still do that, right? Thank you, but I'll clarify that question. So it can be assumed that those amounts that the Minister gave were estimated amounts and that there was no obligation to verify. Let me give you an example. The point is that if someone had acquired this benefit before the child was 16 years old - and then there was a current ruling - all the time when that law was in force, there was no obligation to verify this, i.e. to stand before the committee again and report another decision to the Social Insurance Institution after 16 years of age, which confirmed this disability.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-sejm-22-2.u27	There is no legal basis for this type of verification procedure to be carried out because there is no such regulation. This regulation was, so to speak, removed from legal trading on 1 January 1999. But, of course, as far as the background is concerned - because I guess the question goes to the problem that arose after the changes in the Family Benefits Act, where the care provision for parents resigning from employment was increased in order to take personal care of a disabled child whose disability was essentially created before the age of 18 - it is evident that there is a problem. This is also a problem which arose after the Constitutional Tribunal issued a ruling recognising that the rights of parents who have custody of persons whose disability arose during childhood and those who have cared for persons whose disability arose at an adult age infringe the Constitution. This is a non-constitutional situation. This incompatibility with the constitution lies, you can say, in different terms of authority. We know that the benefits of this first group of people are higher, 1300 PLN, and the benefits of those who are caring for those who have an adult disability are much lower, and this is the amount of PLN 520. We are dealing with unequal treatment. As we look from this perspective at those pensions which were granted until the end of 1998 on the basis of the regulation we are talking about, we see that we are also dealing with such, let's say, unequal treatment, because, as we look in turn at the grounds for acquiring the right to provide care in the amount of PLN 1300, we see that one of the negative conditions excluding the right to this benefit is having a fixed right to retirement, any pension, including a pension granted under that regulation. In short, it can be said that those who have a decision granting such a benefit cannot apply for a care provision of PLN 1300. This is a problem that requires a systematic, comprehensive solution, and we are working on this solution.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-sejm-22-2.u28	Thank you, Minister. [[Thank you.]] And we move on to the next question. Mr Marta Golbik, Mr Michał Stasiński, Mr Krzysztof Truskolaska, Mr Grzegorz Furgo and Mr Mirosław Suchoń from the Modern Club are asking about a possible government initiative concerning the negotiation of bilateral agreements between Poland and the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland in connection with the referendum in the United Kingdom of 23 June 2016. The question is to the Foreign Minister. Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, Minister Katarzyna Kacperczyk will answer. Mrs Marta Golbik asks the first question. You're welcome, my fellow Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-sejm-22-2.u29	Thank you very much. Dear Minister, Following Poland's accession to the European Union in 2004, the United Kingdom opened its labour market to our country's citizens without any transitional periods. There was agreement that labour market gaps needed to be filled, especially in the context of an ageing British society. On Thursday 23 June, more than half of the British voted in favour of leaving the European Union. As we know, this does not mean that you are leaving the Union's structures, because the UK Parliament is making a decision on this matter. However, this is another step in the dangerous process of disintegration. In particular, Polish citizens may be victims, who as a very large national minority in the United Kingdom are an important labour market operator and traders. Due to the limitations of the time of asking questions today, we ignore issues such as the fall in the capitalization of companies on the Warsaw Stock Exchange, which has already taken place, expected in the future to decrease the value of foreign direct investment and the general deterioration of the situation of the largest net financial beneficiary, i.e. Poland, resulting from a possible departure from the Union by one of the largest payers, because these are issues beyond the direct impact of the government. We focus our question on the sphere of real decisions that the Ministry could make in terms of safeguarding the interests of Polish citizens enjoying the facilitations resulting from the existing freedom of movement of capital, payments, services and access to the labour market. Is the government considering taking diplomatic action to prepare draft bilateral agreements between the Republic of Poland and the United Kingdom which would determine the conditions for access of workers and entrepreneurs to the British market and which could be signed if the United Kingdom were to be outside the European Union? [[♪ The bell ♪]] Analysis of the different solutions will better prepare for and stabilise possible adverse events and strengthen the negotiating position. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-sejm-22-2.u30	Thank you, Member. And please take the floor of the Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-sejm-22-2.u31	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Thank you very much for this question. Let me start with the general remark that she has already mentioned in part by asking a question. I would also like to make it clear that any negotiations regarding any conditions for staying or leaving the United Kingdom and the conditions under which the United Kingdom is leaving the European Union will only be initiated when the application, application and formal notification to the European Council by the United Kingdom Government in accordance with Article. 50 of the Treaty on European Union. In this case, the Government consistently stresses that there is no reason for any pressure on the UK Government to apply this procedure as soon as possible. As you know, the United Kingdom is now in the process of cleaning up the internal situation. Negotiations are underway on the change of leadership in the Conservative Party, which means a change in Prime Minister's position after Prime Minister Cameron resigned. Similar discussions take place in other parties, including the Labour Party. We are therefore convinced that the United Kingdom should formulate a new government and develop a strong and uniform mandate for talks with the European Union. But at the same time it's It is also time for reflection within the European Union, both on the future of the Union and on the rules for further negotiations. Until then, until the United Kingdom Government formally notifys its readiness to leave, i.e. to open negotiations, no negotiations by any of the Member States are conducted individually with the United Kingdom. Poland also cannot and is not a negotiator at this stage. The second element, which is worth highlighting in this context, is that, in fact, the process of leaving the UK from the European Union, governed by Article. The 50th Treaty on European Union provides for two stages. One is the negotiation of the United Kingdom's exit agreement from the European Union. As I have already mentioned, this process will begin with the notification submitted by the Government of the United Kingdom to the European Council, which is the time to prepare guidelines and also to formulate the Polish interest, which will be adopted unanimously by the European Council, because after this notification the European Council will issue guidelines on the principles and objectives of these negotiations, define the objectives, process and select the negotiators. The Council, which I would also like to make clear, will also play a significant role throughout the negotiation process and will be able to join these negotiations at any stage. It should also be assumed, from such a practical point of view, that the subject of negotiations on the United Kingdom exit agreement will be a permanent subject of European Council meetings. The next step will be to make recommendations by the Commission on the negotiations to the Council of the European Union, i.e. pursuant to Article. 218 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, the Council shall adopt a decision authorising negotiations and appoint a negotiator. The Agreement on the exit of the United Kingdom from the European Union shall be concluded by the Council on behalf of the European Union by a qualified majority of at least 20 of the 27 Member States representing at least 60% of the population of the European Union. It is also worth noting that the European Parliament is not formally involved in the negotiation process. Of course, it has the right to receive information on this process, but its agreement, which will be expressed by a majority, is necessary for the Council to conclude an exit agreement with the United Kingdom from the European Union. It is also worth noting that there is a double process here, i.e. until the conclusion of a new agreement on relations between the United Kingdom - the European Union needs to be included in the exit agreement. transitional provisions, pending the conclusion of this final agreement. This second stage will be the conclusion of an agreement on new relations between the United Kingdom and the European Union, and negotiations on this matter will only be started when the agreement I mentioned earlier was adopted. Then these negotiations will be conducted in such a way that the United Kingdom, the United Kingdom, will be treated as a third country. Of course, here is the question of whether this is an agreement that will be in the exclusive competence of the European Union. This will probably be a mixed agreement, which will also bring together the competences of the Member States, which means that a mixed agreement, will also require the approval of individual Member States in the ratification procedure. She referred to the rights of Polish citizens, workers on the British market. Pending the completion of the negotiation procedures, both the exit agreement and the agreement regulating the new conditions, [[♪ The bell ♪]] all rights of Polish citizens will be maintained. Already in the context of attacks on Polish citizens, the government takes numerous diplomatic actions. On this subject, Prime Minister Szydło spoke with Prime Minister Cameron in a telephone conversation, also Minister Waszczykowski spoke with Minister Hammond about these rights. I would like to point out that, at the same time, the UK Government, Prime Minister Cameron, but also the UK's main politicians condemn these attacks and are clearly in favour of respecting workers' rights. I would also like to say that during the whole negotiation process the Polish government cannot agree, will not agree to a situation where the rights of citizens of the European Union, including Polish citizens in the UK, will be a bargaining chip. We will urge that the rights of Polish citizens be guaranteed on the British market. Take a look at these negotiations also in the context of the presence of British citizens in the various Member States of the European Union.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-sejm-22-2.u32	Minister, I'm sorry... Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs Katarzyna Kacperczyk: Thank you very much. [[Thank you very much.]] ...but you'll still have the opportunity to complete your statement. In the meantime, I would ask you to ask Mr Truskolas's additional question.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-sejm-22-2.u33	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! If the situation in the financial markets is analysed on the day of the referendum's announcement in the UK, the Polish currency has decreased by around 7%. against the euro or the dollar. When the United Kingdom withdraws from the Union, economists predict that the Polish currency will become even weaker. Today, the euro area is a guarantee of security and of being at the heart of Europe. In that case, I have a question as to whether the Polish government intends to start discussions with the European institutions about Poland's accession to the euro area. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-sejm-22-2.u34	Thank you. And I ask for your answer, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-sejm-22-2.u35	Thank you very much. I think that, in fact, this question can also be addressed to the Minister of Finance. At this stage, there are no plans to start discussions on the question of joining the euro area. Of course, this issue has been somewhat overshadowed by the issue of the referendum and the speech of the UK, also by the migration crisis. I would like to stress that, with regard to the euro area and the functioning of the euro, the functioning of the single currency has been quite difficult lately, so it is difficult to expect the government to decide whether to join the euro area. If this euro area does not solve its internal problems itself, the consequences of such a decision would definitely be negative for the Polish economy. At the same time, in the context of the functioning of the euro area, I would add - I do not know, you have probably had the opportunity to familiarize yourself with these opinions and information on the German-French proposals to strengthen the institutionalisation of the euro area - that of course the Polish government will be here together with many other EU partners trying, preventing the Union from being divided, fragmented, divided into those countries that are in the euro area, and those countries that are not participating in the euro area. We call for a common, uniform EU structure and we oppose institutionalisation and fragmentation - the institutionalisation of the euro area and the fragmentation of the European Union.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-sejm-22-2.u36	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-sejm-22-2.u37	Thank you, Minister. Let's move on to the next question. Mr Tadeusz Dziuba, Mr Waldemar Andzel and Mr Wojciech Szarama from the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice will ask a question about the scandalous decision of the Financial Supervision Committee on the introduction of the Commission's board of directors in the Greater Poland SKOK. The question is addressed to the President of the Council of Ministers. He will reply under the authority of the President of the Council of Ministers undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Finance, Minister Leszek Skiba. Mr Tadeusz Dziuba is the first question to be asked. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-sejm-22-2.u38	Mr. Marshal! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! About mid-May, the Commission for Financial Supervision introduced the Commission's Board of Directors in the cooperative savings and credit register on Mt. Great Polish SKOK. This is one of the largest institutions of this type in Poland. You could say that the effect reached lightning. Namely, in June the sale of loans, lending decreased fifteen times, so the cash register stopped earning, while at the same time the commissar manager determined the permissible level of liabilities of twice the amount of assets of the Wielkopolska SKOK. In short, it looks like the SKOK is supposed to stop making money and be in debt, which, of course, opens the way for an easy acquisition of this cooperative money. Against this background, I want to ask three specific questions and then one fundamental question. First, why did KNF introduce the commission board on the basis of financial data concerning the Wielkopolska SKOK of 2013, without taking into account the state as at the date of adoption of the resolution on the establishment of the commission board, on which the conditions of 2013 were no longer in place? Why did the KNF introduce such strict conditions for granting... Why did the commission board introduce such restrictive conditions for granting loans, which led, as I just said, to a drastic increase in losses of the Wielkopolska SKOK? Finally, why did the KNF appoint the manager responsible for the loss of liquidity and consequently the bankruptcy of the bank in Wołomin? [[♪ The bell ♪]] The current district manager was a member of the commission board of that Volomiński bank. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-sejm-22-2.u39	Thank you, sir. I ask the Minister to speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-sejm-22-2.u40	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Thank you so much for asking. With regard to the question raised by your fellow Members about the scandalous decision of the KNF on the introduction of the Commission's Board of Directors in Wielkopolska SKOK, I will provide explanations which are partly based on general information and partly information collected by the Ministry of Finance. There is a difficulty in answering the full part of the questions, as the process of introducing the management board of the Wielkopolska SCC is an action chaired by the KFN and at the same time sensitive information to which we do not have full access. Therefore, even if we had access to some of the information, unfortunately, because they are specific, the legal rules require that they should not be publicly presented. But what I can say is that the decision was actually made by the KNF or an institution independent of the Minister of Finance based on an analysis of the economic situation of the Wielkopolska SKOK. As far as we know, the decision was indeed based on the 2013 financial statements, but this is explained in such a way that the Supreme Court failed to submit further financial statements for the following years, i.e. that the last report approved by the statutory auditor is simply a 2013 report, is not for 2014, is not for 2015. This is the fact that this report for 2013 is the basis for the KNF to introduce the committee board. The reported year 2013 is more factual in the sense that it simply does not exist, i.e. We also looked for information about the financial statements for the following years, but we did not find such information that the SKOK would present the financial statements for the following years. By decision of 17 May 2016, the Commission pursuant to Article. 73. The 1st Act on the SKOK has just established a district administrator. The analysis of the situation on the basis of the financial reporting of the results of the inspection showed that there is a threat, according to the KNF, of stopping the payment of liabilities by the Wielkopolska SKOK. And we were informed that from 17 June to 12 July 2013 the employees of the KNF office carried out a comprehensive inspection of the Wielkopolska SKOK as at 31 March 2013. This audit, in the opinion of the KNF, showed that the economic and financial situation of the cash register was unsatisfactory. There have been numerous irregularities, weaknesses in the management process, in particular credit risk. These irregularities were a threat to the security of the cash collected in the cash register accounts. And this is the information presented by KNF. The level of the cashier's own funds was insufficient, did not support the business and cover the risks incurred, did not ensure that the solvency ratio was maintained at the minimum required level of law. The financial result was not a source of capital growth. As of 31 March 2013, the cashier showed a net loss and the control activities indicated the need to create additional write-downs to the value held by the cashier. The Commission received information as a result of supervisory activities, inter alia. the incorrect valuation of some of the cashier's assets and the auditor carrying out the audit of the financial statements for 2013 at the request of the cashier failed to carry out a detailed analysis of these issues. Therefore, KNF, when exercising its statutory right, pursuant to Article. 62d paragraph. 2 of the Act on the SKOK requested the audit of the financial statements for 2013. As a result of the audit of the approved financial statements of the cashier for 2013, the statutory auditor identified relevant facts affecting the assessment of the correctness and reliability of the financial statements of the cashier. The inclusion of the audit auditor identified for the purpose of the cash register, the adjustment committee in the financial statements resulted in negative own funds, negative financial result and solvency ratio. The statutory board of directors of the cash register, such as the separation of the organised part of the company, which took place twice in 2012 and 2013, as well as the sale of outstanding claims, which took place in 2012, 2014 and 2015, did not improve the situation of the cashier and in addition put the cash register at risk of costs, among others. on the sale of a trade mark and the levying of licence fees. The cashier's situation continued to deteriorate. From mid-2014 until the end of 2015, the cash register showed losses. The analysis of the cashier's reporting data submitted to UKNF also indicated that the cashier did not correctly include in the accounts and financial statements of the transfers to the opened companies in exchange for the transferred shares until the date of the decision. In the KNF's view, the cash register management process was inadequate, ineffective and ineffective. The separation by the cashier in 2012 and 2013 of the organised part of the company was a one-off action and did not affect the entity's stable situation. One-off actions did not demonstrate the effectiveness and stability of the cash register. They only resulted in an improvement in the presentation layer, but obscuring the actual situation of the cash register. [[♪ The bell ♪]] The Ministry of Finance also recalls that KNF employees are obliged to keep confidential the information they have provided and not disclose to unauthorised persons information concerning the situation of supervised entities. It is worth mentioning that the members of the committee may make available information obtained in connection with their participation in the work of the committee, including those protected by separate laws, the staff of the office serving the minister responsible for financial institutions, the office of the minister responsible for social security or the office of the minister of family and social policy...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-sejm-22-2.u41	Minister, I'm sorry, but time's up. Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Finance Leszek Skiba: ... The NBP and the President's Office. Thank you very much. Perhaps you will have the opportunity to comment on these questions in an additional question. The additional question is also asked by Mr Tadeusz Dziuba. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-sejm-22-2.u42	Minister! First of all, I would like to point out some contradictions in your explanation, but also in the KNF operation. Namely, he and you refer to the fact that the KNF's decision was based on 2013 data and at the same time it is quite clear from your statement that the KNF had current data. There was no such thread in your statement that Wielkopolska SKOK implemented, at the request of KNF, a repair program which was almost completed, as far as I know, with success. My information is against that information you're repeating behind the KNF. In conclusion, I would like to draw attention to one new thread. Those who at the moment constitute the commission board, i.e. the commission manager and his two assistants, are bound [[♪ The bell ♪]] with other banks in Poland, and even this already gives rise to the suspicion that their actions will be intentional. Is it therefore possible to withdraw from the decision to introduce the commission board, at least in your opinion?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-sejm-22-2.u43	You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-sejm-22-2.u44	Thank you very much. As far as data are concerned, I will answer briefly: in fact, these data are based on current reporting because there were no financial statements for the following years. As regards the withdrawal of KNF, in fact the only institution, the person who can answer the question of the Member so seriously and convincingly, is simply the President of the KNF, the President of the Authority of the Financial Supervision Authority, because it is an autonomous and independent institution. Therefore, only the KNF is able to answer honestly the question of amending the potential decision on the establishment of a commissary administrator, the person of the commissar's manager in connection with the doubts that you have spoken of. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-sejm-22-2.u45	Thank you, Minister. We move on to your question: Mr Janusz Cichonia and Mrs Krystyna Skowrońska, the Civic Platform Club. The question concerns the suspension of local border traffic with Russia, Belarus and Ukraine, and is addressed to the Minister of Home Affairs. Mr Jakub Skiba, Minister of State, is responsible for the Ministry of Interior. You are the first question asked by Janusz Silchoń. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-sejm-22-2.u46	Dear Marshal, Minister! High Izbo! Ensuring security at the NATO and World Youth Days Summit was the basis for suspending the rules on small border traffic. This means in practice that from day to day Russians, Belarusians and Ukrainians living in the border area cannot cross the border in a simplified manner. Incidentally, the way it was done, the way it had not been notified before, gives rise to enormous problems at the border, as well as serious economic consequences. This will undoubtedly significantly reduce tourism and trade in border areas. It is also worth noting that Russia also suspended a small border traffic, which means restricting the travel of Polish citizens, following such one-sided suspension of the local border traffic. For many of them, operating in border areas, this is of very important economic importance. I would therefore like to ask you to answer the question: Did the government, when deciding on the suspension, communicate with the Russian Government? We bear in mind that negotiations with Russia have lasted for a long time, especially this agreement with Russia. I believe that this is a gigantic achievement and a very important solution from the point of view of voivodships such as warmińsko-mazurskie or pomorskie, for which tourism or border trade are really of great importance. [[♪ The bell ♪]] How long has the agreement been suspended? We don't have that kind of information. We are afraid that this limitation will be extended over time, so the economic effects will also extend over time and increase. Question: "Did the government calculate the economic impact of these decisions?" Well, maybe that's all I'm gonna say in a follow-up question.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-sejm-22-2.u47	Thank you. I ask the Minister to speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-sejm-22-2.u48	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! First of all, I would like to make two comments here. First line. The question in writing was addressed to the Minister of Foreign Affairs, but the matter does not concern matters or foreign relations, but is closely related to the issue of internal security. Therefore, I will answer these questions on behalf of the government. The second point relates to this issue. In this current version of the question, the Member also, when asking a question, mentioned three countries with which a small border traffic would apply. I'm gonna have to make a point. A small border movement is valid only in relations with Russia and Ukraine, not with Belarus. Returning to the very essence of the question, I would like to inform you that the agreement between the Government of the Republic of Poland and the Government of the Russian Federation on the principles of local border traffic of 14 December 2011 provides for the possibility of suspending the application of the agreement in whole or in part because of the protection of State security, public policy or the protection of public health. At the same time, this agreement does not provide for an intergovernmental consultation procedure for the intention to suspend this local border traffic, but provides that the suspension decision should be notified by diplomatic means to the other party no later than 48 hours. before it is implemented. This condition has been met as the suspension of the application of Article. Article 5 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 ww. the Polish-Russian agreement, as well as the suspension of the application of the article. 3 (1) (a) 1 Polish-Ukrainian agreement on local border traffic rules in the part concerning the entry and stay in the territory of the Republic of Poland of residents of the border area, Russia and Ukraine respectively, with permissions issued by the competent authorities of the Republic of Poland, lasts from 4 July 2016 until the date of cessation of the reasons for suspension. Because the reasons for the suspension were not Although mentioned at the time of the adoption of this decision, they relate closely to safety issues, risk assessment. They were the basis of the government's decision, because the information that reached the government in this matter demonstrated that there was a certain and growing danger, above all, related to the great events that take place this month, namely, firstly, the NATO Summit and World Youth Day, accompanied by the visit of His Holiness the Holy Father Francis. The measures taken are preventive and will provide even more complete control over people arriving in Poland. This will enable people to be monitored more effectively, preventing the influx of undesirable people, without hindering the movement of travellers for good intentions at the same time. And now, of course, there's an economic thread. The negative aspects of the suspension are absolutely conscious of the government. However, I would like to stress very strongly that according to the repeated declarations by Prime Minister Beata Szydło and the Minister of Home Affairs and Administration of Mr Mariusz Błaszczak, ensuring security for Polish citizens is one of the basic tasks of the government and the Ministry of Internal Affairs and Administration. The measures taken in this respect must not be subject to economic interest, because the safety issue here is absolutely in the first place, in particular if the threat of this safety is to be universal. The existence of negative economic effects, particularly in the short term, does not constitute an argument justifying a reduction in measures aimed at ensuring the smooth and efficient functioning of the State in the area of security in the long term. After all, this is about the lives of Polish citizens. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-sejm-22-2.u49	Thank you, Minister. The additional question is... Mr. Quiet again. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-sejm-22-2.u50	Dear Marshal, Minister! Question about these effects: Have they been calculated? In fact, the rhetorical question was: Was it not enough to raise and improve some controls at the borders and not thus cause these gigantic magnitudes of effects? But the milk spilled. Question: "When will we start this border traffic?" It is essential for many Polish citizens, for many companies in the region. Let me remind you that tourism is a branch of the economy, which in Polish GDP has a greater share than mining and steel combined, and these effects of this type of action really cannot be underestimated by the government.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-sejm-22-2.u51	Thank you very much. Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-sejm-22-2.u52	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Of course, as I said, the economic dimension is a dimension that the government has absolutely taken into account, but I also pointed to logic. This is primarily a matter of security, but only in this area are economic impacts issues in second place. I would like to point out that the final economic impact assessment must also take account of the level of safety. And in this medium- to long-term dimension, it may turn out that safety will be conducive to increased or at least unlimited travel from other directions. Otherwise, if negative trends and adverse events were to occur, there could be a very serious breakdown of tourism traffic, e.g. Some kind of terrorist attack. So you can't just take it short-term, given the ad hoc effects of the suspension of this local border traffic, you can take that into account. The assessment of this, as I say, will only be possible at a time when this small border traffic will be restored, because - I have also paid attention to this aspect - the suspension is ad hoc in both cases and it is clearly stated that it will continue until the causes of this threat are resolved. Once again, I stress that in this respect the government was obliged to pay attention primarily to the safety aspect of Polish citizens. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-sejm-22-2.u53	Thank you very much, Minister. We move on to your next question. Mrs Barbara Dziuk, Mrs Alicja Kaczorowska, Mrs Urszula Rusecka and Mrs Joanna Borowiak from the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice ask a question about the type of strategic work being carried out in the area of seniors and intergenerational cooperation - addressed to the Minister for Family, Labour and Social Policy. Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Family, Labour and Social Policy, Minister Elżbieta Bojanowska. The first question is asked by Mrs Barbara Dziuk. You're welcome, my fellow Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-sejm-22-2.u54	Minister! High Izbo! According to the demographic forecast for Poland, the number of people over the age of 65 will increase rapidly for the years 2008 to 2035. An important and underappreciated issue is the provision of information on forecasted demographic processes in individual voivodships. In Poland, the ageing process varies territorially. The largest share of people over the age of 60 is recorded in Łódź, Świętokrzyskie and Śląskie voivodship, 21 The government should therefore support local authorities at lower levels in this area. In the ageing society we are, the senior must have special protection against employers' temptations willing to get rid of the employee a few years before he reaches his retirement age. Young people do not see the fundamental value of older people in an enterprise - an experience that takes years and has nothing to do with education. It is capital that is lost in Europe, and it is well used e.g. Japan. The area of intergenerational cooperation needs to be strengthened and motivated. Younger ones in contact with seniors learn patience and sensitivity, older ones can teach younger people a different look at the world around them. Strengthening the intergenerational link is very important in the strategy on senior policy. As a rule, local authorities have different approaches to the need to conduct senior policies in connection with the fact that Poland is ageing, or otherwise, when they receive specific data, how the number and percentage of seniors in the municipality or district will change. In conclusion, I would like to ask the question: What kind of strategic work is being carried out [[♪ The bell ♪]] in the area of seniors and intergenerational cooperation, so that seniors feel they are needed for society? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-sejm-22-2.u55	Thank you, Member. And I ask the Minister to speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-sejm-22-2.u56	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I'll start with how the government defines senior policy. or social policy towards the elderly. Firstly, this policy takes into account the creation of conditions to meet different needs, taking into account the very complex and very diverse situation of older people. Secondly, it takes into account the above-mentioned formation of intergenerational relations and solidarity between generations. Thirdly, this policy must prevent the self-marginisation of older people. Let me just mention that in the current system there are daily residence homes for seniors, they are financed by the Ministry for local government units. The programme on social activity of older people is also being implemented. This year, the relocation of funds has been revised, namely from 15 to 40% of the €40 million in social services that are being provided in the local environment. The newly established Senior Policy Council has a very important role to play in shaping social policy. In February, members were recruited for the council. I just want to mention that more than 200 candidates have come forward, from which 29 members of the board have been elected. The inaugural meeting took place in May. The leader of the team is Professor Józef Hrynkiewicz. As part of the team, a thematic team was set up to develop social policies for older people, so as to verify or change the existing assumptions of long-term senior policy. This team works under the guidance of Professor Piotr Szukalski. I would just like to mention that the Senior Policy Council consists of representatives of various levels of local government, representatives of other departments, but also NGOs or the scientific community. I will mention the direction in which the team's work is going to change policy, this long-term social policy towards the elderly. Namely, first of all, it can redefine the limits of old age due to the moving on of life, so that 50-year-olds or 60-year-olds do not think that they are already older, and do not think at the age of 50 that they already have to retire. Therefore, we want to change these boundaries here, I would say, move the boundaries of old age and therefore influence the change of consciousness and the formation of our consciousness. That's one aspect. The second - we need to take into account that older people are also independent, independent and independent, and this state policy must be balanced against both. In such an initial outline of the problems that have been identified, the issues that need to be developed are, first and foremost, the prevention of marginalisation and exclusion of older people, namely the above-mentioned raising awareness of the importance of older people's participation in social and economic life, or the fight against negative stereotypes of old age. Thirdly, preventing digital exclusion or monitoring the participation of older people in education processes. It is also a component of creating intergenerational relations also at local level or combating discrimination based on age by promoting professional activity, promoting lifelong education. A very important component also concerns health, prevention of health, health-promoting behaviour, but also training of gerontological personnel or the development of telemedicine, telecare or access to rehabilitation services. Another component is the creation of a public space that is friendly to older people, i.e. the elimination of urban barriers, communication barriers or the development of all kinds of services for seniors. I will say in this context, in which you said that one of the ideas of the council is to start after the summer. in the Sejm from such a large conference showing good practices that take place both in local governments and in non-governmental organisations, to inaugurate it and then go to the voivodship levels to show what is happening, but at the same time animate for further actions, activate, emphasising the value of validity. What's going on right now? We're currently working on a new program. ASOS for next year, as well as the remodeling of daily residence homes, among others. when changing standards or in other areas, so that they are more friendly to both local governments and seniors themselves. We are also in the process of drawing up a draft regulation of the President of the Council of Ministers on how to prepare information on the situation of older people, because such a regulation is subject to a statutory mandate in the Law on Older Persons. We are preparing information about the situation of older people, because by 31 October this year the Council of Ministers presents a document to the Sejm and the Senate. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-sejm-22-2.u57	Thank you very much, Minister. I would like an additional question to be asked by Mrs Urszula Ruseck.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-sejm-22-2.u58	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! In order to respond to the main challenges and expectations of seniors, whose affairs belong to different institutions, a correlation between the Ministry of Family, Labour and Social Policy, the Ministry of Health, local governments and NGOs is needed. What are the government's actions in order to ensure that senior policy is coherent and effective, with a view to seniors? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-sejm-22-2.u59	You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-sejm-22-2.u60	Mr. Marshal! Membership! I have already told you in part, but maybe I will mention, first of all, this area of action, a strategy for responsible development. There we have a large demographic component, and so all the resorts are working together to create this demographic policy, because we also have this policy component for the elderly. That's one thing. Secondly, we have the Senior Policy Council I was talking about, and there we also work with other resorts, including. The Ministry of Development, but there is also e.g. a representative of the Central Statistical Office, your vice president, so that these activities can be the coordinated and the data we operate were consistent and transparent. We work very closely with the Ministry of Health, because it is a contact, I would say, very strict and indispensable in this creation. When preparing information about older people, we cooperate with various kinds of scientific institutions, scientific institutions, other resorts or other entities to ensure that this information is complete. Without this coordination and cooperation, it is impossible to fully implement social policy towards older people.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-sejm-22-2.u61	Thank you very much, Minister. [[Thank you.]] Let's move on to the eighth question. Ms Krystyna Szumilas and Ms Kinga Gajewska-Płochocka from the Civic Platform Club ask a question about the lack of consultation with parents, teachers and local governments of the decision to change the school system, disregard by the Ministry of National Education almost half a million signatures in the defense of junior high schools and the chaos associated with the change of the education system and the elimination of junior high schools. The question is addressed to the Minister of National Education. The Secretary of State at the Ministry of National Education, Minister Teresa Wargock, will answer. Ms Krystyna Szumilas is the first question to be asked. You're welcome, my fellow Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-sejm-22-2.u62	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! Minister! Nearly half a million signatures were collected to defend junior high. I'm going to remind you of the middle school stock, we save junior high school, yes for junior high school, action on Facebook. Minister Zalewska deceived people involved in them, first hoping to hear their demands and then absolutely announcing her program for the liquidation of junior high schools in Toruń. In announcing changes in education in Toruń, she did not go to protesting teachers. The Minister of National Education did not listen to parents or educators who oppose the joint teaching of children from younger classes, present seven - eight-year-olds with middle-schoolers. It did not allow a debate on structural changes in education. The debates conducted by the Ministry of National Education did not concern the structure of education. In these debates, questions about whether or not middle school is still in the system were answered: debates are not about structure. The Ministry was cutting itself off during these debates from answering questions, what about the structure, what to do with junior high. It is also doubtful that the changes will be presented. They were announced on the first day of vacation, when parents, teachers are just on holiday. It didn't count as a public announcement. During the announcement, the Minister refused to allow questions to be asked, and did not allow certain doubts about the reform to be clarified. The pace of change, the lack of consultation with local authorities, and it is the local authorities that will make these changes, [[♪ The bell ♪]] There's a lot of doubt. I have a question: Does the Minister of Education have an idea to come out of this chaos and will Minister Zalewska listen to the citizens, as promised by the PiS in the election campaign, especially those who protest against change?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-sejm-22-2.u63	Thank you, Member. Please address Minister Teresa Wargocka.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-sejm-22-2.u64	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, There's a lot of questions. I'll address them in a certain order. However, from the whole question, the general concern is that the changes in the education system that are planned have not been widely consulted. I wanted to make it very clear that these changes in the education system have been preceded for the first time in 25 years by a social debate on the need for change. [[Exactly.]] Please accept this solution as a new quality in contacting the authority, which is the Minister of National Education, with a wide range of opinion-making and opinion-making environments in the field of education. Why was there no room for a structured debate in these debates? Ladies and gentlemen, the aim of changing the structure of education in Poland is not to change the education system. This change was developed as a result of earlier debates, analyses, and researches on the effectiveness of junior high schools in Poland over a period of at least a dozen years. It was hard to talk about structure. Ladies and gentlemen, this is secondary to the change to be made in Polish education. I think there will still be a lot of room, also in the plenary room, to discuss all the reasons that sounded during the debate on the fact that such a frequent division, every 3 years, of the educational stage has absolutely failed. I have not enough time to talk about details, but I will mention only one study of the Institute of Educational Research, which makes it very clear that first of all, the good results of middle school, these best results are the result of the situation in the family, above all the income situation and the education of parents. And the second important element: the highest secondary scores are in those schools that are in primary schools, not in schools, in secondary schools that function independently. These are the two most important data. There's a lot of things that are important, but these are confirmed by serious research. I'll skip the point that says more than 50% Junior high school is in primary school teams, and I'm going to skip the argument that middle school, especially in big cities, was supposed to be about equal opportunities and became a selection school. This and many other arguments, especially the curriculum basis, the content of teaching and the lack of spiral return to teaching content, lead to this, these are the substantive indications that there is a new proposal for structure. Minister Zalewska in Toruń presented how broad the consultation was. 50 thematic debates in the Ministry of Education, 17 voivodship debates, 162 debates organized by school curators, 47 debates organized by other entities that were submitted to the Minister of Education, 130 meetings with all local governments who asked for meetings, with all local governments, with all trade unions. We've done a great deal of work. Today, two weeks have passed since 27 June, and I assure you that the work in the ministry is very intense and we are basically detailed, we are drawing up timetables for the planned changes. Of course, at the time of the foundation of the bill, and I think that this is a matter of 2 weeks, the pre-consultation will begin and then the public consultation required by the Rules of Procedure of the Council of Ministers. Then again, with a concrete proposal in the bill's drafts, we will participate in a very broad social discussion in the Sejm, in the Ministry, throughout Poland. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, we do nothing against local governments and teachers. This is absolutely a change that first came out of the teaching environment. I would very much ask for a little trust, for this change to take place in a good atmosphere, so that what is the basis of this good change, this good change, especially for young people and children, what we need to do together with the local government, [[♪ The bell ♪]] By rebuilding the trust destroyed for 8 years and very clearly addressing local governments today, that the Minister of Education wants to contribute to Polish education and asks for a partnership in this area... As regards the financial resources for which you state very clearly that you do not see them, local authorities in 2016 received funds in subsidies for all 6-year-old children, as if they were in Class I. They're not all there. [[They're here, ……]] The Minister knows very well that 80% The parents kept their children in kindergartens. The money's still in the local government. [[And 80% of them got hit.]] No one enforced it to return this money to the budget. For 2017, before the loss of one year old in local governments, Minister Zalewska announced a subsidy for a child in the zero class, i.e. a six-year-old. [[She didn't agree to our project.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-sejm-22-2.u65	Thank you very much, Minister, because time is passing. State Secretary at the Ministry of National Education Teresa Wargock: Ladies and gentlemen, no one has cared as much about the interests of local governments as the Law and Justice. [[Applause]] Thank you, Minister. The additional question is asked by Mrs Kinga Gajewska-Płochock. You're welcome, my fellow Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-sejm-22-2.u66	Dear Marshal, Minister! First of all, the debates you're talking about were completely different. Secondly, the research you're talking about is probably pulled out of space, because the only real research is PISA, which indicates the success of middle school. Partnership with local governments. Does the partnership with local governments look so that representatives of local governments are not even invited to committees? Another question. I'm gonna stop focusing on the debate, and I'm gonna go back to the change. Minister, one of the most common arguments raised by supporters of liquidation is violence. And now - the implementation of your proposal will lead to children aged 6 and 7 being connected with children who are 14 and 15 years old. This is not good for young children or for young people growing up, because problems with middle school students arise for completely different reasons, they arise because they are [[♪ The bell ♪]] at the most difficult age, and they need to create other conditions. As for the teachers you care so much about, which you say you care so much about: why did you say that no teacher would lose his job? Today, 7,000. Teachers lost their jobs. These are just lies that fall out of your mouth almost every day and the Minister and the Deputy Minister. You assured me that there would be no mass layoffs, that the number of hours of study...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-sejm-22-2.u67	Mrs...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-sejm-22-2.u68	...will remain the same. Well, these are facts. Now you're cutting it short for nine years...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-sejm-22-2.u69	Mrs...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-sejm-22-2.u70	...to the age of eight...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-sejm-22-2.u71	Thank you kindly.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-sejm-22-2.u72	...science. You turn the programs upside down.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-sejm-22-2.u73	Give me a chance to answer the question.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-sejm-22-2.u74	These are the things you have to think about. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-sejm-22-2.u75	Thank you, Member. I'm asking the Minister to answer the question. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-sejm-22-2.u76	Yes, Madame, we are thinking about all these things. Don't worry about the programs, the textbooks, we'll really make it. For eight months, we made eight laws in the Sejm. We're really working, and we're not scaring, and we're not trying to draw, so to speak, topics that are absolutely not covered in facts. 7,000. teachers - if there were redundancies, it was not because of the reform of the Law and Justice, only the State introduced an additional yearbook in branches I-III and for this reason 13 thousand were employed for a fixed period. teachers. Sooner or later, they'd have to leave... [[Mr King Gajewska-Płochock: But you said there would be no layoffs.]] ...because the yearbook would go to class I-IV. It's more than demographic, there's layoffs. Children in the pre-school system... [[Member of King Gajewska-Płochock: Mid-year?]] ...the early schoolgirl didn't miss out, and that's why there can't be teachers fired. As far as PISA studies are concerned, here we are - this is your flagship, your only argument, just say one more sentence. [[Member of King Gajewska-Płochock: These are the only studies.]] PISA studies, which are being carried out, have increased the indicators in all those countries where the external examination tests have been carried out. Ladies and gentlemen, it's really possible for a dozen years to educate, train generations on the principle of testing. Polish school is not a school preparing for tests. It's supposed to be a school that's supposed to give knowledge and prepare for life. [[Member of King Gajewska-Płochock: But you have no research.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-sejm-22-2.u77	Member, please... State Secretary at the Ministry of National Education Teresa Wargock: So, ladies and gentlemen, this is not an argument that you can say that middle school in Poland has reached a high level. I will address Minister Szumilas again, because that government, that coalition, in 2009 carried out a programme change. It was then that you decided that the three-year junior high school was behind a short cycle of education in order to achieve the programme basis. It was in 2009, which means after 10 years... [[But you're shutting down junior high instead of prolonging your education.]] ...sciences in junior high school, when neither junior high teachers realized the basics of the program, nor high school teachers, because he was bad... [[Member King Gajewska-Płochock: And now you're cutting from 9 to 8.]] ...education cycle in relation to the basics of the program. And then you introduced a 4-year-old junior high school, combining the basics of a high school program. And then you're... [[♪ The bell ♪]] Please, take it easy... State Secretary at the Ministry of National Education Teresa Wargock: ...absolutely destroyed general education schools - there remained a year and a half until graduation... [[Member King Gajewska-Płochocka: What about these children now?]] ...in the blocks concerned - in the blocks concerned at the secondary stage. What does that mean? That he doesn't have full knowledge... [[The conference supported that.]] Mrs... State Secretary at the Ministry of National Education Teresa Wargock: ...biology, chemistry, geography. [[♪ The bell ♪]] [[Is it okay to lie from the platform?]] Ladies and gentlemen, these are facts. Let's talk about facts. The debate is starting. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] Thank you, Minister. I would like to ask you another question from your fellow Members. This time, Mrs Teresa Nolas and Mr Krzysztof Głuchowski, the Law and Justice Club - a question on the implementation of the 2015 subsidies addressed to the Minister for Agriculture and Rural Development. Undersecretary of State Mr Ryszard Zarudzki will answer. Ms Teresa Nolas is the first to ask the question. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-sejm-22-2.u78	Thank you kindly. Mr. Marshal! Minister! The question concerns the implementation of direct payments to farmers for 2015. According to the Agency's information, 1350 000 applications for direct payments for 2015 were submitted in spring 2014. beneficiaries. The difficulties with the system of the Agency for Restructuring and Modernization of Agriculture found in the Ministry after the takeover of power in autumn 2015 resulted in significant delays in the implementation of these payments. In response to these social problems, the government even offered farmers interest-free loans to re-create agricultural production in spring. By 13 June 2016, according to the Agency's sources, the Agency paid PLN 13 700 million for payments, which represents 95.1% planned for payment of the amount of payment. Despite these difficulties with the payment scheme, the President of the Agency declared the termination of payments within the original deadline, i.e. until June 30th. Meanwhile, EU Agriculture Commissioner Phil Hogan extended the deadline for completing direct payments for 2015 from 30 June to 15 October 2016, justifying the difficulties faced by some EU Member States in the first year of application of the reformed support scheme. In view of the above, I am asking the Minister precisely about these deadlines and about the 100% implementation of payments of area payments for 2015. Thank you kindly.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-sejm-22-2.u79	Thank you. And I ask the Minister to speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-sejm-22-2.u80	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! (PL) Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Thank you so much for that question. It is also a fact to say with undiscovered satisfaction that in terms of the state of payments as of today - practically this is the data from yesterday - the number of farmers for whom payments were made is 1348 thousand, i.e. 99.5% farmers received direct payments. As far as quota issues are concerned, there is still 1% to be paid, which means that 99% is paid. the planned amount, i.e. PLN 14.2 billion. With regard to what came out of your question, I can say that, of course, what we found was very difficult and dramatic, and we have stressed this repeatedly, that by law - also from this high tribune - I am committed, Ministry, Minister Jurgiel undertakes to pay the payments by the statutory deadline of 30 June. I kindly inform you that we have kept these commitments. For today's sake, that's 0.5%. these are just certain obligations and problems related to on-the-spot checks, with some errors in the conclusions that have been so far, but we have this barometer up to 4%, and we are in this very small number. This is a few thousand on a national scale, which is the problem actually applies to a small number of farmers. I also want to say that this is basic information. We have not paid the funds according to previous promises of the previous management, but we have paid them within the statutory deadline. Furthermore, I would like to refer here to the fact that there is no need for us to comply with this relief that Commissioner Phil Hogan has applied, i.e. He said he'd extended his payout by October 15th because there's no need. And let me say this: the largest paying agency, the largest number of farmers whose direct payments are paid, and in Europe it has not been dealt with everywhere and there is a need - not for us. What does that tell you? I would like to remind you that this European situation is objectively due to the new period of support for the common agricultural policy, the new rules for granting payments from the new instruments - the 18 direct payment instruments that are part of this new system, but the necessity, the very fact that there was also a need to build a new system of service and information systems, but it is also very fair to say that the actions taken on our part resulted from the huge negligence that we found in November when we came to management. And here there were delays threatening the start of payments from 1 December. The reason for this situation was, first of all, insufficient supervision by the previous management of the order and the correctness of the implementation of the IT system, failure to comply with the contracts, which the company's commitments to the said system were made. It should also be noted that already in August - this is also very important - in August last year the management of the Ministry had information about the lack of proper supervision of the preparation of the IT system. It is true that we have found quite a lot of work discomfort, quite a big organizational mess, I no longer want to call it dramatic and talk about the amount of sleepless at the time of the night and that this first implementation period, actually until mid-January, was minimal direct payment. And here is such short information that our actions have provided adequate funds for advance payments, then payments from 1 December, actually since mid-January, the successive implementation in the original time limits provided for. Once again, I would like to stress that we have legally fulfilled our commitment, which I would like to stress very strongly, and using this high stand in the High House, I would also like to convey - because this is very upbuilding information - that we have succeeded. But first of all, I would like to thank the employees of the Agency for Restructuring and Modernization of Agriculture in the county offices, those ants who worked for our common success, that despite this noise that was around the agency at the time, we could say, on a European scale, to meet these commitments at five, so that we would not say that for more. Thank you very much to the regional departments, regional departments' directors, managers and individual departments, not to mention the headquarters. And as far as personal involvement is concerned, President Obejtek wouldn't have spared me if I hadn't replaced him from that bleacher. Teams, too. Mr President, thank you very much. And of course, all our department-related services, the managing authority of the Ministry, the payment department, all the regulations that had to be launched on time. [[♪ The bell ♪]] - it was a huge team, a huge job, for which I thank you very much, and it is very good for us for the future. Thank you so much for being able to pass on this information.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-sejm-22-2.u81	Thank you, Minister. And I ask you to ask an additional question by Mr Krzysztof Głuchowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-sejm-22-2.u82	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Thank you for this answer and for these explanations, which basically exhaust the subject. At this point it is worth asking which countries have not dealt with the deadline for these payments. That's the first point. I would also like to ask how it is with the 2016 proposals. Can legislative and legal changes, including those in the section on land trading, affect the liquidity of the decision-making process? And more: Can the political situation caused by the British Isles referendum affect our efforts to achieve a level playing field as regards direct payments? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-sejm-22-2.u83	Thank you. Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-sejm-22-2.u84	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! As far as countries are concerned, I know that there are larger countries, both Germany and France, as well as Ireland, so there are several of these countries. As for the details, we are primarily working here in the country to achieve this. It's a precedent, I'd like to say. It's never been so long in the past. So there are several countries and there must have been a discussion, it's been discussed. I'll be honest with you, as far as the number of countries is concerned... I know that these difficulties have occurred in these large countries - Germany and France - and this is why this commitment has been accepted. As for this new time, we already have these experiences here after a year. Of course, farmers could submit applications for a month longer. At the moment we have matters related to on-the-spot checks, i.e. the principle of diversification. There are some things for intensive work, so that we can start this year with advance payments in mid-October, mid-October, not looking for some emergency situation at the end of November, and payout from 1 December already in such a orderly sequence. As of today, there are no such threats, although we are looking at how it works because we are already working not so much to pay out, to draw conclusions as to how the new campaign is going to go through a little simplified greening procedures. We are also looking at the level of the European Commission for understanding in order to simplify. Work is also underway on greening ecological areas (EFA). As far as these proposals are concerned, as we are now talking about the 2017 campaign, this is happening in two stages. We're finishing this 2015 payout. The call for 2016 is completed, but now it is working, if you can say so, conclusions. We are working to ensure that the new recruitment in this area has already been carried out in such a simplified procedure since 2017, and this is particularly the case. an IT system. Here's the problem. This did not function in the electronic transmission and submission of applications. So these are the things. As far as Brexit is concerned, as we are looking at today, there are no risks to direct payments for this reason. From such preliminary analyses it appears that if it occurs - if, the word "if" is entitled - in the full dimension of the exit of the united kingdom, we are talking about 2019. [[♪ The bell ♪]] So I'd be careful here. I'm calming down. It doesn't matter. The outlook is not yet resolved. We'll monitor it closely. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-sejm-22-2.u85	Thank you, Minister. Let's move on to question 10. Member of the Commission: Ms Anna Elżbieta Sobecka and Mr Wojciech Zubowski, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice, ask about the safety of medical laboratory diagnostics in Poland. The question is addressed to the Minister of Health. The Secretary of State at the Ministry of Health will answer Mr Jarosław Pinkas. I would like to ask Anna Elizabeth Sobecka a question. You're welcome, my fellow Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-sejm-22-2.u86	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! Minister! My main question is: Does the Ministry provide for the establishment of provisions requiring medicinal products performing medical activities such as hospital treatment to have diagnostic laboratories in its medical structure? Because in every country, just not in ours, laboratory diagnostics is the eye in the head, because 80% Medical diagnosis is based on laboratory tests. Modern laboratory diagnostics, due to their complexity, require close cooperation of the physician with laboratory diagnostics. According to data, the maintenance costs of hospital laboratories in Poland vary between 3% a 5% the hospital budget, which shows that the quality of the laboratory examination affects the proper disposal of the entire cost of treatment. The lack of legislation obliging medicinal entities to have medical diagnostic laboratories in their structure leads to the liquidation of Polish laboratories and the transfer of laboratory diagnostic services to external companies without real public supervision, and these can be treated as a non-medical service, such as laundry, kitchen or cleaning. In addition, the lack of evaluation of the laboratory test results in hospital management viewing the medical diagnostic laboratory only on the cost side and not as a profit for the hospital and patients. Possession by the hospital of a medical diagnostic laboratory [[♪ The bell ♪]] it will ensure that diagnostic examinations carried out under the hospital contract with the insurer will be carried out in due time and in the highest quality, as well as the cooperation of laboratory diagnostics with hospital doctors in the diagnosis and treatment of the patient will be ensured.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-sejm-22-2.u87	Thank you, Member. And please respond to the Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-sejm-22-2.u88	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! In answer to Mrs Sobecka's question, I would like to say that according to the provisions of the Law of 27 July 2001 on medical diagnostics, the diagnostic laboratory is a medical operator and operates alone or is an organizational unit, which is part of the company, e.g. hospital. In any case, the medical provider shall decide on its organisational structure also in this respect. Therefore, the current rules do not prohibit a medicinal entity from performing a medical activity such as hospital treatment to have such a laboratory in its organisational structure. It is important in the context of ensuring the quality and safety of the tests that all laboratories wishing to operate in accordance with the profile are required to comply with the requirements laid down in the Regulation of the Minister for Health of 3 March 2004 on the requirements to be complied with by the medical diagnostic laboratory and the standards resulting from the Regulation of the Minister for Health of 23 March 2006 on quality standards for medical diagnostic and microbiological laboratories. Standards for these standards are designed to ensure an adequate level of quality of laboratory diagnostic activities, thus achieving the necessary acceptable level of patient and staff safety and achieving reliable laboratory results. This is the case for the proper organisation of laboratory work and responsibility of the laboratory manager and the medical entity, which does not exclude the personal responsibility of the diagnostic officer in carrying out laboratory diagnostic activities. In 2009 laboratories were obliged to participate permanently in the basic external quality evaluation programmes organised by the Central Centre for Quality Research in Microbiological Diagnostics in Warsaw and the Central Centre for Quality Research in Laboratory Diagnostics in Łódź. These are the bodies subordinate to the Minister of Health. In the case of studies not covered by the basic programmes, the laboratory may participate in other national or international programmes. According to the Law on Laboratory Diagnostics, the National Council of Laboratory Diagnostics is empowered to check and evaluate the performance of laboratory diagnostics. The inspections shall be carried out and evaluated by the visitors appointed by the National Council of Laboratory Diagnostics. If irregularities affecting the results of the diagnostic tests are found, the inspector shall inform the competent voivode. In order to strengthen the supervision of quality control of research, it is planned to establish a team to develop the concept of changes in the functioning of quality testing centres in laboratory and microbiological diagnostics involving all interested parties, i.e. Minister of Health, Central Centre for Quality Research in Laboratory Diagnostics, Central Centre for Quality Research in Microbiological Diagnostics, National Chamber of Laboratory Diagnostics, General Chamber of Medicine, Polish Society for Laboratory Diagnostics, College of Laboratory Medicine and National Health Fund chaired by a national consultant in the field of laboratory diagnostics. The aim of the team will be: to develop legal solutions that will enable the quality of laboratory tests to be enforced, to publish on the websites of quality control centres obtained by laboratories, to introduce a mandatory process of corrective actions to achieve correct results; to increase the powers of the Central Centre for Quality Research in Laboratory Diagnostics in Łódź and the Central Centre for Quality Research in Microbiological Diagnostics in Warsaw, which will consist in establishing criteria for the approval or retention of laboratory testing by laboratories on the basis of results obtained from inter-laboratory testing tests. The extension of the scope of research covered by the controls organised by these bodies will also fall within the scope of this team's work. It should also be clarified that the accreditation process for medical diagnostic laboratories has been in progress since 2009. Polish Accreditation Center. In the area of operation of medical laboratories, two standards are currently applicable: ISO: PN-EN ISO 17025 According to the data contained in the Register of Medical Entities 543 hospitals have laboratory diagnostic laboratories (laboratorium resort code 7100) in their organizational structure at 1005 of all hospitals; 193 hospitals with more than 50 beds do not have a laboratory structure, including 22 hospitals with more than 500 beds, 63 hospitals with 201.500 beds and 108 hospitals with 51.200 beds. Thank you very much, Marshal.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-sejm-22-2.u89	Thank you very much, Minister. And I would ask you to ask an additional question to Anna Sobecka.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-sejm-22-2.u90	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! Minister! Well, it's a recipe, and it's a way of doing it. The point is, the diagnostic lab should be an organizational unit of the hospital. You give these numbers, while currently in Poland there are about 30% of external laboratories. In the opinion of the local government of laboratory diagnostics, the lack of evaluation of laboratory testing causes hospital management to perceive a medical diagnostic laboratory only on the cost side and not profit for the hospital and patients. Therefore, it is difficult to understand why the hospital director believes that maintaining a diagnostic laboratory is not worthwhile, while for external companies with foreign capital laboratories are a source of powerful profits and income. That's why my question is. [[♪ The bell ♪]] What actions will the Ministry take to stop the liquidation of Polish laboratories and to provide laboratory diagnostic services to external companies? I'd be very grateful for your answer.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-sejm-22-2.u91	Thank you. Minister, you're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-sejm-22-2.u92	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Mrs. Member! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, The problem is very complex, because above all, the health resort may not fully interfere with the organizational structure of the hospital. Hospitals have their own experience, so please bear in mind that at the moment the incorporation into all hospitals that apply outsourcing, laboratories will be extremely expensive. Please also bear in mind that there is no Polish laboratory industry, and the costs of conducting research are immanently related to their quantity. There are hospitals that will never be able to balance their laboratories just because the amount of research will just be small. On the other hand, I guarantee you that the quality study team we have set up will lead to the situation that there will be no doubt that all laboratory tests will be carried out. These are high-quality tests, they're validated. All doctors in Poland should be sure that these tests have a high diagnostic value. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-sejm-22-2.u93	Thank you very much, Minister. We move on to the final question of today's agenda. Ms Anna Czech and Ms Joanna Kopcińska, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice. The question is on European funds for deinstitutionalisation which could be used to finance environmental treatment teams and day-to-day branches for psychiatric treatment. The question is addressed to the Minister of Health. Minister Jarosław Pinkas will also answer the Secretary of State at the Ministry of Health. The first question is asked by Mrs Anna Czech. You're welcome, my fellow Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-sejm-22-2.u94	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Minister! The main question is European funds for deinstitutionalisation, which we could use, for example. to finance environmental treatment teams and day-to-day departments for psychiatric treatment, as well as for the creation of other sites, environments friendly to psychiatric treatment. All European countries that have ratified the Convention on Human Rights for Persons with Disabilities have drawn up deinstitutionalisation strategies based on pan-European guidelines for the transition from institutional care to community-based care. Poland ratified the above mentioned paragraph. 2012 Convention Unfortunately, we are the only country from a block of post-communist countries that has not prepared such a strategy. Moreover, at a meeting with the European Commission in 2012, ministers of health and labour and social policy refused to implement in Poland the above mentioned. guidelines. As a result, no knowledge of what this deinstitutionalisation process is and how it should be carried out using the European Union's resources has been communicated. The consequence of that decision is that the European funds to support this process, i.e. at least 5 billion zlotys, have been poorly programmed. Moreover, the criteria for selecting projects from different competitions are currently under development. These criteria are not linked to one strategic document, a deinstitutionalisation strategy. The funds thus obtained from European funds could powerfully support the reform of psychiatry, which is very necessary and necessary. The question is, is the Minister considering setting up an inter-ministerial team for the deinstitutionalisation process? There are three departments: health, family, work and social policy and development. Is the Ministry of Health planning to prepare a deinstitutionalisation strategy that would allow European funds to be applied for precisely this purpose? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-sejm-22-2.u95	Thank you, Member. Minister, please take the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-sejm-22-2.u96	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Thank you so much for that question. It is extremely important. It is at that time that the Ministry of Health is doing very important work that will completely change the face of Polish psychiatry. Speaking of this question, I would like to point out that the Ministry of Health is currently working intensively on the reform of Polish psychiatry. The piloting of environmental psychiatry prepared in the health department in cooperation with the National Health Fund seems to be a key action to change the model of psychiatric care and to start this process. The planned project of the National Mental Health Programme, which aims to promote the environmental model of psychiatric care, assumes close cooperation between the health department and other departments competent to carry out its tasks, including the Ministry of Family, Labour and Social Policy. Furthermore, I would like to inform you that the issue of setting up an inter-ministerial team on the deinstitutionalisation process and the allocation of EU funds for this purpose is an open matter. However, given that the management of European funds falls within the competence of the Ministry of Development, it seems that this resort should be a leading institution in this area. At the same time, I should like to inform you that the Ministry of Health will ask the Ministry of Development to consider setting up this team, as requested by the Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-sejm-22-2.u97	Thank you, Minister. Before I ask for an additional question, I would like to inform the High House that our deliberations are being listened to today by the youth council of the municipality of Małopolska. We greet you very warmly. [[Applause]] Now, I would like to ask you an additional question from Mrs Kopcinska.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-sejm-22-2.u98	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, In Poland, the number of people treated for mental disorders is steadily increasing. Moreover, this trend is expected to develop even more clearly in the future. Based on opinions and studies conducted by Polish psychiatrists, it is estimated that about 8 million adult Poles have mental problems, i.e. one in four adult Polish residents face such a problem. An earlier and theoretically introduced National Mental Health Programme has not been implemented despite a noisy name. Minister Konstanty Radziwiłł announces another installment of this program. I wanted to ask if and when the final date of entry into force of the regulation on the National Mental Health Programme could be expected to come into force. [[♪ The bell ♪]] and whether the reform of psychiatry will be included in the National Reform Programme, which psychiatrists are asking for. The experts of the Minister of Health stated that the liquidation of the programme would lead to a failure and the ultimate collapse of the mental assistance system. Would the Minister be kind enough to explain to us further plans for the Ministry? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-sejm-22-2.u99	Thank you. Minister, you're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-sejm-22-2.u100	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! At the moment, the draft regulation of the Council of Ministers on the National Mental Health Programme was forwarded to the Chairman of the Government's Programming Team asking for approval and inclusion in the list of legislative and programme work of the Council of Ministers. At the time of acceptance, this draft will be addressed without delay to the agreement, opinion and public consultation with a 21-day deadline for comments. With regard to the question of including the reform of psychiatry in the National Reform Programme, I would like to explain that mental health measures have been included in the Ministry of Development's document entitled: The strategy for responsible development is intended to replace the country's current medium-term development strategy. To date, they have been developed with the participation of representatives of the resorts and the voivodship centers of the foundation for the above mentioned. strategies, which will be held in July-September this year. the subject of a wide public and inter-ministerial consultation. The content of the assumptions emphasizes that the consequence of mental state is often loss of work, increased sense of exclusion and helplessness, isolation and economic dependence on the state. Unfortunately, the lack of system solutions based on the model of environmental treatment of mental disorders and the coordination of policies at the interface of mental health and social security cause many people to suffer from mental disorders, gradually excluding themselves from the labour market, feeding on a number of inactive people. The strategic actions envisaged for implementation in this area include the implementation of the "Model for the provision of services to persons with mental disorders and diseases" project - the development and pilot testing of various approaches to the development of an organisational structure to be coordinated, including medical and social support networks for persons during and after mental crises. This is the completion of the solutions provided for in the National Mental Health Programme, which aims to create a system of assistance for people after a mental crisis in their local environment without the need for hospitalisation. One of the components of this programme is also expected to be the implementation of the actions foreseen in the National Mental Health Programme, which considers it particularly important to promote the environmental model of psychiatric health care, inter alia. by stimulating the development of mental health centres, the development of personnel involved in the care of persons with mental disorders and the development of general rules of conduct for the representation of persons with mental disorders in the media and the conduct of information and education activities concerning the need to respect the rights of persons with mental disorders. Actions to prevent mental health problems and improve mental well-being will be part of the 2016-2020 National Health Programme, as well as under the 2016-2020 Programme for the Prevention of Depression in Poland. It should be noted that on 30 June, the Ministry of Health announced a competition for the selection of the programme's programme's developer. Amount allocated to the implementation of the tasks [[♪ The bell ♪]] indicated in the abovementioned section. The announcement is 200,000. zł. The National Mental Health Programme and the National Health Programme for 2016 and 2020 are part of the strategic draft of the Minister of Health submitted for the SOR strategy. [[President of the session includes Deputy Marshal Barbara Dolniak Sejm]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-sejm-22-2.u101	Minister, do you need a minute or two to finish? Secretary of State at the Ministry of Health Jarosław Pinkas: One minute, please. I'm extending the time by a minute. Secretary of State at the Ministry of Health Jarosław Pinkas: Thank you very much. The consultation of the document of assumptions is due to take place until September 2016 and will conclude by drawing up a report on their progress. In September 2016, the draft strategy is to be submitted for approval by the relevant Committee of the Council of Ministers in accordance with the timetable. The strategy is to be approved by the Council of Ministers in October this year. In addition, in view of the above, I kindly inform you that the Ministry of Health will ask the Ministry of Development to consider the appropriateness of including the reform of psychiatry in the National Reform Programme. Thank you very much, Marshal. [[Thank you very much.]] Thank you very much. If you have anything else to say to us, please, because there is no minister for the second part, so if there is anything left and the questioners want to know, it can be completed at this point.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-sejm-22-2.u102	The questioners thank you very much for the comprehensive answer. This makes us very optimistic and we believe that the National Mental Health Programme and all related reforms will soon be implemented. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-sejm-22-2.u103	Thank you very much. Your Marshal, if I may, I'll tell you that, together with the National Health Fund, in the coming months, we will implement piloting environmental psychiatry based on county mental health centers. It is about 27 powiats in Poland or local government units, it may be that the districts will also enter this project. This is absolutely new when it comes to Polish psychiatry. I think we will finally be closer to Europe, where there is no longer such psychiatry as we are now. So I suspect that in the next two years access to psychiatric services will completely change. Those patients who are least equipped with access to health care will finally have a sense of health security and also their families. Thank you very much, Marshal.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-sejm-22-2.u104	Thank you very much. I'm calling a five-minute break. [[Adjournment from 10 a.m. 11 mins 21 hours 11 min 26]] Ladies and gentlemen, the session is resumed. Please take your seats. With regard to the previous item in the meeting, the Minister's reply ended the previous item on the agenda. We proceed with the consideration of item 16 on the agenda: Current information. I would like to remind you that at this meeting of the Sejm information on the government's attitude to commemorating the victims of genocide made on Polish citizens in Volyn and in Eastern Małopolska and the reaction of Polish authorities to the spread of criminal Bander ideology, which was requested by the Poselski Kukiz Club15, will be discussed. I would also remind you that the statement of reasons for the proposal by the Member of the representative of the applicants may not last more than 5 minutes and that the reply by the representative of the Council of Ministers may be longer than 10 minutes. Members' speeches in the discussion may not last more than 2 minutes. At the end of the discussion, a representative of the applicants and representatives of the Council of Ministers shall speak. An applicant's representative may not be heard for more than 5 minutes and a representative of the Council of Ministers shall be heard for more than 10 minutes. The Marshal of the Sejm may give his consent to the extension of the speech of a representative of the Council of Ministers. Time allowed for consideration of the point: The current information must not be longer than 90 minutes. For this reason, I would ask you very much to sit down for two minutes so that we can allow all Members to speak and sign up for a little while. Please take the floor of the applicant's representative. In this first part it will be Mr Wojciech Bakun, and in the second part Mrs Elżbieta Borowska, because this is the division of the applicant's representatives at the Kukiz club15. Please, sir, take the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-sejm-22-2.u105	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The 22nd session of the Sejm of this term is, from the point of view of certain environments, border environments, an exceptional meeting. Special because in 4 days we have another anniversary, the 73rd anniversary of the crime in Volhynia, which has not yet been properly commemorated. The border environments, to a large extent the voters of the ruling party, looked with hope at how noisy and very valiant in previous terms, when you were still an opposition, you fought to commemorate the victims of this massacre, this genocide. So? After taking power, as we have heard many times, your point of view has changed. [[Voice from the room: He hasn't changed.]] Of course he's changed. At the moment, instead of consulting the bill commemorating the crime of genocide with border communities, you consult with the oppressors, consult with the Ukrainian party, with the descendants of those who murdered citizens of the Second Republic of Poland at the ends of the Second Republic. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]] The history of proceding these projects, ladies and gentlemen, is long, but not very turbulent. Well, more than 3 months ago, the bill called this thing by name: genocide, it was sent to the marshal's staff and has not even experienced the procession since then... [[Voice from the room: scandal!]] ...not counting the last trial on the committee, basically fast. And here at the last sitting, two weeks before the 11th of July, before this memorable date of bloody Sunday, two draft resolutions appear in the Sejm, draft resolutions of both PSL and Law and Justice, softening the subject, calling a thing by name: genocide, while - you are aware - it is a resolution. You're cynical because three months ago you filed a bill on July 11 establishing a border martyrdom. The moment we pointed out this hypocrisy, or not naming things by name: genocide, you said that at this moment you would call a thing by name: genocide, but you would not do it further, in a document having legal force, or law, but you would express the will of the Sejm in the resolution. Is cynicism, ladies and gentlemen, or is it a plain lie? For the past three months, as a Kukiz club,15, we have been demanding several times to convene committee meetings, to submit our draft law to the subcommittee. So what's the problem if you guys were screaming about it two or four years ago, and you're blocking this project right now? Is it a problem that consultations take place with the Ukrainian party? Ladies and gentlemen! I do not know if you are aware, but Polish-Ukrainian relations are difficult and will always be difficult, but they must be built primarily on the basis of historical truth on the one hand and on the other hand, and the truth is that, ladies and gentlemen, in Volhynia in the 1940s. In the 20th century there was genocide, and all international organizations talk about it, and our IPN speaks about it. It is a shame, ladies and gentlemen, that for 26 years we have been unable to commemorate the victims of these crimes. It is a shame, ladies and gentlemen, that tomorrow, July 7th, at 3 p.m. 13 at the Sejm once again must the families come together, once again the descendants of those murdered in Volhynia and Eastern Malopolska must come together, and must fight against their own country to commemorate these victims, to commemorate them, to remember, because, as their motto says, not for revenge, but for memory they cry out for sacrifice. I don't know if you're fully aware of what such a policy is leading to. I don't know if you realize that not all Ukrainians consider OUN-UPA criminals to be heroes. And you really hit them the most, not allowing them to build free Ukraine, based on not nationalism according to Dmytro Doncov's ideology, which openly urges us to murder Poles, but healthy relations with our neighbours that we could build. Your actions, actually, ladies and gentlemen, are leading to the situation that we have recently had in Przemyśl. I'm a resident of Przemyśl, I've seen it, I've been there. You are leading to the fact that there are people appearing on the streets of Polish cities who will not go back to saying the banner's slogan: Poland has not died yet, but must die. That's what happened on the streets of Przemyśl a week ago. Such words may have been heard by the people of Przemyśl from the mouth of some, perhaps, provocator, but he did not go back, even though he knew there was a counter-mandation. Finally, ladies and gentlemen, for the last time I will appeal to your consciences, as simply as man did, I will appeal to your consciences: let us celebrate the feast of July 11 for these people, for people who died innocently, murdered in a beastly way in the 1940s. And it doesn't matter whether the bill is written by PiS or by the Kukiz club15. [[♪ The bell ♪]] It is important to commemorate the murdered, restore their memory, restore their dignity. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-sejm-22-2.u106	Thank you very much, sir. And I would like an answer from the Secretary of State at the Ministry of Culture and National Heritage, Mr Jarosław Sellin. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-sejm-22-2.u107	Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! I apologize for the slight difficulty of delaying this debate. Other duties just ended a little later than I thought. Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to inform you that as a government, we have received information from the President of the Commission for Communication with Poles abroad, examining this project, that this document has been first read and addressed to the subcommittee, in which it will be combined with the draft law on the day of martyrdom, which has already been assessed by the government, which will be a leading project, and the matter of expressing an opinion on this project has become pointless. However, as no longer a representative of the government, the Ministry of Culture and National Heritage, I wanted to comment on a number of political comments that have been made here, addressed to my political environment, to Law and Justice. Well, Mr Reporter, July 11 is of course the anniversary of the crime in Volyn, but a symbolic anniversary, because it is known that this crime lasted many months. Of course it was properly indicated, because it was the most tragic day during all these months of tragic sequences of events, genocide events, I say it openly... [[Voice from the room: Genocide.]] Genocide, yes, yes, yes. ...because on that day there was an attack on over 100 localities and it was an apogee, so to speak, a murder, a genocide murder. I would like to say that the allegations you are making against my political environment are unfair because three years ago, when it was the round anniversary of the crime in Volyn, here in the Seym, there was quite an emotional, intense debate about the draft resolution commemorating the 70th, round anniversary of this crime. Law and Justice as a party at the time in opposition was the only party that advocated the formulation of "human murder" in that resolution. [[Voice from the room: Not the only one. Also Polish People's Party.]] Polish People's Party, too, I'm sorry. [[Game in the O.R.]] Excuse me, so is the Polish People's Party. Then it did not succeed because of what content of the resolution the dominant party wanted to carry out. And in that respect, we're credible. We really believe that it was genocide, it must be in documents formulated in this case, state Polish documents, such wording, our friends from Ukraine must sooner or later see to it that it was genocide and that there is nothing to appeal to or build on these traditions any new national or state awareness of the Ukrainian state. This is of course - we all understand that, I hope we all understand that - a process that should continue and which we should work on. Because it's not that full awareness of what was going on there is in Ukrainian society. Part of it is, part of it isn't. This must be worked on and this is our task, but also the task of Ukrainian politicians and historians. On the other hand, the credibility of our political environment, the Law and Justice on Ukraine in general also lies in the fact that, regardless of the fact that we have as difficult matters as the Volyn crime and the recognition of it as a murder of genocide on the Ukrainian side, we believe that today, in today's situation - and we were also credible in this case, being active in this matter - we need to help the Ukrainian state survive as an independent state, defend itself against aggression, rebuild as if the functionality of this country. Because, ladies and gentlemen, we will not explain anything to the Ukrainians in the future, we will not lead them to recognize the historical truth in this matter if they do not survive the independent Ukrainian state. So we have two things to do: first of all, it is difficult to ask the truth about this matter also on the Ukrainian side, but secondly, it is prudent to do so so that the Ukrainian state survives as an independent Ukrainian state. Because, ladies and gentlemen, who are we to dialogue with about the Volyn crime, about the genocide in Volyn, if the independent Ukrainian state doesn't survive? So let's remember that we have two things to deal with in this case, which will last for years perhaps, because we know that this conflict in Ukraine, this war does not seem to have a chance to end very quickly either. On the other hand, I would like to point out that the government has taken a position on previous initiatives to designate the day of martyrdom of Poles in the East. We believe that this symbolic day of the martyrdom of Poles in the East should not be designated for 11 July - this is the official position of the government - because it was a genocide murder, it was one of the most tragic episodes concerning the martyrdom of Poles in the East, but it would not have been all this if the Polish states had not taken away the Nazi Germans and Soviets if they had not destroyed the Polish state. That is why we considered whether the day of the martyrdom of Poles in the East should be set on 11 August, at the date of the signing of the order by Jezov to murder Poles. And this was the first genocide on our lands in Eastern Europe - murdering Poles for themselves, that they are Poles, citizens of the Soviet Union, those who stayed outside the Polish state established under the Russian Treaty. 100,000. The Poles were then murdered, in the years 1937-1938, by order of Jezew. Perhaps this would be a good date to mark the day of martyrdom of Poles in the East. But we thought that even better date, which should be indicated as the day of the martyrdom of Poles in the East, is the date of 17 September - the widely known, destroying Polish state, which also led to the possibility of murder in Volyn, also on 17 September made it possible. [[It was the Germans' trespassing.]] In short, we believe, and please accept it, and consider this, that the main claw, as it were, in terms of the position of the Polish state, in terms of recognition, who is guilty of the martyrdom of Poles in the East, should be focused and directed at the Soviets - the Soviets. As if the addition or contribution to what the Soviets have done is a terrible nationalistic murder, Ukrainian, genocide in Volyn. But let us not focus on the martyrdom of Poles in the East, first of all pointing to the faults of Ukrainians, because they are obvious, but above all pointing to the faults of Bolsheviks and Soviets, because they first committed mass genocide on Poles - their own citizens in the years 1937-1938, and then together with Germany destroying the Polish state, led to possible further crimes of genocide committed by themselves, Soviets, and unfortunately Ukrainian nationalists. Therefore, the day of martyrdom of Poles in the East should first of all point to the main culprit, which was the Soviet state. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[That's not true.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-sejm-22-2.u108	Thank you very much, Minister. I would like to inform you that Members of the debate have come forward. Would any of you and your fellow Members like to join the list? [[Voice from the room: But let's not close it yet.]] Oh, no, we already have, Mr. 46 people, and it can actually fit 30. I therefore close the list of speakers. If you speak, without using your entire 2 minutes, there is a good chance that they will fit all the Members on the list in time, because please bear in mind that we have 90 minutes for this point. I'm opening a discussion. And I would like to speak with Mr Michał Dworczyk, the Law and Justice Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-sejm-22-2.u109	Mrs. Marshal! Gentlemen of Ministers! Ladies and gentlemen! I must refer to some of the facts that Mr Bakun has put forward and which, in my opinion, are false. First, let us remember the story of the commemoration of genocide on the citizens of the Second Republic of Poland by Ukrainian nationalists. As the Minister said, the first initiative on this issue was the result of the cooperation between Law and Justice and PSL in 2013, rejected by the votes of the Civic Platform and the Palikot Movement. And we have consistently sought to do so since then. Therefore, on 10 February, Mr President, we tabled a bill which was intended on the one hand to pay tribute to the victims, to name things by name, and on the other hand to commemorate the entire legacy of the Kress, the entire border heritage, which is huge and can be called the foundation of our Polish national identity. After two and a half months without any discussion, without talking about how we should make a difference, you made your bill because you were interested in... [[After two weeks.]] ...you were interested, sir, to make a show out of it, not to settle the matter, just as you were trying to say. We waited and tried to solve this problem. Turns out at the end, the Legislative Bureau said these projects need to be combined. Time was running out and there was a draft resolution. Therefore, in order to pay tribute to the victims this year, we decided to adopt a resolution. The resolution is after the first reading, and you know perfectly well, [[♪ The bell ♪]] That's...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-sejm-22-2.u110	Thank you very much, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-sejm-22-2.u111	...in Poland holidays are adopted by law or resolution. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-sejm-22-2.u112	Another performance. Mr Marcin Święcicki, please. Please keep your time for 2 minutes, because I don't want to turn off your microphone, and everyone wants to perform. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-sejm-22-2.u113	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! In the case of the Volyn slaughter, it is necessary, first of all, to commemorate the victims of this slaughter, to draw up a list of victims that we do not have so far, to find all the graves we do not know where they are, where these people are buried, the device for the dead of the proper burial, to commemorate it in those places where the innocent people were murdered, to make appropriate signs there. It is necessary to access Ukrainian archives which are not complete at the moment to explain all the circumstances of these crimes. And that's what's most important to the memory of these victims. I also wanted to say that the IPN is conducting a number of investigations in which it applies the legal qualification of the Criminal Code: genocide. All this to commemorate the victims, to continue these investigations, there is no need for a parliament resolution that will escalate the tension. We need a way of making joint statements on this matter. There have already been many statements in common on this matter, there is a draft statement prepared by the Ukrainian Parliament, which talks about innocent victims of ethnic intolerance, people who died at the hands of the armed formations of the Ukrainian underground. I believe that we should move towards a common commemoration of these victims, joint statements, following the way of John Paul II, who called for forgiveness and forgiveness, appealed for reconciliation. Follow the lines of statements of Polish and Ukrainian clergymen, the last appeal of bishops. Namely, it is better together to commemorate and preserve some restraint and patience from the Polish side, because also the political situation, as the Minister rightly noted, is quite different than it was 3 years ago, the situation of Ukraine, the situation of Eastern Europe, what is happening here. [[Then why didn't you clear it up?]] Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, I call for us to follow John Paul II's path to commemorate these victims, reconciliation [[♪ The bell ♪]] And forgiveness, not an escalation...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-sejm-22-2.u114	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-sejm-22-2.u115	...and unilateral resolutions. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-sejm-22-2.u116	Mrs Elżbieta Borowska, Kukiz.15. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-sejm-22-2.u117	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I have a question for the ruling party. We know there's been a terrible crime on Volyn. May I remind you of several ways of killing Poles, because this is really scary: sticking a long, thick nail into the skull, cutting the torso in half, tearing the stomachs of pregnant women, putting live animals in there, stitching it up, pulling veins from the groin to the feet, smashing the heads of small children. At this point, however, Marshal Kuchciński in Truskavets agrees that we will not, of course, raise these sensitive issues before the NATO summit. I have a question for the ruling party concerning the opinion of Minister Waszczykowski, who in an interview with Kresów.pl said: I do not see flagship glorifying in today's Ukraine so much. Quite simply, a few percent of people know what flagship was. I don't know if the Minister knows that there are special guidelines in Ukraine at this point to teach the children of the Bandera cult. And that's what they learn in schools, there's celebrations, kids are wearing red and black outfits. Doesn't the Minister ever see these new monuments that arise, this red and black flag? And even recently at the Polish-Ukrainian game we had a portrait of the Bandera and a stretched flag. So the question is, is this the official position of the government? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-sejm-22-2.u118	Thank you very much. [[Applause]] Another speech by Mr Grzegorz Furgo, the Modern Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-sejm-22-2.u119	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! Ladies and gentlemen! How long can we wait for this horrible crime to be established on July 11th? It just scares me incredibly... I wish there was a Minister Sellin. Are you Minister Sellin? [[Voice from the room: There it is.]] Oh, there it is. Good morning. ...this political correctness. Minister, the Ukrainian state will survive. It's not up to us, but it will survive. And it won't stop it... [[And how do you know that, sir?]] Can I finish? May I? Are you here or am I, sir? Your political correctness is amazing because the establishment of this holiday will not prevent the Ukrainian state from surviving. You jump with dates: August 11th, September 17th, but Volyn is Sunday July 11th. Volyn's slaughter still hasn't been recognized as genocide. You deny it from the history of Poland at all costs in the name of correct political dialogue, difficult of course, with Ukrainians. And this slaughter has consumed several dozen to several hundred thousand victims. The national day of memory and martyrdom is a gesture, but also our duty, ladies and gentlemen, to the Sejm's duty to all those who deserve it. They're still alive. They're still alive and they don't understand why we're so right. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-sejm-22-2.u120	Thank you very much. Another speech - Mr Piotr Zgorzelski, club of the Polish People's Party. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-sejm-22-2.u121	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! Our compatriots, and in a special way the Kresowian environment, are appalled by the fact that the Polish Parliament was once again unable to stand in the truth and announce through a resolution or a parliament act that the day of July 11 is the day of genocide that was committed on our compatriots in the East. It would seem that we were close already at the previous session of the Sejm, because the work of two committees had begun. And at some point they were interrupted. Or maybe they were interrupted because Marshal Kuchciński met in Truskavets, outside the country, and agreed with the head of the Ukrainian parliament and deputy Yuri Shuchewycz, the son of this very Shuchewych... [[Applause]] [[The voice from the hall: Shame and shame!]] ...that no resolution will be taken by July 11th. High Seym! Is it possible that the agenda of the Sejm and Parliament's sovereignty are decided in Ukraine? The Polish People's Party is very opposed to this and asks whether such a fact ever took place. We want on behalf of the Parliamentary Club of the Polish People's Party all present, as well as those to whom we will reach through this message, to invite on 11 July at the time. 11 to the column room of the Sejm, where we will honor the memory of the fallen, murdered during the slaughter of our compatriots. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-sejm-22-2.u122	Thank you very much. Mr Robert Winnicki, independent.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-sejm-22-2.u123	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Betrayal. Only one word describes how the PiS behaves today about the border issue. Betrayal of a line-up. And after the last pilgrimage, after the Sunday pilgrimage of Kresowians to Jasna Góra, we have no doubt, and I say this not only as the President of the National Movement, but also as a Kresowian, as a descendant of those who survived this genocide, that you will no longer get the support that was common to the Law and Justice last year, from the border environments after what you are doing after this collaboration with the Ukrainian bandors, because that is what you need to call it today. Ladies and gentlemen! This is not only a treachery of a border matter, it is not only a treachery of historical memory, it is also galloping foolishness. For years in Ukraine the construction of a new national identity is underway based on flagshipism. What will that lead to? This will lead to such a situation that in Poland, in which we are happy to restore historical memory, restore the memory of the Kresów, restore the memory of genocide, and do so effectively, especially in the young generation, this memory will develop, and in Ukraine the identity will be built on the basis of the cult of genocides. And the Polish state, without reacting to this for years - and it is not true that this is a special moment, Minister, that you are not reacting now, because in the previous term, under the rule of President Lech Kaczynski, you also did not react, this is your policy of full consent to flagism in Ukraine, honoring this - you are preparing Polish-Ukrainian relations for the future of the earthquake. Just an earthquake. And in a few years, when the Polish government, whatever it is, will have to react decisively and decisively to this Bander cult in Ukraine, the Ukrainians will say: what are you doing now? And they'll be right. Why didn't you claim historical truth for 10, 15, 20 years? Why didn't you deny it? And they'll be right, unfortunately. You're planning a disaster. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Polish-Ukrainian relations. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-sejm-22-2.u124	Thank you very much. Mrs Józef Szczurek-Żelazko, club Law and Justice. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-sejm-22-2.u125	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Until recently, the Volyn sculpture was an unknown card of history, and it was also confused with other events of World War II. The purpose of establishing a memorial day for victims of genocide is to restore the collective memory of mass victims from Volyn and Eastern Małopolska. It is intended to facilitate the process of understanding crime and reconciliation. The Ukrainian side defines the murders on Poles as the events of Volynsk and the Polish one as the crimes of Volynsk. We're supposed to be cutting ourselves off from evil, not nobilitating them. In Ukraine there are attempts to tell stories without Volyn. If a generation of Ukrainians grows up, who will be considered heroes of people who were involved in the genocide of Poles, then the agreement between these generations will be impossible. On the glorification of evil, on a lie you can't build anything good. Actions to commemorate the victims of genocide in Volhynia are aimed at paying tribute to the victims so that everyone murdered is commemorated. Minister, what action has the Law and Justice Government taken and taken to uncover history and honor the victims of genocide? What action is being taken by the Ministry of National Education to show the historical truth about these events so that these facts can be found in history books? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-sejm-22-2.u126	Thank you very much. Mr Tomasz Piotr Nowak, Civic Platform Club. It's another performance. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-sejm-22-2.u127	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! History - only in truth, to make a good relationship for the future. Only truth and only good historical policies can contribute to the fact that we will be neighbours who will implement the common future card in the European Union. But it requires commemoration, honoring the victims of the Volyn crime. At 1500 places where acts of martyrdom and barbarism took place, in only about 10% of them are any plates, crosses or monuments. Memory without these material evidences and signs that there was a crime there, it might not last. I paid homage to the Pieniacka Hut - about 1,200 people were killed there. There was a cross, an obelisk made by the Association of the Pionack Huta and the Council for the Protection of the Remembrance of the Fight and Martyrdom, but already in the nearby Podkamy, where about 600 people died, there is no evidence, material proof of this fact. I witnessed how family, grandchildren individually installed a plaque on the wall of the church in Pieńki commemorating Michael Wolanin, his wife Wanda and 11-year-old Danuta. There's no graves, but there's a memory of grandkids. But not in all families are such grandchildren who will bear this memory. But the nation must remember. Therefore, I appeal to the Polish Government to draw up a memorial program together with the Ukrainian Government, [[♪ The bell ♪]] To create monuments, plaques and schedules of celebrations. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-sejm-22-2.u128	Thank you, Minister... Excuse me, sir. Maybe for the future. Mr Jarosław Porwich, Kukiz.15. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-sejm-22-2.u129	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! On 11 July 1943 the Ukrainian Uprising Army and the surrounding Ukrainian peasants committed a terrible crime in the village of Sądowa in the municipality of Grzybowica in the Włodzimierski district in Wołyń. In the afternoon the bridge on Lugu was broken so that Poles could not escape the attackers to Włodzimierz Wołyński. The organized 100-person group surrounded the Court and began murdering the locals. Several hundred Poles were murdered. However, part of it was hidden, while part of it ran to the train on the route Włodzimierz Wołyński - Lviv. On the next day, however, the sheep returned to kill those who returned home, and robbed and burned the village. There were very, very many scenarios in different places that day. Many times over the years we have heard from politicians, publicists that this is not the right time to talk about UON-UPA crimes. When, then, will the time come? We have fewer and fewer direct witnesses to these events. It was their loved ones and friends who were murdered. They are Polish citizens and it is our duty to act for them, not for the Ukrainian side. Today they ask us to stand in the truth, call things by name. Question: "Will the Members of the Law and Justice be able to do this?" Will they have the courage not to succumb to external pressures? Why do you defend yourselves so that the form of commemoration of this day is a law rather than a resolution? [[♪ The bell ♪]] Why are you defending yourselves against the white and red flags that day on Polish homes? Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! [[Vice Marshal disables microphone, applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-sejm-22-2.u130	Thank you very much, sir. Mr Adam Szłapka, Modern.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-sejm-22-2.u131	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! No one in this room has any doubt that victims of crime should be remembered because victims call for memory, but they never call for revenge. Listening to most of the speeches that were made here before me, I had the impression that it was not a matter of commemoration at all, but of bringing political capital down in the border environments, to which Mr Winnicki openly admitted, speaking directly about it, telling the Members of the Law and Justice that they would no longer vote for them. Then what do you mean? About commemoration or about political capital? If we want such events to happen, such crimes never happen again, let us commemorate the victims, but let us try to build this on reconciliation. What Minister Sellin said is perhaps a step in the right direction, let's talk about it. After all, it all started with Soviet crimes. Marcin Święcicki said this: Let us try to build an agreement together and convince that it was a crime. [[Voice from the room: Genocide.]] It's also a matter of getting the Ukrainians to admit it. So that I appeal to all Members not to take advantage of this terrible crime and these terrible political events... [[Voice from the room: Genocide.]] ...or rather they tried to commemorate the victims and seek solutions in a spirit of reconciliation, because our state is also a good relationship with Ukraine, which you often forget and play exactly as you will. Vladimir Putin. [[Joy in the O.R., applause.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-sejm-22-2.u132	Thank you very much. I don't like turning off microphones. - that's for earlier remarks - but, ladies and gentlemen, I would like it to be fair and that as many Members as possible be able to speak. From here, I'm asking you to keep these two minutes, otherwise... The longer, the less. Please, Mr Mieczysław Kasprzak, a club of the Polish People's Party.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-sejm-22-2.u133	Thank you very much, Marshal. Minister! High Izbo! The Polish People's Party never changed its position regardless of whether it was in the ruling coalition or in the opposition. There is a need for decisive action here. It's not about heroing, just imagine that if we don't call it by name, we won't even give courage to those Ukrainians who condemn it, these nationalist movements in the East will increase. [[Applause]] I share this view, which was presented: from year to year, it is getting worse in eastern areas. Right now, it's time to end this. This is for the good and for reconciliation the most desirable at the moment. If we say this unambiguously right now, it may cause some kind of jumble and talk about it for a while, but I think it will be understood to some extent by those who are fueling these moods at the moment. Because these moods from the Ukrainian nationalists are fueled. This must also cause aggression among Poles... [[Voice from the room: Yes, sir.]] ...and we don't need it. That's why there's determined action here... Our representatives, whether Jurek Stefaniuk or Jarosław Kalinowski, from this stand were clearly saying that we could have finished the subject long ago, but it still continues. Jurek Stefaniuk always referred to the hanger here, saying, If we forget them, Thou, O God, forget us. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-sejm-22-2.u134	Thank you very much. Mrs Barbara Dziuk from the Law and Justice Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-sejm-22-2.u135	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Today we pay tribute to the victims of the genocide carried out in Volyn by Ukrainian nationalists. He can't miss my vote on this. I've been authorized to do it in advance. I speak on behalf of the murdered father Louis Wardarczyk, my close relative, my uncle, the victims of those events. At the moment, his beatification process is ongoing, about which the bishops of Ukraine began their efforts at the 41st plenary meeting of the episcopate in Berdyczów. They were also taken by Polish clergymen. This joint action of the Ukrainian clergy and the actions of the Polish clergy undertaken in the archdiocese of Katowice are very meaningful proof of the cooperation of both nations. This is international cooperation against hatred, which should be emphasized with great power here and now. Father Ludwik Wrodarczyk is a Pole, a Silesian, a patriot devoted to God and people, for whom he suffered martyrdom at night from 6 to 7 December 1943. During the German occupation, he was not afraid to help many Jews, and Yad Vashem in Jerusalem granted him the title of Righteous Among the Nations. Today, his sacrifice brings fruit: the reconciliation of the two nations. As I mentioned, Ukrainian and Polish clergy are working for the beatification of Father Louis. One can say that this is the seed of reconciliation, which both sides, the brighter ones, very much wish for. I'm sure it's worth mentioning the roots of the slaughter. It was a pedestal of World War II, sown in the nations of hatred and the attention of Ukrainian leaders to German actions, as we all know. [[Voice from the room: This is bullshit.]] It fits in. [[♪ The bell ♪]] in the historical policy of the Polish state, for which I wanted to thank the Minister. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-sejm-22-2.u136	Thank you, Member. Mr Józef Lassota, Civic Platform Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-sejm-22-2.u137	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! We are talking today about a very difficult topic, a very serious matter, genocide, and we need to be clear about it. We also need to call it that, because the Volyn slaughter was genocide. On the other hand, this is not the only password we want. The point is, as many of the previous speakers have said, not only to commemorate those affected by this genocide, families, but also to worship them, it is a little satisfaction. You have to remember. Question: "Is this kind, sometimes shouted, passwords a good, appropriate form of commemoration?" The better form is undoubtedly permanent signs, permanent memory, history lessons passed on in schools. But in truth, all of this has to happen in the truth. We are very outraged when we hear that in Ukraine Bandera is a hero of Ukraine, when we hear the word Banderites, because we associate this with others. with the Volyn slaughter. But you also have to tell yourself and realize... Let the Ukrainians worship their hero, because for them, to regain Ukraine's independence he was a hero. While it was happening, Bandera was in prison. Just like Stefan Rowecki. We don't worship our Piłsudski... [[Voice from the room: Don't compare.]] ...for the May coup or the Brest trial, just for getting us independence. [[Voice from the Chamber: Mr. President, is it the Germans who are to worship Hitler?]] So in the truth, let's realize this... I don't want to defend it. [[♪ The bell ♪]] What happened, but let's talk about the truth, about the facts. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-sejm-22-2.u138	Thank you very much. Mr Jarosław Sachajko, Kukiz Club15. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-sejm-22-2.u139	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I would like to say that we cannot allow the worship of bandits who murdered the Polish people. I'm very sorry for what I just heard. Back to the question. Did you know that on Sunday 11 July 1943, the UPA unit committed crimes on the inhabitants of Chrynów in Volyn? Among the oppressors were deserters from the Ukrainian auxiliary police. The victim was a group of about 150 people, most of whom were women and children who were attacked after Mass at hours. 11 and returned to the church. After the beginning of another mass, machine guns were placed in front of the main entrance to the church and murders began. Grenades were also thrown into the church. After the temporary withdrawal of the oppressors, some people managed to escape, so Poles living in the nearby village Oktawin were warned. After a while, the oppressors returned to pick up the bodies and rush them into two digged pits. After a week, the village and the church were burned to the ground, most likely by the same individuals from the UPA. There will never be true Polish-Ukrainian reconciliation if we do not tell the truth about genocide carried out by the OUN-UPA on Poles. I appeal for the observance of 11 July by an act having legal effect, that is, a law, not an expression of will - by a resolution. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-sejm-22-2.u140	Thank you very much. Mr Mieczysław Kazimierz Baszko, club of the Polish People's Party. Are you an MP? There isn't. In that case, another person, Mrs Bernadette Krynick, the Law and Justice Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-sejm-22-2.u141	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! The Ukrainian Insurgent Army did not fight the German invader, but murdered Polish citizens. She committed genocide in the territory of the Second Republic and in the areas of the present Podkarpacie and Lublin region. In a beastly way, 150,000 were murdered. Polish citizens, Poles, Jews, Armenians, Czechs and just Ukrainians who helped Poles. UPA soldiers are glorified in Ukraine, President Petro Poroshenko considered them heroes, fighters for independence of Ukraine. Ladies and gentlemen, there are plenty of cases of UPA glorification in Poland. That's, among other things. approx. 200 illegal memorial sites and monuments by local representatives of the Ukrainian minority. There are also numerous publications in the Polish language in which UPA is glorified. There are also known cases of UFA veterans and many others. I have a question for you, Minister. Does the Ministry of Foreign Affairs intend to take or already take action on scandalous cases of glorifying UPA soldiers in the territory of the Republic of Poland? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-sejm-22-2.u142	Thank you very much. Mr Tomasz Lenz, Civic Platform Club. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-sejm-22-2.u143	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! First of all, I would like to say that there is no doubt that in this Chamber, we all, as we sit, from various political groups, can say one word: it was genocide. This isn't debatable. We also need to consider this issue in the historical context of what was, but above all to think that we are also assessing it in the context of what will happen, our relations with Ukraine and the future, which will be built between our fellow nations. We have a hard past, but we also have a future. I want to thank the Minister for his speech, for the wise and discreet words that we have heard in this Chamber today, because everyone in this Chamber is aware that how we approach this terrible crime, this genocide, and how we settle it, will affect our future. Ladies and gentlemen! It is very important that we are able, in this plenary room, to adopt once and for all a clear position that everyone will accept. Here I am asking the Minister, the majority of Parliament, to ask us, perhaps not in the plenary room, but also in committees and subcommittees, to come up with a position that will once and for all close this problem. We will all accept a clear assessment of this situation and we will be able to adopt a law, a resolution, which will ultimately lead to the fact that we will be able to commemorate this terrible crime on the day that will commemorate this terrible crime, it is genocide, always once a year to stand up and remember this tragedy and celebrate those who have died. This is necessary because it is impossible to continue in the dispute. [[♪ The bell ♪]] You can't go on...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-sejm-22-2.u144	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-sejm-22-2.u145	...without solving this problem.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-sejm-22-2.u146	Mr Tomasz Jaskóla, Kukiz.15.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-sejm-22-2.u147	Once and for all, we need to settle this issue. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-sejm-22-2.u148	Thank you, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-sejm-22-2.u149	Dear Marshal! Poles, you died for nothing, definitely for nothing. I feel like I'm not in the Polish Parliament when I hear certain parliamentarians who use the word "human murder," even though the author of this concept is Polish lawyer Rafał Lemkin. All the more embarrassing. Ladies and gentlemen! I will respond to Mr Szłapka and Mr Lassota. Can you imagine any reconciliation, e.g. Polish-German, was there such a rule that Adolf Hitler would be fetted in the Bundestag, and Polish parliamentarians or president, our marshal would speak in this parliament? Because I don't. Krzesimir Dębski, when he went to Ukraine, said very important words. Let me quote our famous composer: I might know your language, but my grandmother Cossack killed the UPA bands in 1943. She didn't teach me, which is why I'm going to speak to you in Polish. I wonder, ladies and gentlemen, if in 2 minutes we are able to fit what is happening in the minds of many Poles, who are descendants of victims of murder at perhaps more than 150,000. people, completely innocent, from little to old. No, we can't fit it. Political correctness is killing us. There should be a clear rule in the Polish Parliament. We represent the Polish state's right. Not German, not Russian, not Ukrainian. Polish state right. My last appeal to you is that the legal road versus the resolution road is, of course, very simple to settle. The resolution depreciates these victims. Law [[♪ The bell ♪]] Finally, he will put an end to this dispute. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-sejm-22-2.u150	Thank you very much. Mrs Anna Milczanowska, Club Law and Justice. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-sejm-22-2.u151	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Many sad words today fall in this room in a very important matter for us, for Poland, a historical issue, so forgotten, lied, one can say that to this day. I personally painfully responded to the words that spoke of me as a Messenger of Law and Justice, that I was a traitor. We as a governing party realize that the right state, the future between two states: Poland and Ukraine, we must build on the truth and certainly on this truth, and this truth is the Volyn genocide, the slaughter that took place in 1943, and in fact it lasted until 1947, on our ancestors, on Poles. We know that we need to build this on the truth, not on historical reinterpretation, that proper education and knowledge must be introduced into schools, because we know very little. When he was asleep. Prof. Janusz Kurtyka, has started many works related to the restoration of this story. After he died, they kind of pulled out. There's Fr. Isakowicz-Zalewski... [[Voice from the hall: Zaleski.]] ... The junk that cares about the truth. Thank you very much. And such a question to representatives of ministries and cultures, and foreign affairs... [[♪ The bell ♪]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-sejm-22-2.u152	Thank you very much. Mrs Margaret Navel.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-sejm-22-2.u153	No question. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-sejm-22-2.u154	Unfortunately, we've run out of time, but maybe there'll be another question.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-sejm-22-2.u155	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! It is the responsibility of the government in Poland to defend Polish interests and defend Poles and defend the memory of the Polish victims of Ukrainian genocide committed in 1939 and 1948 by bandits and murderers from the Ukrainian Nationalist and UPA Organization. These cruel and beastly crimes of genocide on Poles must not eliminate anyone from our history, even more so. It's a radical lie to keep it quiet. The Association of Defenders of Przemyśl Eagle Memory is outraged by the attitude of the police on 26 June during the footsteps of Ukrainian nationalists in Przemyśl under the cover of religious procession. The association points to many violations of the law. Ukrainian nationalists sang: Poland has not yet died, but soon. I would like to ask, will there be an investigation into this? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-sejm-22-2.u156	Thank you very much. Mr Marek Jakubiak, Kukiz.15. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-sejm-22-2.u157	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I will add to the speech by the Member asking what the Ukrainian army orchestra was doing there and how it is in Poland, in a normal Polish city, an army defiles itself. It's me as an ex-soldier and a member of the National Defence Committee who's very curious. Ladies and gentlemen, I'm talking about it wherever I can. For us Poles, direct business is not so much an explanation, although this case is not fully explained. We're talking 150,000, we're talking 160,000, and the latest research points to 220,000. Victims. Today we don't even know how... We know that Poles were murdered in 300 different ways, but we don't really know how many of us died there, how many of us were murdered there. And to the Law and Justice we resent, because this law should be dealt with in the same way as your other laws: in literally two days. [[Applause]] Courage, do not be afraid of the Ukrainians. I'm gonna say this about Minister Sellin. On 1 September three countries invaded Poland, I am sorry, in September three countries invaded: Germany, Slovakia, and on 17 September the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics joined it, but UPA gangs came directly from the fact of German aggression against the Soviet Union on 22 June. Murders on Poles were also in the interwar period and on September 17th are some fantasies. It's just one thing to the other, like a gingerbread for a windmill. If you really want it not to be on July 11, do it on June 22, which is the date of German aggression against the Soviet Union, because Ukrainian nationalists wore German uniforms. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Don't you know that? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-sejm-22-2.u158	Thank you very much. Mr Marek Polak, Club Law and Justice. [[Your marshal turned me off...]] I didn't turn it off, but unfortunately, time's up.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-sejm-22-2.u159	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! We all know that genocide on Volyn's land is the aftermath of the growing Polish-Ukrainian conflict from World War II, resulting in the deaths of thousands of innocent people, especially women and children, and not accidentally, but in carefully prepared and organized actions. Today, despite many coherent actions and the emergence of comprehensive good cooperation between our countries, the blockade of the insurmountable path to the final and necessary reconciliation of our nations is the Ukrainians' policy of historical memory and the incomprehensible expectation of the Ukrainian side's recognition by Poles of the banner criminals as Ukrainian heroes. Nor do they spare the slanders cast against our patriots who are fighting against the bandran criminals. I wanted to ask the Minister in this connection: Does the government, bearing in mind this obvious and sacred historical truth, and the need to consolidate and deepen our good neighbourly relations, see the possibility and intends to start a dialogue on this matter with the Ukrainian party, which may lead to a breakthrough in this matter? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-sejm-22-2.u160	Thank you very much. Mr Jacek Protasiewicz, Civic Platform Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-sejm-22-2.u161	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! Gentlemen of Ministers! High Izbo! I myself am a descendant of a border family, although from another northern part of the former Republic of Poland, the former New Zealand voivodeship, where there were not as dramatic events as those in Volyn, but I understand well the pain, suffering of those who survived the Volyn slaughter, and the sensitivity of their descendants, their families demanding proper commemoration of the victims of this terrible crime and the words of truth, not only from historians, but also from representatives of the state, the modern Ukrainian state. And I have to say, I feel like we're getting to that moment slowly. For a month ago we could read, I think, an important letter - a pity that it passed without a greater echo - a group of representatives of the Ukrainian elite, headed by two former presidents, head of the Greek Catholic Church and dozens of representatives of the literary and scientific community. From this letter, a long, important, perhaps the first step on this right path to the truth between our nations, I remember the following words: tragedies of the past require repentance. Yes, these are very important words, very real words and I must say that because of my contacts with the representatives of this Ukrainian independent political elite - I have been in touch with her now or have I had, while still being a Member of the European Parliament - I believe that we will see this penance, and I appeal for the seriousness and consideration when we are talking about this terrible Volynian crime in our Parliament, in the Polish Sejm. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-sejm-22-2.u162	Thank you very much. Mr Andrzej Kobylarz, Kukiz.15. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-sejm-22-2.u163	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Do you know, among others, Mr Szłapka, that on 11 July 1943, the Piwnicz branch of the UPA bandet, together with the surrounding Ukrainian population, committed crimes of genocide in Gurów, Grzybowica commune, in the Włodzimierski district in Wołyń? 400 Poles were murdered. The slaughter started when the residents slept at 3:00 a.m. Remember this and listen to what you have said. In the morning, a brutal action of extermination of civilians began, which was led by the Martynuk group in Gurow and the Ukrainians around the region. Each house was systematically attacked, while civilians were murdered with grenades, axes, pitchforks, scythes and various other sharp tools. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! There will never be a Polish-Ukrainian reconciliation without telling the truth about genocide carried out on Poles. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-sejm-22-2.u164	Thank you very much. Mr Adam Szłapka, Modern Club, corrigendum. One minute, sir. [[There was no name.]] It was.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-sejm-22-2.u165	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Mr. Speaker! I know, Mr... [[Well, I'm glad.]] ... Three years ago, I was at a celebration commemorating this crime, e.g. in Kisielina, I was at a ceremony in Łuck, I was in Warsaw at a pancake in the Greek Catholic church on Honeymoon. These are things to be remembered, not to be forgotten, to be spoken out loud, but not to be used politically. Let's build on the truth, commemorating crime and reconciliation. And don't accuse me of not knowing anything, just listening carefully to those words. I, too, do not accuse all of you of using this because I know that you feel this subject and want to really commemorate it, while many statements were evidently political. The point is to remember the victims, but at the same time not to destroy what has been built for years in the Polish-Ukrainian reconciliation. It is worth recalling this letter, which was sent to us, to Poles a few weeks ago, by Ukrainians, in which [[♪ The bell ♪]] They asked for forgiveness. Let's remember that. Thank you very much. [[So we're supposed to keep quiet?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-sejm-22-2.u166	Mrs Gabriela Masłowska, Club of Law and Justice. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-sejm-22-2.u167	Minister, Poles supported all the changes in Ukraine and for us it is incomprehensible and painful that Ukrainians from the oppressors who murdered Poles make national heroes. I do not think the Ukrainians have any other heroes, Mr Lassota. In recent months we are dealing with mass emigration from Ukraine of Poles, especially in eastern Poland. In some housing estates these groups are already very clearly visible, they rent houses, also buy houses, live in many families. This is already quite a large proportion of the population, e.g. in Lublin. Therefore, I wanted to ask whether the Polish government is considering education in this area not only in schools, but also in relation to those who are seeking a temporary stay or a permanent stay or have already obtained such a stay in Poland, in relation to Ukrainian citizens. I think there is great ignorance in this area, misrepresentation of truth and manipulation, and, as it was said here, there cannot be reconciliation without the basis of truth. I believe that this type of action by the Polish government is absolutely necessary, not only for a few or several thousand people. Various forms of education in this area should be considered as regards historical truth in Polish-Ukrainian relations. Thank you. [[Applause]] [[Corrigendum.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-sejm-22-2.u168	Thank you very much. To correct Mr Józef Lassota, the Civic Platform Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-sejm-22-2.u169	I would like to correct, because some of you treat it so that I am defending what was going on there, and I just said, Mrs Butterwska, that during that time Bander was in a German prison. Of course, Bandera was a co-founder of the Ukrainian Nationalist Organization...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-sejm-22-2.u170	One minute, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-sejm-22-2.u171	...but it must also be understood that for the Ukrainians it was a man who fought for the independence of Ukraine not by the face of the face in Volyn, fought for the independence of Ukraine, for the Ukrainian state. And that's why I would ask you not to compare my statement to the fact that Hitler was in prison, too, because it's just unworthy. Either it's ignorance on your part, or you're actually a little too excited to have symbols, slogans like today in the Sejm to solve the problem. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-sejm-22-2.u172	Thank you very much. Mr Adam Andruszkiewicz, Kukiz.15. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-sejm-22-2.u173	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I understand the outrage of many Members, including Mr Mark Jakubiak, because I believe that we really should lead to the establishment of a law commemorating genocide in Volyn. Recently there have been ceremonies in Kielce, where President Andrzej Duda, whom I respect very much, said that there is no room for racism, anti-Semitism and xenophobia in Poland. I would like to ask the Government of Law and Justice whether there will also be room in Poland for flagshipism and blurring the truth about genocide in Volyn. [[Applause]] I ask not only on behalf of the Kukiz Club and the Endecja Association, which we co-create, I ask not only on our behalf, all Members, but above all on behalf of the families murdered. This is a very important question that must eventually sound in this Chamber. A clear declaration must also be made. I am a supporter of Polish-Ukrainian cooperation, but it can only be built on truth and mutual respect. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-sejm-22-2.u174	Thank you very much. Is Mr Kurzepa here? I can't see. [[Your marshal, in corrigendum mode. My name came up.]] I see no reason to correct it, Mr President. Have a seat. I'm not giving you the floor. Mr Sylvester Khrushch, Kukiz.15. Have a seat. There was nothing there that was misunderstood, other than what you said. On the contrary, those words merely confirmed your previous statement. Mr Sylwester Khrushch, please. There isn't? Lydia Burzyńska, club Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-sejm-22-2.u175	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! It is important, and it is very pleased that the Sejm Bureau has received draft laws and resolutions commemorating the genocide in Volyn from various political backgrounds currently located in the Sejm. The Volyn Cress, the culmination of which was really in the summer of 1943, let's not be afraid, or else, we are not afraid to call genocide carried out by Ukrainian nationalists on Poles. In order to respect these victims in a worthy way, we must, I stress, all of us must speak together with one voice. We can't, let's not let us politicians get emotional. Let us not try to stand up as the only or exclusive defenders of this painful card of our history. Let us rise above politics and let the words of St. John Paul II is going to sound very strong here: The memory of the past means commitment to the future. Most of us, if we reach our lineage, will find the victims of this genocide, this sad part of our past, but we must face it together, together and we must commemorate it, we must remember and we must always know that genocide on Poles took place. Minister, will this painful history card have its meaning in [[♪ The bell ♪]] Polish education? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-sejm-22-2.u176	Thank you very much. I would like to ask Mr Stefan Romecki, Kukiz.15.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-sejm-22-2.u177	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I have a question for the Minister: Do you know that on Sunday 11 July 1943, the OUN-UPA branch murdered the Polish population in Dominopol? In the night about 30 Polish guerrillas were taken to the forest and shot. The crimes were committed by Sicha Antoniuk's prisoners. The same night Dominopol was surrounded by prisoners and Ukrainians. They entered their homes and used axes to murder sleeping residents. Firearms and grenades were also used. The entire Polish population of this village, at least 220 Poles, four Ukrainians and one Polish-Ukrainian family were murdered. The farms of the killed were taken over by the Ukrainians. The next night, in Dominopol, the prisoners drove and murdered Poles caught on the left bank of Turia. There will never be true Polish-Ukrainian reconciliation if we do not tell the truth about genocide carried out by the OUN-UPA on Poles. And I'm going to add here after I heard a young man from Modern and heard a friend from Kukiz.15 Ela Borowska, who said how the genocide was done, what the murders were, that I was asking if normal people were doing it. I don't know, I'm wondering. That's the kind of bullshit that's been committed, and we're discussing it today. It was genocide. And Kukiz15 is in favour of setting this day of memory. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-sejm-22-2.u178	Mr Stanisław Pieta, Club Law and Justice. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-sejm-22-2.u179	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Gentlemen of Ministers! It was a crime, and otherwise than as a genocide, this crime cannot be defined. This is the first truth. And the second truth is that there is no other way for Poles and Ukrainians except forgiveness, reconciliation and cooperation as close as possible. I'd like to ask you another question. Namely, surely money will be needed for exhumations of victims of Soviet, German, Ukrainian crimes. Are the ministers going to ask the Ministry of Finance to provide funds for exhumations that could bring us closer to the truths that would help commemorate Poles murdered in the East? Thank you kindly.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-sejm-22-2.u180	Thank you very much. Mr Józef Brynkus, Kukiz club15. And here we are, unfortunately, ending these. Two-minute appearances because it's time.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-sejm-22-2.u181	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I am not surprised that, for example, people like Adam Michnik and Kijowski, or Wałęsa, write a letter to the Ukrainians and ask forgiveness. I'm not surprised. They're obsessed with the communist system, the Esbecia, as well as today's... [[What are you saying?]] Listen to me to the end. Listen to me. No, they're obsessed... [[Don't lie to me!]] You're lying. But we should be surprised by the Members of the Law and Justice, who declare the restoration of the dignity of Polish history. She's declaring, but she doesn't know her, because if she knew her, there would be no doubt that what happened in 1943, a little earlier and later, is genocide. also in the light of definitions. And what you're doing is just trying to lower the profile of this problem. In order to forgive someone, someone has to confess their guilt. Even in the Catholic Church, it is so, which you profess. Do Polish ministries, any ministry of foreign affairs, education, education, and education know that children in Ukraine, going to school for the first time, get an elementary in which they talk about the game of Bander, but nothing about his crimes? Do they know that in Stanisławów high school students sing such a song: "I am a flagship, I am a flagship - these high school students are several years old and already learn such a tradition - that in Volyn military training organizes youth formation under the sign of Trisuba? I even accept the argument that you do not know this, although you should know that there is a common Polish-Ukrainian textbook committee. I'll take that as an argument, but you should be interested. And the case is also important not only in the context of Ukrainian history, but also in Polish history. What will you teach? [[♪ The bell ♪]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-sejm-22-2.u182	Thank you, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-sejm-22-2.u183	What's in the curriculum?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-sejm-22-2.u184	Thank you, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-sejm-22-2.u185	What have you done... [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off]] ...to prevent this kind of action in Ukraine. I could've finished that sentence.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-sejm-22-2.u186	No, because it's been two minutes, and that's how you deprive your colleagues of speaking. You knew that very well. And going back to your speech, please remember that by raising the value of some, we do not destroy the value of others. It's like... [[Applause]] [[I'm not doing it at all.]] ...on the margin of this speech. As this is an important subject, I will extend the time by one minute, allowing each of the following Members to speak, but please [[Applause]] keep that rule. I don't know what the next marshal's gonna do, and I'm about to run out of time. But now Mr Jan Kilian, the Law and Justice Club. You're welcome. After 1 minute.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-sejm-22-2.u187	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! This month we're reminiscing about the next anniversary of the Volyn crime. In the Eastern Kreses, Ukrainian OUN-UPA band slaughtered the Polish population living in the pre-war territories of the Second Republic. The scale of crimes and the form of crimes committed on Poles is unimaginable. They were killed with a bullet, an axe, a pitchfork, a saw, a hammer or other murder weapon. It was a policy of extermination of Kresowians by their Ukrainian neighbours, because not only paramilitary troops committed crimes, but also civilians. This caused total depopulation of parts of Volyn, Eastern Małopolska. So ethnic cleansing took place in vast areas of the Republic of Poland. Over 100,000. Poles were murdered, burned alive or shot. Hundreds of villages and settlements inhabited by Poles disappeared from the surface of the earth. As a representative... [[♪ The bell ♪]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-sejm-22-2.u188	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-sejm-22-2.u189	...Polish society... [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-sejm-22-2.u190	Mr Maciej Masłowski, Kukiz.15. There was a minute. [[I'm sorry, I didn't hear you.]] Maciej Masłowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-sejm-22-2.u191	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Gentlemen of Ministers! On July 11, 1943, bandits from the Ukrainian Uprising Army committed crimes on the residents of Stasin located in the Vladimir district. In the morning, the village was surrounded, then all gathered in one place, said that they would go to work in Germany, closed in two barns, and then all of them were fired. Ten saved, two women escaped. And you know what? It was, if you can say so, one of the best deaths - from a bullet - because what the Ukrainian Insurgent Army was doing, this slaughter, this massacre, you can say, was a tragedy. And that's what we're fighting for today, this memory. I hope that there will not be party discipline in the Law and Justice on this matter, that everyone will respond to his conscience and together we will establish a day of genocide on 11 July. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-sejm-22-2.u192	Thank you very much. Mr Bartłomiej Wróblewski, Club Law and Justice. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-sejm-22-2.u193	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen! I'm family-related with the Ends. Part of my family came from the Southeast Kresów, from Stanisławowska land, more specifically. I have a question in this discussion that is taking place here. In the discussions we have been discussing in Poland in recent years, we define very differently what happened in July 1943. Also in this discussion are concepts such as slaughter, murder, massacre, but also more and more the concept of genocide. I wanted to ask what the government considers to be the classification of these events in international law and what the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, government and other ministries take a position on this matter. Does the concept... [[♪ The bell ♪]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-sejm-22-2.u194	Mr Paweł Szramka, Kukiz.15.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-sejm-22-2.u195	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Did you know that on Sunday 11 July 1943, the UPA and OUN-B troops murdered the Polish population in the town of Poryck? Most people were killed in the church where they gathered for the Sunday service. The attackers broke into the temple and threw grenades at the Poles and fired guns at them. More than 100 people died in the church. Ladies and gentlemen, there's something wrong with me. You talk so much about the fact that Polish history is constantly lied about that other countries are trying to whitewash their history at the expense of Poland, so why aren't you now able to stand in the truth, why don't you call things by name? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-sejm-22-2.u196	Thank you very much. Mr Adam Oldakowski, Club Law and Justice. There's no envoy. Then it is Mr Paweł Skutecki, Kukiz.15. There isn't any either. Krzysztof Głuchowski, club Law and Justice, is.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-sejm-22-2.u197	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! For nearly 20 years at the Katyn Cross in Łukow, the community and local authorities, also the Łukow Regional Society. Jan Stanisław Majewski, organizes patriotic and religious celebrations in honor of the murdered in the East. These ceremonies gather many veterans, young people, residents, authorities, representatives of Polonia. It is easier for us today, because together with national and religious symbols, we can celebrate national memory freely and in amazement, remembering our Polish, often nameless, heroes who were brutally murdered by criminals in the East. But is that enough? It's not enough. We need a piece of legislation, I agree. Sociological studies show that only 40% of our society has heard of these events. I gotta go, I see. High Izbo! We cannot allow genocide to continue to be justified, and criminals are considered national heroes. Until the historical truth about the genocide of 1939 and 1945 in Volyn is acknowledged, [[♪ The bell ♪]] There will be no real reconciliation. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-sejm-22-2.u198	Mr Piotr Liroy-March. Absent. Mr Andrzej Noblechta. No. Mrs Barbara Chrobak, Kukiz club15. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-sejm-22-2.u199	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! On 11 July 1943 in Gucin, Volyn, the UPA branch attacked the local population, resulting in the murder of 140 people. Poles were driven to selected places of execution and set on fire. Single civilians escaped and survived. For refusing to release the Polish Apolonia Traczykiewicz Ukrainian Petro Music was shot by UP-people. Murder victims were laid down in mass graves in the fields. They've never had a proper burial. Today we are talking about the Ukrainians being entitled to their own heroes, but they are not those who defended another man, their neighbour. To them, heroes are those who have blood on their hands. Does this mean for us that we should remain silent about Polish victims? Why do we refuse Poles worthy of honoring the victims of this terrible crime? Why are we more concerned about political correctness than about our own citizens? Haven't the victims' families suffered enough? [[The bell, the applause.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-sejm-22-2.u200	Thank you very much. Mrs Catherine Czochar. There isn't. Mr Andrzej Maciejewski, Kukiz.15. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-sejm-22-2.u201	Mr. Marshal! Minister! I feel like we're treating Ukraine a little bit like a child of special care, which we have to be careful of because he's going to be offended because his nose is going to fall because it's going to be unhappy. Ladies and gentlemen, mature democracy is based on truth. I was in Ukraine in mid-April and I spoke with Mrs Oksana Syroid, Vice-President of the Supreme Council, and Mr Boris Tarasiuk. And with the latter it was the most sad conversation, because he could not say: crime, Volyn, he talked about the event on 11 July, even insisted that the Polish parliament should not adopt this bill, a resolution. And I asked: Did you ask us about the law of Shuchewych, which you took on the day of the Polish President's visit? Nobody asked, no one was offended. That's politics, politics is supposed to be a game. And we have to teach the Ukrainians that democracy is a rule, that these rules tell the truth and that we have to call things [[♪ The bell ♪]] by name: Volyn was a crime. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-sejm-22-2.u202	Thank you very much. Mrs Anna Cicholska.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-sejm-22-2.u203	Dear Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Greek Catholic clergy played a major role in inciting the crimes of genocide in Volyn. Greek Catholic priests who refused to call for crime were also murdered. The Greek-Catholic Metropolitan Andrzej Szeptycki issued a pastoral letter on November 21, 1942.Do not kill, but it did not cause almost any reaction from nationalists. Most murders were committed in the summer of 1943 and were carried out on Sundays. Ukrainians took advantage of the fact that the Polish population gathered during mass in churches, so often churches were surrounded and faithful before death were often tortured in a cruel manner. [[♪ The bell ♪]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-sejm-22-2.u204	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-sejm-22-2.u205	Poles from Volyn fought...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-sejm-22-2.u206	Mrs Iwona Michalek. There isn't. Then we have the last person left on the list. Mrs Anna April, Club Law and Justice. You're welcome. There isn't any either. I would therefore very much ask that the representative of the applicants be heard by Mrs Elżbieta Borowska. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-sejm-22-2.u207	Mrs. Marshal! Gentlemen of Ministers! High Izbo! We have really listened to a very important and important discussion here. I would like to quote one quote, it is worth remembering, and it is worth using it in Polish-Ukrainian relations: We do not hide or silence. During World War II, Ukrainian chauvinists killed about 0.5 million Poles on the Eastern Kresy of pre-war Poland. Also for several years after the war Polish villages were on fire and people were killed. Ukrainian chauvinism is an ulcer on the healthy body of the Ukrainian people, it is a remorse of our conscience towards the Polish people. This is a quote from Leonid Krawczuk, the President of Ukraine, and really from this quote we could come out, we could start a change in our common history, looking at it, commemorating the victims. It is said that Ukraine needs more time. She received quite a lot of time after 1989, also due to the fact that the Polish Sejm could not commemorate the victims, while Ukraine does not need this time to simply pass through, understand how painful our events are, commemorate Poles, and Ukrainians. She needs that time to educate a new young generation of flagships, which she's doing all the time now. Referring already to Minister Sellin's statement: there are allegations, Minister Sellin said that the allegations against the Law and Justice are unfair because three years ago a debate took place. I'm sorry, but we asked questions about the current state, not about what happened three years ago. Our Ukrainian friends must see to it. I hope everyone understands that this is a trial. Oh, no, not everyone understands. Ukrainians just don't understand that they have to grow up to talk about genocide in Volyn. They're spreading this machine of hatred and spreading this neo-Bander ideology more and more. State functionality. What is this country supposed to be based on? What is it supposed to work on? Right at the Bandera cult? And we're supposed to wait for this cult to grow even more? Really. The day of martyrdom should not be set for July 11. The date appeared on August 11th, because at that time there was an order from the hedgehog. The date of September 17th came up. The Minister said, "Take this and consider it." Well, we have accepted this, we have considered it, and we would like the Law and Justice to consider the date of 11 July, because this is the date which fully expresses what was happening in Volhynia and Eastern Malopolska, and this is the date indicated by Kresowians, not by us, but by them. Then consider what they think. The Soviets were targeted because it was mainly the Bolsheviks' fault, the Soviets' fault. They were killing their own. Ukrainians killed their own, too. They killed their own people who were just defending the Poles. That's a few hundred thousand victims. And really, if there's anything to commemorate, it's those Ukrainians too. After all, even Polish IPN prepared a list of fair Ukrainians. Why shouldn't we commemorate them by example? Jews? Why is this not a way to show how a relationship is built? There was a very large charge against the Kukiz club15 that our law was filed 2.5 months after the Law and Justice Act. That's not true. The bill was filed at the beginning of March. The bill was prepared by Mr Bakun, which was widely known since November last year and we really did not write it on our knees, we did not file it at the last minute. About the charge of doing the show, I'm sorry, but throwing it in. at the last minute of resolutions is in my opinion making a show. The resolution, as we know, commemorated the Sibiraks, but now there's a situation that no one even knows when Sibirak Day is. We want central celebrations, we want flags spread all over Poland. There were also various allegations in this discussion that genocide should have very carefully calculated, simply documented victims. It's hard to document if we don't know where the graves are. We have difficulties in exhumation precisely because the Polish Sejm has not yet recognized it as genocide. The Ukrainian side is still causing problems. As for the sentence: let the Ukrainians worship their heroes, I'm sorry, but this is just an outrageous statement. The heroes of the genocide? [[Applause]] We're supposed to allow this as the Polish Sejm? It also fell, Mr Milczanowska said, [[♪ The bell ♪]] A lot of bad words in this room. Many sad words were uttered on Jasna Gora this Sunday. It's a shame you didn't hear that. You promised you'd come. The Moors waited. And you didn't hear those sad words. Thank you. [[Applause]] [[Chairman of the session includes Deputy Marshal Ryszard Terlecki of the Sejm]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-sejm-22-2.u208	Thank you very much. If I may take a break, I warmly welcome the young people and teachers from the Polish school in Egliszki in the Vilnius region. We're very pleased. [[Applause]] Now you have the floor of Minister Jan Dziedziczak. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-sejm-22-2.u209	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Ukraine is our important neighbour. We support changes in this country, we support Ukraine's integration into the European Union, the North Atlantic Pact. We have great hopes for political cooperation with this country, for deepening this cooperation, for cooperation in defence policy, which is why our government, the Government of Law and Justice, has been saying from the very beginning, 'yes' to our neighbours from Ukraine, 'yes' for the blue and yellow Ukraine, 'not for the red and black Ukraine'. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to refer to the many statements made by your Members. We very much want to be reconciled to the Ukrainian people, but reconciliation requires telling the truth. We are particularly concerned about the lack of sensitivity on the part of Ukraine in educational, symbolic, cultural policy, and this is what you have said. For us this is an important investment in the future, because if today we do not tell the truth, in 10 years' time most Ukrainians can unwittingly take over this narrative, even in education, that Stefan Bandera was a crystal hero. That, of course, is not true and we will definitely talk about it, we are talking about it now. Telling the truth about these dramatic moments is, attention, an investment in friendly relations with Ukraine. If we do not tell this truth, if we lead to the situation that this estimate for the crystal clear character of Stefan Bandera will be widespread in Ukraine, we will cooperate much harder. That's why we're doing our job. We highly appreciate the letter of your parliamentarians to partners in Ukraine. It was a very important voice. Thank you very much to Mr Michał Dworczyk, President of the Polish-Ukrainian parliamentary group. We want to invest in the future, in good relations with Ukraine. This important investment is to stand in the truth. Ladies and gentlemen! You've been asking a few important questions here. Answering questions: on our part there is no acceptance for the cult of various Nazi organizations, for the cult of OUN-UPA criminals, for the cult of crime. We are taking clear action here. An example of this was a very well-known case in the press concerning the incident of photographing in 2014 students of the State Eastern European School in Przemyśl against the flag of the Ukrainian Insurgent Army. This incident, as we remember, caused acute social and media reactions, also because six of the students appearing against this flag turned out to be holders of the Polish Charter. Ladies and gentlemen, this was 2014. [[Voice from the hall: Didn't the university throw them out?]] Ladies and gentlemen, I checked it out when I became Vice Minister of Foreign Affairs. The cards of the Pole were not taken away from these students. They were not received by the Government of the Civic Platform and PSL. It is worth noting here that for many years the deputy minister of foreign affairs in the government of PO-PSL was a person recommended by PSL. It is also worth reminding us of such things when our government is attacking today. So our government has taken action. The Consul of the Republic of Vinnica, who granted the Polish Charter to the said students, after consulting the Council on Poles in the East, issued a decision on 10 June 2016 to annul the Polish Charter. The Consul referred to the article. Article 20 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 Act on the Polish Charter providing for annulment of the Polish Charter from the office of the Polish Charter in the event that its holder behaves in an abusive manner to the Republic of Poland or Poles. [[Applause]] These decisions were sent to the Podkarpackie Voivodeship Office. The director of the Department of Civil Affairs and Foreigners of the Voivodeship Office declared that after receiving the decision to annul the Polish Kart and its legitimacy, the permanent residence permit in Poland would be revoked by one of the group of listed students who received such permission on the basis of the Polish Charter. The annulment of the Polish Charter will not give rise to any other students to apply for a permanent residence permit. This is the qualitative difference between the Government of Law and Justice and the Government of PO-PSL. Let us stress once again that for years in this government, the Deputy Minister responsible also for Polish affairs was a person recommended by PSL. Nothing happened in those cases at the time. This is unprecedented action. For the first time in the history of the Polish Charter Act such behaviour took place, so please do not say that there is no doubt about it. It is all these unprecedented elements that are under our rule. As far as the votes of your Members are concerned, I am a parliamentarians of the third term, and for years I have also been active in the end team. I was interested in these subjects, you know. And, ladies and gentlemen, I've been following. It's like who's been acting during this famous debate during the round anniversary. You remember, there was a version prepared by the parliamentary majority, where this crime was called ethnic cleansing with signs of genocide. We made an amendment where we called this crime genocide. And unfortunately, the amendment lost a small number of votes. 212 MEPs voted in favour of the explicit wording of 'human murder' and 222 against. Interestingly, the then Civic Platform voted in favour of the formulation of the People's Murder of 10 MPs, including the former Members of the Platform, Mr Jarosław Gowin and Mr Jacek Żalek. But we have heard here Mr Platform, Mr Lenz, who started his speech with the wording: yes, it was genocide. We are looking for how Mr Lenz voted back then. Mr Lenz voted against calling this crime genocide. He voted in favour of calling it ethnic cleansing with the mark of genocide. [[Applause]] What's the matter now that he's starting his speech so hard? And how is Mr Józef Lassota? We are also watching Mr Lassota vote. He also voted against the formulation of "human murder" and for leaving the ethnic formulation of genocide. Ladies and gentlemen, I hope that our voters, observers of this important debate, will see this cynicism in politics and some hypocrisy. We keep our word. All the time - I say this as Deputy Minister of Foreign Affairs - we use truthfully, in line with what we said earlier, the phrase that it was genocide. We are acting against various forms of promoting the cult of these criminal ideologies and we consider this to be part of an important investment in friendly relations with our important Ukrainian neighbour. We want close and friendly relations with Ukraine, we have sympathy for our neighbours, we want full reconciliation, but of course this reconciliation should take place with this element of standing in the truth, and we must do everything we can to make sure that what is happening right now... Minister Waszczykowski rightly said that this is not common. At the moment, decisions are being made even about the educational program, which is what will be 10 years from now. If there's no truth in the education program, then [[♪ The bell ♪]] relations between our countries will certainly be more difficult between societies. And we don't want that. So that, ladies and gentlemen, this is the position of the government. One more sentence I can answer. There have been questions in the field of education, and you have asked. I suggest you address the question to the Ministry of National Education. As far as the investigation into industrial events is concerned, Mrs Jakubiak asked about the orchestra - I would suggest a question addressed to the Ministry of Defence and the Ministry of National Defence respectively. The Ministry of Foreign Affairs is responsible for what is happening outside the country. All that's going on in the country is the domain of other resorts. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-sejm-22-2.u210	Thank you very much. The Minister's statement concludes this item on the agenda.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-sejm-22-2.u211	Referring to the words of Jarosław Sellin and answering the question of who is guilty of the martyrdom of Poles in the East, I completely agree that responsibility falls on the totalitarian state of Stalin. It is a good thing that the Minister brought together the events of 17 September 1939 and 11 July 1943. This was not an event, but it was the beginning of the process of genocide on the Poles on 17 September 1939. In the course of this criminal trial, should not be forgotten about February 10, 1940, when the Polish population was displaced from the border on a cold February night. As a descendant of the convicts, the daughter of the exported sibirak, today I have the courage to complain about 10 February 1940 and the heroes of these events. Some died along the way, like my six-month-old aunt, whose dead body was thrown into the snow. I want to remind them of their fates and ask them not to forget, but not to hate. Remember, explain, not remain hateful, but first of all not forget.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-sejm-22-2.u212	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! Poles remember the great tragedy that took place in 1943 and 1945 in Volyn and Eastern Galicia. Then Ukrainian nationalists from the Ukrainian Insurgent Army murdered more than 100,000. Poles. The crime took place in 2136 villages of seven voivodships of the Second Republic of Poland in the South-East Kreses. The culmination of these dramatic events took place on 11 July 1943, when the UPA units carried out a coordinated attack on 99 Polish towns in three counties: Kowelski, Horochowski and Włodzimierzki former Vołyńskie voivodeship. The investigation in this case has been conducted in Poland since 1990, but the Volyn slaughter, considered by the investigators as genocide, is still unaccounted for. At the same time, we observe the glory of Stepan Bandera and the members of the CNS-UPA by the current Ukrainian authorities. Poles want good relations with the Ukrainian people, but the past, even the most dramatic, should not share us. We must not forget the victims of this crime and their families. It is only through cooperation and joint examination of the circumstances of this cruel crime that we can count on the development of good neighbourly relations between the two nations. One form of cooperation between the two nations is the establishment of partnership agreements between the cities of Poland and Ukraine. As president of the city of Rzeszów, I signed a partnership agreement between Rzeszow and two Ukrainian cities: Łuck and Ivano-Frankowski. I continued earlier signed cooperation with the city of Lviv. This cooperation brought the people of these cities closer together and a better understanding of the painful history. Does the Ministry of Foreign Affairs support the establishment of partnership agreements between the cities of Poland and Ukraine?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-sejm-22-2.u213	We proceed with the examination of item 17 of the agenda: Report from the Committee on Social Policy and Family Affairs on the Government draft law amending the Law on Minimum Compensation for Work and some other laws (Prints Nos 600 and 687). I ask Mr Jan Mosiński to present a report to the committee. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-sejm-22-2.u214	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Allow me to also address Mr Piotr Duda, President of the Solidarity Committee, in this greeting, who is listening to the debate from the Seym Gallery. Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I was honoured to present to the High House the report of the Committee on Social Policy and Family Affairs on the government draft law amending the Law on Minimum Compensation for Work and some other laws contained in print 600. I am also honored to be able to speak with the voice of the Independent Self-Solidarity Association, one of the points of the programme is the statutory fixing of the minimum hourly rate. [[You're the rapporteur.]] Before I go to the point, I would like to stress that the government's initiative by Prime Minister Beata Szydło is a good step towards civilising social relations, including labour law. Today, no one is questioning the need to set a minimum hourly rate so that dishonest employers do not pay their contractors at a rate of tens of pennies per hour of work. By introducing a minimum hourly rate, we want to fight the abuse of civil law contracts by employers and help those who receive the lowest level of remuneration. Unfortunately, it is regrettable to say that in the 21st century there are very often cases of exploitation of workers by paying their wrong rates. We also note, and very often, cases of non-payment of debts for the contract performed. Such shameful practices by employers are an injury calling for vengeance to heaven. There is also no substantive justification for the argument that unemployment will increase in Poland as a result of an increase in the minimum wage, which will be too high. Based on data from the Central Statistical Office e.g. in 2002, the minimum wage was only 35.6% Average wage in the economy. And yet the unemployment rate calculated according to BAEL has never been this high before or since. On the other hand, after a few years of gradual increase in the minimum wage, which last year amounted to 44,9% Average wage, unemployment rate averaged 6.9%. In other words, there is no simple correlation between the minimum wage and the unemployment rate. Here I will also quote the words of Minister Elżbieta Rafalska, quote: Whoever wants a good worker must pay well. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The Government's draft Print Act No 600 entered the Sejm on 6 June 2016. The first reading of the draft law took place at the 21st meeting of the Sejm on 21 June this year. Sejm, based on art. 39 (1) (a) 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm, addressed the above draft to the Committee on Social Policy and Family Affairs for consideration. On 22 June the Committee on Social Policy and Family Policy addressed this project to the Permanent Sub-Committee on Labour Market Affairs. On 23 June, the subcommittee, considering the draft law, adopted nine amendments, which mostly aimed at defining more precisely the terms of the proposed law. I will allow myself, on behalf of the Committee on Social Policy and the Family, to inform the High House of some of them. Amendment 2 proposes clarification of the proposed Article. Article 8a (1) (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013 is replaced by the following: 1 in such a way that it is clear from the wording of this provision that the amount of this remuneration should be determined in a contract in such a way as to guarantee the right of the person concerned to pay for each hour of work of an amount not less than the minimum hourly rate. In turn, Amendment 6 to Article. Article 8 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 is intended to clarify the provision in such a way as to make it clear that the initiation of a public procurement procedure was carried out under the provisions of the Public Procurement Law as it stood before 1 September 2016. An important amendment included in the draft law is the deletion of the current article. Article 6 (6) (a) 2 and 3 of the Law of 10 October 2002 on minimum remuneration for work. According to the provision of this Article, the remuneration of the employee during his first year of work could not be less than 80% minimum wage for work. At this point, it should be noted that this exceptionally discriminatory provision was created during a difficult labour market situation, with the aim of improving the labour market situation especially for young people. This regulation, as I have already mentioned, took place during a period of high unemployment and was treated as a sub-minimum. Today, for about 2 years, we have seen improvements in the labour market. Today, the market is looking for an employee. Also, the European Commission in the update of the forecast for economic developments in our country indicates that GDP growth in 2016 will be 3.5%. The positive trend in the labour market is also confirmed by the survey of the economic activity of the population, which indicates that the last 2 years have been a period of rapid growth in the employment rate. In view of the above, the provision that for the first year of the worker's work his remuneration is 80% has been deleted. the minimum remuneration, as this is an exceptionally discriminatory provision, and given the current economic circumstances, it is deeply unjustified. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The subcommittee, considering the amendments tabled, adopted them unanimously and agreed that the government party should clarify its position in two cases until the meeting of the Committee on Social Policy and the Family. At the meeting of the Committee on Social Policy and Family Policy held on 5 July this year, the applicant presented two amendments to the committee. And yes, in Amendment 1 in Article. 7 as amended 7 in Article. 8d, presented by the government party, seeks to specify more precisely the cases in which the contract of order or service will not be covered by the proposed law. The applicant here referred to cases where the receiving or providing services determines the place and time of execution of the order or service and at the same time has a commission remuneration. In order to avoid interpretation doubts when applying the proposed provision, it is proposed to define the concept of commission remuneration in the new paragraph. Article 3 8d. The same amendment proposes the inclusion in a separate editorial unit - in the added paragraph. 2 - the definition of the term "day', which occurs three times in Article. 8d. In Amendment 2 in Article. 14 It is proposed that the Act will enter into force on 1 January 2017, with the exception of: first, Article. 1 point (1) (a) a, which refers to the definition of the concept of "minimum hourly rate' and to the concept of "acceptor' or "service provider'; secondly, Article. 7, which sets out the valuer mechanism for determining the minimum hourly rate to be applied in 2017, and sets the deadline for announcing the rate in the Polish Monitor by 30 September 2016. In both cases, the provisions are to enter into force on the day of the announcement. It should be stressed that the earlier implementation of the Article. 7 of the proposed law, i.e. from the date of publication and not from 1 September this year, will enable the President of the Council of Ministers to issue a notice containing information on the minimum hourly rate in force in 2017. This will be quite important for the parties to order contracts or service contracts, which will already know the amount of this rate and will be able from 1 September this year. benefit from the provisions of Article. The proposed law will, in turn, enable the parties to negotiate an agreement on an appropriate change of remuneration. Dear Marshal, Mr. Messengers! Gentlemen! The Committee on Social Policy and Family Policy, after considering at its meeting on 22 June and 5 July 2016 the draft law amending the Law on Minimum Compensation for Work and some other laws, adds: The High Sejm will approve the attached bill. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-sejm-22-2.u215	Thank you very much, sir. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would listen to the five-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and the circle. I'm opening a discussion. Mrs Bożena Borys-Raccoon will be the first to speak on behalf of Parliamentary Club Law and Justice. You're welcome, my fellow Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-sejm-22-2.u216	Thank you very much. Dear Marshal, Dear Minister, High Izbo! On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, Law and Justice, I have the honour to present my position on a government draft law amending the Law on Minimum Compensation for Work and some other laws. It is an honor to me all the more because I am a man of Solidarity, and of course from this place also the chairman of Solidarity. Ladies and gentlemen! I'll start by recalling some of the basic facts taken from the Solidarity Weekend. In Poland, about 1.5 million people receive minimum wage. It is equivalent to around EUR 417. For example, Luxembourg's inhabitants receive a minimum wage of approx. 2000-2500 euro, i.e. incomparably more. In turn in Slovenia, Greece, Spain, this salary amounts to around EUR 1250.1500. These numbers speak for themselves. There is no need to choose other reasonable arguments to justify the fact that the amendments introduced by the Law amending the Law on Minimum Compensation for Work, for which the Law and Justice Club at first reading had advocated, were long awaited by persons employed under civil law contracts. Unfortunately, for many years there has been a lack of political will to make these changes. This is only possible now, and with great satisfaction on behalf of the Law and Justice Club, I can say that the illusory vision of a green island based only on cheap labour, comparable to slavery, is disappearing in our eyes. Too much to die, not enough to live, is the title of my article. In view of the pathology of employers' abuse of civil law contracts and the need for adequate protection of workers on the basis of them, the government considered it appropriate to introduce rules guaranteeing the right to minimum remuneration for persons employed under civil law contracts. Currently, the minimum wage guarantee applies only to workers, i.e. persons working under a contract of employment. Persons employed under civil law contracts generally receive rates which are significantly lower than the minimum remuneration. Unfortunately, this pathology escalates. All the more so with satisfaction, and even with pride, I can say that another good change will be implemented, proposed by the government for which the people of work are waiting, people for whom employers have a nonchalant abuse of rights, disregarding their needs and their dignity. The National Labour Inspection will exercise control over compliance with these minimum hourly rates. All payers in breach of the minimum hourly rate must be subject to a fine of PLN 1000 to PLN 30,000. In these cases, the competent authorities of the State Labour Inspection will also be entitled to take legal measures, i.e. occurrence or command. The proposed law also provides for two important changes concerning workers, i.e. those who provide employment in the context of employment relationships. The first is to refrain from establishing the employee's salary in the first year of his work at 80%. minimum wage for work. The second amendment is to exclude the allowance for night work in the calculation of the minimum wage. The current rules provide that the calculation of the employee's salary shall not only take into account the Jubilee Prize, the payment of the employee's pension due to the retirement or pension. I conclude my speech, recalling - as at the beginning - very graphical data. Sedlak & Sedlak states that the purchasing power of an average Pole is still more than half the purchasing power of an average European. Parliamentary Club Law and Justice supports the government's draft along with the amendments adopted by the Committee on Social Policy and Family Affairs. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-sejm-22-2.u217	Thank you very much. Now, on behalf of the Parliamentary Club, the Civic Platform will take the floor of Mrs Izabela Katarzyna Mrzygłock. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-sejm-22-2.u218	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, the Civic Platform has the honour to present an opinion on the report of the Sejm Committee on Social Policy and Family Affairs on the governmental draft amendments to the Law on Minimum Compensation for Work and in some other laws. High Izbo! During the first reading of this law, I spoke about the fact that the Civic Platform positively assesses most of the solutions contained in the draft, especially those that are part of our electoral programme. We believe that, in the case of minimum wage, the current provisions with differentiated rates for young workers or the inclusion in the wage base of the night work allowance are provisions that need to be improved and amended today. We also agree that, due to the current pathologies concerning hourly rates for persons executing an order, the State should unfortunately interfere with civil law agreements. Ms Rafalska, during the plenary debate on the project, expressed her satisfaction that the Civic Platform was no longer relentless. Well, I wanted to explain that we never said that 4 PLN or less per hour of work was normal. In addition, we are aware that we have reached a stage where undercutting has become the norm, because quality has ceased to matter for most of the services commissioned, and only price matters. I would like to remind you that the lowest rates for security services whether the order is governed by State institutions, which in itself is difficult to accept. It was in our previous term of office that we started changes to civil law contracts to ensure that those executing the contract have access to privileges similar to those of the staff. Of course, one can ask why we have not decided to introduce a minimum hourly rate, as is the case in the project under discussion today. I'll answer that. Work on these problems continued, but we realized that finding a good, universal solution was very difficult. During my first reading of the project, I talked about how easy it is to override the minimum hourly rate. It is enough that the person who does the job will have to pay the commissioning company to rent equipment, uniform or buy mandatory training. There are plenty of possibilities. Unfortunately, I am convinced that some of the company owners, together with their lawyers, are already looking for gaps that will make the hourly rate increase only exist on paper. As a result, even those who approach the matter honestly may sooner or later be forced to adapt to the others or get into trouble. As far as self-employment regulations are concerned, in this case it is even easier to find a way to force an employee to share his income. Let me remind you again that I spoke about these things during the first reading of the project. Unfortunately, neither then nor during committee proceedings did any of the applicants address the problem. I would therefore like to stress that the Civic Platform considers the idea of change to be right, but we are concerned about the effectiveness of certain solutions proposed in it. Of course, we can continue to pretend that the problems I have identified do not exist, and with a good feeling of being able to say how we all fight for a decent remuneration for those who carry out orders, we can also bring the debate to a political dispute, who cares more about entrepreneurs and who cares more about employees, but this will not change the obvious facts. The Civic Platform Parliamentary Club will support the provisions of this Act, although we have reservations about certain provisions and our amendments have not been accepted. But the project is the implementation of one of the elements of our electoral program. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-sejm-22-2.u219	Thank you very much, Member. Mr Jarosław Porwich will now speak on behalf of the Kukiz Club15. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-sejm-22-2.u220	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Kukiz Club, 15 I have the honour to present my position on the government draft law amending the Law on Minimum Compensation for Work and some other laws. The law, which aims to achieve a positive change in the labour market by countering the abuse of civil law contracts and introducing the protection of those receiving the lowest level of remuneration, introduces significant changes. Firstly, it removes the existing provision, which was discriminatory for young workers and concerned the remuneration of an employee employed in the first year of work of 80%. minimum wage for work. Secondly, it excludes the inclusion in the minimum wage of the night work allowance. Unfortunately, it does not provide a solution to ensure that the minimum wage for work is merely a basic salary that would not include any additional components of remuneration. The current state of law and the proposed change unfortunately do not eliminate inequalities in the treatment of workers, as very often any additions to the basic salary lose their function, disappear, cause an experienced and valuable worker who has the right to receive allowances, e.g. an internship or a bonus, which receives a minimum wage, earns as much less than an employee who does not have the right to receive any allowances. It's not fair. Thirdly, the draft law introduces a minimum hourly rate for contract contracts and service contracts. It is, of course, appropriate to introduce it because the hourly rate is intended to guarantee that customers receive an amount at the minimum level of remuneration, but the applicant has allowed the project to exclude the application of the minimum hourly rate. There are therefore questions as to whether the payers will not use this gate, whether they will circumvent the obligation to apply the hourly rate or whether they will not apply such practices in general. We'll see, the next few months will. In conclusion, it must be stated that the provisions of the bill go in a very good direction. Unfortunately, the solutions adopted are not perfect, but constitute a compromise in the Council of Social Dialogue between trade unions and employers. However, the Kukiz Club15 hopes that, over time, we will make significant adjustments and profound changes so that solutions are simple, fully understandable and prevent circumvention of the intentions of the legislator. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-sejm-22-2.u221	Thank you very much. Ms Joanna Augustynowska will now speak on behalf of the club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-sejm-22-2.u222	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! The idea of Poles making more money is right and we sign it with both hands. Unfortunately, it's just an idea, because the bill has absolutely nothing to do with it. The purpose of this law is to limit the abuse of civil law contracts, while this objective will probably be achieved in part, because these civil law agreements will normally be less in the world. The employer, who will have to provide a minimum rate with current wage costs, will reduce employment. Dear Government! All you had to do was increase the tax-free amount, reduce the wage burden. That would be enough to encourage employers to pay more. [[Applause]] That's the direction we should take. Once again, you are showing, Mr PiS Members, that you do not know the basic principles of the functioning of the labour market. It is not the malice of the employer that causes low wages, but the high costs of this salary: ZUS contribution costs, large bureaucracy, frequent checks, complex law, all this increases the administrative costs of doing business. The introduction of a minimum hourly rate will have its further consequences, honourable Members of the PiS, of which you are not talking so boldly about the cameras. And we have to say it. It must be said loudly and clearly that the minimum hourly rate will increase the charging of ZUS contributions to all persons engaged in business activities, i.e. merchants at the marketplace, taxi drivers, hairdressers, shoemakers, all self-employed persons and those engaged in business activities. Why aren't you talking about it? That's what you should be talking about in the cameras to be fair and honest with everyone. The arguments why this bill is not justified, it is not good, there is plenty. Please note that today, self-employed people, business people, earning 2,000. zł, they pay 1 000. ZUS. After the entry into force of this law they will pay 10% more, it's a really big burden for them. This law interferes in a manner which is unlawful in civil law relations, in which the autonomy of both parties as to the nature of the contract concluded, as to its content, as to the conditions is important. The civil law agreement allows for freely forming relations within the limits defined by law, and this draft law violates the principle of the equivalence of entities, the freedom to contract, which is directly linked to the freedom of the market economy. What, then, is the real purpose of such restrictions? Why should this bill really serve? This law deprives the possibility of concluding contracts for those wishing to provide services below that amount. The introduction of an hourly rate may result in jobs being simply lost in parts of local markets. You must be aware that in various parts of Poland the cost of living is different, that is obvious and natural. Otherwise we will pay for carrots in Warsaw, otherwise we will pay for carrots of Biała Podlaski. Therefore, the hourly rate should be different in different places of Poland, it should depend on what are the real wage costs, what are the maintenance costs in the regions concerned. [[Voice from the room: Constitution.]] The imposition of an obligation to record the number of hours in civil law contracts actually means an increase in bureaucracy and imposes unnecessary obligations at risk of fines in the form of 1 000. Up to 30,000. zł. The introduction of this register will eliminate the possibility of determining remuneration in the form of a lump sum linked to other meters, e.g. In the case of cleaning, it will not be possible to make the salary dependent on the area, but it will only be necessary to enter a record of working time. Next, they allow the State Labour Inspection to carry out checks, my favourite sentence of this law - at any time of day and night. Does this mean that the controllers will enter in the middle of the night, check the working time of the employee in the contract, and then, according to these regulations, they'll say it's not a civil law deal, that's a job? They'll switch civil law contracts, and how will the employer be able to explain now, restore this original version, what was the assumption, or civil law agreement? He'll be able to go to the labour court and there after a year and a half, because that's how long it takes, he'll be able to pursue his rights. You give one, you take the other, you raise the wage, the minimum wage for the workers, but at the expense of entrepreneurs, at the expense of small entrepreneurs, people who work creatively and fight in the labour market. Therefore, on behalf of the Poselski Club Modern motion to reject this bill at second reading. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-sejm-22-2.u223	Thank you very much, Member. I have been informed that our discussions are being listened to by the Senior Club of Belchatov. We cordially greet you. [[Applause]] Now I ask that Mr Krystian Jarubas speak on behalf of the Polish People's Party Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-sejm-22-2.u224	Dear Marshal, Minister! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen of the gallery! On behalf of the Parliamentary Club of the Polish People's Party, I am pleased to present my position on the report of the Committee on Social Policy and Family Affairs on the draft law amending the Act on Minimum Compensation for Work and some other laws, prints Nos 600 and 687. Ladies and gentlemen, minimum wage of 2 000. gross zloty is a very good concept. This is above all a continuation of the pro-social and pro-family policy which was initiated by PSL in the previous term of office. Unfortunately, however, there are differences in the perception of the mission of the Ministry of Labour, today called the Ministry of the Family. The difference between PSL and PiS is that PSL had thought-out actions aimed at real helping families and employees rather than political marketing, as PiS does today. During the election campaign, the leaders spoke about changes. Yes, today they change, mostly names, an example is the alleged elimination of the sixth grade test. The check, despite the announcements of the PiS politicians, will be under a changed name, because it will be replaced by the so-called. diagnostic tests. This is a perfect example of how governments today act - apparent changes. This is an excellent definition of how the current government works in every area, maybe apart from filling companies of the Treasury with colleagues from the parliamentary benches. It is worth recalling that among the beneficiaries so-called. Another member of the PiS added a good change. This time, as the media informed, he replaced the parliamentary, modest diet for a good salary of the vice president of the state bank of PKO. [[Voice from the room: Get to the point.]] But going back to the minimum wage, calmly, you go on record, I know that, but going back to the minimum wage: so-called. The good change is working again for the PiS government. We are increasingly hearing the voices of experts, economists who stress that the minimum wage increase proposed by the PIS will be most pleased, attention, state budget. There is nothing wrong with this, because we should be glad that a large part of the amount discussed by the PiS will receive the state budget in the form of an advance on income tax and the Social Security Office, because there will be a higher social security contribution. However, it is with regret that we listen to fairy tales that governments try to sell to Poles during such an operation. Of course, it should be noted that the concept of a minimum hourly rate is a good idea. However, as is customary for rulers, a good diagnosis does not go hand in hand with good action. PiS promises a minimum hourly wage of 2,000. Gross. You say: 12 PLN, we say: You do not do favors to Poles, because it is not enough. If a good change is to be a real good change, as I already mentioned in my first reading, we believe that the minimum hourly rate for, among others. the contract staff should increase to at least 14 zlotys, and preferably if it were 15 zlotys. It must be, Minister, a real choice: either we make a little more per hour and we have less security, or this salary is a little lower, but there is a fixed employment contract. [[Voice from the room: 8 years.]] I repeat: we all remember your promises made during the election campaign. It is important to take into account some dynamics, and this is not just about the dynamics of staff changes in state institutions, because here, as we know, you are going to the world record. So think seriously about non-retirement workers, and if you want them to feel better about their conditions, write down the minimum wage according to our proposals. I'm about to hand over the Marshal's amendment to that sound. The Polish People's Party Club will support this law. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-sejm-22-2.u225	Thank you very much. On behalf of Mrs Małgorzata Zwierzan's Free and Solidarni Circle. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-sejm-22-2.u226	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! On behalf of the Freedom and Solidarnia Circle, I present my position on the Act amending the Act on Minimum Compensation for Work and some other laws. The minimum wage law is generally accepted and expected, as is the increase in the minimum wage itself. This initiative promotes the improvement of the standard of life of Poles. We often talk in this House about adapting our law and other areas of life to European standards. We have already achieved this in many areas, but there are also some negligence. For example, most prices in our stores are comparable to prices in other European countries, but it is completely different with wages. Employers are eager to boast that their income is equal to and sometimes even greater than European standards, but they do not mention the level of income of their employees, and these are often very low and do not conform to European standards. The bill is designed to increase the wealth of the least earning citizens of our country. I repeat my opinion from the first reading: Poles deserve a better life, and honest work for a decent salary, which will bring us closer to the goal of saying: the wealth of the state is the wealth of its citizens. Following this message, let us take the next step and finish working on the bill as soon as possible. About Free and Solidarni supports the bill. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-sejm-22-2.u227	Thank you very much. 17 people, ladies and gentlemen of the Members joined the questions. I'm closing the list of questions. I'm setting the time for questioning - one minute. [[Voice from the room: One and a half.]] Please, Mrs Ewa Tomaszewska from the Law and Justice Club is the first.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-sejm-22-2.u228	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! First of all, I would like to thank you for abolishing the discriminatory provisions of young workers with short work experience in this law. This was contrary to the provisions of the International Labour Organisation Convention ratified by Poland. On the other hand, I would like to ask whether the provisions of the Act block sufficiently the possibility of the use of wages lower than the minimum wage in tenders, because this will condition the fair conduct of tenders on the market and the chances for honest employers to win the right contracts. [[♪ The bell ♪]] I would just like to pass on the proposal to the modern Member, or rather ask if she was interested in the price of carrots, for example. Research by the Institute of Labour and Social Affairs...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-sejm-22-2.u229	Thank you very much, Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-sejm-22-2.u230	...as to whether this price should be taken into account according to the place of residence...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-sejm-22-2.u231	The question is now asked by Małgorzata Płępek...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-sejm-22-2.u232	...or according to the place of employment. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-sejm-22-2.u233	...from the Civic Platform Parliamentary Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-sejm-22-2.u234	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Today's Minimum Compensation Act provides for the abolition of the possibility of paying up to 80% of the number of people in employment in the same year. minimum wage. Employment of young workers by calculation may cost more than 35% as a result of these changes More. In my view, this may block many young people from starting their jobs and increasing their proportion among the unemployed. Legislation relating to minimum remuneration must not block the chances of starting a first job and acquiring professional competence. I therefore ask the applicants: Have the risks I am talking about in relation to the plans to increase the minimum wage been identified in the course of the work on the Law? How will they be prevented? Nevertheless, I believe that the idea is right, all the more so because we are implementing the Civil Platform programme. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-sejm-22-2.u235	Thank you very much. Now the question is asked by Mr Tomasz Kostus from the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-sejm-22-2.u236	Dear Marshal, Minister! The raising of the minimum wage and the extension of its scope always have a double effect - on the one hand, it determines the level of remuneration, and on the other, it affects the volume of supply and demand for labour. Hence the questions. Did the authors of the project take into account the number of persons currently employed under a contract or service contract receiving a remuneration lower than 12 PLN per hour based on data e.g. PIT base? Has an analysis been made of the impact of the impact assessment of the introduction of the minimum wage in the proposed form on the various sectors of the economy? Did the large wage differentiation, as the predecessor said, take into account at the level of individual regions and voivodships, putting together e.g. Mazowieckie Voivodship and Podlasie? Finally, are there calculations of the costs and consequences for micro and small enterprises, [[♪ The bell ♪]] What will Polish craftsmen carry? On this occasion, it is worth noting that the proposed change is important and necessary, and its adoption and implementation is part of the Civic Platform programme. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-sejm-22-2.u237	Thank you very much. Now the question is asked by Mrs Marta Golbik from the Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-sejm-22-2.u238	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! For starters, I have to refer to what I heard today. We have simple information and a message about what Polish politics has been like for some time now. The members of the Civic Platform say that they have talked about it, but they have not introduced it, that is, they have done nothing, while the Members of the Law and Justice make such changes quickly, in an underdeveloped way. Ladies and gentlemen, this is not how it works. Of course, we would all like Poles to make more money, but it does not work that if we introduce a minimum rate today, we will increase it, then everyone will start to earn more. Studies show that in 2002 and 2013 an average of 116 thousand. people lost their jobs every year as a result of minimum wage, including 39% persons under the age of 30. Aren't you concerned that the regulations introduced, in particular the increase in the minimum wage alone, will not significantly affect employment, especially the employment of people with lower qualifications? [[♪ The bell ♪]] And first of all, do you not think that these changes will not affect those big corporations that can handle it, but will affect these smallest companies...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-sejm-22-2.u239	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-sejm-22-2.u240	...that one-man business activity? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-sejm-22-2.u241	Now the question is asked by Mrs Izabela Katarzyna Mrzygłock, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-sejm-22-2.u242	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! During my first reading, I reported my doubts about the circumvention of the law. I signaled to eliminate them at the procession stage. Art. The 4th contested law contains provisions relating to the article. 90 Public Procurement Law. Unfortunately, the current wording of the article. 4 causes the rules on the protection of fair competition to be infringed. This is about situations where the customer uses e.g. employment of workers whose employment involves obtaining public aid. This in turn allows you to offer with significantly reduced labour costs. The contracting entity purchases labour costs less the value of potential state aid, which allows it to offer a lower price. Is the Ministry [[♪ The bell ♪]] is planning any action to prevent dishonesty, to increase the grey economy, so that the rules on the protection of fair competition remain intact? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-sejm-22-2.u243	Thank you very much, Member. Now the question is asked by Mrs Paulina Hennig-Kloska from the Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-sejm-22-2.u244	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Minister! I understand that money is very easy to spend, especially not its own, and it is even easier to spend at a time when, by the way, revenue is increasing into the state budget for the missing money on electoral promises. But I have a question for the Minister because we haven't heard the answer all the time. Have you already told all the merchants at the marketplaces, taxi drivers, shoemakers, hairdressers and other craftsmen who work daily for their wages, that you are just increasing their labour costs, that you are increasing their labour costs by about 10% ? Today, a self-employed person whose monthly profits are 2 000. PLN, half of this amount pays to the State for benefits to the Social Security Office, for taxes. And today we're increasing it even more. The peak of hypocrisy is to promise in the campaign to reduce labour costs and to increase them by the first law. [[♪ The bell ♪]] You must be aware that you are leading another 2 million Poles to leave our country. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-sejm-22-2.u245	Thank you very much. Now you are asking Mr Grzegorz Furgo from the Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-sejm-22-2.u246	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! I will also tell you - because it would be illogical - that surely every one of us in this House would want workers to earn as much as possible. But did you learn from the situation of the countries that introduced the minimum wage at home? We often model ourselves in Hungary. In Hungary, a minimum wage was introduced in 2001 and 2002 - from 31 to 41%, but, ladies and gentlemen, this has led to a decline in the demand for low-skilled workers by 6% and in the poorer regions by 10%. The project was indeed the result of such populist policies of the governing party. I'm afraid it won't be in our house either. Average employee, Pole hears one slogan: we will earn more, but do you give any guarantee, [[♪ The bell ♪]] that these young people who are just entering the market and the less qualified workers will not experience the introduction of minimum wage...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-sejm-22-2.u247	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-sejm-22-2.u248	...emergences of employment restrictions? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-sejm-22-2.u249	Now the question is asked by Mrs Urszula Ruseck of the Law and Justice Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-sejm-22-2.u250	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I have two questions. Were the contracts carried out by the receiving or providing services to the trader or to another organisational unit within the framework of the activities carried out by those entities covered by the procedure? Second question: Does the Act provide for special protection of the minimum hourly rate in the form of a ban on the waiver of the right to remuneration resulting from the minimum hourly rate and the transfer of it to another person? Such provisions, together with the obligation to pay remuneration in monetary form, will protect the payer's income and protect against fraud and attempts to circumvent the regulations introduced. Just a little while longer, because I have some time, I'd like to refer to modern economists. I very much suggest cleaning for 12 hours at a price of 4.5, and this is not the lowest rate on the market. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-sejm-22-2.u251	Thank you. Now the question is asked by Mrs Bożena Borys-Raccoon, club Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-sejm-22-2.u252	Thank you very much. Dear Marshal, Dear Minister, Will the guarantee of a minimum hourly rate for workers on the basis of civil law contracts help to counter the circumvention of labour law and, at the same time, ensure that workers are remunerated on the basis of such contracts corresponding to the workload? Is the example of a security worker whose contract was so constructed that the wage rate for the first 40 hours was 25 gr and for the remaining 5.90 hours, so that in order to earn an amount corresponding to even a minimum salary for the job, this man would have to work several hundred hours a month, will he become history? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-sejm-22-2.u253	Thank you very much. Now the question is asked by Mr Jerzy Meysztowicz, the Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-sejm-22-2.u254	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I have a question: Is this help for the least earners, or is this another racket you want to rip off from micro, small and medium-sized enterprises, crafts companies? After all, when it comes to these 150 zlotys, because the minimum wage will increase, 70 zlotys, ladies and gentlemen, these are the costs that will have to be paid to the state budget. The state simply imposes another tax on entrepreneurs who sometimes barely make ends meet. 70 PLN is what you are probably missing from the 500+ programme. Given this, we have to assume that this is no longer a 500+ program, only 430 PLN, because 70 PLN will be paid by Polish entrepreneurs. Congratulations, great idea. And for a good cause, we're all interested in making as much money as possible. Instead of removing the burden on small and small businesses, making their lives easier for them to function better and pay more money, the state is once again skinning them. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-sejm-22-2.u255	The question is raised by Mr Andrzej Kryj of the Law and Justice Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-sejm-22-2.u256	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! The amendments proposed by the government by Prime Minister Beata Szydło to the Act on Minimum Compensation for Work and some other laws are expected by many thousands of Polish workers. So this is for them, and we can have no doubt about it, a good change. For those people who worked for a few zlotys an hour, who were forced to agree to circumvent the law, this is a good change. There are arguments here that for some companies these changes will mean that they will flee into the grey zone, that in this way they will want to minimize their costs. I'd like to ask the Minister. How does the Ministry intend to counter such phenomena as the circumvention of this law and the escape of parts of companies into the grey zone? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-sejm-22-2.u257	Thank you very much. Now you are asking Wojciech Buczak, the Law and Justice Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-sejm-22-2.u258	Mr. Marshal! Minister! (PL) Mr President, NSZZ.Solidarity! High Izbo! Indeed, this is a good change in the attitude of the government, in terms of the proposed proposal, another proposal to increase the minimum wage and in general the wages of Polish workers. What is important and positive, there is a positive change in the attitude of politicians, certainly the Civic Platform, despite all this PSL, because despite the total criticism of this project, even the invective, the club declares its support for this law. Unfortunately, this good change is ripened by the Modern, because as I hear again the proposal to differentiate Poles, to even discriminate against some, for example. For living in the eastern territories, and for this reason they are to continue to have lower wages, I really wonder why such proposals are being made. Hence the question to the Minister. What is the position of the Polish government on attempts to discriminate against Poles, [[♪ The bell ♪]] What about the salary? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-sejm-22-2.u259	Thank you. The question is asked by Rafał Weber, the Law and Justice Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-sejm-22-2.u260	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! It is difficult not to refer to those words which fall on the part of Members and Members of the Modern Club. I will skip most of them, but I will stop at the speech of the Member who presented the position of the club. This was mentioned by Wojciech Buczak, a moment ago, about the carrot you mentioned here, and the differentiation of the minimum rate for those who work in agriculture and sell carrots in Warsaw, and you gave an example of White Podlaskie. Madame, a truly outrageous statement. That's a scandalous statement. You are a supporter of the concreteing of this system, which began to function under the rule of the Civic Platform and PSL, i.e. the division of Poland into Poland A and on this worse Poland, Poland B. You are in favour of building a better division into Poland, including larger cities, and worse Poland, including smaller cities. I'm from Podkarpacie. Welcome to Niska, to Rudnik nad Sanem, to Zaleszan, Zaklikova, Radomyśla nad Sanem. [[♪ The bell ♪]] That's where carrots are sold. But those who do this should not make less money than those who sell it in Warsaw. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-sejm-22-2.u261	Thank you. The question is asked by Mr Jan Mosiński from the Law and Justice Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-sejm-22-2.u262	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Dear Members of the opposition! You don't defend, I'm talking about the modern business of small and medium-sized companies. You're defending the gray area. It is currently estimated at PLN 240 billion, or 12.5% GDP. That's what this is all about. It is not a concern that the employer raises its operating costs. That's one thing. Secondly, with all due respect to Mrs Augustynowska, but neither in the subcommittee nor in the committee did you make proposals that were so far-reaching - for example, the one who fell from this speaker - to reject the draft law in its entirety. I understand that this is some magical place, maybe here we change our attitudes by 180 degrees, but we consistently implement what we told Poles during the election campaign. We want to improve their existence. How long can you work for a bowl of rice? [[Voice from the room: Bravo.]] Minister, I have a question for the Minister as an applicant: Do the Ministry believe that a minimum hourly rate should be introduced [[♪ The bell ♪]] is it really gonna limit the influence of the gray zone? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-sejm-22-2.u263	Thank you. In the procedure of correcting Mrs Joanna Augustynowska, who was mentioned by name.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-sejm-22-2.u264	I've been named twice. Ladies and gentlemen! It's hard working with you in committee when, first of all, you don't listen to what you're saying. Yesterday, my draft amendment to the committee was rejected, simply voted out. Any attempt to convert and correct errors that may cause confusion may raise legal doubts in interpretation - and you do not even take that into account. You have a project prepared, guidelines that this is meant to be in this form, end and end. So there's no discussion. I do not know if the rapporteur has a short memory, but we have discussed it, we have talked about our doubts. So I'm asking you here in front of the cameras not to do a big show, because really insulting isn't in good taste... [[We do not insult the Member.]] ...and I personally don't wish for it. That's one thing. It's still for you, sir. If you think a carrot... it tastes the same in every place. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Production costs are the same, but e.g. property costs or other costs... You have to read the economy...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-sejm-22-2.u265	Thank you very much, Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-sejm-22-2.u266	...you need to find out what these things are, and then you'll know that different stakes...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-sejm-22-2.u267	The question you are asking is...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-sejm-22-2.u268	...they can only turn the economy around and make better... [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-sejm-22-2.u269	... Rafał Wójcikowski from the Kukiz club15. You're welcome. [[Voice from the room: As part of the corrigendum.]] [[I didn't mention it by name.]] [[The voice from the hall: I didn't replace you either.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-sejm-22-2.u270	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Government state! The declarative objectives and the real objectives, which are the reason for the change of law, are the reason for the new laws, they are also the reason for the new rates per hour, the pay per hour of work, are unfortunately divergent. And in your case, you can see that. A declarative goal is to help the poorest, so they can make more money. But the actual goal is to save ZUS from bankruptcy, because the same amount on this bill will benefit the poorest as the bankrupt Social Insurance Institution. My question is as follows and I ask you to answer in writing: In the next 3 years, what will be the impact of this law on increasing the proceeds to the Social Insurance Institution? I would like to see what the real, real objectives of this law are. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-sejm-22-2.u271	Thank you very much. Now the question is asked by Mr Tomasz Jaskóla, the Kukiz Club15.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-sejm-22-2.u272	Dear Marshal, Socialists Believers and Unbelievers! I would like to ask immediately: How much more revenue will be added to the budget, to the Treasury for raising the minimum wage? Ladies and gentlemen! Of course, each of us wants the Poles to earn as much as possible, and I would like them to earn 30 PLN per hour or 50 PLN. But the Swiss rejected such a vision and did not have a minimum wage. However, you are showing here that entrepreneurs are the enemies of employees, by putting these two groups at each other's disposal. And now I'm going to explain to you because most of this parliament wouldn't be able to run a company for six months, not even a carrot kiosk. You'd be busted if it wasn't for your political party guys who are getting you a job. It's real economic knowledge now. [[Applause]] [[I've been running the company for 26 years. Talk about yourself. Talk about yourself.]] 2500 PLN gross - we pay 1880 PLN to the employee, ladies and gentlemen, and 1100 PLN takes ZUS. Ladies and gentlemen, then 1800 zł [[♪ The bell ♪]] You steal, we give you 1800 employees. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[I've heard from Libertine.]] I am not a libertine, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-sejm-22-2.u273	The question is asked by Krzysztof Sitarski, Kukiz.15 [[Voice from the room: Coalition was created a new - Modern with Kukiz. Indeed.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-sejm-22-2.u274	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! (PL) Mr President, I would like to ask you a few questions. I have a question that concerns an order agreement between individuals. If the contract is also concluded between natural persons not engaged in economic activities, do the principal and contractor draw up the contract and implement it including payment of the minimum wage, the minimum wage from 1 January 2017? That's a question. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-sejm-22-2.u275	Thank you. That was the last question. The list of Members registered in the vote has been exhausted. We would like to hear from the Secretary of State at the Ministry of Family, Labour and Social Policy of Minister Stanisław Swed. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-sejm-22-2.u276	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I am very pleased that today, on behalf of our government, I can inform the public that we are finishing work on a very important law - a law for which at least 1.5 million workers are expected to work under scandalous conditions today, at scandalous rates. I'm gonna start by showing you who performed here, order agreements, and I'm gonna read what's at stake so we know what we're talking about. The basic remuneration for the contract is PLN 0,25 gross for 1 man-hour for the first 40 hours of the month. 25 gr. If you want to make that money, go ahead. Then 5,99 for the next hours. That's the problem. I'm glad you're talking about these things today. Let the Poles see who they are dealing with in this Seym, to put it straight, because if you are questioning today that we want to civilise it and we have the right and the duty as a state to protect those who have the lowest wages, to protect those who work, but live in poverty or have nothing to live from, then I think you have presented your position. Madame, you had every right to speak on the committee yesterday. We've made some adjustments. Even with regard to the final solution itself, you abstained, you did not vote against it. [[Yes, sir.]] Today, I understand the position of the club is different, I respect it, you have the right to it, but don't use completely nonsense arguments about this bill that we want to save some budget or other issues here. If so, what would be the purpose of the PSL proposal to raise this amount? On the one hand, the honourable Member criticises the fact that we want to save the budget and, on the other hand, makes a proposal to raise this rate. Be logical about everything you say. Let me repeat: this is to safeguard fundamental interests, workers' rights and workers' rights, so that scandalous rates that have been applied are not taken into account. You're saying populists. If so, we are among the populists of employers' organisations: Leviatan, Business Centre Club and employers' confederation, because these are those organisations that supported this project, which in the position of the Council of Social Dialogue adopted a joint resolution with the union party, that this proposal is accepted. [[Applause]] Taking advantage of the fact that he is present with us today, President of the Social Dialogue Council, President of the Solidarity Council, Piotr Duda, thank you very much for the first time that the Social Dialogue Council has adopted a joint resolution and has supported these solutions and has also adopted three proposals that the government has accepted. The first, for the Act to enter into force from 1 January 2017, so that there is time to prepare for this amendment, for this amendment. The second, so that this rate is valued, and thanks to the decision of the Polish government that the minimum wage will be at the level of 12 PLN, the hourly minimum wage will increase to 13 PLN. And the third, so as not to include the benefits for working in the night. This is the compromise that signed... If anyone doesn't know which organisations are on the Social Dialogue Council, I remind you: four employers' organisations - three I mentioned, there is a Craft, which you also mentioned here. You said - and three trade union organizations: Solvency, OPZZ and Forum. All seven organisations explicitly supported this project. This is the solution you're talking about. If we're being accused of wanting a budget or something... The basic condition is that we civilize working conditions, that's the main objective. Of course, no one is going to say responsibly today that we are able to stop or change this law all pathological situations, but this is a signal for society. If we speak together, in one language, and we do not say such, for apology, nonsense, as you said here, then this signal will be clear to everyone that the rate of 12 PLN is a minimum. We're talking about a minimum, we're not talking about other amounts, we're talking about a minimum amount. In addition, the issue we are talking about regarding the minimum gross rate, i.e. taxes still need to be deducted. This is the issue we want to address. It was a voice addressed to those who believe that everything we propose is wrong. Some people here admitted that these were their ideas. Let me repeat: The law and justice are fulfilling another promise that we made before the elections, which Poles expect, the workers expect, and this is the good change that we are making. With regard to individual questions, I would like to say with regard to unemployment issues that we have today's latest figures on unemployment. In June, unemployment was 8.8% - is the lowest level since 2008 - including the fall in unemployment among the youngest, up to the age of 30 or up to the age of 25. If we use the Eurostat scale, we have 6.7% unemployment and we are among the 10 European countries where unemployment is lowest. This is the moment when we can and should make a change and we are making it when it comes to these issues that some of you have raised, 80% the minimum wage for the first year of work, which we change, we introduce the rule that everyone is to receive the minimum wage at the start of the job, and not the way it has been. This change is important and it will not result in an increase in unemployment, even the opposite, this situation on the labour market is definitely improving. So, to sum up, to everyone who worked... There's one more thing. This process of working on the law with the Social Dialogue Council, but also in all possible ways was consulted, negotiated so that we could find the best solution. There was a question about public procurement. We have a positive opinion of the Public Procurement Office for this project. There were various proposals. This was mentioned by the president of the subcommittee and by the rapporteur, Mr Mosiński. We were looking for the best solution. It seems that this proposal goes in this direction to maximize the sealing system. We have also written down issues concerning exemptions where this rate should not be applied. This rate will not be applied at the fair. Someone was afraid the fair would grow. This rate does not apply to those who trade at the fair. So, in conclusion, I would like to thank the President, the rapporteur of this committee, the members of the entire social policy committee, who have been actively involved in the work. Once again, I thank the entire Social Dialogue Council for its active attitude and for the fact that we can conclude this process today. We still have an amendment that we will see at the meeting. Tomorrow, I hope, we'll vote on a very good change, introducing a 13-gold price per hour for the contract. For this, as I said, once again, thank you very much to everyone. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-sejm-22-2.u277	Thank you very much. Does the rapporteur of the committee want to speak? No, I understand. [[No, no. Thank you. Excuse me.]] Thank you very much. [[Mr. Marshal, the corrigendum.]] You weren't mentioned by name. You weren't mentioned. The list of MEPs has already been exhausted. The discussion is closed. In view of the fact that, at the time of the second reading, an amendment was tabled to the proposed bill and the proposal to reject the draft law in its entirety, I propose that the Sejm re-direct this proposal to the Committee on Social Policy and the Family in order to present a report. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. We proceed with the examination of item 18 of the agenda: the report of the Committee on National Defence and the Committee on Foreign Affairs on the Government's draft Act on the ratification of the Protocol to the North Atlantic Treaty on Montenegro's accession, signed in Brussels on 19 May 2016 (prints Nos 645 and 676). I ask Mr Rafał Weber to present a report to the committee. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-sejm-22-2.u278	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Gentlemen of Ministers! High Izbo! Yesterday, the Joint Committees: the Committee on National Defence and the Committee on Foreign Affairs carried out the first reading of the Government's draft Act on the ratification of the Protocol to the North Atlantic Treaty on Montenegro's accession, signed in Brussels on 19 May 2016, and considered this draft. It is contained in print No 645. I have the honour of presenting the committee's position on behalf of both committees. High Izbo! The joint committees discussed this law. I admit this discussion wasn't very long. In fact, there were two questions at the meeting. One concerned Poland, in turn, in the event of ratification of this agreement for Montenegro, and the other concerned the Russian influence in that country. Both questions were answered by Minister Marek Ziółkowski and Ambassador Ramiz Bašić of Montenegro. As for the first question, we will be the seventh country to ratify the agreement between the North Atlantic Pact and Montenegro. On the other hand, as regards the second question, Mr Ambassador explained in detail that Russian business, Russian capital is slowly moving out of Montenegro. This is due to the fact that the Russian oligarchs, however it sounds, have financial problems, they are simply fleeing to their country because they are having problems with capital. After this discussion, Mr President moved on to the vote. And it is my pleasure to present the results of this vote. The joint committees unanimously welcomed the draft law submitted. All the parliamentarians present at this meeting, and there were 34 of us, voted in favour of a positive opinion. There were no votes against, no abstentions. So that Montenegro is one step at a time approaching becoming a member of the North Atlantic Alliance. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-sejm-22-2.u279	Thank you very much. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would listen to the five-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and the circle. I'm opening a discussion. Mr Wojciech Buczak will be the first to speak on behalf of Parliamentary Club Law and Justice. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-sejm-22-2.u280	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, Law and Justice, I have the honour to present the position of the club vis-à-vis the draft Act on the ratification of the Protocol to the North Atlantic Treaty on Montenegro's accession, signed in Brussels on 19 May 2016. The Act, which the Law and Justice Club supports, agrees that the President of the Republic of Poland ratifys the Protocol to the North Atlantic Treaty. The decision to accept Montenegro to NATO was taken by NATO Foreign Ministers on 2 December 2014. It is an expression of strengthening and unifying the European continent. It is a continuation of an open-door policy supported by law and justice. As a consequence of Montenegro's accession, NATO will extend its security guarantees to the next Western Balkan country, thus expanding the area of security and stability in Europe and reducing Russian influence in this region of Europe. Montenegro's membership in NATO will not only contribute to the country's security but will also be fundamental to the stabilisation of the whole Western Balkans region. Moreover, it is of major strategic importance that the Alliance will control the entire coastline of the Adriatic Sea basin from the moment of Montenegro's accession to NATO. Although it is a small country and only 10 years ago it gained independence, it has made a huge reform effort in the political, economic and security and defence sphere. Montenegro's armed forces have sufficient capacity to adapt efficiently to the requirements of allies. Montenegro sees Poland as the leader of the region of Central Europe and its ally, as confirmed by Minister Witold Waszczykowski's visit to Podgorica in May this year. The Montenegrin Party has repeatedly signaled that it wants Poland as the host of the NATO Summit and a country that strongly supports the invitation of this country to the Alliance to be one of the first countries to ratify the accession protocol. The rapid ratification of the Protocol and the adoption of Montenegro to NATO will effectively close the discussion on Russia's possible destabilising action towards this country. The entry into force of the protocol will not have social, economic, financial or legal consequences for Poland and does not require additional sources of funding. However, it will have a positive geopolitical and international impact on our country due to the further strengthening and expansion of the area of stability and military cooperation between the countries of this region of Europe. Parliamentary Club Law and Justice will vote in favour of this law. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-sejm-22-2.u281	Thank you very much. Mr Cezary Grabarczyk will now speak on behalf of the Civic Platform Parliamentary Club. You're welcome, Marshal.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-sejm-22-2.u282	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! The debate we are having today is, in fact, about extending NATO to another member, a country that has recently gained independence, because in 2006, it is a country that is located in a strategically important region of the Balkans Peninsula. But the decision that we are going to make is at an important moment, because we are counting down the hours until the beginning of the NATO summit, where leaders, as well as heads of government, NATO Member States' defence ministers will take part. And here comes the world of the signal that NATO is leading an open door policy, that NATO is a living pact, a defence pact, which is gaining another member, as I said, in a strategically important region. This is also a signal for those who would like to stop NATO from expanding into new members. This is a message that no outsider will be able to review the policies of NATO Member States effectively, but also cannot claim to stop NATO foreign ministers from deciding to expand their membership. The decision to accept Montenegro to NATO was made in December 2014. It is worth highlighting this fact, as continuity deserves to be emphasised. The Government of the Coalition of the Civic Platform and the Polish People's Party participated in this decision, the Government of Law and Justice maintains this decision. I welcome the fact that, just before the beginning of the NATO Summit, we are proceeding with a law that represents a step in the process of ratifying the Protocol to the North Atlantic Treaty on Montenegro's accession. The Civic Platform Club will support this bill in the vote. I hope the High House will adopt this law unanimously. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-sejm-22-2.u283	Thank you very much. Mr Grzegorz Długi will now speak on behalf of the Kukiz Club15. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-sejm-22-2.u284	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Referring to the matter of the atmosphere that my previous speaker concluded, I wanted to say that this is actually a good time, a good day and a good moment in our parliament, that we are talking about the next step in implementing the open door. Montenegro, many of us It was probably there, one of the most beautiful countries in Europe, inhabited by people who are close to us in many ways, who are our brothers, who are very hospitable. We have to be hospitable too, we want them to be in the same club with us. What kind of NATO club is this? What are the objectives of this NATO? Are they the same as our targets? This has long been solved for happiness: security, stability, democracy. On this democracy, I will remind you, the preamble to the North Atlantic Treaty says something like this: there are countries that are determined to protect freedom, common heritage and civilization of their peoples, based on the principles of democracy, individual freedom and the rule of law. In other words, our participation in this club requires us to maintain these rules and defend these rules elsewhere, but we also hope that all other members of this club will approach these values in a similar way. There is international recognition that Montenegro has fulfilled these conditions. The people of Montenegro have done their hard work to convince each other. Take into account that in this country, however, certain sympathies were not necessarily pronatative, especially after the time when NATO was treated in one way or another as a brother to the Montenegros, and also as a brother to Serbia for us. It was therefore hard work to convince the people of Montenegro that the road to a common Europe, a joint defence club such as NATO, is also a road for Montenegro. We are pleased that they have come to this sentence and have submitted their contributions to this organization. The geopolitical targets were already presented here by my previous speaker, who represented the applicants. They are clear, obvious and necessary. Unfortunately, I do not speak the language, but I will say in Polish: Welcome, Montenegro, in this club, we invite you to this club and we are happy to be together. We're also happy that... Maybe it's not like the previous speaker said we're worried about the destabilization that Russia can lead. NATO is not a pact against Russia, NATO is a pact aimed at our common security. Therefore, these people, these Russian yachts standing in the Black Sea ports, do not have to worry, they will still be welcome there, at least as long as they share the same values. I am also pleased - as I have already mentioned - that we have a unique opportunity to treat our interests side-by-side. No more games. Montenegro is an interest All of us, to be with us, and we don't have to worry about who's from what party. I'll join you in what the Minister said before me. Let's make this vote unanimous. If we can convince all Members, it will also be a very good signal to Montenegro that their work - each of them - had to convince each other to a common Europe, to a common defence - that it was worthwhile and that we here will welcome them to NATO. The Kukiz Club will be happy to support this law in its entirety. Thank you. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-sejm-22-2.u285	Thank you very much. Mr Adam Cyranski will now speak on behalf of the club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-sejm-22-2.u286	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I was honoured to present the position of the Poselski Club in relation to the draft Act on the ratification of the Protocol to the North Atlantic Treaty on Montenegro's accession, drawn up in Brussels on 19 May 2016. The bill contained in print No. 645 is not controversial and is fully accepted by members of the Modern Posel Club. We are therefore all the more pleased with the clear positive position of the Parliament's committees: the Committee on National Defence and the Committee on Foreign Affairs of 5 July, presented in the report in print No 676. The signing of the Protocol to the North Atlantic Treaty on Montenegro's accession by NATO Member States results directly from a decision taken in December 2015 in Brussels at the meeting of the Heads of Diplomacy of the North Atlantic Alliance States. The policy of expansion of NATO supported by Poland was - and is still - a tool for supporting the development of democracy in post-communist countries. The need to meet the conditions of accession, e.g. on the structure of the armed forces or the standards of civilian control over them, has accelerated the necessary reforms in the countries of the former Soviet bloc. In this way, this policy has contributed to the expansion of the stability and security zone in Europe. Wars fought between the countries of the former Yugoslavia in the 1990s. The 20th century shows that this process is needed. By adopting Montenegro, NATO will not only extend its security guarantees and strengthen its position in the region, but will also bear witness to its strength as an organisation, showing that the open door policy is still valid. This will further expand the security and stability zones of the entire Euro-Atlantic area. This process will also strengthen democratic structures in Montenegro by imposing a duty to respect common values and binding standards in internal and foreign policy. Montenegro's decision to join NATO is all the more enjoyable when it takes into account the social sentiments of the Alliance there. It shows how much civil awareness has developed in this country. At this point, it should be noted what work Montenegro has done for the last 10 years when it can enjoy independence. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Club Parliamentary Modern supports the bill submitted in print No 645. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-sejm-22-2.u287	Thank you. On behalf of the Polish People's Party Club, Mr Paweł Bejda. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-sejm-22-2.u288	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! The decision to accept Montenegro to NATO was taken by NATO Foreign Ministers at their session on 2 December 2014 and is a testimony to the will to strengthen and unify the European continent and encourages other countries aspiring to join in the continuation of reforms. Above all, however, it confirms the continuation of the open door policy, keeping the prospect for Georgia and in the future for Finland and Sweden, if these countries obviously decide to join the Alliance. As a consequence of Montenegro's accession, NATO will extend its security guarantees to the next Western Balkan country, thus expanding the area of security and stability in Europe. This process will strengthen democratic structures in the country by requiring it to comply with binding standards in internal and international policies. Montenegro's membership has a very important political dimension in terms of reducing Russian influence in the Western Balkans. By adopting Montenegro to NATO, we confirm that third countries do not have the right to a veto on the extension of this organisation. With the progressive inhibition of the Euro-Atlantic integration process and the growing influence of external partners in the Western Balkans, it is important to send a signal that the West is interested in this region. The integration of Montenegro with NATO and its negotiations with the European Union, which are moving rapidly, are positive examples for the whole region. This is particularly important for the neighbours of the country, Kosovo and Bosnia and Herzegovina, whose governments, despite their complex internal and external situation, declare their willingness to remain on the path of Euro-Atlantic integration. In this context, Montenegro's membership of NATO will not only contribute to the country's security but is also fundamental to the stabilisation of the whole Western Balkans region. Moreover, it is of major strategic importance that the Alliance will control the entire Adriatic coastline from the moment of Montenegro's accession to NATO. Montenegro is a small country and has recently gained independence because in 2006, but it has made a huge reform effort in the political, economic and security and defence spheres. Montenegro's armed forces have sufficient capacity to adapt efficiently to the requirements of allies. Montenegrin soldiers gain valuable experience in multi-national and bilateral exercises, including: with the United States of America. Montenegro has also declared its commitment to operations in Afghanistan. With the aim of maintaining the image and credibility of Poland as a country actively supporting the policy of open doors and one of the most important allies of Montenegro, it is advisable to carry out the ratification process as urgently as possible. It would be undoubtedly an image success if Poland, as a lawyer for NATO enlargement policy and host of NATO summit, were among the leaders of the most advanced countries in the process of ratifying Montenegro's accession protocol to NATO. The Polish People's Party will support the bill submitted. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-sejm-22-2.u289	Thank you very much. Małgorzata Zwierzan will now speak on behalf of the Free and Solidarni wheels. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-sejm-22-2.u290	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Members' Free and Solidarni Circle, I am pleased to present our position on the Government's draft Act on the ratification of the Protocol to the North Atlantic Treaty on Montenegro's accession, signed in Brussels on 19 May 2016. The adoption of Montenegro to NATO was agreed by NATO Foreign Ministers at their session on 2 December 2014. This decision is another way of strengthening and integrating Europe. NATO, allowing Montenegro to join the North Atlantic Treaty, also declares its openness to other European countries. Montenegro, as a place at risk of destabilisation from Russia, will gain a guarantee for itself, which will also help to maintain a balance of strength across Europe. This will also reduce Russian influence throughout the Western Balkans region. We must also remember that Montenegro is a country where European standards are being violated and democracy is not yet fully developed or respected. In this context too, Montenegro's integration into NATO and its negotiations with the European Union, which are moving rapidly, are positive examples for the region. The functioning of Montenegro in the NATO structure also makes it possible to set an example for Kosovo and Bosnia and Herzegovina, which would also like to integrate into the North Atlantic Alliance. It is not without significance that, once Montenegro is admitted to NATO, the Alliance will control the entire coastline of the Adriatic Sea basin. This is an important result of integration of even strategic importance. I think it is also worth agreeing to Montenegro's expectations, which expects Poland to be one of the first Member States to ratify the accession protocol. This will highlight Poland's role as the leader of the region of Central Europe. I believe that we should make every effort to get Poland to ratify the protocol as soon as possible, also because the geopolitical and international consequences of further strengthening and expanding the area of stability and military cooperation between the countries of this region of Europe are extremely beneficial for our country. The Free and Solidarni Circle supports the further proceding of the Government's draft Act on the ratification of the Protocol to the North Atlantic Treaty on Montenegro's accession, signed in Brussels on 19 May 2016. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-sejm-22-2.u291	Thank you very much. One Member has joined the question. I'm closing the list of people who've been saved to ask questions. I'm setting a question time for one minute. Mrs Małgorzata Zwierzan, near Free and Solidarni. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-sejm-22-2.u292	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have no doubt that the rapid ratification of the Protocol to the North Atlantic Treaty on Montenegro's accession, signed in Brussels on 19 May 2016, is necessary. I would like to be informed whether bilateral cooperation agreements have been concluded in connection with the envisaged accession of Montenegro. Has such cooperation been established, for example, in the use of the ports of Montenegro during training cruises of Polish fleet ships, which, although rarely, are moving into those areas? Has action been taken on strengthening economic cooperation? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-sejm-22-2.u293	Thank you very much. Mr Marek Ziółkowski, Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, will now speak. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-sejm-22-2.u294	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Thank you kindly for the debate on the draft law on Montenegro's accession to the North Atlantic Alliance. Thank you for almost unanimous support for this government proposal. We hope that, indeed, as the rapporteur mentioned, we, as the seventh country, ratify this act of joining Montenegro to the North Atlantic Alliance. For us this is important from the point of view - as the representatives of the clubs emphasized, for which I thank you very much - the policy of the open door, which we are one of the first beneficiaries, should indeed continue. We hope that during the next ministerial meetings or the next NATO summits there will be an opportunity to adopt further members of the Alliance. In answer to Mrs Zwierzan's question, there are not yet bilateral defence agreements with Montenegro. In the coming months - as long as Montenegro becomes a more attractive country for us in bilateral relations in this area by including it in the Alliance - we will try to conclude such agreements. Thank you very much, thank you kindly.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-sejm-22-2.u295	Thank you very much. The discussion is closed. We will proceed to the third reading of the bill in the voting block. We proceed with the examination of item 19 of the agenda: Report of the Committee on Physical Culture, Sports and Tourism on the draft law amending the Sports Act (prints Nos 627 and 663). I ask Mr Jarosław Nobletka to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-sejm-22-2.u296	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! As rapporteur, I would like to present a report by the Committee on Physical Culture, Sports and Tourism on the draft law amending the Sports Act. The Commission discussed the project during the previous meeting of the Sejm, i.e. on 23 June 2016 Following the first reading of the Committee on Physical Culture, Sport and Tourism, following the adoption and adoption of certain amendments proposed, among others. through the Legislative Office brings to the Sejm the attached bill. The report, which came to me to present to the High Sejm, concerns the work carried out on the above mentioned. a draft law which provides for the amendment of certain provisions of the Act of 25 June 2010 on Sport, OJ No. U. z 2016 poz. 176, concerning the fight against doping in sport, contained above all in Chapter 9 of the Act. The proposed provisions aim primarily at ordering and regulating national arrangements for the establishment and implementation of disciplinary rules on doping in sport in a manner consistent with the principles of the World Anti-Doping Code. In order to comply with the principles of the Code, Poland is obliged by art. Article 4 (4) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013 shall apply. 1 of the International Convention against Doping in Sport, drawn up in Paris on 19 October 2005 Let me just remind you that the Convention is a comprehensive international agreement aimed at harmonising action to combat the use of prohibited means and methods by athletes. Signing and ratifying the Convention means that the authorities of the Republic of Poland have assumed responsibility for combating doping in our country. Ladies and gentlemen! The most important provisions in the proposed bill address the fundamental issues in the fight against doping. This is the establishment of a Commission for Combating Doping in Sport as an institution competent to establish and implement disciplinary rules on combating doping in sport, including the conduct of disciplinary proceedings. To date, these obligations have been fulfilled in different ways by Polish sports unions. Very often in disciplinary proceedings conducted by unions there have been irregularities, including penalties in a way that is grossly contrary to the provisions of their own disciplinary rules and the World Anti-Doping Code. After the amendment of the rules, Polish unions will be obliged to recognise and respect the disciplinary rules already established by the committee, which will also be responsible for implementing disciplinary responsibility for doping in sport. It was also necessary, ladies and gentlemen, to update the definition of doping in sport according to the most recent definition contained in the World Anti-Doping Code, which sets international standards in this respect. Therefore, the draft law defines the concept of doping in sport, and the proposed records are also updated and extended to recognise as a doping act the cooperation of an athlete with persons who have previously been suspended or sentenced as doping, including a trainer or a person from auxiliary staff. This is a record in the World Anti-Doping Code, which is a fallout of the loud case of the cyclist, Lance, Armstrong. The introduction of international standards for combating doping in sport into Polish legislation is nothing more than ensuring the protection of the fundamental right of athletes, players to participate in doping-free sport, and thus promoting health, fairness and equality of athletes at home and abroad, ensuring harmonised, coordinated and effective doping detection programmes, discouraging and preventing it at international and national level, expressing disapproval of all actions aimed at the use of banned substances and methods, finally reaching out to all those who fight for pure sport in line with the principle of fair play. Today's proposals are also a response to the development of new doping trends in Poland and the world, including the emergence of new substances and methods considered prohibited, and above all the fulfilment of the Polish Republic's commitment to the World Anti-Doping Agency. Achievement of compliance with the global anti-doping programme will certainly affect Poland's perception of Poland as a country actually implementing the anti-doping programme, the perception of the Polish state, Polish sports unions as reliable partners in the organisation of sporting events and competitions at national and international level. The lack of alignment of Polish law and compliance with the applicable rules laid down by WADA could result in the suspension of WADA accreditation of our anti-doping laboratory, suspension of the Commission's activities to combat Doping in Sport, which could result in a lack of possibility to organize international sports competitions in Poland or in questioning the purity of Polish sport, players of national representation, trainers, sports activists. As rapporteur for the Committee on Physical Culture, Sport and Tourism, but also on behalf of applicants, with a view to the well-being of Polish sports, athletes, professional athletes, their younger colleagues, their trainers, medical staff, parents and children and young people, who are particularly vulnerable to the use of prohibited substances and to the inappropriate use of dietary supplements, I ask the ladies and gentlemen of Members to treat and adopt this draft law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-sejm-22-2.u297	Thank you very much. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would listen to the five-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and the circle. I'm opening a discussion. Mr Marek Matuszewski will be the first to speak on behalf of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-sejm-22-2.u298	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! It has been my honour to present the position of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice on the parliamentary draft law amending the Sports Act, print No. 627, on the formulation of national arrangements for the establishment and implementation of disciplinary rules concerning doping in sport in a manner consistent with the principles of the World Anti-Doping Code, the Convention against Doping in sport drawn up in Paris on 19 October 2005. I would like to point out that the legislative measures proposed in the above mentioned paragraph. The project aims to deprive Polish sports unions of the competence to establish and implement disciplinary rules on doping in sport and to impose an obligation on Polish sports unions to recognise and apply the rules established by the Commission for Combating Doping in Sport. The amendment also excludes the application of rules on disciplinary liability and dispute settlement. Disciplinary for doping in sport and modification of the definition of doping and criminal provision for administering prohibited substances to a minor. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! In view of the above, the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice expresses its full acceptance of the Parliamentary draft Act amending the Sports Act in print No 627 and No 663, and fully supports the proposed amendments. At the same time, on behalf of the Law and Justice Club, I would like to make two amendments. Amendment 1. It is proposed in Article. 1 point (1) (a) b the draft shall be worded as Article. Article 13 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 5 point 5 of the Sports Act: Polish sports union recognises and respects the rules referred to in Article. Article 44 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 5 (5). The Commission for Combating Doping in Sport has the exclusive right to implement these rules. Reason. The amendment seeks to amend the wording of the proposed Article. Article 13 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 5 Sports Act. This provision in its current form leads to the conclusion that the Polish unions will apply in practice, enforce the disciplinary rules established by the Commission for Combating Doping in Sport, while the Commission for Combating Doping in Sport should be responsible for establishing and implementing these rules on doping in sport as the body competent to carry out anti-doping control in accordance with Article. 7.1 The World Anti-Doping Code, which Article requires. 4 the International Convention against Doping in Sport, to which Poland is a party. On the other hand, Polish sports unions should recognise and respect these rules. Amendment 2. Article 1 is proposed. 2nd draft: The provisions of the Act referred to in Article shall apply to disciplinary proceedings concerning doping in sport initiated before the date of entry into force of this Act. 1, in the current version. Reason. The amendment aims to extend the scope of the transitional provision to all disciplinary proceedings initiated before the date of entry into force of the proposed law. The current proposal for a provision is limited to proceedings initiated on the basis of a complaint brought by the World Anti-Doping Agency to the Court of Arbitration for Sports. Thank you very much for your attention and I give the Marshal the text of the amendments.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-sejm-22-2.u299	Thank you very much. Mr Adam Korol will now speak on behalf of the Civic Platform Parliamentary Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-sejm-22-2.u300	Dear Marshal, Minister! Honourable Members! On behalf of the Civic Platform Club, I am pleased to present my position on the parliamentary draft law amending the Sports Act, print no. 627. The proposal provides for the modification of certain provisions of the Act of 25 June 2010 on combating doping in sport. The proposed changes to the rules aim primarily at regulating disciplinary issues related to doping in sport. It is about adapting the Polish law to international standards, including above all to the World Anti-Doping Code. First of all, the issues of establishing and implementing disciplinary rules related to doping in sport are excluded from the powers of the Polish Sports Association. This role is taken over by the Commission for Combating Doping in Sport as an entity responsible for anti-doping control. This amendment aims at shaping national arrangements for the establishment and implementation of disciplinary rules on doping in sport in a manner consistent with the principles of the World Anti-Doping Code, to which Poland is bound by the Article of the International Convention on Doping in Sport. The current provision required the Polish sports union to establish disciplinary rules on doping, although the Commission for Combating Doping in Sport is competent for its fight against doping, which has the appropriate potential to do so and the obligation to regulate in this respect on the basis of the provisions of the World Anti-Doping Code. In the current state of law, this made it necessary to adopt the rules laid down by the committee in the internal legal systems of Polish sports unions. In practice, this has led to the situation of unjustified extension of the process of adoption by Polish sports unions of disciplinary rules concerning doping in accordance with applicable international standards. The second very important change in the bill. The bill defines the concept of doping in sport. Until now, ladies and gentlemen, we have basically considered the use of an unauthorised substance to be cheering. WADA has its definition and we will implement this definition into our bill. The proposed definition of doping in sport is based on the calculation of specific behaviours considered unacceptable. This is a significant change in quality, as this definition replaces the definition used so far both in Polish law and in other international agreements the general definition, which I have just mentioned, which referred only to the use or administration of substances and methods defined according to the appropriate list. In Poland, this list was adopted in the form of a regulation. The current definition is based on the calculation of behaviours considered as doping in sport, such as not providing the required information on the whereabouts for the purpose of anti-doping control. Ladies and gentlemen, all world-class athletes are in the so-called. ADAMS. This program talks about places of residence, places of training, places of competition or even travel time. A player for 3 months must specify the exact date of the day, in principle, by the hour where he is located. Those are the requirements of this program. Next point. The draft provides for the repeal of the provisions of the Sports Act, which constitute the right of sports entities, in particular Polish sports unions, to exercise disciplinary responsibility for the use of doping in sport to the extent specified in their regulations. Another one. The draft provides for the withdrawal of the right of the World Anti-Doping Agency to bring an action before the Arbitration Tribunal. Sports at the Polish Olympic Committee in disciplinary matters for the use of doping. In view of the above, it seems appropriate to adopt the proposed period of vacathio legis, i.e. 7 days. Ladies and gentlemen! The Civic Platform Club will support the proposed changes to the Sports Act. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-sejm-22-2.u301	Thank you very much. Mr Maciej Masławski will now speak on behalf of the Kukiz Club15. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-sejm-22-2.u302	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! What is professional sport now? Is it a big business, a new opium for the masses, a way to make a career? For me and for millions of Poles, sport is a leap away from everyday life, the opportunity to admire feats, competitions and great victories. Professional athletes now act as celebrities, models for young people, trendsetters. We learn from them endurance, fortitude, and professionalism. Doping is a cancer that destroys not only the careers and health of athletes. He's a cancer that destroys sport and its ideals. Doping in sports is a betrayal of us fans. The proposed amendments to the Sports Act aim to adapt the Polish system to the global standard. An important element of the bill is the fact that it stigmats not only athletes who cheat. It's aimed at the whole thing, at dishonest pseudo-trainers and steroid dealers. As Raúl Lozano, the coach of our silver team from the 2006 World Cup, said, sports are just like marriage: you have to have confidence. If you don't trust your wife, then all you have left is a detective and a divorce. Kukiz Club 15 recommends the adoption of the bill. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-sejm-22-2.u303	Thank you very much. Mr Marek Ruciński will speak on behalf of the Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-sejm-22-2.u304	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Modern Club, it is my honor to present our position towards the parliamentary draft law on the amendment of the Sports Act. The concept of fair play is an expression of an attitude that respects the value of sports competition. Compliance with the rules in sport gives a sense of satisfaction to players and joy to fans, for whom sport is often the greatest passion. It is hard not to notice that the modern world is developing dynamically both in terms of technology and medicine. We hear more and more that players, both professional and amateurs, who want to improve their performance, reach for various kinds of substances that allow them to achieve their dream result, thus distorting the idea of competition in terms of fair play rules. In the case of amateur athletes, the only tool to combat doping is education and promotion of proper behaviour and attitudes. Today, however, we are working on a law focused on professional sport. I am built by the fact that the amendment of this law is notified as a parliamentary project, which allows us to believe that, despite many differences, we can unite around the right cause. It is satisfactory that the legislation in question contains provisions in which the legislator extended the behaviour deemed to be doping in sport. I know that this change is primarily required by the revision of the World Anti-Doping Code, which extends the catalogue of prohibited behaviours to cooperate with those who are being punished for such activities. The only question may be that Polish sports unions are excluded from the implementation of the rules on doping, while at the same time giving all powers to one body to be the Commission for Combating Doping in Sport. This doubt arises from the fact of centralisation. However, given the shortcomings of the previous solution and recent developments in the world of sport, we support this if it ensures greater detection of prohibited behaviour and reduces doping in sport. The Modern Club will support all activities aimed at ensuring fair competition and promoting fair play behaviour. I declare that we will support this amendment as a modern one. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-sejm-22-2.u305	Thank you very much. Mr Mieczysław Baszko will now speak on behalf of the Polish People's Party Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-sejm-22-2.u306	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! On behalf of the Polish People's Party, I have the honour to present my position on the parliamentary draft law amending the Sports Act, print no. 627. The Act strengthens the Commission's fight against Doping in Sport to form them and obliges the Polish sport association to apply them. The aim of the amendment is to develop national arrangements for the establishment and implementation of discipline rules on doping in sport in a manner consistent with the principles of the World Anti-Doping Code. The bill defines the concept of doping in sport. This definition is fully in line with the current wording of the World Anti-Doping Code, to respect the principles of which Article. Article 4 (4) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013 shall apply. 1 obliges States Parties, including the Republic of Poland, to the International Convention against Doping in Sport. The revised World Anti-Doping Code entered into force on 1 January 2015. This code is a basic and universal document based on a global programme to combat doping in sport. The aim of the Code is to promote action to combat doping through universal harmonisation of the basic anti-doping elements. It is sufficiently precise to achieve full harmonisation on issues where unity of positions is required, but at the same time generally enough in other areas to allow flexible implementation of anti-doping rules. The Code provides a set of rules defining the rights and obligations of the player, penalties for violations of anti-doping rules and proceedings before disciplinary authorities. The draft law referred to today provides for the repeal of the provisions of the Article. Article 43 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 6 Sports Act, which constitute the right of sports entities, in particular Polish sports unions, to exercise disciplinary responsibility for the use of doping in sport to the extent specified in their regulations. On behalf of the Polish People's Party Parliamentary Club at the end of my speech, I would like to quote the article. 50 points 1 and 2 of the Sports Act. I address these words to all sportsmen: Who gives a minor to a substance prohibited or uses a method prohibited within the meaning of the rules on combating doping in sport, is liable to a fine, to a sentence of imprisonment or imprisonment of up to 2 years. The same penalty shall be imposed on those who, without the knowledge of the player, give him a prohibited substance or use a prohibited method within the meaning of the rules on combating doping in sport. The Polish People's Party is in favour of the adoption of the parliamentary bill amending the Sports Act. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-sejm-22-2.u307	Thank you very much. Ms Małgorzata Zwierzan will speak on behalf of the Free and Solidarni Circle.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-sejm-22-2.u308	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Freedom and Solidarnia Circle, I present my position on the draft law amending the Sports Act on combating doping in sport. The most important issue in this bill is to prevent the certification of the Polish Anti-Doping Laboratory. There is no doubt that we cannot allow a situation in which, by failing to comply with the Polish legislation established by the World Anti-Doping Agency, we are deprived of the possibility of organizing international sports competitions in our country. The contested bill implements the regulations imposed on Poland by the above mentioned organisation. It establishes the establishment of a Commission for Combating Doping in Sport, a national agency representative in the territory of the Republic of Poland and the only relevant body responsible for anti-doping control. At the same time, it deprives Polish sports unions of competence in this area. Given that this committee has the appropriate potential in this respect, and the current legislation only prolongs the implementation of international standards in force from 1 January 2015, I consider this amendment appropriate. It is also appropriate for me to repeal the rules which constitute the right of sports entities, including Polish sports unions, to exercise disciplinary responsibility for the use of doping in sport, and to delegate the powers in this respect to a specially established disciplinary panel operating at the Commission for Combating Doping in Sport. We are transforming the current anti-doping control system into the model contained in the World Anti-Doping Code. The legislators also propose to modify the definition of doping in sport. I am aware of the difficulties that this change has caused and the shortcomings of the solution adopted. However, I would like to draw attention to the relentlessness of the international organisation, which we need to adapt to in the Committee on Physical Culture, Sport and Tourism, which is stressed in the Committee on Physical Culture, Sport and Tourism, and to the possible consequences of our decisions. The Free and Solidarni Circle will ask for further proceedings of this law. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-sejm-22-2.u309	Thank you very much. Three Members have joined the questions. I'm closing the list of questions. I'm setting a question time for one minute. Mr Paweł Papke from the Civic Platform Club is the first question to be asked. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-sejm-22-2.u310	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! The proposal provides for the modification of certain provisions of the Act of 25 June 2010 on combating doping in sport. The proposed changes to the rules aim primarily at regulating disciplinary issues related to doping in sport. It is about adapting the Polish law to international standards, including above all the rules of the World Anti-Doping Code. The current provision requires the Polish sports union to establish disciplinary rules on doping, although the Commission for Combating Doping in Sport has the appropriate potential and is obliged to regulate in this respect under the provisions of the World Anti-Doping Code. And here's my question, not so much to your applicant as to the Minister: What is the level of funding of the Commission for Combating Doping in Sport and is it sufficient in the light of the proposed amendment to the Sports Act? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-sejm-22-2.u311	Thank you very much. Now you ask Mr Paweł Papke from the club... [[I've already been, Marshal.]] Oh, excuse me. Mr Szymon Ziółkowski from the Civic Platform Club. Excuse me, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-sejm-22-2.u312	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I'm asking the Minister right now. Is the Ministry of Sport planning further work on strengthening the anti-doping law? We know that the current anti-doping bill practically implements international regulations that are necessary for us to be certified by our anti-doping office. My point is that in the case of athletes, especially national players preparing for national money to take off, the cost of preparing one player is about 100,000 a year. zł - this is his scholarship, stays in groups, etc. In the event of a doping detected in such a player, it can be said that 100,000. zł, state money, has been embezzled and will not return to the state budget, and the player receives either three months' disqualification or two years' disqualification, which is totally disproportionate to the costs that have been incurred. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-sejm-22-2.u313	Thank you very much. Now the question is asked by Mr Mieczysław Baszko from the Parliamentary Club of the Polish People's Party.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-sejm-22-2.u314	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I have a question for the Minister of Sport and Tourism. In order to combat doping, the spirit of sport must be promoted. Each anti-doping organisation is required to develop and implement educational programmes for athletes, including youth, as well as for support staff of athletes. Question: "What educational programs have developed and planned a Ministry for the fight against doping in professional and amateur sports?" Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-sejm-22-2.u315	Thank you very much. Mr Jarosław Stawiarski, Minister of State at the Ministry of Sport and Tourism, will now speak. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-sejm-22-2.u316	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I'll deal with this change in general. This change is needed all of us, Polish sports, because what happens to doping in the world is already global doping. Just as we have the globalisation of the economy, the globalisation of social processes, so we have the globalisation of doping. I will say that WADA is not yet an adult, WADA was founded in 1999. It's 2016, so it's only 17 years old. But she's so grown up, she's had a few changes to the anti-doping code. The first code was established in 2003, implemented in many countries, in 2005 by Poland under the UNESCO World Organisation. Later, we have an amendment from 2009 and now this amendment from 2013, which has been in force since 2015. Sure, the WADA limits our sovereignty, limits the sovereignty of Polish sports unions, but the world seems to be going in that direction, that there must be uniform criteria for assessing the level of doping for all athletes around the world, as well as penalties appropriate to these scrolls. Therefore, limiting our sovereignty here the Polish government supports as much as possible, because this is the direction, the way to fairness in sport, the fight against doping in sport. I will remind you of the fact from the last few days - we have another Olympic gold medalist in lifting weights, Simon Kołecki, from the games from 8 years ago. The sample of Ilji Iljin, Kazacha, Olympic champion, after 8 years gained positive status, Stanazorol was detected and we have our Olympic champion Kołecki who jumps in, so to speak, from silver to gold medal. And you will have to think about our Olympic champion, how to congratulate him - this is his success undoubtedly eight years ago, because he won fair and square without doping. That is why I think that all this is causing us to give a little bit of our sovereignty over sports law, punishing and checking players, because it will be uniform and fair for all the federations in the world, all the more so that WADA is part of the MCO, as you know, was founded by the International Olympic Committee. At the moment it is a private foundation in which also the International Olympic Committee has its shares. It is therefore only a difference in the percentage and the fact that it is based in Montreal and not, like the International Olympic Committee, in Lausanne. To answer the questions, I will start by saying what is the level of the Commission's funding for combating doping in sport. This is 2 million, 6.5 jobs, but it's not really everything, because the Sports Institute, which has its own doping cell among Polish athletes and not only, is the amount of PLN 4.5 million. Our master, Mr Simon, Mr Simon, asked if there was any way to tighten the penalties for doping. It is a new topic thrown for us and for the sports community at all, or in some way not to punish these Olympics, those participants of the world championship, on which we spend about 100,000 as a Polish state. Zł, like you said, and then it turns out there's a disqualification for doping in sports. This is a subject that could be considered and could be leaned on and possibly do something about it, to consider whether it would be necessary to ask these athletes for this dishonesty to pay back the costs of their Olympic preparations, preparations for the World Cup. You asked for anti-doping programmes from the Polish People's Party. Let me put it this way: education above all, we should be educated from an early age. At the moment, I can't tell you if any of these programs work with children's and young people's sports on anti-doping education, because that's what we'd focus on most of the time. Athletic athletes, from the age that I say so, junior younger or even young, because seniors are probably not allowed to educate, because at every turn they come into contact with the fact that their urine samples or samples that are being tested are subjected to permanent checks and know what it is that I say, associate and what the consequences of this are, what it is... I know that doping should be fought, doping should be spoken of, because, as the current WADA regulations show, samples are maintained, according to the current legal state, for 10 years, i.e. theoretically in 10 years' time, one of the outstanding, wonderful athletes from this colorful and warm Olympics in Rio may turn out to be one of the best athletes in the world. it can be devoid of a medal, and no one would want it, because let's remember that all these athletes, Olympic medalists are national heroes in every country - from Andorra, the Samoa Islands to such great countries as the United States of America or our great country, Poland. That is why I hope that this novel will allow all athletes, sports environments to watch carefully that we do not stuff our athletes with banned substances, so that they are not substances that serve doping, but that in a fair fight we can beat rivals in sports arenas. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-sejm-22-2.u317	Thank you very much. Would the rapporteur like to speak? [[Yes.]] Yes? Please, Mr Jarosław Nobletka.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-sejm-22-2.u318	Mr. Marshal! Minister! I am merely in addition to or referring to the question of the last Member of the Polish People's Party, that such educational programmes are carried out directly by the Commission for Combating Doping in Sport and with the participation of the Ministry of Sport and Tourism in sports relations. Such educational programmes are aimed primarily at players, representatives of national staff, juniors, juniors or young people, children and schoolchildren, and are implemented annually by the Commission for Combating Doping in Sport in cooperation with the Ministry of Sport and Tourism. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-sejm-22-2.u319	Thank you very much. The discussion is closed. As two amendments were tabled to the proposed bill at second reading, I propose that the Sejm re-direct this proposal to the Committee on Physical Culture, Sports and Tourism in order to present a report. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. We proceed with the examination of item 20 of the agenda: Report of the Committee on Physical Culture, Sports and Tourism on the draft law amending the Sports Act (prints Nos 628 and 664). I ask Mr Jack Falfus to present a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-sejm-22-2.u320	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Seym! I have the honour to present a report by the Committee on Physical Culture, Sports and Tourism on the parliamentary draft law amending the Sports Act in print No. 628. On 20 June 2016, the Marshal of the Sejm sent the above draft law by the PiS Group to the Committee on Physical Culture, Sports and Tourism for its first reading, which took place in the committee on 23 June 2016. High Seym! In essence, the bill seeks to increase the maximum amount of the prize granted to natural persons by the Minister responsible for physical culture for outstanding sporting achievements, including a proper distinction of the highest sporting achievement, namely the Olympic Olympic Medal, the Para-Olympic Games and the deaf Games. The current state of law states that the basis for establishing the amount of the prize is a base amount of PLN 2,300, with the amount of the prize currently not being more than 14 times the base amount, which allows the Minister to easily calculate the payment of the prize for winning the Olympic gold medal with a maximum amount of only PLN 32 200. In the opinion of the projectors, but also of the Minister of Sport and Tourism, who prepared a financial analysis of the effects of the increase in the financial prizes concerned and an analysis of the increase in the budgetary costs for which I thank you, Minister... It should be noted that the current maximum amount of the prize is clearly too low and inadequate for the huge role and importance of sporting achievements obtained at the most important sporting events with purely sporting dimensions, but it is also the promotion of the Polish state and, above all, the promotion of sport among children and young people in our country. In this situation, the legislative amendment concerns an increase of the maximum financial value of the prize from 14 times the base amount to 35 times the base amount, which will mean an increase of the maximum value of the prize to the amount of PLN 80 500 for winning the Olympic gold medal and of course an increase of the maximum amount, in a slightly different relationship, for silver and bronze Olympic medals. High Seym! Therefore, I bring to the High House, based on print No 664, the report of the Committee on Physical Culture, Sport and Tourism on the parliamentary draft law amending the Act on Sports from Printing 628, so that the High Sejm will approve the draft of the Act on Printing No 628 without amendments. I would like to stress the fact that for all the participants in the first reading, the issue of raising this prize was clearly clear. In fact, there were no issues at issue or requiring additional explanations. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-sejm-22-2.u321	Thank you very much. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would listen to the five-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and the circle. I'm opening a discussion. Mr Marek Matuszewski will be the first on behalf of the Parliamentary Club of Law and Justice. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-sejm-22-2.u322	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! It has been my honor to present the position of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice on the Parliamentary draft law amending the Sports Act, print No. 628, concerning the increase of the maximum amount of monetary prizes awarded by the Minister of Sport and Tourism for outstanding sporting achievements. The increase in this value is particularly important in the context of the proper distinction between the importance of individual outstanding sporting achievements, including the proper distinction of the highest achievement, which is the medal won at the Olympic Games and the Special Olympic Games and the deaf Games. Increase the maximum amount of prizes to 35 times the base amount, 85 thousand. PLN for first place, 57.5 thousand. PLN for second place and 46 thousand. PLN for winning third place, will allow proper honoring of players participating in the most important sports events and will undoubtedly increase the motivation of players, which will translate into an increase in the number of medals won. Law and Justice bets on sport. We are creating more and better conditions for sport, and therefore we believe that we also need to be properly rewarded for the medals we have won. The proposed amendment to the Sports Act is correct and appropriate, especially in the context of the upcoming summer Olympic and Special Olympic Games in Rio de Janeiro . Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! In view of the above, the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice expresses its full acceptance of the draft law amending the Sports Act 628 and 664, and fully supports the proposed amendment. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-sejm-22-2.u323	Thank you very much. Mr Ireneusz Raś will now speak on behalf of the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-sejm-22-2.u324	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Civic Platform Parliamentary Club, I would like to present my position on the report of the Committee on Physical Culture, Sport and Tourism on the draft law amending the Sports Act, the report is print No. 664, draft law - print No. 628. Of course, our club, as in the committee supported, will also support this proposal in the vote in the Chamber. I would like to say that, in the last term of office, one important, complementary, let's say, Olympic benefit has been paid off, you can say, after many, many years. Today we have to say that thanks to this medalists of the Olympic Games, the Special Olympic Games and the deaf Games receive about 600 PLN more than during the last period. These awards and these benefits, today we are talking about prizes, have not been changed for many years. Today's proposal is valuable, but attention needs to be paid, and I am absolutely convinced that today's party, Minister, 10 medals... In a cost perspective, the adoption of only estimates based on the London Olympic Games is heavily shot. Today's condition after these last years... Sometimes our colleagues say: it's 8 years, and I'll say this: it's 8 years good for sport, because you can see in all disciplines, not only teams, but also individual, that Polish athletes achieve better results after these years, let's say, thinner. Today it is to be expected that in the Olympic Games, only the Olympic Games, I am not talking about the Paralympic Games, the deaf Games, we will reach the medal level. We should have between 16 and 18 for decency so we can say it's a success. Therefore, there is a need to provide sufficient resources to ensure that, after adoption - and I believe that this will happen - this proposal does not, however, affect many of the needs which we need to support financially in sport. And here I would just express some concern. I believe that the Minister of Sport should make an effort in parallel to increase the budget of the Ministry by a certain forecast amount, which is more based on the quantities I am talking about. This may be an increase in the costs in the budget of the Minister of Sport, I think, by about PLN 2.2.5 million compared to what the Minister has today in this drawer for awards for athletes and trainers. I believe that it is possible, with such an additional proposal from the Civic Platform, for the Minister to engage in talks with the Minister of Finance, so that other tasks of the Ministry will not be affected, because, you know, transfers in the budget of the Minister of Sport can be made, but we would not want sport, especially sport, to suffer from that. But, as I said, it is a proposal worthy of support and the Civic Platform will vote for it. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-sejm-22-2.u325	Thank you very much. Mr Maciej Masławski will now speak on behalf of the Kukiz Club15. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-sejm-22-2.u326	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! This draft amendment of the Act aims to increase the maximum amount of monetary prizes awarded by the Minister of Sport and Tourism for outstanding sporting achievements. Above all, it is about the achievement of winning a medal in the Olympic Games and, by analogy, in the Special Olympics and in the Games of the deaf. The maximum amount of the prize for winning Olympic gold could not exceed PLN 32 200. The legislator proposes to raise this amount to PLN 80 500. Is that a lot? Hungarian masters reward 110 thousand. Euros for winning a gold medal, 80,000. Euros for silver medal and 64 thousand. Euros for winning a bronze medal. As a curiosity, in the times of the Polish People's Republic, you could get a vacuum cleaner for a gold medal. So we're going the right way. The legislator calculates that if the new mechanism were to be applied in the case of Olympic champions from London, they would receive a total of PLN 331 200 more. Therefore, Kukiz15 recommends the adoption of the law. In a situation where the Polish state spends almost PLN 4 billion on the functioning of the ZUS itself, the financial appreciation of our masters does not seem to be a problem. It is thanks to them that we will soon be able to hear the Polish anthem in Rio de Janeiro . This is more than 0.5 million civil servants currently offer us. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-sejm-22-2.u327	Thank you very much. Mr Grzegorz Furgo will now speak on behalf of the club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-sejm-22-2.u328	Mr. Marshal! Dear Members, The distinguished athletes who are here today in the Seym! Ladies and gentlemen, today's bill to change the amount of prizes for outstanding sporting achievements was long awaited by athletes. A sportsman who devotes his youthful life to murderous training is giving up many joys of youth, because all his attention is focused on training, must be properly motivated for this hard work. Assuming a white eagle shirt on the front, it becomes the best carrier of values that are so important in our country - diligence, perseverance, honor and love for our country. It is a shame that so far Polish athletes received state awards of up to 32 thousand for their many outstanding achievements. zł. Probably a lot of us have asked ourselves whether it's a lot or not. If we count the time spent in training, we take into account all the sacrifices and rejections of many temptations, while at the same time realizing the pressure that accompanies preparations and performances, then of course we will consider that this amount is too low. However, the too small amount also increases it from 14 times the average national salary to 35 times. The Members of the applicant took a step in the right direction, but in one of the paragraphs it was written: "The increase of the statutory maximum prizes will therefore enable the players to be properly honoured for winning the medal at the most important sporting events.' And is this proper honoring? I don't think so. Of course, the amount of these prizes will be an incentive for further, harder work. On the example of Hungary, described carefully in this project, we can risk saying that raising the prizes for the highest achievement to just over 80,000. zł still looks pale at 110 thousand. Euro for a gold medal. It is clear that the budget opportunities of the Ministry are taken into account in this case, but please note that the amount of prizes motivates to fight for the highest trophies, while allowing for further training and involvement in popularization of Poland outside the country. No PR treatments are able to promote the country as our best athletes do, and in Poland they are not lacking. Thanks to the current European football championship, the successes of Agnieszka Radwańska, fantastic volleyball players, excellent Polish athletes, handballers we can see how much we need sports successes. We should support our best athletes, not only cheering them on their most important performances, but also making sure that they wear white-red shirts without embarrassment. When they wear national colors, they must feel the support of those for whom they take off. And they run for all of us, for the whole nation, also for the authorities that this nation represents. Supporting sporting success should also involve finding and financing young talents. Sport is pride, but it's hard work too. Many outstanding people had to give up their passions because of lack of support at the stage of development. We should not waste the potential of young people. The Modern Club supports the draft Sports Act. At the same time, we call on the Minister of Sport to launch a programme of support for young talent that has been abandoned for many years, because they will soon stand at the highest levels of the podium with a white eagle on their breasts. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-sejm-22-2.u329	Thank you very much. Mr Mieczysław Baszko will now speak on behalf of the Polish People's Party Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-sejm-22-2.u330	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I have the honour to present the position of the Polish People's Party regarding the draft amendment of the Sports Act, print no. 628. The proposed law aims to increase the maximum amount of prizes awarded by the Minister of Sport and Tourism for outstanding sporting achievements. The Polish People's Party knows exactly that whether or not someone will become a champion will decide, among others. the following factors: zeal, passion, work, dedication, endurance, diligence, systematicness, devotion and love. To do this, you need to have a lot of humility, relaxation, peace, distance and joy. The Polish People's Party strongly supports the increase of the maximum prizes awarded to athletes for winning medals at the most important championship sports events, i.e. in the Olympic Games, the Special Olympic Games and the Deaf Olympics. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-sejm-22-2.u331	Thank you very much. Now Mrs Małgorzata Zwierzan on behalf of the Free and Solidarni wheels.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-sejm-22-2.u332	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Freedom and Solidarnia Circle, I present my position on the draft law amending the Sports Act, print no. 628. The project designers propose to increase the maximum level of the monetary prize awarded by the Minister responsible for physical culture for outstanding sporting achievements. In the current legal state, the maximum amount of gratification for Olympic medalists, the Special Olympic Games and the deaf games can be 14 times the basic amount, or 32 200 PLN. I agree with the opinion that such a sum of money is not enough to honor athletes who, through the world-leading sports achievements, raise the importance of Poland on the international stage. Raising the upper limit of the prize to 35 times the basic amount, i.e. 80 500 PLN, is feasible. It also seems that it is worth appreciating the merit of the highest-ranking athletes. It is also important to have a positive opinion on this draft law by the Minister, whose budget is charged. The Free and Solidarni Circle supports the proposed amendment of the law. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-sejm-22-2.u333	Thank you very much. There are 11 Members for the question. I'm closing the list of questions. I'm setting the time for questioning - one minute. The first question is asked by Mr Krzysztof Maciejewski from the Law and Justice Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-sejm-22-2.u334	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Money has always been an important motivator for better work or not, which has certainly affected its quality. In the world of sport it is no different, especially when today's chosen sports discipline has become the main source of maintenance. Of course, I'm thinking professionally, not amateur sports. The correct balance of the prize is certainly very difficult. That is why I ask the Minister: Is it not better, instead of referring to the multiples of a basis, to establish a rigid figure that will determine the prize and to honor the players for winning the medal at the most important sporting events, such as, without a doubt, the Olympic Games, the Paralympian Games and the deaf Games? Then there will be only the problem of determining the amount of this prize. Secondly, how they will be treated in terms of additional remuneration for also outstanding sporting achievements [[♪ The bell ♪]] athletes practicing disciplines not included today in Olympic disciplines? Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-sejm-22-2.u335	The question is asked by Mr Paweł Papke, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-sejm-22-2.u336	Mr. Marshal, thank you very much. Minister! High Izbo! The proposed law aims to increase the maximum amount of prizes awarded by the Ministry of Sport and Tourism for outstanding sporting achievements. The increase in this amount is particularly important in the context of a proper distinction between the importance of individual outstanding achievements, including a proper distinction of the highest achievement, namely the Olympic Medal, the Special Olympic Games and the deaf Games. The increase in the statutory maximum prizes will therefore enable players to be properly honoured for winning a medal at the most important sporting events such as the Olympic Games, the Special Olympic Games and the deaf Games. I have a question to the Minister about the financial aspect: Is the Ministry of Sport and Tourism prepared for the payment of these increased prizes and where will these funds be obtained, will it be additional funds from the Ministry of Finance, or will there be any transfers within the budget of the Ministry of Sport and Tourism? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-sejm-22-2.u337	Thank you. Now the question is asked by Mr Szymon Ziółkowski from the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-sejm-22-2.u338	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have a question for the Members of the applicants as to why the bill assumes that the law is to apply only and only until the end of this year. It only comes in for six months only, so it turns out that it's only being proceded in relation to the Olympic Games, and the world doesn't end in these competitions, and next year we have the World Championship, the European Championship in various sports. So my question is: Why only a six-month period of validity of this law? And one more statement here to the president of Mr Matuszewski. Mr President, believe me, the Olympics, when they go to the Olympic Games, do not wonder whether they will earn money by winning a medal, and what is congratulations, whether from the Ministry of Sport or from the Polish Olympic Committee. Starting in the Olympic Games and winning a medal there is the greatest laurel that an athlete can meet. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-sejm-22-2.u339	Thank you. Now the question is asked by Roman Kosecki, the Civic Platform Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-sejm-22-2.u340	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! This is certainly a change in a very good direction, and we fully support it. Every athlete trains and does it out of passion, does it to have great satisfaction with it, certainly not thinking about money. But it's very important to appreciate it later. Yeah, except by the previous point, I wanted to say, what about the athletes who cheat, who are just taking doping, get a reward, and after a few years they get caught? Will this reward be taken from them? Will there be any such consequences later? And the next question is, why is it taking so long? No fan can understand - I understand - that these samples are being held for 10 years. But I'm sure the Minister could ask on our behalf, because we don't all fully understand why it takes so long, why eight years or so Simon had to wait for compensation. I think the most important thing for an athlete is to be a decent representative. [[♪ The bell ♪]] his country and how he will win at a given time, so that he can be accepted with dignity as well. So that here I would just ask the Minister to take an interest in it, too. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-sejm-22-2.u341	Thank you. Now you are asking Mr Adam Korol, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-sejm-22-2.u342	Dear Marshal, Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I have a question: Will this award apply only to these Olympic Games or also to the Winter Games? And second question. So far, the regulation had 14 times the basis for winning the world championship or the title of the Olympic Championship. Do we now divide into the world championships and Olympic Games, or will there be other awards for the world championships, or will they remain the same? I, too, sign Simon's words - we did not leave for the games for money, Mr, we really did, because it was the most important party we could attend. And to the Minister. Minister, if you don't forget Mr. Kołecki, don't forget Mr. Simon, because he's also the world's vice-president because of this, [[♪ The bell ♪]] That one of his rival mates was found to be doping. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-sejm-22-2.u343	Thank you. Now you are asking Jerzy Paul from the Law and Justice Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-sejm-22-2.u344	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Over the past few weeks, the whole of Poland has been very happy and satisfied to support our representation during the European Football Championships. We are proud of its achievements, but we must be aware that in order to achieve such a high level of sport, these young people had to work hard for many years so that with great effort, often in sweat and tears, they could finally achieve their dream success. You should be aware that when a small child starts training, regardless of the kind of sport, he never knows if he will reach the master level. There may be illnesses and injuries along the way, lack of resources to develop passion or simply discouragement due to failure to achieve satisfactory results. Therefore, this bill will be a positive impulse to ensure that players do not spare their strength and work in achieving the highest possible results, which serves the welfare of the whole country. I am convinced that all fans will support the proposed increase in prizes for winning Olympic medals. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Finally, Minister, I would like to ask whether there will be a proposal for additional financial gratification for our representatives for medals won during the World Cup or the European Championship in the future. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-sejm-22-2.u345	Thank you. The question is asked by Mr Jerzy Meysztowicz, the Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-sejm-22-2.u346	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! We are all in agreement: this is really the right direction and we are very happy that this project has actually reached the Sejm and will, all points out, very quickly voted out. But I have a question for you. Of course, the medal at the World Championships, at the Olympics, is sometimes the culmination of many, many years of hard work and training. The financial situation of sports clubs, we all know, doesn't go anywhere. Very often training, equipment is funded by the closest athletes. The question is this: Does the Ministry also provide for an increase in the envelope for scholarships? Because it is the scholarships that are paid for several years that can make these athletes' performance even better. Is that gonna happen? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-sejm-22-2.u347	Thank you. The question is asked by Maciej Masławski, Kukiz Club15.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-sejm-22-2.u348	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I have a question for Members of the applicants, in principle simple and short: Why and on what basis this amount is fixed, i.e. out of 32,000. Up to 80? So what was driving you? Why not more? Why so much? That's kind of my short question. That's all, actually. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-sejm-22-2.u349	Thank you. The question is asked by Rafał Weber, the Law and Justice Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-sejm-22-2.u350	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I will not repeat the peans that are addressed to the Minister and to the Ministry of Sport on this subject, but I hope that the government and the Ministry of Sport, and in the vote of the Sejm, will set an example for local governments how to treat people who actively participate in sport and achieve success in sport. High Izbo! In Poland there are many local governments that reward athletes who win medals at the World Championships, at the European Championships and at the Olympics. There are also local governments that reward their athletes for winning medals at the Polish Championships, in various age categories. One such self-government is the city of Stalowa Wola. In the city of Stalowa Wola for many years the amount for sports awards, but above all the amount for sports scholarships, which are paid monthly, is increasing. Really dozens of young athletes primarily light athletes receive several hundred zlotys a month for winning medals in championships [[♪ The bell ♪]] Polish. And the question to the Minister: Does the Ministry have any statistics or data on local governments that reward their athletes in this way? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-sejm-22-2.u351	Thank you very much. Now you are asking Marek Matuszewski from the Law and Justice Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-sejm-22-2.u352	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! We all agree that honoring the medalists properly is the right direction. Well, maybe not everyone, because some of the Civic Platform members of the Committee on Physical Culture, Sports and Tourism... The previous minister says it's basically the wrong direction. But this is a small exception. [[That's not what he said.]] I'm talking to the players. I think that all those Members who were applicants also spoke to the current players. Everyone says it's the right direction. I understand that the Hungarian trail to the Civic Platform is inappropriate - in Hungary much more of this money is intended. But I would like to ask you a question to dispel any doubts of Mr Papke, President Ireneus Breś. Minister, is there money secured for potential prizes? [[♪ The bell ♪]] and didn't it reduce other tasks as part of the Ministry of Sport and Tourism? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-sejm-22-2.u353	Thank you very much. Now the question is asked by Mr Mieczysław Baszko from the club of the Polish People's Party.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-sejm-22-2.u354	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I'm here to see the rapporteur. Very wide, extensively prepared. But I have a question: How many Hungarian athletes get for medals won at the Olympics, how much is it? To be presented by the rapporteur. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-sejm-22-2.u355	Thank you very much. [[Correct, Marshal. I need half a minute.]] You weren't mentioned by name. [[I was a former minister. I need half a minute.]] All right. Member in corrigendum - 1 minute.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-sejm-22-2.u356	Mr President, I did not say in my statement that I did not like whether I was against such prizes. Don't say that. I am most in favour of these awards being as high as possible. I don't know where you heard me say that I'm against such a high reward from the Ministry of Sports. Remind me. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-sejm-22-2.u357	Thank you very much. Mr Jarosław Stawiarski, Minister of State at the Ministry of Sport and Tourism, will now speak. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-sejm-22-2.u358	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen! First, I will answer Mr Bashka, because I will honestly admit that the anti-doping committee, I am speaking with regard to that point, is carrying out some actions so-called. educationally. First of all, this concerns a narrow group of athletes, young athletes, i.e. SMS, schools of the sports championship, there are cyclical doping activities for both young people and their trainers, as well as propaganda and information campaigns, prevention during the national youth Olympics. I'm sure we're thinking of increasing our education on doping. Here is the Slovenian model, so very innovative, so to speak, perhaps some things like the Hungarian model scholarship system, so from the Slovenian model we will take, maybe we are implementing some solutions for doping education. So much for that question from the previous point. As regards the questions of honourable Members in terms of supporting young talents, Mr Furgo. Of course we support, we only want more, but we support as much as Polish sport can afford. I will only remind my fellow Members that the budget of the Ministry of Sport and Tourism is one billion seventy, including tourism This is 50 million, the budgetary sport is 300 million, and the rest is the Physical Culture Development Fund. As far as the per capita, per capita or GDP budget is concerned, according to the Polish Olympic Committee, which has recently presented such data, we are probably in the penultimate position in Europe, in the European Union. So that proves that the amount of expenditure on sport is not high in our country. That is why I believe that, like our predecessors, we are now supporting as much as we can, and that we have enough resources. Our main idea is to direct this money where it is needed, which is to young people, because the federations will manage. This money that we share between federations - everything is okay, we really hope that the sports federations are actually using that money. And the task of the Ministry of Sport is to direct this money to young people. This is to be served, among others. The club program, i.e. the small clubs, in the district Poland, in the commune Poland, receive the first money, soon, those 10 and 15 thousand. We will want to develop this action, ultimately reaching at least 3,4,000. clubs in Poland every year. Maybe we can, if the Physical Culture Development Fund grows after the amendment of the gambling bill or the finance minister will allow us to freeze some of this money frozen for several years. As for Mr Maciejewski's question, would it not be better to give a specific monetary prize instead of this basic amount, I would personally prefer to increase the multiple of this prize, not 35 but 100 times. Let us remember that this causes that, depending on the budget we have, we can increase it, and then we are flexible. If we have thirty-five times in the bill, that doesn't mean, dear honourable Members and Members, that every Olympian will get thirty-five times, because depending on our predictions - it already has to be the calculation of the ministry - the Constitutional Minister will determine what times for the Olympic Games will be set out in the regulation. And we tend to think it's times two, which is 28 times the base amount of 2,300. So, more or less, ministry to say, alliances. Are we prepared for a paycheck? Yes, we do it within the resources we have, as part of the competitive sport funds, there was a reserve that we are currently going to consume. We hope that it will suffice PLN 3.5 million for the prizes for our Olympics, the Special Olympics and the participants of the deaf-mute games, that we will be able to cope with this task, because it is simply counted. I'm sure we can't make it if it's thirty-five times, but I'm sure it's a little less than that, and this maximum minister will be able to point out in the regulation. Mr Kosecki asked why we have kept samples for so long. I heard that question about the previous point. It's simple. When it comes to the possibilities of detection, i.e. detection, testing of these samples, it is simply known that the technique and methods each year, so to speak, are being improved. Athletes and their doctors are also taking more and better measures, but the methods used by the World Anti-Doping Agency are also improving, the technique is moving forward, and this is a two-fold task. It's kind of a scarecrow. The athlete, using such an illegal method, will have to be aware that after 10 years they will deprive him of the medal. [[What about the reward? Will he have to give it back?]] With this award, Mr Szymon Ziółkowski, right? [[No, no, what about the reward when they detect it? Will he have to give it back?]] Let me put it this way: it is as I said to Mr Ziółkowski that this is a field for new solutions. I believe - this is my personal opinion - that every dishonesty a player should pay for. And that's it. He pays his health, but now he doesn't know he pays his health. In fact, the splendor that flows down on him, which is calling him a hero, calling him a national hangman, all this causes that he should later in disgrace give away this money and we should settle such athletes for example, for young people who stand in the way of sports competition and who will play sports. I believe that we should make some legislative efforts in this direction. Minister Korol asked about other professions, right? Although it is from 2012, the Regulation contains concrete provisions on how we reward. Yes, this novel is actually made for this time, for the games in Rio de Janeiro . I hope that the Minister will issue a new regulation by 5 August in which these times will be written concerning the basic amount for both the Olympics, both for the world championship and for the youth championships. I guess this is the championship, huh? And then there's the universes. And the question, Mr Ziółkowski, asked if it was for six months. There is such an unfortunate wording that the existing implementing rules shall remain in force until the date of entry into force of the new implementing rules issued pursuant to Article. Article 34 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 4 Act as amended by Article. 1, but not more than 6 months from the date of entry into force of this Act. It is about the existing implementing rules, which also regulate other, say, matters related to this regulation, because if we decide on a novelty concerning the regulation, concerning the situation outside the Olympics, I do not know. I think, honestly, no, because we're probably not gonna be able to afford it as a ministry. This is done at that time, under the Olympics in Rio de Janeiro . I want to stress this because I can't lie to you. The additional gratifications that Paul asked about. These are written here, in this regulation they're all there. There are additional gratifications. Just read this regulation. As for Mr Meysztowicz's question about scholarships, what about scholarships, what about the increase in scholarships, we are working on a new scholarship system. I hope he'll be more beneficial to our athletes. Of course, this regulation will, I hope, have been in force since the new year. We want a raise as much as possible for athletes on these scholarships, which is why it will definitely be realized. On what scale, I don't know. Mr Maciej Masłowski asked why these amounts are just like this. It is simply that the Minister and the group of Members felt that we could do this, and that is all. Members asked the Ministry how much we could afford, and they got the answer that we would be able to afford a maximum of thirty-five times this basic amount, which is why I am looking at Mr Falfus - this project. Mr Weber asked whether the Ministry is conducting statistics on the remuneration of prominent athletes by local governments. We don't do statistics like that. It would be worth reaching for the resources of local governments and asking, because that would be very interesting. Then the picture of Polish sport funding would change, because it is known that the sport is financed not only by the Polish state, what I said, this billion zlotys, but above all by companies of commercial law, mainly by entities for the time being state, private somehow withdraws, because after all the main sponsor of MKOl Mr.Kulczyk or Mr.Kulczyk's family withdrew. There is no longer a creator of Polish tennis, Mr. Krauze, is there? Am I right? [[Voice from the room: Yes.]] How many of the private ones are still there, I think Asseco, Mr Góral from Rzeszow from such larger private businessmen who invest in Polish sport. Let's add local governments to this and it gives us a much larger amount. Perhaps we do not look so bad, although I suspect that if we listen to the budget that the opponents of our European Club Champion Vive Tauron Kielce, Hungarian Veszprem, had, it was different estimates: from two to four times our budget from both private and public or public sponsors in Hungary, and we managed and beat them in the finals for the European Club Championship. Another question by Mr Matuszewski: Is the money secured? Yeah, they're secure. On ours, so to speak, the calculation will depend on what this regulation will be, which, by August 5th, I hope, the Minister will issue, whether it will be twenty-eight times this base amount. I think that this 3.5 million should be enough for us to have Polish athletes who will succeed in the Rio de Janeiro Games, which we are talking about so far, to receive significant increases, at least 100 percent, compared to the Olympic Games in London, and as you know in this House, we have really had deflation in Poland for a few years, as in most European countries, which is really growing. This inflation, which we are talking about, is a really apparent inflation, which means it will be a very clear leap in terms of the amount of prizes allocated by the Polish government to outstanding Polish athletes, whom we wish as much as possible at the Rio de Janeiro Olympics. . Thank you. [[Applause]] [[Chairman of the proceedings includes Deputy Marshal Małgorzata Kidawa-Błońska Sejm]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-sejm-22-2.u359	Thank you very much, Minister. I'd like to see the rapporteur of the committee. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-sejm-22-2.u360	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The questions were asked by Simon Ziółkowski and Adam Korol. With regard to the response of Minister Adam Korol, I would like to say that there is no scope for detailed discernment as to how high prizes will be for individual groups of medalists: gold, silver and brown, because this is the minister's domain. We, according to the law, determine the maximum amounts that can be obtained for gold medals. Of course, only at the Olympic Championships, at the Special Olympics and at the deaf Games, that is, these three issues in principle. All others, I believe, are also included in the Minister's Regulation, which will specify exactly the amounts due for the period for the athletes concerned depending on the financial possibilities. In the explanatory memorandum to this amendment, we have repeatedly written about the fact that we cannot specify these issues in detail, because they will only be, then they will be defined by the Minister. It's obvious that this is related to the possibilities of the budget for the global amount allocated to the Olympics, let's assume. It's one thing. Here, of course, the answer to the Members' questions, as the Minister also said, is that there is no period of validity of this law. The fact that six months have been written there only concerns the maximum period during which the Minister is to deal with the matter of the regulation in relation to this amendment, as he will talk more about it there. That's all there is to it. On the other hand, Mr Maciej Masłowski asks why the maximum rewards are such and not different. Well, because, of course, I also write this in my report, we have analyzed, in agreement with the Minister of Sport and Tourism, precisely with regard to the financial opportunities that the Ministry currently has, is one side of the case, and the other - a certain analysis of how many of these medals we can obtain. So that you know that... Although the analysis is made in relation to London, to the London Olympics, we certainly expect much more Olympic medals of different colors, because we have the basis for this. That's probably what's gonna happen. So this ministry had to take into account in some way, and I think it did, although it can't actually speak on this matter, because no one knows how many medals we're going to get. May there be as many of them as possible, and may these awards be appropriate to the spirit of the bill we have taken. I think that's it. I wanted to thank all those who worked on the draft amendment of the law, especially during the first reading. It was a substantive work, effective, fast. Thank you very much to all Members as well as to the Ministry for their assistance in this revision. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-sejm-22-2.u361	Thank you very much, sir. In the procedure of correcting Mr Roman Kosecki. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-sejm-22-2.u362	Yeah, we all like a fair play game, which is a clean game. This is the Minister's agreement. The athlete, if he doesn't play fair and gets the reward, stands on the podium, returns to the country, is a hero, and then turns out he cheated. I think we should consider, however, whether or not we should mention that if someone gets caught in such a situation, if he has just cheated, he should return such a reward. So, of course, I'll still be on the committee, here I ask your legislators, your lawyers to give me back on the committee... Perhaps, or rather, I will report this amendment as well. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-sejm-22-2.u363	Thank you very much, sir. The discussion is closed. We will proceed to the third reading of the bill in the voting block. We proceed with the examination of item 21 of the agenda: First reading of the government draft law on the amendment of the Personal Income Tax Act and the Corporate Income Tax Act (Print No 669). I ask the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Finance of Mr Leszek Skiba to present the justification for the project.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-sejm-22-2.u364	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I present a bill aimed at implementing the proposal announced in the exposé by the Prime Minister to reduce corporate income tax from 19% to 15% for small taxpayers. This law pursues this task, which is precisely the objective of reducing taxation. Of course, this is a reduction in corporate tax from 19% to 15%. , and small taxpayers are described here as those whose revenue from sales did not exceed in the previous tax year the amount in PLN corresponding to the equivalent of 1200 thousand. Euros. What is important, this offer can be used by newly created CIT-paying companies. At the same time, the media debate also raised questions about what part of the players, like a large group of players, could benefit from this proposal. In total, taxpayers qualified as small taxpayers, i.e. those who do not just exceed this limit of 1200 000. The euro, there are 393 thousand, and those entities that have shown any income to tax in 2014 are 135 000. Therefore, it is worth remembering these two numbers. At the same time, the fiscal effect of this entire amount, i.e. the lower revenue to the state budget derived from CIT tax, is estimated at about PLN 270 million. The project also introduced some minor changes sealing the income tax system. First, a uniform definition in both tax laws, i.e. PIT and CIT, of the grounds for recognising non-residents' income as achieved in Poland. There were some doubts and this clarification is indeed intended to seal the tax system. Second, the definition of new rules for determining the income from the holding of shares or shares in companies in exchange for a non-monetary contribution. Thirdly, clarification of the conditions for the use of preferential taxation in the case of mergers and divisions of companies. Fourthly, clarification of the conditions for applying the flat-rate tax exemption at the source of interest and royalties. And the last element, the clarification of the rules on determining the cost of income in the event of the sale of the shares or shares of the acquiring or newly created company. So that the bill is presented and I am counting on the support of the High House. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-sejm-22-2.u365	Thank you very much, Minister. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would listen to the five-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and the circle. I'm opening a discussion. Mr Jan Szewczak, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice, will be the first to speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-sejm-22-2.u366	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen, it can undoubtedly be said that there is a significant tax account in the country. After all, we are fully aware that our tax system has been - and is, unfortunately, to a large extent - extremely restrictive when it comes to these small and medium-sized ones, and extremely mild and lax when it comes to the big ones. The Ministry of Finance itself estimates that these large corporations, large corporations only pay 0.6% its revenue when it comes to the tax system, and many of these large institutions, large entities pay CIT tax when they really want to. And we also have historical examples of economic operators to whom CIT tax has been refunded, even large networks, representatives of large commercial networks, which seems to be surprising from the outset. So, undoubtedly, both this direction from the exposé to the Prime Minister's, as well as this openness to some determination, but it is important maybe not on the scale we expect, but it is a move forward when it comes to reducing this tax scale for small, medium-sized and newly formed enterprises, and it is valuable. But it's worth mentioning some numbers. Ladies and gentlemen, today is 10,000. companies in Poland are behind with taxes of PLN 73 billion, for CIT non-refundable losses so far are estimated at about PLN 30, up to PLN 40 million per year with CIT paid in a similar amount - i.e. about PLN 30 billion in revenue and PLN 30.40 billion in losses. So something very important needs to be done in this regard. And I'm sure it's worth lowering taxes on those who invest, who create, even start, not those who invest in tax innovation or tax optimization, because that's not the direction. Of course, we have examples of great generosity in terms of tax relief and tax reduction and even tax exemption. I recall the story of Fiat in Poland, which received a tax exemption for 20 years. Each of us would be happy to take advantage of such a proposal, not to mention small and medium-sized enterprises. In a sense, this government proposal, already declared in the exposé by Prime Minister Beata Szydło, involves reading an open letter addressed by a representative of the Association of Entrepreneurs and Employers of Mr Cezary Kaźmierczak to the President, Prime Minister Jarosław Kaczyński, where issues concerning small and medium-sized enterprises are raised, where it is shown that this proverbial tailor in Biała Podlaski has to give away about 50% of its business activity. her income, and if she did her job in London, only about 3% of that income. These are really challenges, we have terrible delays, delays on these issues, and of course we realize that this reduction is a tiny movement in the right direction, but priceless, important, because it shows a certain tendency, a certain necessity. Let's hope that this small and medium Polish business regains faith that it can be treated differently, because I repeat, not always equal means fair. These small players have much more difficult competition, it is much harder for them, so it seems that these types of starting proposals... Because we realize that the whole tax system really needs to be plowed seriously, changed seriously. We are aware that we have more and more economic operators and that these tax revenues, not just CIT, are either decreasing or at least not growing so significantly. We have big problems, challenges with VAT receipts. These issues of tax sealing are moving in the right direction. For example, today's press conference by the Prime Minister, the Attorney General, the Minister of Finance - these issues are also raised. Let's hope that this government project reduces this tax scale from 19 to 15% He's gonna start the whole series. [[♪ The bell ♪]] changes in the tax system. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-sejm-22-2.u367	Thank you very much. Mr Janusz Cichoń, Parliamentary Club of the Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-sejm-22-2.u368	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Reducing tax burdens is the direction that businesses want and expect. It is clear that the government can reduce taxes when the economic well-being and the associated tax revenues in the budget allow for the performance of the State's tasks at an appropriate level, it is necessary to be pleased that the economy left by the Civic Platform allows such solutions to be implemented. It is worth noting, however, that the positive effects of reducing CIT from 19 to 15% For small entrepreneurs, they will actually have a symbolic dimension and this is therefore largely a propaganda act. As if to recall the figures mentioned by the Minister - 400,000. companies, the total loss in the state budget of 270 million, means that one small company will on average gain PLN 670 per year on this solution, PLN 56 per month. Propaganda. This propaganda effect could probably be much bigger. I regret here that the Minister did not participate in the work on the Act on Activation of the Marine Industry, which is actually a flat-rate tax law. Today we had a discussion at the finance committee meeting on this subject. I think that it would therefore be possible, by amending the title of this law, to consider that, instead of the Corporate Tax Act, we have a act on socio-economic activation or a law on promoting economic development. In our opinion, however, the biggest burden and problem for small enterprises in Poland is the Social Security Office and the wage burden, which should be reduced especially for people with the lowest incomes. This was exhausted by the citizens' platform proposal, i.e. the proposal for a uniform tax. I am glad that PiS has taken over this idea and that we are working on changes in the tax system, which I hope will be possible however. They will, in my opinion, be more effective. In fact, today we are dealing with the imposition of new taxes: commercial, banking. To a large extent, this tax applies to entrepreneurs, especially small ones, but we are also introducing solutions which are to some extent to compensate them for these increasing tax burdens, for example by reducing this CIT. Incidentally, this is another change that is to be financed by sealing the tax system, improving the collection of taxes, but there is no guarantee that these tax revenues will be increased on such a scale. This brings, unfortunately, also fears that we will have to introduce further taxes or raise others, because in fact someone will have to pay for it. But I'm going back to what I said at the beginning. The reduction itself, of course, deserves approval. We believe that we should proceed with this, although we must also be aware that it complicates the tax system a bit. This is not enough, it will also generate some incentives for tax optimization, because on the one hand we seal the tax system, on the other hand - we generate to some extent an environment for abuse. The security itself, which is incorporated into the bill, in my opinion will not protect us, will not block the formation or purchase of dormant companies. This statement, which the Minister spoke of, also indicates that there are some of them. They can also be liquidated by foreign shareholders, so that they are replaced by completely new ones - one or more - in order to use this tax preference. [[♪ The bell ♪]] There is one more concern about the implementation of this project, the constitutionality of this solution. Let us remember that this solution, however, potentially violates the Article. 32 constitutions.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-sejm-22-2.u369	Proceed to the end, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-sejm-22-2.u370	Let me repeat: let's work on this project. The Civic Platform will be involved in the process of discussing and working on this project. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-sejm-22-2.u371	Mr Mark Jakubiak, Kukiz,15. There's no envoy. Mr Mirosław Pampuch, the Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-sejm-22-2.u372	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I took part in the honour of presenting the position of the Poselski Club on the government draft law amending the Act on personal income tax and the Act on corporate income tax, print No. 669. In the exposé, Prime Minister Beata Szydło clearly indicated that the reduction in corporate income tax rate to 15% It was intended to concern small businesses. On the other hand, the draft law states that the reduction in the rate is to apply to a small taxpayer. The terms "small entrepreneur" and "small taxpayer" are not the same. The term "small entrepreneur' is defined both under Union law and under national law. In the Law on the Freedom of Economic Activity in Article. 105 we read that this deadline applies to companies which employ less than 50 employees on average per year in at least one of the last two financial years and achieve an annual turnover of less than EUR 10 million. On the other hand, the term "small taxpayer' is clearly defined in the Corporate and Natural Income Tax Act, but it defines those taxable persons as entrepreneurs who have earned revenues whose equivalent did not exceed EUR 1.2 million. Thus, the proposed reduction in income tax does not even apply to micro-enterprises, because within the meaning of the Commercial Freedom Act micro-entrepreneurs are entities with a turnover of up to EUR 2 million. It cannot therefore be concluded that the proposed changes fulfil the electoral promises and provide real support for small businesses. On the basis of these provisions, small companies will certainly not become medium-sized and medium-sized, as announced by the Prime Minister in the exposé. In addition, there is nothing in the proposed act, and I quote for the Prime Minister, about a double investment write-off for entrepreneurs who will reinvest their earned money in the development of their company. That's the promise in the exposé. The Modern Posel Club already in February introduced a bill amending the Corporate Income Tax Act, print No 287, in which we really propose a reduction in corporate income tax of up to 15% for small enterprises. We're raising the depreciation limits for fixed assets from 3.5,000. Up to 10,000. PLN, as well as we propose an extension of the time in which the taxpayer can settle the tax loss from 5 to 15 years. These are the elements that could really affect the development of small businesses, the increase in domestic jobs, and thus the revenue of the budget from this tax. However, the parliamentary project The modern one was frozen in the finance committee. Today's solutions not only do not simplify tax laws, but also introduce additional bureaucratic requirements for entrepreneurs under the cover of sealing regulations, making it difficult to de facto settle income taxes. In addition, in some cases they even duplicate the recently introduced anti-tax law clause. In view of the short speaking time, I may not be referring to or discussing individual solutions, or pointing out shortcomings, but indeed today Minister Ziobro with the Prime Minister announces an increase in repressiveness towards tax offenders. This is good, because it is indeed necessary to increase these repressions for dishonest taxpayers, but under one condition: simplification of tax law, because when such a complex system of tax law is in force in Poland, the additional tightening of criminal rules is unfortunately not the way. This will make these companies, which are still in Poland, likely look for a different place to develop and will de facto affect the reduction of budget revenue. [[♪ The bell ♪]] However, despite these comments, Poselski Club The modern proposal calls for this proposal to be submitted to the relevant committee for work. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-sejm-22-2.u373	Thank you very much, sir. I would like to ask Mrs Genowefa Tokarska, a club of the Polish People's Party.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-sejm-22-2.u374	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Polish People's Party Parliamentary Club, I have the honour to present my position on the government's tax project, print No. 669. The bill provides for a reduction in corporate income tax rate from 19% to 15% for small taxpayers, i.e. those where the value of sales revenue did not exceed EUR 1,2 million in the previous tax year. This will also apply to start-ups. On the other hand, natural persons engaged in economic activities, as indicated in the explanatory memorandum to the Act, may benefit from other simplified forms of settlement. The preferential rate will also not be covered by tax capital groups. The bill discussed today should not be new in principle. Prime Minister Beata Szydło has repeatedly announced this benefit for entrepreneurs, a reduction in income tax. The Prime Minister spoke about it in the election campaign, talked about it in an exposé in the Sejm, at various meetings and conferences. But I don't understand why she never once told the truth. In fact, the project reducing CIT rates is the final result of the imposition of new taxes on traders. And the question is, why didn't the Prime Minister say that, yes, we're going to lower your tax rate, but you're going to pay for it, and you're going to pay for it? As I'm observing, you're offended, I'm addressing the PiS, the rulers, if we're pointing out lies to you. In fact, I would like to get an answer: What is the name of this action? Can it be said that it is merely a silence of the truth, or is it a perfidious lie? Or is it mere deception or hypocrisy? I find no logical ethical justification for such conduct. But I'm going back to the project. What is the result of this increased taxation on businesses? Well, it's already in the article. 1 the catalogue of taxable income is extended. This tax catalogue includes securities and derivatives of financial instruments, transfer of ownership of shares or shares in a company, participation in investment funds, and title of regulated receivables. The proposal also proposes amendments to clarify the current rules in order to eliminate interpretation doubts that may result in tax avoidance of certain income. It is proposed, among others. amendment of the rules for determining the income on the holding, shares in the company in exchange for a non-monetary contribution made in another form. It also provides for clarification of cases where income of a taxable person subject to a limited tax obligation is considered to have been obtained in the territory of Poland. The proposal also contains provisions that prevent the preferential tax rate from being used by entrepreneurs, for example. they will divide the company only to benefit from a reduced CIT rate. I would like to stress that none of the institutions and organisations concerned have expressed a positive opinion on this project. The Joint Government and Local Government Commission underlines its negative impact on businesses and the economy, as well as the imposition of additional administrative burdens. The Confederation of Leviatan, the Employers of the Republic of Poland and the Business Centre Club also have a negative opinion on the project, stressing that the proposed regulation is anti-developmental, limiting the freedom to invest and reducing the level of legal security of businesses in the field of tax law. After a thorough analysis of this project, the Parliamentary Club of the Polish People's Party shares these negative assessments. However, I suspect that today even the most suspicious did not expect that the government would simply fool entrepreneurs with this project: speaking of discount, it really increases taxes. Nevertheless, I will not apply for rejection at first reading. [[♪ The bell ♪]] I hope some things can be straightened out during committee work. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-sejm-22-2.u375	Thank you very much, Member. I invite Mr Ireneusz Gaina, the Free and Solidarnia Members' Circle.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-sejm-22-2.u376	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! On behalf of the Polish Free and Solidarni Circle, I present my position on the Government's draft law on the amendment of the Personal Income Tax Act and the Corporate Income Tax Act. As we read in the explanatory memorandum, the aim of the project is to implement the announcement expressed in the exposé by Prime Minister Beata Szydło. It calls for a 15% reduction corporate income tax for small companies where the value of sales income together with the amount of duty due on goods and services did not exceed in the previous tax year the amount in PLN corresponding to the equivalent of EUR 1.2 million. At the same time, the amendment proposes a 15% tax rate tax groups were not included - as we read - in view of the specific nature of the institution, assuming the existence of a capital relationship between two or more entities, characteristic of large-scale activities. The aim of reducing CIT is to accelerate growth and create favourable conditions for increasing the entrepreneurship of Poles, especially young, well-educated people. The Free and Solidarnia Circle is in the position that this is a change going in the right direction, although it should be considered as a semi-measure and not as part of a comprehensive tax system repair. Tax law in Poland is one of the most complex tax laws in the European Union. In the Paying Taxes 2016 ranking Poland currently ranks 58th in the world in terms of complexity of the tax system. Entrepreneurs have the determination to act, they have a vision of the future. Where others see problems, entrepreneurs see opportunities. You can say that these are warriors of our time, people who impress with the wealth of ideas, change the world for the better. It's people who take challenges, take risks, create jobs. However, for the certainty and stability of their business, they need a clear, simple tax system. As I mentioned in one of the previous meetings of the Sejm, business organisations are primarily calling for the simplification of the tax system, for example by replacing PIT and CIT with a simple income tax that would be unavoidable for large foreign corporations. It should be borne in mind that the CIT reduction may not apply to many small and medium-sized enterprises, as most of them run companies in the form of business activities carried out in person rather than in the form of companies governed by commercial law. Taxes should be fair and universal. The Free and Solidarni Circle wants a simpler and transparent tax law, which is the same for all entrepreneurs, which is why I would like to ask you to direct the project to further work. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-sejm-22-2.u377	Thank you very much, sir. Members joined the questions. Would any of you like to sign up? If not, I'm closing the list. The first question is asked by Mrs Genowef Tokarska. Question time - 1 minute.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-sejm-22-2.u378	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! We already know that this project imposes new burdens on businesses, new tributes and increases the taxation of economic activities. Minister, you state that after this project, there will be an increase in the revenue of the public finance sector: in the first year of the regulation - in the amount of PLN 277 million, including for the state budget - 213 million and for local government units - 64 million. On the other hand, the costs of reducing the tax rate will amount to 270 million respectively, including for the state budget - 208 million and for the units - 62 million. My question: Why such a convergence of values, 270 and 277? How was revenue calculated, mainly resulting from the interpretation of tax rules and the extension of the taxable income catalogue? Are local governments [[♪ The bell ♪]] Are you sure they won't lose their CIT income? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-sejm-22-2.u379	Thank you very much, Member. I invite Mr Mirosław Pampuch, the Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-sejm-22-2.u380	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I have a question for the Minister. In fact, this question is very much in line with the question which was addressed here to the Minister. By the way, before I ask that question, I'm just gonna say... Please note: the small taxpayer is PLN 1.2 million and the small enterprise is PLN 10 billion... [[Voice from the room: Euro.]] Euro, I'm sorry, Euro. In fact, if we're talking about fulfilling what the Prime Minister said in the exposé, that's 12%. Do I count well? Yeah, not much. Minister, I'm asking you specifically because there's actually a lot of doubt here. 62 million just - reduction in revenue due to a reduction in the rate, 64 - increase in revenue as a result of [[♪ The bell ♪]] income tax seals. And here's the indicator: 0.1%. the total value of the income of the tax group for the inclusion of shares and shares. Where's that indicator coming from? Why 0.1%? ? Why would you assume that? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-sejm-22-2.u381	Thank you very much, sir. I invite Mrs Marta Golbik, the Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-sejm-22-2.u382	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I have two questions. What designers mean by the notion of tax avoidance in Article. Article 10 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 4 and 4a (CIT) and Article. Paragraph 24 19 and 20? Under tax law, especially in doctrine and case law, tax avoidance, which is legal and fully permitted, is a consequence of the existence of a tax option which is the most advantageous, least taxed option. As important and important as the proposed clause, the network of terms and concepts should be as clear and precise as possible. Question two. Doesn't the bill grant too far-reaching administrative recognition to administrative authorities? Tax authorities, for example on the basis of the proposed Article. Article 12 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 point 7 (CIT), acquire the possibility to estimate the value of contributions or, pursuant to Article. Article 10 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 4 and 4a, assessing whether the taxable person has avoided or avoided tax. This, on the other hand, [[♪ The bell ♪]] could lead to a significant reduction in the legal security of the company, especially if we are looking at the action of tax authorities through pure fiscalism. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-sejm-22-2.u383	Thank you very much, Member. I invite Mr Grzegorz Furga, the Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-sejm-22-2.u384	Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! Isn't lowering CIT, by any chance, a sham, populist action aimed at fulfilling electoral promises? It was notabene that the designers wrote directly in the explanatory memorandum. Corporate income tax currently brings to the budget, bagatela, 30 billion PLN. Some ridiculously call it a tax on inability or lack of willingness to avoid it. Regulations on international tax law, in particular double taxation agreements, allow lege artis to manipulate the amount of CIT. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-sejm-22-2.u385	Thank you very much, sir. I invite Mr Pavel Papke, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-sejm-22-2.u386	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! Reducing the tax burden is the direction desired and expected by entrepreneurs. It is clear that the government can reduce taxes when the economic well-being and the associated tax revenues to the state budget allow it to do all its tasks. The reduction itself, of course, deserves approval, but the reduction of the rate only for small companies will certainly complicate the tax system. I also have concerns about the constitutionality of the proposed bill. Hence my question: Can we not propose a reduction in the rate for all legal persons? And wouldn't it be more appropriate for small businesses (legal persons) to introduce registration simplifications, investment incentives for innovative companies, or a comprehensive simplification of the tax system as a whole, in addition to a reduction in the tax rate? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-sejm-22-2.u387	Thank you very much, sir. I invite Mrs Zofia Czernow, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-sejm-22-2.u388	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! Minister! It is certainly right to reduce the tax burden on small businesses. Today, I would like to ask about the financial impact of the regulation, specifically the impact of this regulation on the public finance sector. According to the projectors in the first year of the law, the effects on the state budget, and there are various numbers, are about 300 million PLN, while for local government units about 70 million PLN. In my opinion, these calculations are understated. After all, this concerns almost 90% of all corporate tax payers. Does the government intend to compensate local government units for their loss of income, and how does it intend to do so? It is difficult to imagine that the implementation of the PiS electoral promises would take place at the expense of local governments. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-sejm-22-2.u389	Thank you very much, Member. I invite Mr. Piotr Pyzik, the Law and Justice Club. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-sejm-22-2.u390	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! It is of all means important that small entrepreneurs and micro-entrepreneurs, which constitute a percentage of employers and which is the basis for the strength of the Polish economy, bear less tax burdens and thus have more investment resources. However, I would like to point out that still many young, entrepreneurial Poles see less risk in making decisions on immigration than in assuming economic activity in our country. This is true even though our young citizens are very creative in comparison with those of the neighbouring countries. It is often difficult to bear relatively high tax and tax costs from the start of business. I would like to ask the applicant to consider including in this amendment the principle that the new business start-up operator should be completely exempted from any burden for three months. I also hope that further work on other laws will also create the same incentive for personal activity [[♪ The bell ♪]] economic, especially by our young citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-sejm-22-2.u391	Thank you very much, sir. Please, Mr Mieczysław Miazga, the Law and Justice Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-sejm-22-2.u392	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! It is very good that the Law and Justice are fulfilling the announcements of the Prime Minister expressed in the exposé. It announced a reduction in corporate income tax (CIT) from 19 to 15% for small taxpayers where the value of the sale does not exceed 1200 000. the euro, i.e. approx. PLN 5 million. This is a very good first step towards increasing the scale of entrepreneurship and the development of newly created companies. In general, Polish entrepreneurs are subject to a very large financial burden. Question: "Is it planned to simplify and reduce these burdens in the near future?" What would ultimately contribute to the even greater growth of entrepreneurship and the reduction of the grey economy, so that ultimately revenue to the budget will also increase significantly? The second big problem for entrepreneurs is late payments, so-called. payments after deadlines that are difficult to enforce from unfair counterparties. For this reason, the number of cases in courts is increasing avalanchely, and [[♪ The bell ♪]] current rules and procedures that are in force are conducive to this. Long term claims reduce financial efficiency, which is very detrimental to the development of the economy. Does the government plan to make good changes to these problems? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-sejm-22-2.u393	Thank you very much, sir. I invite Mr Jerzy Meysztowicz, the Modern Club. There isn't. I invite Mrs Bernadet Krynicka, the Law and Justice Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-sejm-22-2.u394	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Business development is a source of economic prosperity. The reduction in corporate income tax for small companies is a support for the development of this group of companies. It's a real help in speeding up their development. This will also help young people to develop businesses. The proposed bill is primarily the implementation of the announcements contained in the exposé by Prime Minister Beata Szydło. Ladies and gentlemen, the tax burden is one of the reasons for the growth of the grey zone, which is estimated at 24% in Poland. GDP. I have a question, Minister. Will the reduction of CIT for small and medium-sized enterprises contribute to a significant reduction in the grey economy in Poland? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-sejm-22-2.u395	Thank you very much, Member. The last question is asked by Mr Krzysztof Truskolas, the Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-sejm-22-2.u396	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! In the election campaign, PiS promised to lower the tax to 15%. Can this project be called fulfillment of promises? You have to tell yourself that you definitely don't. Why does the project only lower the CIT rate for small entrepreneurs? What about the other entrepreneurs? Do you not know that your project will cover only a few percent of entrepreneurs and that around 2169 thousand will be omitted. Taxpayers? Are such regulations not in breach of the principle of equality and free competition? The modern has also submitted a project reducing CIT for entrepreneurs, but unfortunately it is stuck in the committee. As you can see, not only in this project, but in all the projects submitted by the government and by the PiS Members, your promises are not fulfilled. You're cheating your constituents again.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-sejm-22-2.u397	Thank you very much, sir. The questions will be answered by the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Finance, Minister Leszek Skiba. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-sejm-22-2.u398	Thank you so much for the questions. Maybe I should start with Mrs Tokarska. Well, I have the impression that the question that you have asked about the part of the law that you have pointed out is rather a misunderstanding, because if in the article. 1, as you quoted, for the income earned in the territory of the Republic of Poland by the taxable persons referred to in paragraph 1. 2a, it is a matter of non-residents, in particular income from securities, derivatives of financial instruments other than those admitted to public trading in the territory of the Republic of Poland, it is quite obvious that the purpose of this law is to ensure that non-residents who achieve income in Poland actually pay those taxes. So it is difficult for me to understand the charge that we simply want taxes to be paid in Poland. This is in line with, you can say, the general principles, including international agreements, of double taxation avoidance agreements. In fact, income generated in a given country should be taxed in that country. And this law, this section of the Act, aims to achieve precisely this basic purpose, so that income generated by non-residents in Poland is taxed. Therefore, I would not like to continue this thread here. I have the impression that this is simply due to an inaccurate reading by the Member. This is indeed the case with regard to such detailed provisions, which allow to respect certain general principles, that on the income that is achieved in Poland, tax will be paid. It is all these revenues that consist of the sum of 277 million, which is the revenue. But it is mostly worth paying attention to this - this was a question from Mr Pampuch - which is the result of this amount. It is so that one of the most important elements to estimate this amount of 277 million is the estimate based on 3,6 thousand. corporate tax payers who achieved income of more than PLN 100 million in 2014. It was assumed - this is based on the assumption that there is no representative data to estimate this parameter here otherwise - that 0,1% the total value of income in this group of taxpayers are in kind contributions in a form other than the company and its organised part. In this sense, this is the result of this value of 277 million. Part of these sealing elements is not estimated because there is no data at all, therefore this value is estimated in this way. Mrs Golbik was just asking about the abusive clause. Let me remind you that this clause already exists in Polish legislation. There's nothing new in this record, it's just a form of detail. Therefore, I have the impression that a certain kind of authority of this... It is also worth looking at in the perspective of this anti-law clause, which comes into force in the coming days. We're actually dealing with... The main burden of operating the tax system, the whole institution of the circumvention clause will actually be tested, it will operate on the basis of the circumvention clause. In this context, it is rather worth looking at the 'abuse clause' in this context. As for Mrs Czernow's question, I have the impression that, in fact, it is so that the result of sealing is just an increase in tax revenue. There was also a question from Mrs Krynicka: Will this law lead to a reduction in the grey zone? Of course, this is an indirect effect that was not estimated. We naturally assume that if taxation falls, some companies, some entrepreneurs will be willing to start their business at a lower tax rate, and therefore this exit from the grey zone will certainly be such a factor. It's hard to say, it's hard to estimate the exact results, but I'm sure the positive effect will be. And answers to some of the questions raised in this discussion. Indeed, there is full agreement that the main problem in terms of high taxation of start-ups or low-income entrepreneurs is above all not tax contributions, but social security contributions, ZUS contributions. This is the main reason, the barrier to entrepreneurs when it comes to starting a business - those limitations that Mr Mizga spoke about, which is that sometimes it is easier to start a business in another country, and Mr Cichoń pointed to this, which is really the idea of a uniform tax, which is actually being analysed within the government. Minister Henryk Kowalczyk has spoken of this many times. The aim of this project is to reduce tax wedges for the least earning workers on the one hand and to reduce social security contributions for entrepreneurs who start their business, whose profitability is relatively low, whose income is relatively low. And here, in answer to Mr Truskolaski's question, I would like to draw attention to the fact that, in fact, if we want to make it really easier for entrepreneurs to operate, this must be an approach, it can be said, a systemic approach, and for this reason the best solution is not to address in this law the problem that Mr Truskolaski was talking about, namely the problem of the functioning of business people, only a systemic approach within the framework of a uniform tax. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-sejm-22-2.u399	Thank you very much, Minister. I'm closing... [[Correct, I'm sorry.]] Here you are, Mrs Remembrance.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-sejm-22-2.u400	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! I'd like to correct my statement because I don't think we understand each other. I had no objections to the provisions in this Act, as regards the fact that they somehow misstandardize tax matters. That was absolutely not my goal. On the other hand, I wanted to show that you are only talking about reducing this tax, but you are not saying that, on the other hand, entrepreneurs themselves will pay this tax. It was the only thought I wanted to give. On the other hand, with regard to the specific provisions concerning where the money will come from, I have no objections. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-sejm-22-2.u401	Thank you very much, Member. The discussion is closed. The Marshal of the Sejm, after consulting the Bureau of the Sejm, proposes that the Sejm should refer the Government's draft law on the amendment of the Personal Income Tax Act and the Corporate Income Tax Act, contained in print No. 669, to the Committee on Public Finance for consideration. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. We proceed with the examination of item 22 of the agenda: First reading of the parliamentary draft resolution on the establishment of the Committee of Investigation to examine the correctness and legality of the activities of public bodies and institutions vis-à-vis entities included in the.Amber Gold Group (print No 685). I ask Małgorzata Wassermann to present the reasons for the draft resolution.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-sejm-22-2.u402	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, Law and Justice, I have the honour to present a draft resolution on the establishment of a Committee of Inquiry to examine the regularity and legality of the activities of public bodies and institutions vis-à-vis entities forming part of the Amber Gold Group. Parliamentary Club Law and Justice requests the establishment of a Sejm Committee of Investigation to examine in detail what is described in the resolution of a group of companies governed by commercial law, hereinafter referred to as the Amber Gold Group. Within 3 years of the company's operations, around 18 thousand people were victimized. citizens in excess of PLN 850 million. The question arises as to how so many negligencees have occurred on the part of so many described in detail in the institution's resolution. It is the right, but also the duty of the Sejm, to obtain information on the activities of public bodies and institutions and to assess these activities. I would like to make it clear that the Committee of Investigation will not assess the activities of a private entity such as the Amber Gold Group. In this respect, criminal proceedings are pending, the role of which will be to answer the question whether the defendants of P.'s marriage have exhausted the marks of the crime and possibly convicted them in the event of proven guilt. The role of the committee is to determine why none of the various institutions appointed to control such entities has properly fulfilled their duty. The defendant, Marcin P., was legally unable to act as President of the company, and for almost three years he was in the National Court Register as President of Amber Gold. Many of us know that the establishment of a limited liability company and a public limited liability company is a formalized procedure. Despite the failure to comply with the prescribed obligations, the accused has registered companies, and this also applies to registration at the tax office. Every Polish entrepreneur knows the consequences of not submitting tax returns and reports in the National Court Register. The defendant of P.'s marriage without consequences managed to do so for a period of approx. 3 years. It needs to be explained why the clerks under the finance minister have shown such passiveness. Another organ that has shown exceptional inability is the D.A.'s office. The question arises as to why the prosecution, even though it had a legitimate suspicion of committing a criminal offence from a notification submitted by a highly specialised body such as the Financial Supervision Authority, has consistently refused to deal with the case. The fact that these notifications were supported by the rules of the criminal courts to which the Committee on Financial Supervision made complaints cannot be overlooked. Why didn't the Office of Competition and Consumer Protection react when Amber Gold's offers seemed illegal and impossible at first glance? What actions have the Ministry of Economy and the Ministry of Infrastructure taken? We all remember the widely advertised activities of airlines. Finally, where were the special forces when the young, albeit several times punished Marcin P. was active in the financial market without the required entries in registers and permits? Why is it that no one is interested in financial operations that bear the mark of money laundering? Finally, the question arises: What happened to the huge amount of money that the defendants extorted? There's a lot of questions. Clarification of these mechanisms is in the interests of society as a whole, which is often punished with high sanctions for minor errors in the conduct of business. We also owe 18 grand. citizens who, as a result of this financial pyramid, have lost very often the assets of their lives and their families. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-sejm-22-2.u403	Thank you very much, Member. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would listen to the five-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and the circle. I'm opening a discussion. Mr Jarosław Krajewski, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice, will be the first to speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-sejm-22-2.u404	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour on behalf of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice to present a position on the draft resolution on the establishment of the Committee of Investigation to examine the correctness and legality of the activities of public bodies and institutions vis-à-vis entities forming part of the Amber Gold Group. I hope that everyone in this room remembers 13 August 2012. Then Amber Gold, which tempts Poles in numerous advertisements, announced the decision to liquidate. At that point, 18,000. Poles lost over PLN 850 million. In one moment thousands of Polish families lost their lives. None of us parliamentarians can be indifferent to the dramatic experiences of the victims who have been cynically and insidiously deceived. The Poles then had the right to expect that the state was upholding the law, guaranteeing security, including the financial security of citizens. However, in the times of the government of PO-PSL the institutions of the state completely failed. Despite many signals of gross negligence regarding the Amber Gold group, state institutions have shown weakness and indifference to human tragedies. The government of the Civic Platform and PSL could not or did not want to properly safeguard the interests of citizens. All of this resulted not only in their loss of life savings but also in their loss of confidence in you. Definitely not the reaction the Poles were expecting. Unfortunately, the Amber Gold scandal has not been explained until today. The state implemented by the Civic Platform and the PSL was built on such a principle that it was to be strong against the weak and weak against the strong. In this situation the Sejm of the Republic of Poland in accordance with art. 111 The Constitution should exercise its powers and set up a Committee of Investigation. Illegal action by persons associated with Amber Gold is an appropriate subject for an extraordinary parliamentary committee, which will examine and assess the correctness and legality of the action taken by public authorities in the course of its work. Therefore, our intention in setting up the Committee of Investigation is to assess the actions or reasons for omissions by government administrations and prosecutors regarding the illegal activities of the Amber Gold Group. It is extremely interesting why, over the years, citizens' Platform politicians have failed to make effective attempts to explain how many omissions have occurred in this matter. This forces the question to be asked: Was there a political protective umbrella for Amber Gold's criminal activity? The investigation of Amber Gold is fundamental to the proper functioning of the State's institutions and therefore the establishment of the Committee of Investigation is necessary and disclosure of all information should be public. Poles, with particular attention to the victims, have the right to know the truth, and the state must draw conclusions for the future so that such a situation can never happen again. High Izbo! This committee should have been set up four years ago. Law and Justice is consistent and credible in their efforts to clarify the Amber Gold affair. Let us remind you that on 21 August 2012 Members of the Law and Justice have applied for the establishment of a Committee of Investigation. What did the Members of the PO and PSL do then? A few days later, they voted against the establishment of the Committee of Investigation to explain the background of this giant fraud. It is worth recalling the words made by Prime Minister Beata Szydło in August 2012 from that speaker when she justified the request for a committee of inquiry to investigate the Amber Gold scandal. Please, we all, the parliamentarians sitting on these benches, owe it not to any political group, not to any club, but to Poles - those Poles who were in the Polish state in the majesty of the law deceived. People are divided into honest people and those who use this honesty cynically and ruthlessly. And we, as the Law and Justice, stand on the side of the first ones who are honest and want to trust their state. High Izbo! If we all treat our work as a public service in this House, it is our duty to vote in favour of a committee which will examine in a fair, fair, credible and effective manner the correctness and legality of the activities of public authorities and institutions in this matter. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Parliamentary Club Law and Justice supports the draft resolution on the establishment of a committee of inquiry and will vote in favour of it. The appointment of a committee of inquiry will also be further proof that the PiS is keeping its word. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-sejm-22-2.u405	Thank you very much, sir. I invite Mr Zbigniew Konwiński, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-sejm-22-2.u406	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! If you listen to the politicians of the PiS, you probably already have a report on the work of the committee of inquiry prepared. Why do you need a committee of inquiry? You already know the causes of the Amber Gold scandal, you already know who's to blame. You don't need a committee of inquiry for that. 850 million, that's how it went down here, but the Bank Guarantee Fund paid over PLN 4 billion to the injured clients of the SKOKs. We have nothing to hide, we are not afraid of anything, we will support the establishment of this committee on Amber Gold, but I hope that we can count on a rematch and support our amendment, which we will report in the course of further work, extending the scope of the committee's activities also to the SKOKs. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! As I said, in the course of further work, we will submit a draft resolution extending the scope of the committee's activities to examine the activities of cooperative savings and credit banks and to deal with them by certain politicians of a specific protective umbrella. Pretty expensive, because as I said, so far SKOK customers have been paid out of BFG about PLN 4 billion. If you're saying that we need to investigate Amber Gold's case, then I understand that you agree that Amber Gold has to be investigated even more times five, because the SKOK-i is Amber Gold times five. There's only one difference. Those who are responsible for Amber Gold's case, who have caused this, are in prison, and those who are responsible for the loss of the SKOKs, are sitting, but in parliamentary benches with a recommendation from Law and Justice, and one even in the Presidential Palace. You mean one thing - said the future chairman of the committee of inquiry - you want to question Donald Tusk, that's what you mean, you want to treat your complexes towards Donald Tusk with this committee of inquiry. The support by you or his lack of our amendment, which I have said, extending the scope of the committee's activities to the SKOKs, will be a test of your intentions, whether you really want to clarify what is Amber Gold times five, or just to bring Donald Tusk's committee of inquiry. As I said, this is what a member of the committee of inquiry was talking about. You're talking about how you want to see how the state institutions worked, how the state's attorneys worked, the courts. Why don't you ask Jarosław Gowin, the Deputy Prime Minister in your government, because he was then the Minister of Justice. Interestingly, Jarosław Gowin then said that some of the business environments were no longer afraid of the return of Jarosław Kaczyński and wanted to overthrow Tusk. Tusk proved even more ruthless in fighting the corruption of politics and business - these are the words of Jarosław Gowin. He added in another statement that, as the Minister of Justice, he tried to determine whether there was a connection between Amber Gold and the Tri-City politicians of the PO, and he did not detect such links. I understand that if you want to question Donald Tusk, you should invite him right away. In front of Jarosław Gowin's committee of inquiry. So we're gonna apply, we're gonna file it at the committee's meeting, and we're gonna extend the scope of the committee's activities to the SKOKs as well. We hope that you are not afraid of anything either, that you have nothing to hide and support this proposal. But I want to tell you one more thing: even if you do not support this proposal, we will still vote in favour of this committee of inquiry, because we have nothing to hide and we are not afraid of anything. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-sejm-22-2.u407	Thank you very much. Please, Mr Krzysztof Breja, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-sejm-22-2.u408	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Of course, in our opinion, the committee should be set up and, above all, it should investigate the amazing scandal that took place in the SKOK system, because the SKOKs are dying all the time. More than 120 000 have been suffered by Wołomin and the Community alone. Poles. These people didn't lose their money because of the Civic Platform Act, which they were so passionately blocking. Law and Justice and the People of Law and Justice. The Bank Guarantee Fund paid these people out, but thanks to that bill you were blocking. The circumstances of the drafting of this law, the circumstances of blocking, influence, in our opinion, illegal on the legislative process of politicians, especially the PiS, but related to the SKOKs, should be absolutely explained, because Amber Gold is a 500 million start, but besides Amber Gold we had, I checked, Amber Platinum, the Amber SKOK system - 4 million PLN withdrawals from the BFG and dozens of times more clients of the SKOKs... [[But about Amber Gold, sir.]] ...who have suffered here. Because the SKOK-i is an obvious contact between politics, media, which also the SKOK-i have, business, as you know well, and intimidation of parliamentarians, because there are Members of the Platform, which the SKOK-i speak about. More, there are bullied journalists in Poland, with 20 civil cases each, in the vast majority of the winnings, [[♪ The bell ♪]] And they go all over the country just because they have the guts to write about SKOKs. Therefore, as a Platform we will support the establishment of this committee, we will request that its scope be extended to examine this Amber Platinum, which is the SKOKs. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-sejm-22-2.u409	Thank you very much, sir. I invite Mr Paweł Grabowski, the Kukiz Club15.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-sejm-22-2.u410	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! I have the honour to present the position of the Kukiz Club15 on the draft resolution in print 685 on the establishment of an inquiry committee to examine the so-called. Amber Gold scandals. Ladies and gentlemen, there's basically no controversy here, from what I can see, in the courtroom, and I don't think this controversy should be. Such a committee should be set up, and in fact it must arise from one simple reason - perhaps in a month's time, in three weeks' time, I do not remember exactly, we will celebrate the 4th anniversary of the outbreak. And it is already a scandal that the Polish state could not explain the matter for four years. Actually, it's stuck somewhere. I understand - a great deal of evidence. And I'm wondering if it's mythical 16,000. tom the case file, whether this number is really appropriate to clarify this matter, because in most cases, so to speak, as far as the modus operandi is concerned, it was very similar, so interrogation of every injured person can be, and in my opinion, a delay action, an statute of limitations on this case. However, with regard to the statements of my esteemed speakers from the Platform, I will say this: in my optics... but also, Madam President, in the future, hopefully this committee will not examine whether the members of the Platform from the Tri-City or other regions of Poland actually participated in this event, because the content of this resolution indicates that it is not about tracking down the members of the Tri-City Platform, but about tracking irregularities in the system and in the way the authorities operate. The question may be asked: How did it happen that the entity to whom KNF was looking, who was looking at the UOKiK, which offered a horrendous interest on its deposits, did not draw the attention of these control bodies, did not draw attention to the authorities of the State which were supposed to protect citizens. After all, economists have had doubts for some time, especially in 2012, already during the holidays, as possible, that this type of interest rate is offered, whether it is not a financial pyramid. Another issue is the scale of advertising. I don't know if you remember that. I remember that. The ads of this company were basically in every newspaper, in every well-known tabloid, in every weekly, there were everywhere, and yet none of the public authorities did take action to protect consumers or at least to check whether it was actually a legally operating entity, whether it was a financial pyramid. For this reason, with regard to the creation of this committee, as I said, its creation is not the least controversial, it is the implementation of the announcements made repeatedly by the politicians of Law and Justice, led by Prime Minister Szydło. And good, that's the committee that needs to be set up. However, let me appeal to future members of this committee who, I think, are sitting in this Chamber, so that you do not give in to the desire to make this committee some kind of theater, some kind of political upheaval, which I will say, oriented towards seeking and hanging witches. Ladies and gentlemen, on the subject of the so-called: Amber Gold, that's already been said, about 18,000. Poles lost their life savings or part of their lives. Yes, with regard to the so-called. The SKOK scandal, which is pointed out by the Members of the Civic Platform, in fact, is a completely different scale, while those costs were borne by the Bank Guarantee Fund, so not directly out of the citizens' pockets the money was taken out. I understand that this is not an excuse not to solve the SKOK cases, but all of us here must bear in mind that the citizens of the world have simply been robbed of their own money. For many of them, it was a great drama, some of the people, as far as I know, took their lives. That is why I am once again calling on you to work in substance in this committee, to explain, not to seek, not to hunt for witches, but to explain the matter in substance, because it is simply 18,000 in the world. citizens who have been deceived, and millions of Poles, whom hopefully the results of this committee's work, but also the work of the courts and prosecutors to solve this case... Let's hope you will. [[♪ The bell ♪]] at the level of the task and protects citizens from such irregularities in the future. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-sejm-22-2.u411	Thank you very much, sir. Mr Witold Zembaczyński, the Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-sejm-22-2.u412	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour to present the position of the Poselski Club on printing No 685 on the establishment of the Committee of Investigation to examine the correctness and legality of the activities of public bodies and institutions vis-à-vis entities forming part of the Amber Gold Group. First of all, I would like to say that we support the establishment of this committee, which is expected by thousands of injured Poles, people who have lost a lot of their life's work, invested in the hope of making a profit. The main problem is that the State did not react to the fact that the promises made by this economic operator were completely market-proof. Therefore, we believe that this is fully justified in order to set up such a committee and explain how it happened, why state institutions did not take appropriate action under the Civic Platform to safeguard the interests of consumers investing their money in the assets of the company and Amber Gold Group. However, as the Modern Parliamentary Club, we do not agree that the work of the committee should focus on proving that certain reforms of law and justice, such as the politicisation of the prosecution, are justified by cases such as Amber Gold. We have the overwhelming impression that part of the work of this committee will focus on proving that the institutions so-called. The Third Republic of Poland was inept. You're going to want to conduct a crusade against the D.A.'s office from that time, common courts, and in this way you're going to be able to legitimize the change you're designing, I mentioned the D.A.'s office, and now it's time for the judiciary; that's not going to happen. We want the work of this committee to focus on developing systems that protect citizens, their interests for the future. What happened is already behind us, we must not forget that the final report of the committee can also provide strong support in any kind of process against the Polish state in the hope of recovering its debts through court proceedings. Thus, it is very important that representatives of all clubs participate in the work of the committee, because not only the voters of Law and Justice are members of the group of people affected by this activity, but also of all other groups present in the Sejm. This is why we were amazed to hear this debate, in which we were ignored as opposition in committee. I hope that our participation is already sealed, because we want to work not only to clarify the matter but also to develop mechanisms for the future. We are convinced that the Committee for the Protection of Human Rights is responsible for the implementation of this Decision. Amber Gold is also a way to present the weakness of the Polish state where it actually existed, but it cannot be just a level of political dispute. Please do not forget that this is the first committee of inquiry that affects so many individuals, so many citizens who have lost their savings, not just politicians and circles of power. So I agree with my previous speaker's conclusion that this cannot only be the arena of a political dispute, but certainly a place of substance work. The evidence is extremely extensive, although the mechanism of extortion was very similar in many cases. So that we are very much in favour of setting up a committee, we are counting on the rapid and substantive programming of its work, and we are also counting on it to focus mainly on developing a mechanism for the future, and not just on clearing up its predecessors. Unfortunately, this is just a little bit, because it was possible to set up this committee at the beginning of the term of office, but - as you can see - Law and Justice awaited this moment. At the end of my speech, I will also mention: don't forget, folks, that when you were in opposition, you received information about these irregularities within the framework of Amber Gold. You didn't do the right thing at the time. The question is why. Is it because you were a little afraid to refer to the SKOK case? I think it is worth mentioning that two investigative committees are needed at the moment - one for the Amber Gold case and the other for the SKOK case, where the losses to the state budget are disproportionately greater. Of course, Amber Gold won't be able to cover up the SKOK cases and we'll be talking about it as Modern Speaking Out. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-sejm-22-2.u413	Thank you very much, sir. I invite Mr Krzysztof Pasyk, the PSL club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-sejm-22-2.u414	Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, On behalf of the National Parliamentary Club of the Polish People's Party, I have the honour to present the position of the club in relation to the first reading of the parliamentary draft resolution on the appointment of the Committee of Investigation to examine the correctness and legality of the activities of public bodies and institutions vis-à-vis entities included in the Amber Gold Group, print No 685. First of all, High Izbo, I would like to express my satisfaction, maybe first of all the satisfaction that despite these initial assurances, the majority of the Parliamentary Club of Law and Justice has shown some reflection and will not break the custom that has been in force in this House for many, many years and which has allowed the investigative committees of all parliamentary clubs and circles that participate every day in the work of the Seniors Convention, but also - which would be worse - there will be no doubt as to the violation of the law on the committee of inquiry, because such concern in our recognition was also that it would be in a serious conflict with the article. Two of these laws. The committee of inquiry itself should undoubtedly address this issue as much as possible, for several reasons. Firstly, this is probably the argument in many of my predecessors' speeches - the scale of the victims as a result of this company's actions is very large. This is undoubtedly in favour of the High House showing its activity in relation to the circumstances which accompanied the operation of this company. But there is also a certain area of omissions of institutions which showed their inactivity during the course of the operation of this company. There is also a third argument that the committee of inquiry should examine this company - that is, above all, the responsibility which rests with the High House, in the course of the committee's activities, to develop certain mechanisms that would in the future be a good protection against harm, against losses, very measurable, for Poles and Poles, in short, so that a similar thing does not happen in the future. I think that this should also lead to legislative initiatives which will somehow safeguard the interests of Poles and Poles. As the Parliamentary Club of the Polish People's Party, we hope that the work of this committee of inquiry, unlike unfortunately many unsavory examples, as far as this is concerned, will focus on the merits and will not serve to raise political capital, will not be a tool for a certain political vendetta, political revenge against political opponents of certain political environments. To sum up, the Parliamentary Club of the Polish People's Party will vote in favour of a resolution on the appointment of a committee of inquiry. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-sejm-22-2.u415	Thank you very much, sir. I invite Mrs Małgorzata Zwierzan, Circle of Members of Free and Solidarni.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-sejm-22-2.u416	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Free and Solidarnia Circle, I present my position on the establishment of a Committee of Investigation to examine the regularity and legality of the activities of public authorities and institutions vis-à-vis entities forming part of the Amber Gold Group. The appointment of the Committee of Investigation to examine the regularity and legality of the activities of public authorities and bodies vis-à-vis the bodies of the , Amber Gold Group is a decision that meets the social expectations and, above all, the State's commitment to 18 000. people cheated by a pair of crooks operating under the umbrella of a state institution. We need to answer the question of how it was possible that the practice which led to the extortion of over PLN 850 million from Poles continued despite the knowledge of the disturbing symptoms of Amber Gold's criminal activities that some institutions of the state had. By the end of 2012, the Amber Gold case was to be thoroughly clarified. That's what the former Prime Minister Donald Tusk said, and it came out like always. It's 2016 and it's a long way to go. While the trial is pending in court, the amount of trial material and the failure of our judicial system allows us to presume that this matter will never be resolved on a judicial basis. My presumption is rather a conviction, because how can we have confidence in the current judicial system, since in recent days we have learned that the courts have not dealt with such a simple matter as a violation of the law of the road, which the evidence was widely available, and yet the court has allowed the case to be statute-barred. In view of this failure of the courts in the Amber Gold case, only the committee of inquiry can answer the following questions. Who was able to provide Marcin P. with the protection of the whole state: and the institutions, and the people of power? Why did the state, despite its knowledge, not stop the criminal extortion of money from Poles? Who provided a protective umbrella for this initiative? Could this have been about OLT taking over the lottery? Why were the citizens of the Civic Platform so eager to promote the initiatives of a pair of fraudsters? Was the engagement of the Prime Minister's son supposed to be a form of security? Why didn't the special forces warn the Poles or the Prime Minister? Or did they warn you? What exactly did Donald Tusk know and do? Did he just warn his son? Searching for answers to these questions is essential for the repair of the Polish justice system. To this day, we do not know what mechanisms and interests have enabled the development of criminal activities on such a large scale. To what extent was this mafia arrangement covered by state institutions, and what was the involvement of politicians in the highest offices? The Amber Gold case is not just a case of a couple of fraudsters who took advantage of the naivety of people, but it is also a model manifestation of a state crisis that was unable to protect its own citizens from an initiative that actively supported the power environment. I am an apartment of the Tri-City, and I remember this embarrassing image, which was proud of the top leaders of the Civic Platform in Pomerania, when it was like children in the playground dragging a plane across the board of the Gdańsk airport. Perhaps it would have been a funny spectacle if it hadn't been for the involvement of such important politicians of the coalition in advertising the company about which news was circulating on our territory that it was a mafia system designed and protected by the highest politicians. What was the prime minister's son's role in this? Was his employment in this company a guarantee for the operation of the protective umbrella over Amber Gold, which may have been Prime Minister Tusk himself? We need to find answers to these questions, because it can't be the same as cases of abuse in recruitment for the Faculty of Law of the University of Gdańsk, when the rector in a conversation with the head of the Gdańsk CBŚ said: you have to understand that children from legal background are more predisposed to study law. We need to clarify the unfair behaviour of the Amber Gold group of companies, so that no maximum is accepted, suggesting that children of dishonest politicians have special predispositions. [[♪ The bell ♪]] to conduct unfair business. About Free and Solidarni will vote in favour of a committee. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-sejm-22-2.u417	Thank you, Member. Would any of you like to sign up for any more questions? [[Voice from the room: I'm still here.]] Okay, thank you. I'm closing the list. The first question is asked by Marcin Horała, the Law and Justice Club. Question time - 1 minute.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-sejm-22-2.u418	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! First of all, I wanted to express my surprise, because we, Members of the PiS, are saying that it is necessary to clarify this matter, that it is necessary to examine how this happened, that the designated fraud clearly has been pulling people for months or even years, and that the legitimate authorities of the state have not reacted, whether there was a political umbrella on it, and Members of the Platform somehow so horribly take it personally, as an attack on their formation. Do you have any knowledge that we don't have? I think it's worth it for the committee to take advantage of that knowledge. You're also trying to black out this case, add an additional topic: the SKOK theme. And I agree that the subject. 8 years of policy of the Civic Platform promoting banks and discriminatory savings and credit cooperativeism, that the issue of links between people who are responsible for the scandal in Wołomin, as reported by some of the media, with Military Information Services, with a happy ruling formation until recently, but fortunately no longer... [[The pictures are here.]] ...these are things that are worth explaining, but not all at once. We'll explain. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Amber Gold case, which I don't know why you guys are taking it personally, and we're gonna move on to the next thing. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-sejm-22-2.u419	Thank you very much, sir. I invite Mrs Małgorzata Płępek, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-sejm-22-2.u420	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! For the Amber Gold case, the SKOK case doesn't have the slightest comparison. It's the SKOK-i that's the biggest scandal of the last 25 years. [[But that's not the resolution.]] [[Voice from the room: Get to the point.]] Get to the point. I'm talking about it right now.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-sejm-22-2.u421	Please don't disturb me. I'm asking for peace in the courtroom.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-sejm-22-2.u422	To date, Poles have paid over PLN 3.5 billion as customers of other banks. [[They paid 50 billion for franc credits.]] I would like to remind you that the Financial Supervision Commission did not supervise these banks until 2012. I would also like to remind you that the role of the current President Andrzej Duda, previously Minister at the President's Office, in matters relating to promoting the SKOKs and blocking the inclusion of the SKOKs in State supervision was very serious. [[There's no surveillance, it turns out.]] Wasn't it from SKOK Holding that Rydzyk's father's foundation received a credit board that allowed her [[♪ The bell ♪]] to get a place on the multiplex for Trwam Television? [[Woolmint.]] Is this company a partner of Geotermia Toruń's father Rydzyk, whom PiS restored after the election 30 million PLN? [[Voice from the room: To whom question?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-sejm-22-2.u423	Finish it, Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-sejm-22-2.u424	Why has it not been possible to prove illegal actions to the SKOKs so far? Will the amendment to be tabled by the Civic Platform be taken into account? [[Room voice: 30 seconds.]] You are so righteous and fair, so accept this amendment. Thank you very much. [[Applause, bustle in the hall]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-sejm-22-2.u425	Thank you very much, Member. I also wanted to ask you in the Chamber to calm down and give every Member a chance to ask a question. I ask you to calmly proceed to this point. I invite Mrs Joanna Augustynowska, the Modern Club. There isn't. Mr. Piotr Pyzik, Club Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-sejm-22-2.u426	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! One of the most important functions of the state is to ensure that citizens are protected to the extent that they are not able to provide it individually. In the case of Amber Gold, a situation could be identified as one of the most serious and threatening crises in the state. The institutions of the state had all the data showing that citizens were at risk of adverse disposal of their property... [[Your marshal, time.]] ...and yet they didn't give the right warning. Such an uproar of trust in you has a long-term, extremely destructive social impact. We must do everything we can to x-ray this case to the bottom, even if it were to be, it would have to be painful. Otherwise, I can't imagine that we could look our voters in the eye without shame. I also propose that the scope of the committee we want to set up should be extended to examine the activities of the Financial Supervision Authority and the Financial Supervision Authority. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-sejm-22-2.u427	Thank you very much, sir. I invite Mr Marcin Porzuck, the Law and Justice Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-sejm-22-2.u428	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! First of all, quickly to Mrs Navels. If...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-sejm-22-2.u429	But I'm not asking for polemics in the courtroom. I'm asking questions.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-sejm-22-2.u430	...you have information about irregularities regarding the supervision of the state institution over the SKOKs during the PO-PSL regime, then report it to the D.A.'s office. On the other hand, in the case of Amber Gold, nearly a billion zlotys were lost by Poles in this affair. I know both those poor who, after several hundred zlotys, lost several thousand, but also those wealthy, would seem to be entrepreneurial, familiar with the reality of the capital market. They were all sure that if Mr. Marcin P. took pictures of himself with the leading policies of the Civic Platform, this is a proven institution. Unfortunately, we know that both the officials under the then finance minister and the special forces failed. Hence my question: Will the appointment of this committee of inquiry contribute to the determination of those responsible for this situation at the level of state institutions? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-sejm-22-2.u431	Thank you, sir. I invite Mrs Marta Golbik, the Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-sejm-22-2.u432	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I absolutely believe that it is worth investigating cases that we call scandals and which point to inadequately functioning processes in the country. However, it is worth adding that analysis is not an objective - it is a means to achieve the goal. The aim should be to draw conclusions. It is worth trying to answer the question of what conclusions have been drawn from the work carried out by the previously appointed committees. The first was to explain the irregularities in the work on the Radio and Television Act. Did the information obtained in any way, apart from finding the guilty, allow to save from the collapse of public radio and television? Another committee examined the allegations of irregularities in the supervision of the Ministry of Treasury over its representatives in the company. Her work was turbulent, she fell apart, then she wasn't called in. Has the State been strengthened in any way in this process? A lot of unfinished business, more questions than answers, and thus more losses than benefits for the state. The committees - which were set up in important cases - showed that not only the cases examined show incompetence and omission, but the institutions [[♪ The bell ♪]] Invited for examination... As a supporter of the committee set up in the proposal presented to us today, I must ask the applicants: Will the committee currently appointed act in a more responsible way and draw appropriate conclusions? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-sejm-22-2.u433	Thank you very much, Member. I invite Mr Sylvester Khrushch, the Kukiz Club15.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-sejm-22-2.u434	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Amber Gold offered much higher profitability in its business than banks and other financial entities. How is it possible that in the past the company offered such a different product, which, among economists, raised so many reasonable doubts? How is it possible that these doubts did not have appropriate control authorities? The natural question arises: Why has this been the case these days? I hope that we will get the answer in a substantive, calm way and that this committee will do its job. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-sejm-22-2.u435	Thank you very much, sir. I invite Mrs Joanna Schmidt, the Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-sejm-22-2.u436	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Operational and organisational questions to the applicant: How long do you expect the Commission to act? I'm asking about the time frame in which the committee will close its work. It is very important that we do not deal with political and media soap operas. Will the session of the Amber Gold committee always be broadcast live? Next question: Is there information in the media about potential names, witnesses who will be called for hearings? Aren't you worried about claims for personal property violations in a situation of unauthorized summoning the so-called. witnesses to the committee's deliberations and their accusations? What will be the criteria for the selection of persons called for hearings? Will these be political criteria and what other criteria? And the last question is, aren't you concerned that the committee's work will be extended because of [[♪ The bell ♪]] the ongoing conflict between the POs and the PIS? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-sejm-22-2.u437	Thank you very much, Member. I invite Mr Mirosław Suchon, the Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-sejm-22-2.u438	Thank you. Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Of course, when the Amber Gold scandal broke out, we were all, I think, in shock, because it's the scale of the problem, the scale of the issue, the number of people affected was a shock to all people who believe that the state is able to protect them from unfair market players, including the financial market. I must say that it is really important that this committee very thoroughly and reliably explain what these mechanisms were and whether the state institutions, politicians did everything they could to protect Poles from this issue. Unfortunately, the same is true of the SKOK, almost 4 billion dollars that this system has consumed. This also requires an explanation. On the other hand, I wanted to ask the applicant's question and ask her. If you would be kind, [[♪ The bell ♪]] because it is known that you will be the President, to draw up how you see the work of the committee, to cooperate with the witnesses, to cooperate with the institutions that will be called for explanations. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-sejm-22-2.u439	Thank you very much, sir. I invite Mrs Paulina Hennig-Kloska, the Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-sejm-22-2.u440	Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I have a question for applicants who are representatives of law and justice. Will you also have the civil courage to add a second leg to Amber Gold and explain what has been happening in the SKOK sector over the years? [[Voice from the Chamber: State institution.]] Amber Gold is 800 million PLN, and SKOK is already paid out of BFG 4 billion PLN. It must be said explicitly that there will be more of this, not to mention the shares that our citizens, the inhabitants of Poland, have lost in borrowing. Today they have to pay off their loans, and they've lost their shares in those SKOKs. At 43 cashiers, 36 are covered by today's obligation to implement... [[Voice from the hall: Ha, ha, ha.]] ...repair programs. Only ten have been implemented, and in fact only five are going according to plan. This is the biggest financial scandal in our country. [[Well, that's a motion for a committee.]] There's gonna be a motion, and there's gonna be a case. [[♪ The bell ♪]] we need to explain how any scandal that caused the State Treasury and Poles to lose their money. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-sejm-22-2.u441	Thank you very much, Member. Mr. Wojciech Kossakowski, the Law and Justice Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-sejm-22-2.u442	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Amber Gold is a company that, under the cover of investment in gold and high-interest passwords, has deprived thousands of people of savings, which have often been the product of their lives. Unfortunately, the Civic Platform has left them to themselves, and if we are to talk about any result resulting from the whole matter, it seems to all come to one word: a child. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to give you some thought. In accordance with the current legal regulation, the composition of the committees should be reflected in the clubs and parliamentary circles represented in the Sejm. However, should not a representative of victims be allowed to join committee members in such cases? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-sejm-22-2.u443	Thank you very much, sir. The last question will be asked by Mr Józef Leśniak, the Law and Justice Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-sejm-22-2.u444	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I have this question: Is it true that the only person who has any responsibility for the lack of appropriate action by public authorities and institutions is the head of the District Public Prosecutor's Office of Gdansk-Wrzeszcz? Apparently, ladies and gentlemen, we have dealt with a country that worked theoretically and with a country in which there were theoretically bodies such as the Financial Supervision Commission, the UOKiK, the National Bank of Poland, tax offices, the General Inspector of Financial Information, the Public Prosecutor's Office, courts and many other authorities of the State. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-sejm-22-2.u445	Thank you very much, sir. The list of Members registered in the vote has been exhausted. I ask the applicant's representative, Małgorzata Wassermann, to answer the questions.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-sejm-22-2.u446	Thank you very much, Marshal. To answer the questions of the honourable Members, perhaps I will begin from the end. The last question was whether family representatives of victims should be appointed to the committee. Ladies and gentlemen, that would be against the law on the committee of inquiry. Let me refer to this law and draw a little closer to its content, because if you knew the contents of this law, you would not ask such questions, especially as regards those questions which were raised by representatives of the opposition at that time. Well, ladies and gentlemen, I am now going to answer briefly and without going into unnecessary details about these questions concerning SKOK. Firstly, this proposal to extend the draft resolution is simply inconsistent with the law on the committee of inquiry and I recommend reading this law. Then you'll know it's a little embarrassing to make such an application. Secondly, I would like to say that if you looked at this law again, you would know that the Parliament's committee of inquiry is not capable of controlling the SKOKs, because it has no competence and cannot have it. It's also supported by... [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] Mr President, please don't disturb me. You've had your moment and you've told your stories about SKOKs, not about them. Returning to the point: SKOKs cannot be examined by the committee. In this respect, not only is the law clear, but above all there is very broad and rich case law of the Constitutional Court. I must say that it is also very unfair to make such a case, that if the High House considers that I will be called to this committee, then I have decided that whoever will be called, and especially that Donald Tusk will be the first. Ladies and gentlemen, you all know that, as widely asked by journalists since yesterday, whether it will be Donald Tusk, I answer in such a way that all those who have been involved in this matter will be called. And pressed in connection with this question as to whether Donald Tusk would be called or not, I said that I could imagine that the person who supervised even the special forces, which means she had some knowledge about it - and if she didn't have it, then the question is why she didn't have it, because she should have it - the committee will call and ask. There was nothing about Mr. Donald Tusk being called first or most important, unless you know that Donald Tusk is very important about Amber Gold. I don't have that kind of knowledge for today. [[The bustle, the fun in the room.]] [[Don't insinuate. No insinuation, please.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-sejm-22-2.u447	Ladies and gentlemen, please remain calm in the courtroom.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-sejm-22-2.u448	This is another matter. Ladies and gentlemen, at the end of the day, when I answer questions about the committee, I must say yes. For the last eight years, if memory serves, you've had the majority. Why didn't you make such a proposal about the JCCs? Is it because he's just not in line with the rules and impossible to carry out? Ladies and gentlemen, back to the other questions. The question was, how are we going to proceed, according to what rules, what rules? Ladies and gentlemen, first we must appoint a committee, then the Sejm must elect its seat. I do not feel entitled to speak in this regard today. If the High House decides that I should perform this function, then I will show that I have a certain outline of the work. I must say that I will not model myself here in this respect on anything other than what I have done throughout my professional career, because my job is simply to explain things from a different point of view in the courtroom, because I am defending, and accusing, defending employers, employees, establishing companies, running companies, eliminating companies. Therefore, I can imagine it in such a way that we will simply be honest, factually and thoroughly analysing the institution after the institution, calling on people who worked in these institutions, had knowledge or did not have it, and we will ask what they were doing with this knowledge. Ladies and gentlemen, there have been questions about the matter of the work of the court which is already dealing with this today, so that I can say for a long time, but the material is indeed extensive, and the committee. First of all, I would like to say, by referring to the text of the law on the committee of inquiry, that it is simply stated that the fact that there is legal proceedings in a particular case does not exclude in any way that the committee of inquiry may work at the same time. But at the same time I would like to stress very clearly, as I have already said in my speech - our scope of work will not overlap or overlap only in a small part, because the criminal court is interested in the question of whether the actions of those who sit on the bench have exhausted the signs of the crime and, consequently, whether they are guilty. And after proving this guilt, they are eventually condemned. In view of the above, the criminal court essentially starts from the moment when the damage arises. From what is common knowledge, it appears that the defendants, P.'s marriage, have the main charge of art. 286 Penal Code. One of the basic features of this crime is intent. In view of the above, only in this respect will the criminal court go back to the question of whether they were going to deceive those 18,000 when they took up this activity. citizens they've deceived. On the other hand, the committee of inquiry will be interested in this, going from the very beginning, if you are interested, as it is possible that two people set up a commercial law company - the first, as I recall, limited liability company, but there is also the issue of a public limited liability company. I think that some of you have dealt with companies, knows that setting up a company is not such a trivial procedure, and especially a public limited company. It's a matter of collecting documents, registering this, registering with the IRS. It's no secret that the defendants didn't complete these procedures, but after all, those companies were registered. In view of the above, we will be interested in this moment, how it is possible that all these institutions in turn here have shown such great passiveness and resilience to universal knowledge, because Amber Gold is active on a huge scale in the financial market, and that the accused Marcin P. has already been punished several times, and consequently is prohibited under Article. 18 The Code of Commercial Companies to serve as the President of the Company, and this function is carried out, knowledge was universal. And why was it common, not only in Gdansk or in Tri-City, where he was like a mother of all this activity? Amber Gold was the so-called company. a set, a list of difficult questions, i.e. P.'s spouses prepared answers for their employees to these difficult questions that customers are asking, and among them was the answer to this allegation that Marcin P. is being punished repeatedly. If it was common knowledge in society, then I must say that I am deeply concerned as a lawyer with some experience, as it is possible that the registry court has not taken any action here. Ladies and gentlemen, from the documentation that today can be accessed via the Internet, it appears that there were transactions there from the very beginning that carried the marks of money laundering. Where are all these financial institutions, where is the tax office, which has not led to an effective submission of a single declaration for 3 years by Amber Gold? As these were related companies both subject-matter and subject-matter, they therefore had specific reporting obligations. They were never complex and never enforced. Ladies and gentlemen, here was the question of whether we would not want to prove that we were right that the prosecution had returned to the Ministry of Justice. Mr President, when he asked this question, he basically confirmed that we were right, because after a certain short-term audit, which ended, according to the knowledge that we have today, only what the Member asked, that the only person responsible for this huge financial pyramid, that is not so much responsible as the one who had any consequence, was the district prosecutor in Gdansk, who was simply dismissed from her function. The other proceedings were treated in such a way that either the initiation of proceedings, as I recall, was refused, was one remission due to a negligible degree of social harm, or were exonerated, therefore the law enforcement authorities were not able to solve in any way how this was possible. That is why this task will be before our committee of inquiry if the High House wishes to appoint it and allow it to work. I also assure you that, as far as our scope of work is concerned, we will certainly not call on the victims unless there are special circumstances. We're interested in state institutions, state bodies that didn't react. If the High House permits, I'll only return one more word to the D.A.'s office. Ladies and gentlemen, the prosecution did not have any notice of crime, she had a report of a crime that was made by the Financial Supervision Commission. And the prosecution considered that the notification made by such a specialised body does not deserve to initiate proceedings. First decision of the prosecutor's office - refusal to initiate proceedings. Decision contested by the Financial Supervision Commission. It's a criminal court order for the D.A.'s office. The court says what actions must be carried out and that such a decision is absolutely unprotectable. A few sham actions from the D.A.'s office, at least for the moment, we'll probably be explaining that. Another termination of proceedings, another complaint by the Financial Supervision Committee and another crushing decision by the court for the prosecution that this is premature again. In the meantime, ladies and gentlemen, there is already an increasing knowledge that Amber Gold is engaged in activities that violate a number of laws, not just those I have spoken of so far. The activity they were conducting, that is the activity which required notification - the Ministry of Economy even then - there was no such notification. So that before the committee very, very much work, which is not covered by the work of the criminal court in Gdansk. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-sejm-22-2.u449	Thank you, Member. The discussion is closed. Marshal of the Sejm, based on art. Article 136b (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013 shall apply. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm, it directs the draft resolution on the appointment of the Committee of Investigation to examine the correctness and legality of the activities of public bodies and bodies vis-à-vis the entities of the Amber Gold Group, contained in print No 685, to the Legislative Commission for consideration. We proceed with the examination of item 23. of the agenda: First reading of the government draft law on access to genetic resources and sharing the benefits of their use (print No 644). I ask the Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Environment of Mr Andrzej Szweda-Lewandowski to present the justification for the project.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-sejm-22-2.u450	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The Act on Access to and Sharing the Benefits of Genetic Resources creates the necessary conditions for the implementation of Regulation No 511/2004 of the European Union implementing the provisions of the Nagoya Protocol as regards user obligations in the European Union. The Nagoya Protocol introduces an international system to ensure that countries providing genetic resources, mainly developing countries, can benefit from both financial and non-financial benefits from the new use of these resources, e.g. by large pharmaceutical or cosmetic companies. On the other hand, the Protocol provides for entities complying with the provisions of countries providing genetic resources to facilitate access to these resources. Thus, the Act sets out: the characteristics and tasks of public administrations in implementing Regulation No 511, the rules and procedures for carrying out checks on the compatibility of access and use of genetic resources and traditional knowledge related to these resources, the rules on liability for infringement of Regulation No 511, the procedure for entering the collection of genetic resources into the register of collection within the Union established under that Regulation, the body controlling collections already included in the register of collections within the European Union and its competences, the rules on effective, proportionate and dissuasive sanctions, introducing administrative fines for infringements of Article. 4 and 7 of Regulation No 511. a national authority within the meaning of Article. 6 Regulation No 511, is the Minister responsible for. the environment and the tasks set out in the Act relating to the control of users and the register of the collection of genetic resources shall be entrusted to the Chief Environmental Inspector and the Provincial Environmental Inspectors. In accordance with the draft law, genetic resource users shall submit to the national authority a declaration of due diligence when applying for funding for research as well as at the final stage of the introduction of a product arising from the use of genetic resources or traditional knowledge related to such products and resources. The Chief Environmental Inspector shall draw up a user control plan. The inspections shall be carried out by the competent voivodships of environmental inspectors. The draft law also includes a delegation to be issued by the Minister responsible for Foreign Affairs. the environment setting out the detailed scope of these controls. The competent authority for fine-making by administrative decision shall be the competent regional environmental inspector. The revenue from administrative fines is the revenue of the State budget. The proposed law also introduces a provision providing for a waiver of the administrative penalty and the termination of proceedings where it is shown that the infringement was caused by events or circumstances which the infringer could not have foreseen. This is a bill adopted by the Council of Ministers, it does not need to be notified. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-sejm-22-2.u451	Thank you very much. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would listen to the five-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and the circle. I'm opening a discussion. Mrs Teresa Nolas, Club Law and Justice, will be the first to speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-sejm-22-2.u452	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, Law and Justice, I present to the High House my position on the Government's draft law on genetic resources and the sharing of the benefits of their use, Parliamentary printing No 644. The project, addressed to the Sejm as a government project on 20 June, was preceded by a public consultation with 123 entities. The aim of this project is to bring it into line with EU legislation. The proposed law concerns Regulation No 511/2014 of the European Union on the Nagoya Protocol on access to and fair sharing of the benefits of the use of genetic resources. The Protocol shall apply to all genetic resources, except those of human genetics. Genetic resources, which are the subject of our procession, are particularly important in the production of food, forestry, pharmaceutical or cosmetic industries, and also play an important role in restoring degraded ecosystems and protecting endangered species. The project introduces regulations ensuring control in Poland of genetic resources obtained from countries that have legally regulated access to these resources in accordance with the Nagoya Protocol. Poland signed this document in 2011 without ratification. The proposed bill will therefore ensure that appropriate national regulations are adopted. The draft law properly sets out the tasks of public administrations regarding the implementation of Regulation No 511, as well as the principles and procedures for determining the correct use of genetic resources. The draft makes clear the principles of liability for infringement of Regulation No 511/2014. In accordance with these provisions, the Minister for the Environment is responsible for the implementation of the Convention and he will be the national authority. The tasks of controlling the users of genetic resources were entrusted to the environmental inspection body in the project, and the various articles of the Act detailed and specified those competences as well as the supervision of the authorities assigned to them. The assessment and analysis of the meetings held with the social side and the many expert reports carried out on the Nagoya Protocol show that the potential costs outweigh the benefits of the organisation of this regulatory system. It is therefore appropriate to consider that national legislation should be kept to a minimum in order to ensure that the provisions of Regulation No 511 can be applied. Therefore, it is reasonable that the project limited itself to the creation of the necessary system for controlling the use of resources from other EU countries in Poland. On the basis of the arguments put forward by the High House and in view of the need to regulate legislation in the EU regulation, I request a positive recommendation and the referral of the bill to further parliamentary work. Thank you kindly.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-sejm-22-2.u453	Thank you very much, Member. I invite Mrs Dorota Sunday, the Civic Platform Parliamentary Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-sejm-22-2.u454	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I have the honour to present the position of the Civic Platform club vis-à-vis the draft law on access to genetic resources and sharing the benefits of their use, print No. 644. The project is intended to implement EU law. One of the objectives of the Convention on Biological Diversity, drawn up in Rio de Janeiro In 1992, to which Poland is a party, Poland is equal and fair to the sharing of benefits resulting from the use of genetic resources. In order to clarify this objective, the Nagoya Protocol to the Convention on Access to Genetic Resources and a fair and equal sharing of the benefits of the use of these resources, hereinafter referred to as the Nagoya Protocol, was adopted in 2010. This Protocol, like the Convention on Biological Diversity, applies to all genetic resources within the national jurisdiction, with the exception of human genetic resources. Genetic resources mean all genetic material having actual or potential value. Genetic material is any material containing functional units of heredity. It can come from the environment, called in situ, or collections created by man, ex situ, e.g. botanical gardens, zoos, gene banks, microbiological collections of cultures. Collections, ex situ, shall be understood as a set of samples and related information collected and stored. They are the main specialised suppliers of genetic resources used in the European Union. Collections are created, among others. to provide research material or scientific work to researchers or breeders. In addition, gene banks, which are most often run by government organisations, aim at long-term storage and constitute a reserve of genetic material in the event of loss of genetic material. Collections in the context of the Nagoya Protocol play an important role within the product control chain. The project does not provide for regulation of issues arising from the Nagoya Protocol concerning access to Polish genetic resources, as the current legislation sufficiently safeguards valuable genetic resources. The scope of the regulation is limited to the creation of the necessary system to control the use of genetic resources obtained from other countries which have introduced appropriate regulation of access to their genetic resources under national law. On the other hand, the draft law sets out the tasks and competence of public administrations in implementing Regulation No 511/2014, the rules and procedures for carrying out checks on access and use of genetic resources and the rules on liability for infringements of that Regulation. The tasks of user control and collection register within the Union indicated in the proposed act have been entrusted to the Chief Environmental Inspector and the Provincial Environmental Inspectors. The register of user checks carried out will be kept by the Chief Environmental Inspector under the existing Ekoinfonet Environmental Inspection IT System. The Act sets out the procedure for entering the collection of genetic resources in the register of collections within the Union resulting from Regulation No 511. The authority controlling the collections or parts thereof shall be the Chief Environmental Inspector. The proposed law also introduces, on the basis of the ruling of the Constitutional Court, provisions providing for the waiver of the fine and the remission of proceedings where it is shown that the infringement has occurred as a result of events or circumstances which the person committing the infringement could not prevent. The proposed law imposes additional obligations on voivodship environmental inspectors who are environmental inspection bodies. The impact assessment states that the cost of implementing the law is 1800 thousand. PLN per year for 10 years. The increased costs in 2017 are related to the creation and operation of 18 workplaces - one in the Ministry of Environment and 17 in the Environmental Protection Inspection, together with special equipment and training. It follows from the summary of the consultative observations that [[♪ The bell ♪]] there are still many points of dispute and comments which I hope we will clarify with the interested environments and recipients of this law when proceeding over it. On behalf of the Civic Platform Club, I request that the project be transferred to the Environment Committee for further work.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-sejm-22-2.u455	Thank you very much, Member. I invite Mr Norbert Kaczmarczyk, the Kukiz Club15.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-sejm-22-2.u456	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour to present the position of the Kukiz club15 on the Government's draft law on access to and sharing the benefits of genetic resources, print No. 644. The law implements EU law, the directives aim to implement the Nagoya Protocol. The regulations concern plant and animal genetic resources, including economic resources, excluding human genetic resources. The Nagoya Protocol has created an international system to ensure that countries providing genetic resources can benefit from both financial and non-financial benefits from the new use of these resources and to prevent practices of wealth at the expense of countries with high biodiversity. The main donors of genetic resources are developing countries, while the recipients are often large multinationals working for cosmetology and pharmacy in developed countries. The exchange of genetic resources is also carried out by collections of genetic resources of plants, animals and micro-organisms, and such entities will most likely prevail among Polish users. The Nagoya Protocol implements the third objective of the Convention on Biological Diversity. Poland is currently at the time of ratification of this protocol, which was signed in 2011. The Protocol aims to establish a system obliging users of genetic resources to share with the donor the benefits resulting from their use. As a country that has accepted these conditions, we must try to make full use of the potential that lies in the genetics department. We need to become the real side of this deal. We have many outstanding scientists in whom I believe and know that they will not waste many new opportunities and solutions that this protocol opens. It makes us broaden our horizons, contributing to a better view of Poland as a country having something to say in many different, unusual fields of science, in this case genetics. The protocol stresses the mutual benefit. This will also allow us to improve relations with other countries. This will be possible through joint development, action on this level, which will narrow down and enrich our relationships with entities. This will also translate into an increase in our skills through an exchange of views, innovative solutions, novelties, which will benefit us. This is an opportunity that we cannot waste in order to strengthen our position in the international arena as a country that has predispositions and opportunities to become leading in terms of development and creation of new technologies. As a Kukiz club15, we recommend the bill for further work in the Environmental Protection Committee. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-sejm-22-2.u457	Thank you very much, sir. And I invite Mr Mirosław Suchon, the Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-sejm-22-2.u458	Thank you. Dear Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I am pleased to present on behalf of the Poselski Club a modern position on the government draft law on access to and sharing the benefits of genetic resources. This project is included in print No 644. Ladies and gentlemen, the project on which we are proceeding has been prepared, as the applicants indicate, in order to ensure the application of Regulation No 511/2014 together with Regulation No 2015/1866. The first lays down rules governing the compliance of Union users with the requirements of the Nagoya Protocol on access to genetic resources and traditional knowledge related to genetic resources and the sharing of benefits from their use. The second defines the scope of the law and the subject matter of regulation. The draft law itself sets out, in turn, the tasks and jurisdiction of public administrations, the rules and procedures for carrying out checks on access and use of genetic resources and the rules on liability for infringements of the provisions of that Regulation. And so in the article. 3 the project is decided that the national authority responsible for the application of the Regulation will be the Minister responsible for Environment. This record shall be complete with the requirements set out in Article. Point 6 (1) of the Regulation concerning the designation of at least one national competent authority responsible for its application. Intuitively, this seems to be a good solution, as it is precisely the minister responsible for environmental matters who has the appropriate resources of competence and can properly carry out these responsibilities. In turn, in the text of the article. The applicants propose that the tasks related to user control and the collection register within the Union should be entrusted to the Chief Environmental Inspector and the Provincial Environmental Inspectors. From the things relevant to the project, it should be noted that the draft law in the article. 5 contains a delegation to issue a regulation setting out the detailed scope of user controls. This is an important solution, because the current practice of official controls is too high in discretion. This, of course, must be combated, these checks at every step, where they can, be objective. We also welcome the fact that the project contains provisions on the ability of the user to take action or corrective measures and not impose penalties without the possibility of improvement. The draft law also specifies how to enter the collection of genetic resources into the collection register. At this stage of the process, our doubts arise in the absence of time limits within which the inspector and the minister would be obliged to carry out the activities referred to in Article. 7 projects. This, of course, is what we will be raising at the stage of further work on the draft in committee. The Act also contains provisions on the control of collections or parts thereof already included in the register, in the collection within the Union. The control mechanism referred to in Article. 8 and 9 of the project is similar to the user control mechanism set out in Article. 4 and 5. We appreciate the fact that there is a standardization of similar processes here. The project also contains other records, but due to limited time it is difficult to refer to them as a whole. Of course, my previous speakers also raised the part resulting from the arrangements. I hope that we will proceed with this in committee and clarify these doubts. Finally, I would like to mention things in our astonishing assessment. Because the bill is based on the requirements of the article. Article 11 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 and 2 of Regulation No 511/2014 contain provisions to provide for effective, proportionate and dissuasive sanctions to be applied in the event of a breach of Article. 4 and 7 of the Regulation. It was amazing for us. These are ridiculously high financial penalties, ladies and gentlemen. For example, in the article. 14 We find a proposal that an official may impose a penalty of up to 10,000 for not making a statement, a piece of paper, a written confirmation of the facts. zł. Where's the proportionality here? Because you can't explain it to the lower limit of punishment. This is completely different. I regret to say that such regulations, so restrictive, are unfortunately created only in Polish offices. In our view, these rules are completely disproportionate. There may be doubts in this area. as regards their compliance with this Union Regulation. They're dissuasive enough, but apart from being disproportionate, we can't do it today. [[♪ The bell ♪]] say nothing about their effectiveness, because this will be the subject of a subsequent evaluation. Your marshal, two more sentences.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-sejm-22-2.u459	But this is how you end up.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-sejm-22-2.u460	Yeah, yeah, quick. So we have the impression that either this regulation has been read inaccurately or that it has been ignored by this requirement of proportionality. And I will say this clearly: it is against Polish institutions, Polish entrepreneurs. So that I hope that we will be able to fix this project during the follow-up procedure. In view of my position, I request that the draft be sent to the committee in order to make the necessary changes. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-sejm-22-2.u461	Thank you very much, sir. Ms Urszula Pasławska position of the club PSL submitted in writing. You're welcome, Mrs. Margaret Mirror, near Free and Solidarnia.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-sejm-22-2.u462	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Freedom and Solidarnia Circle, I am pleased to present our position on the governmental draft law on access to genetic resources and sharing the benefits of their use. The main objective of the bill is to regulate issues related to access to and sharing the benefits of genetic resources. Poland is bound by the Convention on Biological Diversity of 5 June 1992 and adopted in 2010 by the Nagoya Protocol which sets out an equal and fair sharing of the benefits of the use of genetic resources. The Nagoya Protocol has created an international system to ensure that countries providing genetic resources can benefit from both financial and non-financial benefits from the new use of these resources. The Nagoya Protocol aims to prevent practices of wealth at the expense of countries with high biodiversity. Given that genetic resources play an increasingly important role in the wider economy, mutual respect for rights is extremely important. The implementation of the Nagoya Protocol by the European Union regarding the obligations of users of genetic resources is governed by the Regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council of Europe, and Poland as a member of the European Union is also required to implement the Protocol. By means of the draft law, Poland will meet its obligations towards the Union, creating a system to control the use of genetic resources acquired in Poland from countries that have legally regulated access to their resources in accordance with the Nagoya Protocol. The environmental minister who is responsible for the implementation of the Convention on Biological Diversity and the Nagoya Protocol shall control the fulfilment of the objectives and regulations. The contested law also includes a delegation to issue a regulation of the Minister of the Environment setting out the detailed scope of user controls, guided by the need to standardise control activities. The draft law also contains provisions that introduce administrative fines for infringements of the use of genetic resources. The law and the relevant regulations will include all details concerning not only the manner in which the penalty is imposed, but also its amount, as well as the possibility of withdrawing from it and the possibility of withdrawing proceedings against a particular object. The Free and Solidarni Circle supports further proceding the government's draft law on access to and sharing the benefits of genetic resources. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-sejm-22-2.u463	Thank you very much, Member. Members joined the questions. Does anyone else want to sign up for the question? If not, I'm closing the list. I would like to be the first to ask Mrs Małgorzata Płępek, the Civic Platform. Question time - 1 minute.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-sejm-22-2.u464	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! The draft foresees that ad hoc inspections will be carried out at the request of the Minister for the Environment. A register of checks to be carried out is to be established within the framework of the existing IT system of the Environmental Protection Inspection Ekoinfonet. I'd like to ask you if this requires some kind of investment, and if so, what kind of investment. And another thing. Administrative fines have been introduced for failure to comply with the law. They will be measured by the competent regional environmental inspector. For example, a penalty of 5 to 50,000 will be imposed for the transfer and use of genetic resources without or in breach of agreed conditions. zł. Therefore, I have a question: Are they not too high when it comes to the level of penalties? Would it be worth considering a system in which a court would rule on sanctions in each individual case? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-sejm-22-2.u465	Thank you very much, Member. I invite Mrs Małgorzata Zwierzan, near Free and Solidarni.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-sejm-22-2.u466	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Poland as a result of e.g. the adoption of the Convention on Biological Diversity of 5 June 1992 and the adoption of the 2010 Nagoya Protocol is required to share the benefits of the use of genetic resources equally and fairly. My question is related to the consequences of the contested bill. Will Poland suffer any financial or non-financial losses resulting from the implementation of a more restrictive system for the control of the use of genetic resources acquired in Poland from countries that have legally regulated access to their resources in accordance with the Nagoya Protocol? And my second question: What genetic resources bring Poland the most benefits and in which departments are they being used? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-sejm-22-2.u467	Thank you very much, Member. Mr Krzysztof Szulowski, the Law and Justice Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-sejm-22-2.u468	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The draft law on access to and sharing the benefits of genetic resources is a consequence of the adoption in 2010. Nagoya Protocol and Regulations adopted accordingly: Regulation No 511/2014 of the European Parliament and of the Council and Commission Implementing Regulation No 2015/ 1866. The latter Regulation sets out in detail the control rules for the register of collections, monitoring of users and best practices. These controls are generally bureaucratic and include e.g. on-the-spot checks, documentation analysis, interviews. And this is the nature of the inspection resulting from the attached draft regulation of the Minister of the Environment. However, the explanatory memorandum of the Act also refers to the inspection activities resulting from the Act of 20 July 1991 on the Environmental Protection Inspection and the possible carrying out of specialist studies of the collection based on samples taken. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Resources may concern micro-organisms, including highly pathogenic. For some, special safety conditions are required for testing. How would such research be organised? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-sejm-22-2.u469	Thank you very much, sir. I invite Mr Piotr Pole, the Law and Justice Club. There's no envoy. I invite Mr Mirosław Suchon, the Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-sejm-22-2.u470	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Minister, I have a question. I would like to deepen this question on financial issues, on penalties, because as far as these sanctions are concerned, it is Article. 11 Regulation No 511 makes it clear that those sanctions should be effective, proportionate and dissuasive. That's what I read directly from the EU regulation. And now the question of how these demands have been met, given the level of these sanctions, the market and the institutions that deal with these types of activities, which was also criticised during the consultation. As far as these three proposals are concerned, with the exception of fear, these penalties are actually very dissuasive. How did you ensure that the other two demands were [[♪ The bell ♪]] in these punishments fulfilled? How does that apply to other countries? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-sejm-22-2.u471	Thank you very much, sir. I am closing the list of Members who have been voted in, and it has been exhausted. I ask the Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Environment, Mr Andrzej Szwed-Lewandowski, to answer questions.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-sejm-22-2.u472	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Maybe I'll start with the amount of punishment. Here were the arguments raised that these penalties were too high. Well, we had a problem with that, and I'm referring to the article here. 11, but somehow we had to determine the amount of those penalties. Of course, we are open to other proposals, but I would like to point out that in other European countries, for example. in Germany, France, these penalties amount to up to 500,000. Euros. Why? Here you need to be aware of the benefits that pharmaceutical companies can make from using these genetic resources. Take a very popular shark fin extract - these are billions of gold. If these penalties are too low, the group will not be interested to adapt its behaviour on the use of genetic resources to this right and at the same time guarantee profits to the country from which the genetic material is collected. So in our opinion, these penalties, as far as the financial level is concerned, are appropriate. As far as the IT system is concerned, the costs will be very low or there will be no cost for technical matters at all. If laboratory tests are required, they will of course be carried out by specialised laboratories, which have a general environmental inspector. Poland does not regulate access to its genetic resources, therefore it is difficult to talk about some benefits here. As regards the costs of carrying out checks - checks must cost, including even the work of workers, not to mention laboratory tests. So the work of the employees itself - working time costs, reviewing the relevant documents. The content of these documents is relatively complex. I would still like to draw attention to the fact that this is a thing for the European Union, for the whole world relatively new or completely new. No agreement has yet been concluded between two countries regulating the benefits of the use of genetic resources in one or the other country. So this is where we all learn. I think a lot of things may still be in this bill to refine, but it has to be time to show, we need to know from practice how it will work. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-sejm-22-2.u473	Thank you very much, Minister. The discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-sejm-22-2.u474	The proposed law is the implementation of EU Regulation No 511/2014 on the Nagoya Protocol on access to genetic resources and fair and fair sharing of the benefits of the use of these resources. That Regulation shall apply together with Implementing Regulation (EU) 2015/1866. The Nagoya Protocol is a new instrument of international law implementing the third objective of the Convention on Biological Diversity. As adopted in 2010, it is intended to ensure that countries providing genetic resources can benefit from the benefits they deserve. Genetic resources are a kind of support for natural capital and the basis for food security and also play an increasingly important role in many sectors of the economy, in particular pharmaceuticals, cosmetics and biological energy sources. They play an essential role in restoring degraded ecosystems and protecting endangered species. As a resource, the law considers materials containing functional inheritance units. These may be samples derived directly from the natural environment or man-made so-called. collections, i.e. botanical gardens, zoos, gene banks and microbiological collections of cultures. New regulations under the Nagoya Protocol may affect operators active in the production of food using biotechnology, food supplements, novel food or functional food. The greatest impact may be on producers of novel foods and novel food ingredients which, prior to 15 May 1997, were slightly used in the Community for human consumption. At present, such foods or food ingredients are subject to a Community evaluation procedure before being placed on the market, where the applicant can place the product on the market after a positive assessment. The bill introduces regulations to ensure control of the use in Poland of genetic resources acquired from countries that have legally regulated access to their genetic resources in accordance with the Nagoya Protocol. Poland signed the document in 2011 but has not yet ratified it because it wants to anticipate the adoption of the relevant national regulations. The draft law sets out the tasks and characteristics of public administrations concerning the implementation of Regulation No 511/2014, as well as the principles and modalities for carrying out checks on the use of genetic resources and traditional knowledge associated with them, acquired from countries party to the Nagoya Protocol. The principles of liability for infringement of Regulation 511/2014 are also indicated. In accordance with the draft law, the Minister for the Environment, who is responsible for the implementation of the Convention on Biological Diversity and the Nagoya Protocol, will act as a national authority. The tasks related to the control of the users of genetic resources and the register of the collection of genetic resources have been entrusted to the authorities of the Environmental Protection Inspections. According to the draft law, the Chief Environmental Inspector is to draw up a plan to control the users of genetic resources. At the same time, the Chief Environmental Inspector will forward to the Environment Minister for approval a user control plan for the following year by the end of November each year. User checks will be carried out by the competent provincial inspector. The draft law also sets out the procedure for entering the collection of genetic resources in the register of collections within the European Union. The competent voivodship environmental inspector will control the collections applying for entry in this register as well as those already placed in it.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-sejm-22-2.u475	The Marshal of the Sejm, after consulting the Sejm Bureau, proposes that the Sejm refer to the Government's draft law on access to and distribution of the benefits of genetic resources contained in print No 644, to the Committee on the Environment, Natural Resources and Forestry, with a recommendation to consult the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development for consideration. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. At the same time, the Marshal of the Sejm, based on the article. The 95b Rules of Procedure of the Sejm shall set a time limit for the submission of the report to the committee by 19 July 2016. I'm declaring a time-out. 19. [[Adjournment from 10 a.m. 18 min. 46 hrs. 19 min 04]] I'm reopening the session. The Committee on Justice and Human Rights has submitted a report on the draft Constitutional Court Act. The report shall be published in the Official Journal of the European Union. At the meeting of the Seniors Convention, the proposal to supplement the agenda with a second reading of the project was raised. This is, according to art. The Commission shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the I will put this item to the vote on the proposal to complete the agenda. Let me remind you that according to the article. The Commission shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 108 (3) of The adoption of the proposal to supplement the agenda will mean that the Sejm has agreed to the application of the Article. 51 (3) of the Sejm Regulation. [[Formal conclusion.]] The formal proposal is made by Mr Krzysztof Paszyk, the Polish People's Party.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-sejm-22-2.u476	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Prime Minister! On behalf of the Parliamentary Club of the Polish People's Party, I would like to make a formal request for a break and ask your marshal to convene during this break the Seniors' Convention, once again during this meeting of the Seniors' Convention, to submit an agreement on how to proceed over the draft law on the Constitutional Tribunal, in particular to explain why the only project that gave the opportunity for a comprehensive solution to the problem, the dispute around the Constitutional Tribunal, the project of the Polish People's Party, the consensus project, was omitted during the legislative process that took place yesterday in the committee. There are two areas, High Izbo, without a solution which, without which an open invitation to the European institutions will still be included in the bill, the European Commission will continue to be asked about what is going on with the Constitutional Tribunal in Poland. The first area concerns a personal dispute, the six judges of which there are doubts, the second area concerns the publication of decisions of the Constitutional Tribunal. Without solving these two issues, we will not move forward. I would very much ask you to take this request into account. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-sejm-22-2.u477	The formal proposal is made by Mr Borys Budka, the Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-sejm-22-2.u478	Thank you very much. Dear Marshal, Prime Minister! I request a formal adjournment of the sitting. Dear Marshal, We are proceeding with the bill which was to be created as a result of the work of an expert team appointed by your marshal to consider the opinion of the Venice Commission and to come up with a specific solution. However, the work of the committee shows that the results of the team's work have absolutely not been taken into account for a simple reason: there are no such results. I have a question for your marshal: Do the work of this team make any sense since you have submitted a bill that actually covers the subject matter of this team? As you informed the marshal, a team of experts receives a certain remuneration for their work, and I have a second question: Will this remuneration be paid if the work is not carried out? And one last thing, a question for the marshal. Yesterday's letter, you obliged the Marshal of the Committee on Justice and Human Rights to re-examine three - I repeat - three draft laws on the Constitutional Court. However, contrary to the recommendations of your marshal, contrary to the rules of procedure, without calling in accordance with the procedure of the committee's sitting, only one valid one has been submitted to the Members, because from your group, a draft law on the Court. Therefore, Mr. Marshal, please clearly, clearly declare why a team of experts from your Marshal is called, and whether his works do not really have features of fiction, [[♪ The bell ♪]] And it was just a game of time. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-sejm-22-2.u479	Thank you. Mr Jerzy Meysztowicz, the Modern Club, has the floor. It's a formal conclusion, too.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-sejm-22-2.u480	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! Indeed, yesterday there was an unprecedented situation. It is not known under what circumstances the Marshal, the chairman of the Committee on Justice and Human Rights, broke the arrangements that were made at the Sejm meeting. I would like to remind you that it was in the vote that the High House decided to proceed with four draft laws on the Constitutional Court - four. Since one of them has been withdrawn, the state, members of the committee, should work on three projects. I'd like to ask...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-sejm-22-2.u481	Mr President, please make a formal request.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-sejm-22-2.u482	...why the rules were broken and why yesterday the committee was investigating and working exclusively on the law and justice project.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-sejm-22-2.u483	Mr President, please make a formal request.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-sejm-22-2.u484	We knew from the beginning that the only project would be the PiS project, so it didn't surprise us...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-sejm-22-2.u485	Mr. President, can you hear me?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-sejm-22-2.u486	...but this House's order to proceed has been violated.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-sejm-22-2.u487	Mr President, make a formal request.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-sejm-22-2.u488	I would like to make a formal request for a recess so that the marshal can explain the backgrounds and the legal basis to show why we were investigating only one project yesterday, since, according to this House's decision, it was necessary to proceed over four and then, after the withdrawal, on three projects. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-sejm-22-2.u489	Ladies and gentlemen... [[There's the problem.]] Briefly: Art. Article 40 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 4 Rules of Procedure of the Sejm. Please read it with understanding. [[Applause]] Secondly, a formal conclusion. I can accept one formal application - for a deferral. I do not consider others to be formal requests. The convening of the Senior Convention is my responsibility. Then we'll proceed... [[But what is it?]] ...to vote on a formal motion for a break. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of a request for adjournment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 444 Members voted. 188 voted against - 252, with four abstentions. The Sejm's motion is denied. I would like to inform you that this article, which I quoted, is my lips. 4 of this article clarifies the competence of the committee. The marshal sent a letter back to the committee because he had no other choice. If one of the four draft laws was withdrawn before the end of the second reading, he addressed it to the committee and the committee decided not to adopt a resolution on the work on all draft laws, that he would work on one project, this must be taken into account. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of supplementing the agenda with the following point: The report of the Committee on Justice and Human Rights on the draft Constitutional Tribunal Act, No 558 and No 693, would like to raise its hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 448 Members voted. There were 241 votes against - 207, no one abstained. I find the Sejm has accepted the offer. I propose that in the discussion on this item, the Sejm should listen to the five-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and the circle. If I do not hear opposition, I will understand that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. We're coming back... [[I'm offering you 10 minutes.]] [[Voice from the room: There is opposition.]] Mr Kropiwnicki objects, makes an offer of 10 minutes, which, of course, we will vote on. I propose that the Sejm vote on the proposal made by me to hold a five-minute discussion. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is behind the five-minute speeches will want to raise their hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 450 Members voted. There were 266 votes against, 181 abstentions. The Sejm accepted the offer. We are returning to the examination of item 3 of the agenda: Report of the Administrative and Internal Affairs Commission on the government draft law amending the Act on the National School of Public Administration. We proceed to the third reading. The Commission calls for the adoption of a draft Print Act No 571. The question is raised by Mr Zbigniew Gryglas, a modern club. Question time - 1 minute. Is that enough for you? [[Yes, Mr. Marshal.]] There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-sejm-22-2.u490	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Seym! The National School of Public Administration is such a modern Knights' School. It was created in 1990 to educate staff for the state administration. The functioning of the national school is closely linked to the civil service system. In December Ub. r. The Sejm amended the Civil Service Act, de facto it brought about the liquidation of the service. What were the effects of this amendment? On the date of entry into force of the transitional provisions, the working relationship between 212 members of the civil service corps with the highest positions in the civil service expired. In addition, 293 people have been offered other positions, i.e. they have lost their previous positions. In the word 32% all persons [[♪ The bell ♪]] senior officials in the administration have lost their jobs. How did this affect the functioning of public administration? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-sejm-22-2.u491	There you go. Wait a minute, because the Minister and the Member are reporting. The one you want first, because by the way... Member. Rapporteur of the committee, Mrs Józefina Hrynkiewicz. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-sejm-22-2.u492	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! To answer Mr Gryglas' question, I would just like to say that the civil service has 120,000. Members, so whether those who have lost or changed their positions will be 226 or 223, this is of no importance to the functioning of the administration and civil service. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-sejm-22-2.u493	Is there anything else the Minister would like to add? It's explained. [[Mr. Marshal, in correction mode.]] Mr Gryglas, as corrected. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-sejm-22-2.u494	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Seym! In the public administration there are 1580 members of the civil service corps who occupy the highest positions in the civil service. I was only talking about these people, not the entire Polish administration. I know these numbers perfectly. Because 32% of these people lost their positions, i.e. one in three state officials with the highest positions, i.e. the director in the ministry or the head of the department in the voivodship office. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Not enough.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-sejm-22-2.u495	At the moment, the Minister - a member of the Council of Ministers, Ms Beata Kempa, will speak. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-sejm-22-2.u496	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Mr. Speaker! Statistics is indeed an extremely difficult area, and one can have a specific approach to it, but I would like to assure you that, first of all, this law, which we are about to vote on, I hope that in a great consensus, the National School of Public Administration, which was founded in 1990 and formally was established in 1991, will particularly appreciate it. As a school with the highest level of education, Polish officials will be able to benefit even more from grants and trainings which central units will be able to commission the National School of Public Administration, because in recent years, especially in the last 2 years, significant funds have been cut off for the functioning of this prestigious school. The school does not reach out to the state budget, it just wants to, using its potential, from its staff, simply in this way and help itself. Therefore, as far as the issue of the exchange of staff is concerned, each year's natural fluctuations were about 200 people. So everything you've known in the last few months hasn't come true. So that I think, sir, that we need to be able to read numbers and statistics. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-sejm-22-2.u497	We can proceed with the vote, right? We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting in full the draft law in print No 571, will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 447 Members voted. 316 voted against - 131, no one abstained. The Sejm passed a law amending the Act on the National School of Public Administration. We are returning to the examination of item 4 of the agenda: Report of the Administrative and Internal Affairs Commission on the Government's draft law amending the Law on Civil Status Acts. We proceed to the third reading. The Commission calls for the adoption of a draft Print Act No 649. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting the bill as a whole in print No. 649 will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 442 Members voted. The vote was 440, against - 2, no one abstained. The Sejm passed a law amending the Law on Civil Status Acts. We are returning to the consideration of item 5 of the agenda: Report from the Committee on Public Finance and the Committee on Maritime Affairs and Inland Navigation on the Government's draft Act on Activation of the Marine Industry and Complementary Industries. The additional committee report shall be in print No 643-A. We proceed to the third reading. I ask Mr Zaremba to present an additional report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-sejm-22-2.u498	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! At the second reading, amendments were tabled and at today's committee meeting these amendments, in total six, were voted out. The Commission's opinion was negative for all six amendments. The amendments were tabled by Members of the Civic, Modern Platform and the Kukiz Club15. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-sejm-22-2.u499	Thank you. As we have heard, the committees are asking for the adoption of a draft law from print no. 643. The committees also present amendments on which we will vote first. In the 1st amendment, applicants propose the title of the draft law to be replaced by the following: a flat-rate tax on the value of marketed production. The committees are asking for this amendment to be rejected. The question is raised by Members. Mr Włodzimierz Nykiel, Civic Platform Club. The question will then be asked by Mr Piotr Misilo.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-sejm-22-2.u500	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Prime Minister! This amendment is a very important issue because we have this case for the first time for sure in this term of office, and for the first time at all, I see an act whose title does not correspond completely to its content. I hope this is not the beginning of a new line in our legislation. Because the content of this act is tax legislation, it is simply a law introducing a flat-rate tax. 13 articles are devoted to it, 8 articles are changes in tax laws, and only 2 are general provisions, so here the title hides the content of this act, because the title is, [[♪ The bell ♪]] Ladies and gentlemen, the Act on Activation of Industry, and inside is the Tax Act. So I have a question for you. In the opinion of the author of the project, and I know that he disagrees with me, would it be appropriate to give the Act on Income Tax on Individuals a title: the Act on Social and Economic Act Act on Social Activation? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-sejm-22-2.u501	Thank you. Mr Piotr Misilo, the Modern Club, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-sejm-22-2.u502	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Prime Minister! I may disagree with the substantive value of this law and disagree, but as my esteemed previous speaker said, the name of this law, its title is absolutely curial. The Legal Office of the Sejm told me that it had not met with such a case so far that the contents of the Act would not correspond with the title. So I have a big request, Prime Minister. Today is still the time for this total aberrationary name of this law to correlate with the content and not to create such a bad law in this House, starting with a bad name for the laws. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-sejm-22-2.u503	Then we shall proceed to the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the first amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 448 Members voted. 182 voted against - 265, 1 Member abstained. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the second amendment, applicants propose a new wording of Article. 1. The committees are asking for this amendment to be rejected. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the second amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 442 Members voted. 208 voted against - 234 Members, no one abstained. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the third amendment to the article. 2 (2) 1 point 1 applicants shall propose a different definition of the construction of the vessel. The committees are asking for this amendment to be rejected. Your question is Arkadiusz Carrot, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-sejm-22-2.u504	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Prime Minister! You have just said: I believe that this proposal will make it possible to create conditions for ship-based entrepreneurs. Then why are you closing the doors to small shipyards for tax facilities? Then why do you insist that 1-percent tax can only be paid by large shipyards, which build ships under lock and repair ships, but only above 20 million PLN? After all, when it comes to the activation of the shipbuilding industry, we must give equal opportunities to develop both to small operators who are smaller shipyards and to those who are leaders in the shipbuilding market. You've been to Szczecin lately, Świnoujście, and you know that there are entities there that build hulls and repair ships. They should be able to use it, too. This law can be better, but it can only be better if it goes to a whole group of entities in the sector. [[♪ The bell ♪]] A ship's ship. We therefore very much ask for this amendment to be adopted, which will make this law better and enable all ship operators to benefit from it. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-sejm-22-2.u505	Please. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 3rd amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 448 Members voted. 212 Members voted against - 236, no one abstained. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 4th amendment to the article. 2 (2) The applicant shall propose a different definition of ship conversion in point 3. The committees are asking for this amendment to be rejected. Its adoption will result in the futility of Amendment 5. The question is raised by Mr Piotr Misilo, a modern club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-sejm-22-2.u506	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Prime Minister! To this day, we have not found out why there is an amount of EUR 5 million in this item, where it came from and why it is not different. I would very much ask the Prime Minister to answer, because it is a very bad habit when Members ask questions and do not get answers. I wanted to ask if the Prime Minister knew that since the collapse of the shipyard in Szczecin, only one ship had been rebuilt in my town, where the amount of reconstruction was above EUR 5 million. This means that no one, any entrepreneur, will be able to benefit from the benefits of this law, or the very questionable benefits of it. So I would very much ask the Prime Minister to answer why you do not want to support small, medium and small enterprises. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-sejm-22-2.u507	Please. The question is asked by Arkadiusz Carrot, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-sejm-22-2.u508	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Prime Minister! If [[♪ The bell ♪]] ...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-sejm-22-2.u509	Mr President, please continue, time does not keep up. [[Joy in the O.R., applause.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-sejm-22-2.u510	Okay. If we're talking about the shipbuilding industry, we can't forget those shipyards that repair ships. In the proposal for a law which you have presented, it is noted that only companies that remodel ships can benefit from 1-percent value tax on the sold value, but these robots are worth more than PLN 20 million. Last year, only one such job was done, so practically no one will benefit from it. It is therefore worth removing this threshold completely. Let the entrepreneurs, the small entrepreneurs who run the shipyards themselves decide whether they want to benefit from the 1-percent value tax they sell, or whether they want to operate under the same conditions. Hence our amendment. I would like to kindly ask you to accept it and answer why, in that case, you decide for the amount of EUR 5 million, since practically such work in Poland has not yet been carried out for this amount. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-sejm-22-2.u511	Please. The rapporteur of the committee in this case is Krzysztof Zaremba. Perhaps you would be kind to reply to the Members. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-sejm-22-2.u512	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! Mr. Speaker! Your question at both committee meetings was answered several times by a government representative, Minister Brzezicki. [[You didn't even let me ask.]] I'll say it again. The aim of this law is to rebuild the construction of new ships in Poland. That's the purpose of this bill. This law is not addressed to repair yards. As far as repair yards are concerned, it will be a separate regulation, because they also need to be confronted. On the other hand, reconstructions above EUR 5 million are reconstructions which guarantee the same profitability as the construction of the ship as a whole, as a design of a sea-going construction, as opposed to what is today. That's what Minister Brzezicki was talking about, for example. In the Netherlands, the entire equipment of the ship is subsidised as an innovative economic project, but this does not include hulls. Therefore, in Poland e.g. The Dutch commissioned the construction of hulls themselves, which for the Polish industry, for the rebuilt potential of Polish shipyards is not a good solution, because it is only cooperation, which does not make us a big player back on the ship market in the world. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-sejm-22-2.u513	Thank you very much. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 4th amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 450 Members voted. 213 Members voted against - 237, no one abstained. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 5th amendment to the article. 2 (2) Point 1 (3) (a) and applicants propose a lower total value for ship conversion. The committees are asking for this amendment to be rejected. The question is raised by Mr Piotr Misilo, a modern club. [[Voice from the room: No!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-sejm-22-2.u514	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! We have not been able to vote a moment earlier on the amendment that would bear this threshold, and we will now try to make a ruse that will probably also fail, so that you will want at least 500,000. enter the euro. Maybe one zero won't make a big difference to you because you don't understand... [[But why are you insulting me?]] ...from how much money you earn, how much money you earn, so I'm actually counting on your inability... [[Game in the O.R.]] [[Member Dorota Arciszewska-Mielewczyk: But who do you want to insult? You're the best, you're the best.]] Don't be nervous, Madam, don't be nervous, really. [[Member Dorota Arciszewska-Mielewczyk: You understand everything, only you did business.]] I recommend a lot of peace.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-sejm-22-2.u515	Would you be kind enough to ask the question, sir?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-sejm-22-2.u516	Yes. So I ask you, Prime Minister, to take our amendment into account... [[Question!]] ...because I think it'll save a lot of small businesses. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Okay!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-sejm-22-2.u517	We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 5th amendment would like to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 449 Members voted. 87 voted against - 237, with 125 abstentions. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 6th Amendment, applicants propose a new wording of Article. 20. The committees are asking for this amendment to be rejected. The question is asked by Mr Blazej Parda, Kukiz club15.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-sejm-22-2.u518	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! That's right, this bill is really a income tax bill, a 1% tax bill. We're glad you copied our idea - we're talking about a turnover tax. We are not offended, of course, but what is funny, you are well aware that such a 1-percent turnover tax stimulates this sector of the economy, and, moreover, in the explanatory memorandum, it is stated that the revenues to the state budget will also be greater than they are now. So we stimulate the economy, more people will have jobs and budget revenues will be bigger. You agree, don't you? That's how it's written. Then why don't we introduce the same provisions for 1-percent turnover tax for other sectors of the economy, for all businesses, not for the selected ones? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-sejm-22-2.u519	Please. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is adopting the 6th amendment would like to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 449 Members voted. 56 Members voted against - 237, 156 Members abstained. The Sejm rejected the amendment. We proceed with the vote on the entire bill. There are questions to the entire bill. Mr Tadeusz Azievicz, Civic Platform Club. The next will be Mr Piotr Misilo.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-sejm-22-2.u520	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Prime Minister! Polish shipyards are not in ruins. This is primarily due to private entrepreneurs. Our experience with state intervention has been fatal so far. Such a classic symbol is the Gawron corvette, which costs more than PLN 1 billion and its construction lasts more than 15 years. This project refers to state intervention in the shipbuilding sector. Philosophically, I'm a stranger. However, the Civic Platform would vote in favour of this project because it contains some facilitations for entrepreneurs. On the other hand, the fact that our amendments have been rejected will cause us to abstain, hoping for positive changes in the Senate. My question, on the other hand, concerns the continuation of: Are you going to tinker with the shipbuilding industry and how are you going to continue? Are there any rumors of plans for central sector control, including the manual distribution of ship construction contracts? Can private entrepreneurs be afraid of unfair competition from public entities? Thank you for your attention. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-sejm-22-2.u521	Please. Mr Piotr Misilo, the Modern Club, has the floor. Next will be Rafał Wójcikowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-sejm-22-2.u522	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Prime Minister! There's been a lot of untrue things about the shipbuilding industry. Mr. Reporter, there was this famous American poet Edgar Allan Poe and he used to say that a lie repeated 100 times would not become true. [[Any more sentiments?]] You've already crossed those 100 times and then what you're saying isn't gonna be true. But I have this question, Prime Minister: Will the next step in the shipbuilding industry be an attempt to build a state yard, or will you complete your mission in this area in this simple law, which should be a fiscal law and should be written by one official working 1/2 jobs in the financial department, because that is the substance of this law? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-sejm-22-2.u523	Mr Rafał Wójcikowski, Kukiz Club15, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-sejm-22-2.u524	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Prime Minister! You are presenting a law which is to save one of the industries in a fiscal way: the shipbuilding industry, the industry, as the rapporteur said here, in connection with the construction of ships. Ladies and gentlemen, you yourself admit that such radical solutions stimulate the economy and stimulate industry in the sense of freedom, in the sense of free market. The Chinese Government, when it has non-standard solutions, introduces them first in one of its provinces and looks at the effects, and then, if the effects are positive and satisfactory, introduces these solutions throughout the country. Will the State also, seeing in the future the effects of its tax decisions relating to the shipbuilding industry, introduce these solutions for the economy as a whole? The ship industry is not the only one waiting for such solutions. We post it all the time. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Let us introduce these solutions for the whole economy in the future. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-sejm-22-2.u525	There you go. We proceed with the vote on the entire bill. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting the bill as a whole in print No 643 will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 451 Members voted. 290 voted against - 30, 131 Members abstained. I state that the Sejm has passed a law on the activation of the shipbuilding industry and complementary industries. We are returning to the examination of item 6 of the agenda: the report of the Committee on the Environment, Natural Resources and Forestry on the draft law amending the Act on Nuclear Law. We proceed to the third reading. The Commission calls for the adoption of the draft Print Act No 622. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting in full the draft law in print No. 622... I'm sorry, sir. I'm not finishing because I noticed your MP. Mr Zbigniew Gryglas came forward with a question. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-sejm-22-2.u526	Mr. Marshal! Mr. Prime Minister! High Seym! The Act is extremely centralist in nature. The entire authority on personnel decisions will be concentrated in the hands of the Minister for Environmental Protection. The bill is also a staff act. After such regulations as those of the Public Media Act or the National Defence Academy Act, the term of the current council is extinguished and it creates the possibility to make further changes. I have a question: Will not even such a body as the council, which should be professional, protect itself from the influence of politics? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-sejm-22-2.u527	State Secretary at the Ministry of Environment, the main geologist of the country Mariusz Orion Jędrysek will speak at the moment. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-sejm-22-2.u528	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! Well, first of all, I deny that the term of this counsel expired on 1 July, and there is no question of shortening it. Secondly, the Minister of the Environment will appoint members of the Council, but in consultation with the President. The current situation is that the President appoints members of the board, which in a sense controls him. This is not in accordance with any rules on the procedure and functioning of the State. You just have to put order in here. That's all. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-sejm-22-2.u529	Therefore, we are voting on the bill I was talking about. Who among you is in favour of adopting the draft law as a whole in print No 622, would like to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 451 Members voted. 237 voted against 214, no one abstained. I state that the Sejm has passed a law on the amendment of the Act of Atomic Law. We are returning to the examination of item 7 on the agenda: the report of the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development and the Health Committee on the Government's draft law amending the Health Act against the consequences of the use of tobacco and tobacco products. The additional committee report shall be in print No 652-A. We proceed to the third reading. Mr Tomasz Latos has the floor to present an additional report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-sejm-22-2.u530	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! On behalf of the joint committees: the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development and the Committee on Health, I have the honour to present an additional report on the Government's draft law amending the Health Protection Act against the consequences of the use of tobacco and tobacco products. Two amendments were tabled during the second reading. Both of these amendments have been negatively assessed by the committees. Thank you kindly. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-sejm-22-2.u531	There you go. The committees are asking for the project to be adopted. The committees present amendments - in an additional report - and the conclusions of the minorities on which we will vote first. In the 1st minority proposal to Article. 2 applicants shall propose a new wording of the common part in point 25. The question is raised by Paweł Skutecki, Kukiz club15.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-sejm-22-2.u532	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! Dear High Izbo! I have a question for the applicants, for the authors, it's a government project, so it's for the government. We all agree that smoking is bad enough that smoking kills. But why do you think information kills too? Why don't you want to let basic product information appear at the point of sale? In the sweat of your face you negotiated an extension of 3 years of sales opportunities for menthol cigarettes in Poland, and now you forbid the salesmen to inform the customer about which cigarettes are menthol cigarettes. This is one example of the application of this prohibition. Why do you think information is bad? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-sejm-22-2.u533	I don't see anyone reporting. We therefore proceed to the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the first minority request will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 449 Members voted. 49 votes against - 399, 1 abstention. The Sejm's motion is denied. In the first amendment to Article. 8 applicants propose to add a new paragraph which includes, inter alia, that information on the brands of tobacco products or electronic cigarettes may be placed at points of sale. The committees are asking for this amendment to be rejected. The question is raised by Mr Paweł Skutecki, Kukiz club15.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-sejm-22-2.u534	This amendment also concerns the possibility of providing information, but already very specific, very narrow. During the work of the committee and the subcommittee, I had the impression that you were unable to distinguish between information and advertising. Such distinction is really simple, it is simply formulated by linguists. Why don't you give us an elementary right to information? [[Applause]] [[Mr. Marshal, there's a voice.]] [[Question.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-sejm-22-2.u535	The question is raised by Marian Zembala, the Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-sejm-22-2.u536	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr President, we understand all this very much, but this law is needed because, finally, above the divisions, we show that health is the most important thing. Thank you, ladies and gentlemen. [[Joy in the O.R., applause.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-sejm-22-2.u537	It was a question and an answer. [[Voice from the hall: Ha, ha, ha!]] We therefore proceed to the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the first amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 446 Members voted. 48 votes against - 392, 6 Members abstained. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the second minority proposal to Article. 11a applicants propose to add paragraph. 3a-3c concerning the notification of an innovative tobacco product placed on the market. The question is raised by Mr Paweł Skutecki, Kukiz club15. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Stop it!]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-sejm-22-2.u538	Excuse me, ladies and gentlemen, but I have the impression that this bill is prescribed by a directive a few years ago. These regulations completely fail to keep up with the market for innovative tobacco products. The title of this Act refers to tobacco products, while there are products containing nicotine, nicotine inhalers, where there is no tobacco at all, where there is no tobacco smoke at all, because there is neither combustion nor tobacco. In this amendment, we proposed the possibility of placing new products on the market. In a week, two may turn out to be a product such as products that are legal e.g. in Switzerland or Italy, and the state here closes the way for new products that make people stop poisoning themselves and the environment with tobacco smoke. Why? [[Applause]] [[And that was the question.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-sejm-22-2.u539	I thank the Member for this question. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among the ladies and gentlemen and Members is in favour of the second minority request will want to raise their hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 447 Members voted. 51 Members voted against - 393, 3 Members abstained. I state that the Sejm's motion has been rejected. In the second amendment to the article. 8 of the draft amending act propose to add paragraph. 2 containing a transitional provision. The adoption of this amendment will result in the nullity of the 3rd minority proposal. The committees are filing for rejection. And the question is put by Mr Paweł Skutecki, Kukiz club15. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-sejm-22-2.u540	We're still talking about this information. You want to ban product information at the place of sale. It's okay... I mean, it's not okay. You don't want to. You don't want to. But, ladies and gentlemen, 120,000. points of sale in Poland are to delete this information, these advertisements within 2 weeks. How do you imagine... [[Voice from the room: One day is enough.]] ...to enforce it? How are you gonna get these little shops to do it somewhere in the country, get there with information? You're acting to the detriment of these little salesmen. [[Okay, sit down.]] Please accept this amendment. [[Applause]] [[Tape it up.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-sejm-22-2.u541	Thank you, sir. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the second amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 446 Members voted. 50 Members voted against - 389, 7 Members abstained. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the third minority proposal to Article. 8 of the draft amending act propose to add paragraph. 2 containing a transitional provision. At the moment, the question is raised by Mr Paweł Skutecki, Kukiz club15. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-sejm-22-2.u542	Maybe not so much a question as a thank you. I would like to thank Minister Pinkas here for these declarations in the Health Committee that you will propose such solutions in the Senate's work. Yes, thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-sejm-22-2.u543	The question took the form of a thank-you. [[Joy in the O.R., applause.]] We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 3rd minority request will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 450 Members voted. 63 votes against - 384, 3 abstentions. The Sejm's motion is denied. We proceed with the vote on the entire bill. The questions are raised by Members. Member of Mirosław Maliszewski, club of the Polish People's Party. The next Member will be Mr Paweł Skutecki. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-sejm-22-2.u544	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The Polish People's Party perfectly understands the harmfulness of smoking, but it is worth knowing that the EU directive did not prohibit tobacco use, it introduced only certain restrictions. It is worth knowing what the negative effects of this law will be for many social groups in Poland. There is no doubt that you must lean over them. The first group will be entrepreneurs who are today involved in processing raw tobacco, marketing it, distributors, shops, all those who distribute these products. It's said that it's up to 100,000. persons involved. Question for the government. What protective measures have been prepared for those who lose at the entry into force of this law to help them? Question two. This also applies to thousands of agricultural holdings specialising in tobacco production, those which have modernised have benefited from EU funds to be profitable. These farms will be facing a phantom of bankruptcy. Question for the Minister of Agriculture. What activities the resort has cooked to help these farms pay off [[♪ The bell ♪]] Taken loans to help them change into other activities to help them function normally on the market so that these farms do not fall and there are thousands of them? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-sejm-22-2.u545	Thank you. The question is asked by Paweł Skutecki, Kukiz.15. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-sejm-22-2.u546	Ladies and gentlemen! What it looks like to adopt European Union legislative solutions without reflection, they have shown the British beautifully recently. You promised before the election, everyone talked about it, from right to left, Union plus zero. We accept what we must, we do not add more burdens to this than is necessary. In this law, we add much more burdens than the European Union wanted. [[That's not true.]] You don't listen, you don't want to listen to people. [[I disagree.]] In addition, there were 70 requests for public hearing concerning this law. You didn't do it. I ask on behalf of these 8 million burning Poles, on behalf of these, I do not know, 1 and 2 million wailing Poles... [[It's about a cigarette break.]] I see you guys in the smoking room, too. [[Joy in the O.R., applause.]] Give yourselves information. [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]] I have a question for the government. Is the government planning an evaluation of this bill? Whether we go back to the topic next year to see if it's working or hurting, [[♪ The bell ♪]] Does it help? [[Applause]] [[It's a cigarette break.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-sejm-22-2.u547	At the moment, the question is raised by Marian Zembala, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-sejm-22-2.u548	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! When I was Minister of Health, I was ashamed that, apart from one country, Romania, we were on the tail of Europe and we embarrassed ourselves with these decisions. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, do not create fiction and confuse people who are trying to fight for the health of citizens. Not in this area, let us look for economic solutions. I don't understand the previous speaker here, who, I think... [[It's called freedom.]] ...wants to go back to the darkest times. In this connection, I thank you once again for your firmness in this matter, because it is necessary to pay attention either to improving the health of Poles or to plunge into illness. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-sejm-22-2.u549	Is the government gonna answer? Secretary of State at the Ministry of Health, Mr Jarosław Pinkas.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-sejm-22-2.u550	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have a great sense of fulfillment today because I know that you will vote in favour of this bill. If I had only one thing to do at the Ministry of Health, it would probably be this law that will significantly reduce tobacco consumption. Our young people won't have that kind of access, we won't advertise it, we're throwing something out of public space that is a dramatic threat to society as a whole. In 10 years we will spend PLN 140 billion on detoxic diseases. PLN 140 billion for detoxic diseases. This is the best law related to public health in the history of Poland. [[Applause]] 20 years ago, we had our first bill. At the time, it burned 50%. Poles. This bill 20 years ago led to the fact that it now smokes 30%. He smokes too much anyway. [[And the ban on public places?]] Of course, they smoke fortunately outside public places. I hope that this bill will lead to the fact that there will be no cigarettes initiating this dramatic addiction that young people will not have the kind of access they have so far. Of course, we don't destroy industry. Cigarettes can still be produced and can still be sold but cannot be advertised. Please do not confuse commercial information with price information. [[Yes.]] We have thorough research, and we know very well that what is sometimes hidden under price information is simply advertising. We've examined it thoroughly. Indeed, by the end of the year, shops will be able to eliminate this type of advertising activity, because it is advertising activity. We give it time, there'll be a government amendment to the Senate. I think that should do the trick. Mr. Marshal! Thank you very much and I would like you to have the sense of pride that I have today after the vote. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-sejm-22-2.u551	Thank you very much. Mr Maliszewski has come forward, but I have not seen anyone argue with you... [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] [[Speech Off the Microphone]] No, no, no. I can't take this as a correction. [[Voice from the room: Sit down.]] We proceed with the vote on the entire bill. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting the bill as a whole in print No. 652, will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 449 Members voted. 396 voted against - 46, 7 Members abstained. I state that the Sejm has passed a law amending the Health Protection Act against the consequences of tobacco and tobacco products. We are returning to the examination of item 10 of the agenda: Report from the Committee on Maritime Affairs and Inland Navigation on the draft law amending the Act on the promotion of the sustainable development of the fishing sector with the participation of the European Maritime and Fisheries Fund. We proceed to the third reading. The Commission calls for the adoption of the draft Print Act No 675. The questions have been raised by the Members. Mr Arkadiusz Carrotka, Civic Platform Club. The next one will be Mrs Ewa Lieder.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-sejm-22-2.u552	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Let me ask you a question I asked yesterday, but unfortunately no one was able to answer it. Namely, the bill assumes that the technical assistance activities under priority V of the European Maritime and Fisheries Fund will be transferred to the Agency for the Restructuring and Modernisation of Agriculture. I would therefore like to ask whether these activities will be carried out with the staff resource currently in operation in the Agency, or whether new jobs will be created to support good change. Is it also planned to exploit the potential of the entity that has so far managed these activities? And if not, I would also ask you to answer the question whether, in that case, the budget of the Agency for Restructuring and Modernization of Agriculture will be increased in order to carry out these activities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-sejm-22-2.u553	Please. Mrs Ewa Lieder, the Modern Club, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-sejm-22-2.u554	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Club Parliamentary The modern one fully supports the changes proposed in the project. These are de facto amendments clarifying and correcting legislative errors in the Act of 10 July 2015. It means it's not a year old, ladies and gentlemen. The proposed amendments should be introduced in this law a long time ago. The question is, why didn't it happen? Neither the previous government nor the present government were in a hurry to introduce them into the bill, and as you know, you can work quickly because yesterday I returned from the commission at half to four o'clock to the room. [[It's not over yet.]] [[You're gonna be here tonight.]] The absence of these amendments has led to serious delays in the implementation of the operational programme for the period 2014 and 2020 by 9 months so far. The absence of this aid, while reducing fishing quotas and decreasing catches in general, is likely to contribute to the wave of bankruptcy. [[Applause]] To sum up: [[♪ The bell ♪]] Instead of helping shipowners, fishermen, the government will contribute to their serious problems. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-sejm-22-2.u555	Please. [[Mr Dorota Arciszewska-Mielewczyk: As rapporteur, can I answer?]] Yes, of course, the rapporteur of the committee, Dorota Arciszewska-Mielewczyk, can answer. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-sejm-22-2.u556	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! It is precisely because the agency has its branches, it also pursues objectives under the Rural Development Programme, has experience, has an administrative apparatus with field offices, there is no point in multiplying existences. So there is no case here as regards the extra spending, the creation of additional branches of the state administration to implement this programme. As regards the second question, I am very pleased that the Member asked this question, because it was the previous government that passed the law on which the Government's Legislative Centre stated that it was not possible to mobilise these funds through the regulation. Therefore, these amendments. The revision of the project was needed to allow the identification of the list of beneficiaries and the levels of funding. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-sejm-22-2.u557	There you go. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting the bill as a whole in print No.675, will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 447 Members voted. The vote was 438 against - 6, 3 Members abstained. The Sejm adopted a law amending the Act on the promotion of the sustainable development of the fishing sector with the participation of the European Maritime and Fisheries Fund. We return to the review of item 11 of the Public Finance Commission's report on the government bill on retail tax. We proceed to the third reading. The additional committee report shall be in print No 691-A. I ask Mrs Maria Zuba to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-sejm-22-2.u558	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! In plenary on 5 July, during the work on the government bill on retail tax, the PO club submitted three amendments. Today, the Committee on Public Finance worked on these amendments, considered them and issued a negative opinion as a result of the vote. The Committee on Public Finance also considered the amendments of the Modern Club, which were rejected and today in the report the club presents them as minority requests. I propose, on behalf of the Committee on Public Finance, that all amendments be rejected. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-sejm-22-2.u559	Please. As we've heard, it's printing number 691. We will vote first on minority proposals and amendments. In the first amendment to Article. 5 applicants propose that the taxable amount be the revenue from retail sales achieved during the month concerned, in accordance with the income tax rules. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the first amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 444 Members voted. 178 voted against - 234, 32 Members abstained. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the second amendment to the article. 7 By adding point 6, applicants propose that the retail sale of finished dishes, beverages and desserts, intended for direct consumption, disposed of as part of a food-related activity, should not be subject to taxation. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. The question was raised by Mrs Izabela Leszczyn, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-sejm-22-2.u560	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! This amendment is in fact being implemented by the Civic Platform by the Law and Justice promises, because you promised to introduce this law by announcing a trade tax that you would not impose this tax on catering services. Furthermore, in the explanatory memorandum, you write that these services are not subject to trade tax, but in the course of the work with the hands of PiS Members - it is not known why - you removed the provision that actually guaranteed it. Therefore, if the majority of the Parliament votes against this amendment, I would like the Minister, the Minister of Finance, to explain to the entrepreneurs why it will be so that they will once pay a trade tax from the same sandwich, and another time they will not pay that tax. Do you really think that's not gonna make it any harder to run a business? [[♪ The bell ♪]] And can you, Minister, tell the High House whether this is a simplification of the Polish tax system or a total complication of it? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-sejm-22-2.u561	Thank you, Member. The question is raised by Mr Adam Abramowicz, the Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-sejm-22-2.u562	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! In the context of Mrs Leszczyna's question, is it true that 17 million PLN exemption from this tax will cause that all small and medium-sized catering companies will not pay this tax, Mrs Leszczyna is in the interest of large corporations... [[Voice from the Chamber: Mrs Leszczyna.]] ...and we've been predicting that large corporations will be taxed. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-sejm-22-2.u563	So many questions. The Minister wants to answer, right? Minister Wiesław Janczyk, State Secretary at the Ministry of Finance.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-sejm-22-2.u564	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! The law contains a very precise definition of the subject matter of taxation. This is the amount entered in the tax register, minus VAT. And it's hard to argue with that definition, she's got the broadest acceptance. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Correct, Marshal.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-sejm-22-2.u565	Please? [[Corrigendum.]] As corrected by Mrs Isabella Leszczyn.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-sejm-22-2.u566	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! Mr Abramovich! I do not allow you to utter lying words in an absolutely unauthorized and unworthy manner from this speaker. [[Applause]] The tax-free amount, as the Minister knows very well, is likely to be challenged by the Court of Justice of the European Union, because it was just a few days ago that the European Commission told Hungary. My question is, why don't you want to fire the subject I'm talking about? I am not talking about the subjective exemption, sir, I am not talking about the amount of free money and I am not talking about small or large business. I'm talking about the fact that you guys were gonna exempt catering services from this tax and lied to entrepreneurs like you always do. [[Applause]] [[Disgraceful!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-sejm-22-2.u567	We proceed, as always, to the vote. [[Joy in the O.R., applause.]] Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the second amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 450 Members voted. In 186 votes against - 232, 32 Members abstained. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 1st minority proposal to Article. 7 By adding point 6, applicants propose that retail sales of goods in immediate consumption disposed of in catering activities should not be subject to taxation. No questions. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the first minority request will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 447 Members voted. There were 183 votes against and 233 abstentions. The Sejm's motion is denied. In the second minority proposal to Article. Points 1 and 2 of the proposal to reduce tax rates by half. Questions are raised by Members. Mrs Paulina Hennig-Kloska, Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-sejm-22-2.u568	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Dear Members of Law and Justice! I have this question: Can you start learning from your own mistakes? [[Don't be so smart.]] Because I understand that people don't necessarily like to learn from other people's mistakes, but theirs should eventually work. You have introduced a bank tax in the industry with much higher profitability, lying to Poles that they will not pay this tax because it will be paid by the banks. Today we know that this tax has been entirely transferred to Poles. [[You're talking because you're talking, and why are you talking? You're wasting your time.]] Today you are introducing another tax in the industry with much lower profitability, because to those of you who do not follow certain statistics or maybe are unaware, I will say that the retail industry is about an average net profitability of 1.8%. And we're introducing a tax of 0.8% today. up to 1.4% in this progression. There was supposed to be a hypermarket tax, and we got a sales tax, where we're gonna pay extra fuel tax, gastronomy tax, [[♪ The bell ♪]] 'Cause that coffee at the gas station is gonna be one too, Minister, covered. [[Sit down.]] These aren't the big Western hypermarkets you were supposed to tax. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-sejm-22-2.u569	Thank you. Member Tomasz Szymański, the Civic Platform Club, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-sejm-22-2.u570	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Prime Minister! This is the third or fourth edition of the imposition of another tax on entrepreneurs. Ladies and gentlemen, this wave of protests which took place at the beginning of the year, among others. Before our parliament, but also the meetings you had with the entrepreneurs, it caused your grace to affect only or as many as 200 entrepreneurs. However, this has softened your position, resulting in a proposal for progressive taxes. Ladies and gentlemen, because there's a whole cloud problem here, who's gonna pay for it? We'll pay you, consumers, prime minister, marshal, me, going shopping every day... [[I'm not paying.]] ...doing groceries every day at the mall, at the mall. [[Applause]] But that's not a problem yet. Agri-food producers will pay the most for the introduction of this tax, so those who supply the products to be fresh on the shelves. They will be the biggest beneficiaries of this tax. It's the market that's gonna squeeze out the last penny, the last penny to make it cheaper. [[♪ The bell ♪]] [[Voice from the room: Time.]] [[Don't yell.]] Ladies and gentlemen, you have written that sales taxes are in a similar form in other countries. My question is, which one? None. [[Applause]] There is no such country in the European Union, Prime Minister, where a similar tax at a progressive rate would be the same. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-sejm-22-2.u571	Thank you, sir. Mr Paweł Lisiecki, Law and Justice have the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-sejm-22-2.u572	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! I have a question for my previous speaker because I'm surprised...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-sejm-22-2.u573	No, sir. [[There's no formula.]] You may ask the rapporteur or the representative of the government.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-sejm-22-2.u574	I have a question for the rapporteur. Who in the last term raised VAT to 23%? Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[And who kept it?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-sejm-22-2.u575	Thank you very much. I'd love to answer that, but I'm not authorized right now. [[Joy in the O.R., applause.]] Then we shall proceed to the vote. Who among the ladies and gentlemen of the House is in favour of the second minority request will want to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 451 Members voted. The vote was 180, against - 240, with 31 Members holding back. The Sejm rejected the minority's motion. In the third amendment to the article. 12 applicants shall propose that the law enter into force on the first day of the month following the month in which it expires 30 days from the date of publication. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. Its adoption will result in the nullity of the 3rd minority proposal. Questions are raised by Members. Ms Krystyna Skowrońska, Civic Platform Club. Next will be Rafał Wójcikowski. [[Voice from the room: Ooh...]] I want to use the time to reach the speaker. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-sejm-22-2.u576	Dear Marshal, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Prime Minister! I have a question for the Prime Minister. Will and when, in connection with the entry into and the proposal of this law, the Prime Minister will tell Poles that at the gas station he will use 6 cents per litre of fuel, that in this connection he will... [[Seven zlotys each.]] ...communication, as well as expensive production of goods? [[Game in the O.R., bell ringing.]] Will the Prime Minister tell Poles that buying a TV, buying a washing machine, buying electrical equipment will cost several dozen or several hundred zlotys? I'd like to ask the Prime Minister. I would like to hear, because I am sure the Poles would like to hear from the Prime Minister when you announce to the Poles that they will pay higher taxes because the tax constructed in this form is being passed on to taxpayers. And one more thing. My previous speaker was so worried. [[♪ The bell ♪]] VAT. [[Time.]] Why didn't the Prime Minister and her government reduce VAT? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-sejm-22-2.u577	Thank you. Mr Rafał Wójcikowski, Kukiz Club15, has the floor. Mr Abramovich will be next.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-sejm-22-2.u578	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Prime Minister! My question is why we have to rush into this tax when it is so controversial and so emotional. [[Voice from the room: Cash is gone.]] You've often approached it like a dog to a hedgehog. Now you are in a hurry to put this into effect. Can't you give the right vacathio legis to market these stores so that even these big corporations are prepared not to make a mess of the trade? I'm afraid such chaos can happen. Then let's wait. Let's at least give this month more so that these institutions get ready to make sure that customers, millions of customers who buy there, don't have that discomfort, don't have that chaos. By the way. Why entrepreneurs who have seasonal sales, who e.g. in December they have half the turnover, and many such enterprises, whether IT, various, will not be able to benefit from the relief, [[♪ The bell ♪]] 'Cause they're gonna love that relief every month because she's gonna be settled a month? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-sejm-22-2.u579	Please. Mr Adam Abramovich, the Law and Justice have the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-sejm-22-2.u580	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! I have a question for the Minister, is the truth... [[No.]] ...that every year 5 thousand people lose their lives in Poland. Small and medium-sized stores. Is it true that it is against the interest of Polish consumers, because Poles like to shop close to home? Is it true that big brands drain producers to the last dollar by putting them against the wall? And is it true that this construction of the tax, under which there is a free amount of PLN 17 million per month and PLN 204 million per year, will result in two distribution channels and producers whenever they are blackmailed by the market, will be able to sell small and medium-sized shops in the latter channel, and consumers will have the convenience of shopping near home, and we will save Polish trade? [[It's not true.]] It means small and medium-sized trade. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-sejm-22-2.u581	Thank you, sir. The answer to this last question can be simple: yes or no. [[Joy in the Chamber]] Deputy Minister of Finance Wiesław Janczyk will speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-sejm-22-2.u582	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Prime Minister! I confirm the statements made by Mr Abramowicz, and I would like to say that the statement made by one of my previous speakers is incorrect, that the Law and Justice were in a great hurry to impose this tribute, because if you have observed the debate on this tax well, it is going on - such precise, substantive - about half a year and the demands of the environment, which notabene itself sought to introduce this tribute, have been taken into account. In the beginning - I will remind you - there was a will to introduce this tax with the effect of PLN 6 And those were signals coming from the retail industry. Ultimately, the revenue that we are planning to obtain from this tax in the full year of its operation will amount to about PLN 2 billion. The second point is that those for whom it will be very important is, at what price they purchase products, as in the case of banking tax, will have to choose shops which will not pay this fee, because I will remind you that the amount of the exemption per year will be PLN 204 million and per month - PLN 17 million. Finally, around 200 entities will be subject to the tax, as we estimate, and there are 30,000 entities operating in the industry in general, so that this should be taken into account in the assessment of the regulations we are introducing. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-sejm-22-2.u583	There you go. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 3rd amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 446 Members voted. 159 voted against - 233, 54 Members abstained. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the third minority proposal to Article. 12 applicants propose that the Act should enter into force on 1 January 2017. Questions are raised by Members. Mrs Hennig-Kloska, Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-sejm-22-2.u584	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I am very pleased that what I have said since the beginning of this bill has finally reached the Minister and Mr Abramowicz. What was it like? The big hypermarkets are glowing the producers, putting them up against the wall. Exactly. That is why I am telling you from the beginning that this tax will not be paid by hypermarkets, as you tell Poles, only as you have confirmed here, it will be paid by producers on which this tax will be transferred, because already today networks call Polish producers who produce from Polish products originating in the Polish village and discuss how to spread this tax throughout the world of trade. Unfortunately, such arguments do not reach you, although you can see that they are well aware of that. [[♪ The bell ♪]] So the question is, are you ever going to translate this knowledge into the draft laws that you're creating? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-sejm-22-2.u585	This is a very forward-looking question, Commissioner. [[Joy in the Chamber]] Mr Paweł Grabowski, the Kukiz Club15, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-sejm-22-2.u586	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have questions about basically the whole project, but the rules of the game are absolute, only one Member can ask a question about the amendment. Namely, the first question is this: Is it your intention to make shops, especially the big ones, turn into online consultation points? Indeed, this online sales are tax-free and it is therefore very easy to circumvent this tax. Here, with our fellow freedom fighters and our fellow endek, we invented such an easy circumvention of this right. [[Applause]] That's the first line. The second point, referring to my previous speaker, Minister, is that I cannot see you in the courtroom. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] - oh, thank you - but I'm asking you a question. I ask you to answer a question on behalf of entrepreneurs: What concrete solutions have you taken in this law to protect businesses, producers, suppliers from shifting the tax burden on them from those entities which are to be formally taxed? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-sejm-22-2.u587	Mr Adam Abramowicz, Club of Law and Justice, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-sejm-22-2.u588	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! Mrs Hennig-Kloska is from a modern club claiming to know economics. This statement shows that, unfortunately, you do not understand the economic mechanisms, [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] Because if 204 million turnover is released and, as the Minister said, the tax will affect about 200 entities, it is clear that there is a distribution channel to which those producers you are asking for can direct their products. It is simple and I am surprised that the Member of Kukiz does not understand such simple economic mechanisms. [[From Mr. Kukiz.]] If you have increased commissions in banks, move to banks that have not increased commissions, and there are banks because small and medium-sized banks are exempt from bank tax.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-sejm-22-2.u589	Your time is running out, and you haven't asked a question, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-sejm-22-2.u590	It's the same with shops. If hypermarkets and supermarkets raise your prices, go to small and medium-sized stores or shops in your neighborhoods. [[Applause]] If your producers are blackmailed, [[♪ The bell ♪]] They will go to other distribution channels and this solution will ensure that. [[Applause]] [[Stop it.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-sejm-22-2.u591	Thank you. [[Mr Paulin Hennig-Kloska: Mr Marshal...]] However, I would like to draw your attention, Mr President, not to argue, because your speech calls for correction. And now there's a need. [[Yeah, that's right.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-sejm-22-2.u592	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Mr. Speaker! Unfortunately, I have to upset you because you didn't understand what I said at all, and the consequences at all... [[But it's not just him.]] ...what you're doing. To your knowledge, there are producers who are addicted to large hypermarket networks, selling 80 and 90% there. your production. The crisis that we had in 2007-2008, which has hit very hard, is a great example, the construction industry, has shown that manufacturers, customers are able to work well below their manufacturing costs, saving themselves from total loss of turnover. And today, when you introduce such a tax, you put producers who produce on the network before choosing: or they lose 80%. their turnover, their sales, or share with the network the costs of this tax. If you do not understand such a basic market economy regulation, I apologize, but I suggest you switch to another kind of legislation. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-sejm-22-2.u593	Please. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 3rd minority request will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 443 Members voted. 180 Members voted against - 234, with 29 abstentions. The Sejm's motion is denied. We proceed with the vote on the entire bill. And here we have your Members who have asked questions. Mr Jerzy Kozłowski, Kukiz club15. [[Applause]] The next will be Paulina Hennig-Kloska.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-sejm-22-2.u594	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! Dear Government! Dear Party and Justice. [[Voice from the room: What are you doing?]] You are building a new Republic - the Polish Tax Republic. [[Applause]] Question. Why does your project clearly favour Western capital groups organised in the form of limited partnership companies, introducing a distortion of equal opportunities policy? Commercial competition is not about tax competition, it is about commercial competition, and you in this project favour organised Western RTV networks, which are so arranged that they have limited partnerships with different NIPs and act as a joint capital group. On the other hand, Polish companies, which are doing quite well, will have to pay the highest rate because they were not so clever. Your project supports smartness. [[♪ The bell ♪]] [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-sejm-22-2.u595	Thank you, sir. Mr Paulina Hennig-Kloska, the Modern Club, has the floor. The next speaker will be Mr Isabel Leszczyn.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-sejm-22-2.u596	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! We're finishing work on this new tax. Many words have already been said and about customers, and about suppliers, about the fact that this tax was to be different, and about the fact that it was supposed to give much more money to the budget this year, and a lot of things along the way are different from what you originally said. Finally, I have one question for the Prime Minister. Is it true that in the history of Poland no government in the first 8 months of its government... [[He didn't work so hard.]] ...haven't introduced as many taxes as the government of law and justice? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-sejm-22-2.u597	Please. Mrs Isabel Leszczyn, the Civic Platform Club, has the floor. Next will be Mr Łukasz Schreiber. [[And we're back in the woods.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-sejm-22-2.u598	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! Prime Minister! I propose that you instruct your ministers to agree their positions on the economic policy of Law and Justice, because in every second sentence Prime Minister Morawiecki says that he supports Polish capital, while the Minister of Finance supports this Polish capital, but only to the income of 15 million monthly. So is this all about the Poles not being able to make it into a bigger business? Orlen and Lotus, sir, this is also Polish capital and you are now imposing a tax on them. On the other hand, the Minister's position and the only argument that you used yesterday to convince Members that imposing a tax is to promote entrepreneurship was completely crazy. Well, the Minister of Finance said to us yesterday, "What do you mean? After all, this project was much worse 2 months ago because the tax was 2% and in addition, trade was taxed on Sunday. We've done less. I mean, you guys behaved like that rabbi, [[♪ The bell ♪]] What he told me to get the goat out of the room, but it's really not enough.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-sejm-22-2.u599	I didn't hear the question.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-sejm-22-2.u600	The bill is wrong...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-sejm-22-2.u601	Thank you very much, Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-sejm-22-2.u602	...and incriminates everyone...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-sejm-22-2.u603	Mr Łukasz Schreiber, Club of Law and Justice, has the floor. ... Poles with a new tax. [[Applause]] Mr Łukasz Schreiber, Club of Law and Justice, has the floor. Member Robert Winnicki is preparing.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-sejm-22-2.u604	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! I must admit that it is symptomatic, that on the day on which the resort of Prime Minister Morawiecki presents a package of 100 facilitations for several hundred thousand Polish entrepreneurs, the state is fighting such fierceness against a law that will only touch 200 entities, and mostly... [[Vaseline!]] ...with foreign capital. And as for the expensive platform, I think your memory is good, but unfortunately very short. Not only 23% VAT, but who, if not you, increased the pension fee for Polish entrepreneurs? [[Game in the O.R., bell ringing.]] Who, if you don't... [[Lower it down.]] ...taxed the publishing market in Poland by introducing VAT on books? [[Applause]] Who, like you, has introduced and increased VAT... [[Lower it down.]] ...for children's clothes? [[Applause]] And who, like you, has also increased excise duty and everything else? [[Lower it, really, lower it, we'll vote for it.]] You might say briefly that your concern... [[Negotiate in the Union, and we'll vote.]] ...about Polish business is anything late and false. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]] [[You should have gone back to the 19th century.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-sejm-22-2.u605	Mr Robert Winnicki, non-attached Member, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-sejm-22-2.u606	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The retail tax is exactly the same as the Polish Land Protection Act. No good tax can be passed under the current conditions, no tax can be passed, which would not hit Polish traders, Polish entrepreneurs. Why? Because if we really want to build a Polish economy in which we will not be capitalized by large companies, international companies, we must apply the principles of protectionism. We must not only reject this political flow in the European Union, but we must question the principle of complete freedom of movement of capital. Yes, it is not in our interest, a growing economy, not to be able to use protectionist tools in our economy, and it is necessary to be very clear in Brexit's day, and give God and Polexit in the future, to talk about it, because the Polish economy must be protected, just as all the current powers which today proclaim the free market in international trade have been doing. [[♪ The bell ♪]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-sejm-22-2.u607	Thank you. We proceed with the vote on the entire bill. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting the bill as a whole in print no.691, will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 443 Members voted. 234 voted against - 207, 2 Members abstained. I state that the Sejm has passed the Retail Tax Act. [[Applause]] We are returning to the examination of item 12 of the agenda: Report from the Commission on Energy and the Treasury on the draft law amending the Commercialisation and Privatisation Act. The additional committee report shall be in print No 674-A. We proceed to the third reading. Mr Krzysztof Kubów has the floor to present an additional report to the committee. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-sejm-22-2.u608	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! I have the honour to present a report by the Committee on Energy and the Treasury on the draft law amending the Commercialisation and Privatization Act. [[Applause]] The Commission has examined the four amendments tabled at its additional meeting and recommends that they be rejected. At the same time, the committee requests the adoption of the draft law in its entirety. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-sejm-22-2.u609	Thank you. We will vote first on the amendments that you have spoken about and on the proposals of minorities. In the first amendment to Article. Paragraph 56 Point 1 of the applicant's entry in the calculation proposes to delete the words "income obtained from holding shares acquired in accordance with paragraph 1. 4c and proceeds from the disposal of those shares. Amendment 3 is combined with this amendment. We will vote on them together. The Commission requests that they be rejected. The adoption of these amendments will result in the nullity of the 1st minority proposal. The questions are raised by Mr Zdzisław Gawlik, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-sejm-22-2.u610	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! In principle, all amendments concern issues related to the Reprivatisation Fund and the management of the funds collected there. 5 billion PLN, collected by the last 20 years of government, is, of course, a gratifying bite. In view of the fact that the individual assets of the State Treasury are shared today between the various departments, and the announced intention to liquidate the Ministry of the State Treasury, I have a question: Who will manage these assets, who will have the rights that will arise, will be replaced as far as these 5 billion PLN are concerned? Of course, this 5 billion is the hope for those who have been harmed by the process of nationalization, not yet settled, but this change is moving away. And a question for the applicants. We are talking about equal treatment of all local governments in Poland. My question comes down to what we mean by the wording: the circumstances relating to the financial situation that make it impossible to meet the claims independently. When [[♪ The bell ♪]] Will the local government unit be able to apply for these funds? What is the state of her finances? You're welcome. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-sejm-22-2.u611	Thank you, sir. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of Amendments 1 and 3 will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 439 Members voted. The vote was 207, against 232, and no one abstained. The Sejm rejected the amendments. In the second amendment to the article. Paragraph 56 1 point 1 applicants propose a new wording of the added point. Yeah, that's right. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. The question is raised by Members. Mr Tomasz Jaskóla, Kukiz club15. The next one will be Jolanta Hibner.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-sejm-22-2.u612	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! I have two questions. Do you not think that in the case of this second point we are actually dealing with the renationalisation of part of the privatisation fund funds? And I have a question. For 27 years Poles have been waiting for the proper reprivatization bill. I recall that in the government of Jan Olszewski you also spoke about this. Unfortunately, Poles are looking forward to this bill. This is particularly important to me. Please note that this fund also serves to capitalise companies of the State Treasury, e.g. TV. Why are you talking about 20, 30 million? Take 50 million right away. [[Voice from the room: 100!]] Or 100. You have a problem with the distinction of words. Today one of my fellow Members tried to kill me because I am a liberal, a freeman, and he called me a libertine. It is a good thing that he is not a cabotin, and it is a good thing that he didn't get such an expression that a rich fellow is not the same as a cuckold Member. Thank you. [[Applause, bustle in the hall]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-sejm-22-2.u613	Mr Hibner, the Civic Platform Club, has the floor. I would only ask your Members to address questions to specific people - the rapporteur, the representative of the government, the applicant - and not to all, because this is a question in the air.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-sejm-22-2.u614	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have a question for my piss buddies.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-sejm-22-2.u615	Madam, to the rapporteur or to the government. [[Exactly.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-sejm-22-2.u616	Good. To the rapporteur, then. For what do you from PiS want to punish the Warsaw people for the decree of Bierut? What did the Warsawers do to you? At this point, you want to exclude Warsaw from the possibility of using the fund, which should be compensation, after court judgments, for those who have lost their assets, and the court has decided that they should have compensation. What properties will be lost to television and radio, that they will receive compensation from this fund of 40 million? Answer me. That's not enough. I was gonna ask... Mr. President, you are a Member of Warsaw. Please react, because this is your last chance, and the Warsawers will remember it. They'll remember. [[Applause]] [[We in Warmia and Mazury want one too.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-sejm-22-2.u617	Thank you, Member. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the second amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 448 Members voted. 180 voted against - 240, 28 Members abstained. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the first minority application, the applicant shall propose to delete the added paragraph. 4c and 4d in Article 56. The question is raised by Krzysztof Sitarski, the Kukiz club15. The next will be Mr Mirosław Pampuch.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-sejm-22-2.u618	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! The important thing here is that there is a proposal to purchase parts of companies of the State Treasury for the funds from the sale of parts of shares of companies of the State Treasury. [[Game in the O.R., bell ringing.]] In short, we have renationalization instead of reprivatization. That's what it looks like. I have a question for the applicants and the designers of this bill. Where's the citizen? Where's the place for a citizen who's been deprived of his assets by the previous deal? The money spent here, 5 billion, is actually going for a completely different purpose. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-sejm-22-2.u619	Mr Mirosław Pampuch, the Modern Club, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-sejm-22-2.u620	Dear Marshal, Prime Minister! High Izbo! This minority proposal aims to delete the provision allowing the Treasury Minister to purchase shares for the Reprivatisation Fund. I would like to point out that the Reprivatisation Fund should be used for the purpose of satisfying claims of former owners of property taken over by the State Treasury. It's a clear crossing. And the question is: Is it true that the PiS government, without any solutions to the sound problem of reprivatization claims, wants to steal nearly PLN 5 billion from the supposed more efficient use of funds to improve the financial condition of the more indeterminate companies of the State Treasury? Because I didn't get the answers that the Treasury companies were talking about. Thus, the PiS government puts any reprivatisation measures in question in the future. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-sejm-22-2.u621	There you go. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the first minority request will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 444 Members voted. 204 voted against - 237, 3 Members abstained. The Sejm's motion is denied. In the 2nd minority proposal and the 4th amendment, the applicant proposes to delete the 3rd amendment by adding Article. 69g. The Commission requests that the amendment be rejected. The question is raised by Mr Zbigniew Gryglas, a modern club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-sejm-22-2.u622	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Seym! The Act assumes that the funds collected in the special-purpose fund are not intended to be used. Contrary to appearances, it's important that we draw money out of our pockets to pay our commitments. Ladies and gentlemen, it's as if the money we have at home prepared for a black hour is spent on everyday consumption. This is a very bad regulation, all the more so because we want to allocate this money to the recapitalisation of Polish Television, Polish Radio and regional companies. They're so mismanaged, they need to be helped immediately. $20 million? First 20, because, ladies and gentlemen, as the media wrote, after 55 seconds it turned out that this amount is higher and it needs 30 million PLN. No one could explain to me what is the justification of this amount, exactly PLN 30 million. I asked this question several times during the committee's deliberations. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-sejm-22-2.u623	Please. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 2nd minority proposal and the 4th amendment would like to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 449 Members voted. Two Members abstained in favour of 208, against - 239. I state that the Sejm has rejected the proposals. We proceed with the vote on the entire bill. The question was asked by Mr Stanisław Tyszka, Kukiz Club15. Mr Zbigniew Gryglas will be next.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-sejm-22-2.u624	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! The lack of restitution of private property first robbed by the Germans, later by communists is, remains the founding sin of the Third Republic. Do applicants know that the government knows that Poland is the only country in Central and Eastern Europe that has not passed a general reprivatization law granting even partial compensation to those rightful owners who have been expropriated? Do you know what's been going on with this property over the past 27 years? She was misappropriated by the former communist nomenclature, but she was also embezzled by the new [[Applause]] Party nomenclature. All parties present in this Seym are responsible for the lack of this historical justice over the past 27 years. The Reprivatisation Fund was the last hope of former owners, legitimate owners, that this ownership chaos would be overcome and that they would receive at least partial compensation. [[♪ The bell ♪]] And you want to jump on OFE, and you want to jump on the Reprivatization Fund. [[Time.]] [[Voice from the room: Time's up.]] My question is, when does a party that has justice in its name do something to restore elementary historical justice? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-sejm-22-2.u625	Thank you. Mr Zbigniew Gryglas, the Modern Club, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-sejm-22-2.u626	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Seym! At the moment, less than PLN 5 billion have been collected in the fund account. This is a very small amount compared to potential claims, which are estimated at even several hundred billion zlotys. But it's a good thing that there's this amount, and it's a good thing that we have that amount, because that's the kind of black-time security I was talking about. All the more reason not to spend this money on others, [[Applause]] incompatible with the intended purpose. It's not economical. This isn't right. Ladies and gentlemen, the unsolved problem of reprivatization is actually burdened by all the governments of the 25 years of the Third Republic. Nobody's here without guilt. All the more reason to approach this issue and solve it, because today it is a burden on the Polish economy and a blockade of the development of our economy. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-sejm-22-2.u627	I have not heard the questions, but I ask that the Vice Minister of the Treasury of Mr Nicholas Wild speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-sejm-22-2.u628	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! A few data that, I think, escapes the attention of the debaters. [[Look at the clock.]] [[Game!]] The expenditure of the Reprivatisation Fund is in recent years: PLN 238 million in 2013, PLN 413 million in 2014 - this includes a grant for m.st. Warsaw - PLN 380 million in 2015. The revenue of the fund is: in 2015 from privatisation 0 PLN, 118 million from interest on account, in 2016 from privatisation 0 PLN. [[That's it.]] Since what could be sold has been sold, it is not very possible to increase the funds of the fund. Unfreeze these measures represents an opportunity to multiply this money. With regard to the issue of financing the Polish Television and other public broadcasters, which I see to be quite serious doubts, I would like to remind you that this contested regulation is only a technical procedure. Already on the basis of the article. 3 of the Act of 29 April 2010 provides for the transfer from the Reprivatisation Fund of PLN 1 billion to the revenue of the State budget. Such a mechanism is based on the assumption that the Reprivatisation Fund constitutes a separate asset mass, but still at the disposal of the State Treasury. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo! Thank you.]] [[That's it. Bravo!]] I think it's worth taking into account the amounts we're talking about. It was public broadcasters who recently received aid between PLN 650 million and PLN 750 million per year in the years 2013 and 2016. We're talking 4% of the annual support. [[Game!]] And one last thing. Very often, the question is what are the mechanisms to prevent these measures from being mismanaged. We are aware that it is difficult to believe that mismanagement of public property carries responsibility, including criminal responsibility. However, notifications of a criminal offence made by the Minister of the Treasury are based on other assumptions. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-sejm-22-2.u629	Please. We proceed with the vote on the entire bill. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting in full the draft law in print No. 674, would like to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 450 Members voted. 238 voted against - 208, 4 Members abstained. I state that the Sejm has passed a law amending the Commercialisation and Privatization Act. We are returning to the examination of item 13 of the agenda: the report of the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development on the draft law amending the law on the shaping of the agricultural system and on the amendment of the law on perpetual books and mortgage. We proceed to the third reading. The additional committee report shall be in print No 688-A. Mr Duda will speak in order to present an additional report to the committee. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-sejm-22-2.u630	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! I have the honour to present an additional report by the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development on the draft law amending the law on the shaping of the agricultural system and on the amendment of the law on perpetual books and mortgage, print No. 673. During the second reading at the 22nd session of the Sejm, the parliamentary clubs submitted four amendments. PSL Members' Club one amendment, Amendment 1, which concerns the increase of the area of agricultural parcels not protected as agricultural land to 0,5 ha. [[Everyone sees it and they hear it.]] Civic Platform - two amendments: Amendment 2 concerns a change in the wording of Article. Point 1 of Article 1 1 point (1) (a) b. Amendment 4. After the article. Article 2 is added to the draft submitted. 2a, in which Article 2a is amended. 13 Act on the suspension of sales, stating that the legal acts already commenced apply the provisions prior to the entry into force of this Act. The Commission has a negative opinion on Amendments 1, 2 and 4 and proposes that the High House reject them. Parliamentary Club Law and Justice tabled one amendment, Amendment 3. This amendment allows national parks to purchase agricultural land for nature conservation purposes. The Commission welcomes this amendment and requests its adoption. [[Applause]] The additional committee report shall be in print No 688-A. [[The game is.]] High Izbo! On behalf of the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development, I am asking the High House to adopt a law amending the Law on the shaping of the agricultural system... [[The game is here, sir.]] ...and the amendment of the Act on Perpetual Books and the mortgage from the project contained in print no. 673. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-sejm-22-2.u631	There you go. We will vote on these amendments first. Amendments 1 to 3 were tabled in Article. 1 draft amending act containing amendments to the Act on the shaping of the agricultural system. In the first amendment to Article. Point 1a (1) (a) b applicants propose that the provisions of the Act should not apply to agricultural property with an area of less than 0,5 ha. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. Its adoption will result in the unobtrusiveness of the 2nd amendment. And here, of course, is the question asked by Mr Mirosław Maliszewski, the Polish People's Party.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-sejm-22-2.u632	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! As many flaws this law had in the formula of the project, it is evidenced by the legislative process, during which we have introduced several dozen amendments to bring it back to function as such. Later, it turned out in practice that many provisions of this law are deadly, harmful, difficult to accept. The result is today's process of amending this law and a few amendments which are intended to make this law less difficult for normal citizens, but above all for farmers, on certain issues. But there is another record in this bill that speaks of those who are in the city, who would like to settle in the countryside, and farmers who want to sell part of their farm to such people. It makes such a transaction impossible. You have agreed that land, plots of less than 30 and could be the subject of such transactions, except that other rules say that such parcels simply cannot be separated. In order not to be a fiction, we propose an increase [[♪ The bell ♪]] this ceiling of up to 0.5 ha, which will cause this bill to be beneficial for one and the other and will certainly not result in some virtual foreigners wishing to take over the Polish land. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-sejm-22-2.u633	Thank you very much. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the first amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 431 Members voted. 175 voted against - 232, 24 abstained. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the second amendment to the article. Point 1a (1) (a) b applicants propose that the provisions of the Act should not apply to agricultural property with an area of not more than 0,3 ha. The Commission requests that the amendment be rejected. The questions are raised by Mr Zbigniew Ajchler, the Civic Platform Club. [[Voices from the hall: Ooh!]] There's no envoy? [[Voice from the room: It's here, it's coming.]] Where? Oh, I see, indeed. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-sejm-22-2.u634	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! Ladies and gentlemen of the Council! [[It's okay.]] Members! [[Joy in the O.R., applause.]] It's a repair. [[Game in the O.R., bell ringing.]] Legal bubble, that's a bad bill. She needs to be fixed, and we all understand that. What I'm trying to say, Prime Minister, is that it's been two years, and as farmers find out... [[Voice from the hall: Lord, there's a match.]] ...what a wick you've made of, limiting private property, that's gonna be happening. [[Applause]] [[Yeah, how much do you want for it?]] After all, we all know that the bizarreities in the West Pomeranian Voivodeship concerned state and not private land. [[Don't read it, talk out of your head.]] So the question is: Why didn't you keep your secret in the election campaign, so-called. A black horse... [[♪ The bell ♪]] [[Voice from the room: Time!]] ...so interference in private property? The answer is simple. [[Voice from the room: About.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-sejm-22-2.u635	Thank you, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-sejm-22-2.u636	You showed the black cat to the farmers, which means... [[Joy in the Chamber]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-sejm-22-2.u637	We'll proceed with the vote. Mr...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-sejm-22-2.u638	...a new model of the country... [[Voice from the room: Time's up.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-sejm-22-2.u639	Would you be kind enough to step down from the podium?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-sejm-22-2.u640	...with nationalization and infallibility of a PiS official.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-sejm-22-2.u641	Thank you very much, sir. We'll proceed with the vote. [[Voice from the room: Mr. Marshal...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-sejm-22-2.u642	But after all, Mr. Marshal... [[Joy in the O.R., applause.]] [[Voice from the room: Time!]] [[Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off]] ... The platform will vote in favour. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-sejm-22-2.u643	Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the second amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 429 Members voted. 175 Members voted against - 226, with 28 abstentions. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the third amendment, adding a new amendment to the article. Article 2a (2) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013 shall apply. The applicant shall propose to add point 3 (1) of point 1. e. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 3rd amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 437 Members voted. The vote was 410, against - 24, with 3 abstentions. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In the 4th amendment, the applicants propose to add an article. 2a in the draft amending act. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. The consequence of this amendment will be the amendment of the title of the law. The question is asked by Mr Zbigniew Ajchler, the Civic Platform Club. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Come on!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-sejm-22-2.u644	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! Dear Members, Seriously, right now. [[Joy in the O.R., applause.]] Seriously. [[Come on, come on, come on, ……]] The fact that this bill has many shortcomings, we all know, among others. those flaws that you've confessed to today. We're talking about national parks here. There's still landscape parks. [[Applause]] with - let's call it - reservations, with very strict areas. Mr Kaczyński, there are also kittens, dogs. [[Game in the O.R., bell ringing.]] [[Voice from the room: You can't.]] Yes, you can. [[Joy in the Chamber]] And what I'm saying is, topographically, this area is no different from national parks at all. [[Voice from the room: Doctor!]] The biggest success in our Poland was local government reform. Local governments own these parks. It's giving them credibility... [[♪ The bell ♪]] [[Voice from the room: Time!]] ...so they can buy, they can enlarge. [[Just tell him, it's not a question for this amendment.]] It's the same thing. Please consider this project. [[Voice from the room: Time is up.]] We will help you by voting in favour.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-sejm-22-2.u645	Thank you, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-sejm-22-2.u646	So, Mr. Marshal... [[Sit down.]] ... The platform will vote in favour of this bad bill to correct these bubbles. [[Joy in the Chamber]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-sejm-22-2.u647	Thank you, sir. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 4th amendment, with the consequence, would like to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 442 Members voted. Three Members abstained in favour of 180, against 259. The Sejm rejected the proposals. We proceed with the vote on the entire bill. The questions are raised by Mrs Paulina Hennig-Kloska, the Modern Club. [[Game in the O.R., bell ringing.]] Mr Dorota Sunday will be next. Ladies and gentlemen, please be quiet, because you must listen to your fellow Members. There you go. [[Voice from the room: On the rug.]] [[Voice from the room: Whose faction is it?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-sejm-22-2.u648	Mr. Marshal! Gentlemen of Ministers! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, When I said two months ago that this bill that we voted on was gonna be an investment block for the country, nobody would. He didn't believe me. You still don't believe me, Minister, as I heard yesterday. [[I believe you.]] And yet we know that today thousands of people they can't build their house, farmers can't make an investment, and all because we have a couple of fucking records in the bill and a lot of inaccuracies resulting from the fact that small parcels [[Game in the O.R., bell ringing.]] they were supposed to be disabled, and they were not, because in Poland we create an inconsistent law, and then they need to be systematically improved. But it's a good thing that ministers can admit guilt, make a mistake, take a step backwards. I think we're going to come back to this bill again and again, because it contains a lot of mistakes, columners, which we're going to have to straighten out, because it's going to touch the people of our country. [[♪ The bell ♪]] [[Time!]] On the other hand, I have a question as to whether there is a chance that someday gentlemen will ripen to change the definition of agricultural property in Poland and exclude from these strict restrictions the habitat, because that is also what voters ask massively. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-sejm-22-2.u649	There you go. Mr Dorota Niedziela, Club Civic Platform, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-sejm-22-2.u650	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! I'm gonna talk real short, I know you wanna watch the game. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Exactly.]] [[It's already started.]] Ladies and gentlemen, this is a bad bill, unconstitutional, it's a legal deposit. I'm gonna keep saying this all the time. That is why we have requested the Constitutional Court to verify its constitutionality. But since the provisions of this law touch ordinary people, touch borrowers, we will support this amendment, Minister... [[Thank you very much.]] ...only so that ordinary citizens can go to the bank and get credit. We're fixing what the Minister has ruined. So that we support this amendment only and only so that people can function normally through the amendment to this law. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-sejm-22-2.u651	Ladies and gentlemen, we're talking about late puberty here, about the game. We are now voting on the entire bill. Please don't make any statements. We proceed with the vote on the entire bill. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting in full the draft law in print No. 688, along with the amendment adopted, would like to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 448 Members voted. The vote was 443 against - 3 with 2 abstentions. The Sejm passed a law on the amendment of the law on the shaping of the agricultural system and the law on perpetual books and mortgage. [[Applause]] We would like to refer to item 18 of the agenda: Report from the Committee on National Defence and the Committee on Foreign Affairs on the Government's draft Act on the ratification of the Protocol to the North Atlantic Treaty on Montenegro's accession, signed in Brussels on 19 May 2016. We proceed to the third reading. The committees are asking for the adoption of a draft law from print no. 645. The question is raised by Mr Grzegorz Długi, Kukiz club15. [[Voice from the room: Ooh!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-sejm-22-2.u652	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I would very much ask that we be serious for a moment. This is an important bill because we have a chance to all vote the same way. [[Applause]] And I call on us to vote before the NATO Summit so that we can vote and show that we are uniform in this important area. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[What's the point of saying that?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-sejm-22-2.u653	Thank you. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting the bill as a whole in print No. 645, will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 441 Members voted. Indeed, the Sejm adopted unanimously the Act on the ratification of the Protocol to the North Atlantic Treaty on Montenegro's accession, signed in Brussels on 19 May 2016. [[Applause]] We return to the examination of item 20 of the agenda: Report of the Committee on Physical Culture, Sport and Tourism on the draft law amending the Sports Act. We proceed to the third reading. The Commission calls for the adoption of a draft Print Act No 628. We proceed with the vote on the entire bill. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting in full the draft law in print No. 628 will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 443 Members voted. The Sejm unanimously passed a law amending the Sports Act. I'm ordering a three-minute break. [[Adjournment from 10 a.m. 21 mins 11 hours 21 min 16]] I'm reopening the session. We proceed with the examination of item 32 of the agenda: the report of the Committee on Justice and Human Rights on the draft Constitutional Tribunal Act (prints Nos 558 and 693). I ask Mr Bartłomiej Wróblewski to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-sejm-22-2.u654	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen! I present on behalf of the Committee on Justice and Human Rights a report on the draft Constitutional Tribunal Act 558 and 693. The Sejm at its 20th meeting on 9 and 10 June 2016 pursuant to Article 9 of the Rules of Procedure. 39 (1) (a) 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm referred to the draft law, as well as the citizens' draft law on the Constitutional Tribunal, the parliamentary draft law on the amendment of the Constitutional Tribunal Act and the parliamentary bill on the amendment of the Constitutional Tribunal Act to the Committee on Justice for consideration. The committee met on 21 and 29 June. At its first meeting on 21 June, the committee appointed an emergency subcommittee for the examination of these draft laws, which I had the honour of chairing. The subcommittee held five meetings, four of which were substantive. Written opinions on draft laws were presented by the Supreme Court, the Supreme Administrative Court, the National Court of Justice, the Public Prosecutor's Office of the Treasury, the National Chamber of Legal Counsels, as well as the Helsinki Foundation for Human Rights. As a result of the work of the subcommittee and committee, the draft law annexed to the printing report No 667 was drawn up. In view of the unexpected withdrawal by the representatives of the Committee of the Civil Project Legislative Initiative yesterday, legislative work in the Committee on Justice and Human Rights started again. At its meeting on 5 July 2016, it was reiterated that the draft Constitutional Court Act No 558 would be the basis for further legislative work. As a decisive argument it was pointed out that the draft essentially restores the provisions of the earlier Constitutional Tribunal Act of 1 August 1997. The solutions to this law are well known to the authorities of the State, including the Constitutional Court, because it was ruled on the basis of it between 1997 and 2015. It was noted that the project restores regulations whose constitutionality was not contested and which at the same time did not raise major social controversy. The Commission concluded its work on 6 July 2016. During the committee's work, the representatives of most clubs expressed the view that the new law or the amendment of the Constitutional Court Act was intended to be adopted. It has repeatedly been stressed that the new law should resolve all - or at least a significant part of it - disputes around the constitutional court, meet constitutional standards and at the same time meet social expectations regarding the legitimacy and transparency of the tribunal's activities. In view of the assumption that the project would be based on the provisions of the 1997 Constitutional Court Act, during the committee's work the project was discussed in particular about those solutions which constituted a derogation from the regulations in force until 2015. The proposals were discussed in detail, which sometimes followed the amendments formally tabled - or inspired by them - representatives of the Legislative Initiative Committee and members of the clubs: Law and Justice, Civic Platform, Modern, Kukiz All the regulations of the attached draft were systematically discussed and adopted at the Justice Committee meeting on 5 and 6 July. It should be noted that this work was almost entirely consistent with the previous systematic discussion of these regulations first in the Emergency Sub-Committee and then in the Committee on 21 and 29 June. The opinions submitted and during the discussion raised doubts about some of the institutions and regulations of the project. As a result of the discussion and the amendments tabled, some of the doubts were eliminated or mitigated. 36 amendments were adopted, including amendments concerning the election of the President and Vice-President of the Tribunal by the General Assembly, disciplinary proceedings against judges, proceedings before the Court, rules and procedures for ruling, amending, transitional, adapting and final regulations. Some amendments were editorial. Some of the amendments tabled were rejected, which was motivated by constitutional doubts or by the fact that they did not fulfil the purpose of the Act as formulated by the applicants. The Committee on Justice and Human Rights, after considering the draft law, asks the High Sejm to adopt the draft law as proposed in the report of the Committee on Printing No 693. I would like to thank the ladies and gentlemen, as well as all the experts and participants in the committee's work, for their dedicated cooperation. In the event of specific questions, I shall remain at the disposal of the High House.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-sejm-22-2.u655	Thank you very much. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would listen to the five-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and the circle. I'm not predicting any questions at this point. [[Voice from the room: Why?]] [[A voice from the room: It's supposed to be his right.]] [[Voice from the room: What do you mean no questions?]] [[Voice from the hall: Censor, gag for the tribunal and the Sejm.]] I'm opening a discussion. Mr Bartłomiej Wróblewski will be the first to speak. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-sejm-22-2.u656	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen! I have the honour on behalf of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice to present my position on the report of the Committee on Justice and Human Rights on the draft Constitutional Tribunal Act No 558 and No 693. It is a good thing that the Committee of Justice on 5 July, as previously the Emergency Sub-Committee and the Committee of Justice on 29 June, adopted the Parliamentary bill on the Constitutional Tribunal as a base project in the work on the new Law on the Court of First Instance. It is not that it has been prepared by Members of the Law and Justice. This project has another decisive advantage: it crosses most of the disputes concerning the current Constitutional Tribunal Act of 25 June 2015. This is due to the fact that this proposal essentially restores the provisions of the earlier Constitutional Tribunal Act of 1 August 1997. Let me remind you that the constitutionality of this law was not contested and that it functioned without major social controversy for almost two decades. This is a fundamental advantage over the proposal to return to the original wording of the 2015 Act, especially if account is taken of the scale of the disputes which have been brought about by the adoption of that law. As I mentioned, although the proposal essentially restores the regulation of the previous law, on some issues it contains derogations from the provisions in force at that time. It does not resolve all the issues that are currently under discussion, but offers an opportunity to stabilise the situation and lower the political temperature of the dispute around the constitutional court. The adoption of this proposal ends a period of several months of legal uncertainty related to divergent opinions on the legal nature of the Court's decisions issued in the period from March 2016. An additional advantage is the fact that the project provides for the publication of controversial decisions of the Constitutional Tribunal issued in the period from 10 March 2016. Against the expectations of the most indisputable opposition, the proposal is made that only the President of the Tribunal, the formation or a group of three Members, and not as initially assumed, including the President and the Prosecutor General, should be able to make a request to investigate the matter in full. [[Three judges, not MPs.]] Three judges, I'm sorry. We also propose that the wording be deleted so that, in certain situations, rulings of the Tribunal are taken by a majority of 2/3 of the votes. Some proposals respond to the criticism of the solutions of the current Court Act and correspond at least to the changes expected by the various parties to the dispute. As assumed by the citizens' draft Constitutional Court Act, print No 550, also the procedated project provides the possibility to study in full the constitutionality and legality of important constitutionally and socially important laws. According to another amendment, which coincides with the proposal for a civil project under the procedure for the election of the President and Vice-President, each member of the General Assembly will be able to vote for only one candidate. We also take into account the proposal of the Polish People's Party that judges should be assigned to cases in alphabetical order. The draft also takes into account the observations made by the Group of the Constitutional Tribunal and the Civic Platform in disciplinary proceedings against the judges of the Tribunal. We believe that some proposals in other draft laws on the Constitutional Court and repeated during the committee's work could lead to some existing disputes being resolved. In particular, it was interesting to propose that the judges, whose validity of the choice exists, be put to rest. Unfortunately, implementation prevents serious and widely raised reservations regarding the constitutionality of this proposal. To conclude by discussing our position, let me thank you for the participation of all sides of the political scene, although in particular for the constructive attitude of representatives of the Kukiz clubs15 and the Polish People's Party. In conclusion: It is good that there is agreement beyond one political camp concerning the need to amend the rules governing the functioning of the Constitutional Tribunal. In matters that arouse a lot of political emotions and wake them up for so long, the destructive approach is either all or nothing. Since the bill presented solves some of the important problems by acting on behalf of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice, I declare that the club supports further work on the project. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-sejm-22-2.u657	Thank you very much. Now on behalf of the Parliamentary Club, the Civic Platform by Mr Boris Budek. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-sejm-22-2.u658	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! There is another scandal in the process of this law. In his mercy, the marshal doesn't even allow questions to be asked at second reading. [[Applause]] What's going on in this room taunts all the principles of democracy. The rapporteur has just talked about the alleged solution to the Constitutional Tribunal and your only solution... [[The problem is starting.]] ...it would be the liquidation of the tribunal, because the word 'democracy' in your mouth just sounds crazy. You're an example of how you don't tolerate anyone who has a different opinion than you do. The giggle of history is that this bill is once again trying to gag the Constitutional Tribunal just so that the President can once again play the raccoon before our partners, this time with NATO. Yesterday at the committee meeting, you gave a show of shoes, arrogance and incompetence. You have not only violated the rules in force in this House with regard to Members, but you are breaking the fundamental principles of labour law, because even the dignity of our employees is no argument for you. You are introducing methods from the Polish People's Republic. Perhaps some of you yearn to remember the time when there was one party, one power, and the Constitutional Tribunal did not exist until 1986. In fact, you're giving a bill that's a facade project. You're talking about the fact that you're not really making any major changes to what happened until 2015, and you're really introducing a law that gags the tribunal and paralyzes it. The state under the pretext that there was one mistake in the previous law, an unconstitutional provision in the area that was corrected and eliminated by the Constitutional Tribunal, only because your leader, a Member whose name I no longer wish to mention, cannot bear the thought that having his President, his Prime Minister, his parliamentary majority, cannot give orders to the President of the Tribunal. It drives you furious, it makes this unconstitutional state last since December 3rd. Since that date, the sole responsibility for what is happening at the Constitutional Court is the Law and Justice and the President Andrzej Duda and Prime Minister Beata Szydło. The state isn't just your government camp. The state is citizens. The Constitutional Tribunal was created in democratic legal states to defend citizens from total power so that no authority would violate the rights of minorities. No parliament in such a short period in the history of the Third Republic has violated the Constitution as many times as in the last 8 months. You have violated the rules since the 1st session of the Sejm, because that is when you tried extremely badly to amend the Constitutional Court Act, but that was not enough for you. It was not enough for you to destroy the Constitutional Court, because the objective is different. The aim is that every day the PiS state enters into further elements of the life of Poles. You've blocked the rotation of the land, you've already had to correct this bill today. You fired hundreds of people just because they don't have your party ID. You've introduced a law on police, a law on surveillance just because you don't trust your own citizens. But what's more, you've given toys to the Justice Minister, the Attorney General, so that he can politically influence the prosecution. Now you're afraid to even ask questions because the questions are exposing your real intentions. The giggle of history is that the talks about the Constitutional Court are held twice, for the third time and for the fourth time under the cover of the night, so ashamed and afraid of the citizens, but even the night will not cover it. [[The bell, the applause.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-sejm-22-2.u659	Thank you very much. Now the voice of the representative... [[Formal conclusion.]] A formal conclusion? Then we'll play after the speeches. [[Voice from the room: Not after, just now!]] [[Voice from the room: Don't overdo it.]] [[Voice from the room: Formal application at any time.]] [[You'll learn the rules of procedure, Marshal.]] [[It's about time!]] The rules allow at the right time... [[Member Kamila Gasiuk-Pihowicz: What about decency?]] [[A formal conclusion should be considered in the first place, Mr. Marshal.]] The Kukiz parliamentary club didn't report its... [[There's Kukiz.]] Yeah, we can let that happen now. Please, the Member has the floor. [[Voice from the room: Go, Tom.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-sejm-22-2.u660	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I very much regret that, in such a way, we must proceed with an important system act concerning the functioning of the Constitutional Tribunal. I am also surprised at yesterday's meeting of the Committee on Justice and Human Rights, because the method of proceding will be much more negative than the matter contained in the bill. On the other hand, on the matter of the bill, I will very briefly repeat what I said yesterday: the bill in its proposed form is unacceptable. The rest of the time that I have been granted, I would like to devote to the matter over which we in this House should proceed in such a sudden manner, namely the question of commemorating the memory of the Ukrainian nationalists murdered by the citizens of the Second Republic, in the majority of citizens who have... [[It'll be time for that.]] ...Polish citizenship, but also Jews, Armenians, Czechs and other minorities who were brutally murdered. The High House should address this issue and nothing is happening in this matter. The law that we had already filed in March was not passed, and in such a way we should process it today, not push the Constitutional Court Act with our feet at such a rate. Ladies and gentlemen, tomorrow a resolution should also appear clearly saying that what happened during World War II in Volhynia and Eastern Małopolska was - it should be clearly defined by the High Chamber - genocide on the Polish nation. And really pressure from Ukraine and this seeming friendship, because we build this friendship on a lie... [[Those aren't Members' statements.]] Ladies and gentlemen, last Saturday, the town of Pabianice, which is in my district, signed a partnership agreement with the city in Ukraine. The partnership agreement assumes that... [[Voice from the room: What happened to him?]] ...both sides will worship the patronage of their cities and heroes of this city. The only heroes of this city are Stepan Bandera and Roman Shuchevych. In a situation where... [[But it's time for the tribunal.]] I'm taking advantage of the time assigned to my post. The position of my club is that today... [[Those aren't Members' statements.]] ...to investigate the genocide in Volyn. I want to make this clear. Don't bother me, I won't bother you. If you're gonna... if there's any obstructions tonight by the hour. Five in the morning, I guarantee I won't bother you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-sejm-22-2.u661	Mr President, I am very sorry, but perhaps you would kindly take your seats.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-sejm-22-2.u662	Yes, I agree, Marshal, to that conclusion. No, I don't feel threatened, I don't feel absolutely threatened. [[We'll be on the committee.]] Excuse me? Yes. Mr. Marshal, while continuing with Pabianic, I would like to say that the city of Pabianice has committed itself to honoring Stepan Bandera and Roman Shuchevych... [[What's this?]] ...people who are responsible for the genocide of 160,000. Polish citizens, 160 thousand. And we have dozens of such situations, because tens, if not hundreds of Polish cities have a partnership agreement with Ukrainian cities. At the moment, the monuments of Stepan Bandera are made everywhere in Ukraine, giving names to streets and squares... [[Not everywhere, please don't generalize.]] Of course, in the east of Ukraine there is no such thing as fighting in these areas. On the other hand, if we go from the Polish border to Lviv, we will meet eight statues of Stepan Bandera on the way. Ladies and gentlemen, one more element related to Ukraine's policy of love towards Poland. Today, the City Council of Lviv rejected the application of Archbishop Lviv. Mokrzycki's name is a really small square in front of the Metropolitan Curia in Lviv. St. Józef Bilczewski. This is a gesture of friendship from our so-called. friends from Ukraine. I demand from the High House a clear position that what has happened On July 11, 1943, it was a crime of genocide. Until now, our countrymen have not been properly buried. So far, their bones have been torn apart on Ukrainian soil. I demand that, on the basis of the truth, we build Polish-Ukrainian relations. [[But most people can't hear because she's not here.]] Thank you, Marshal. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-sejm-22-2.u663	Thank you very much. Mrs Kamila Gasiuk-Pilovich now has the floor... Pihowicz, the Modern Club. [[Formal conclusion.]] You're welcome, my fellow Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-sejm-22-2.u664	Mr. Marshal! I'd like to start with a formal motion. I would like us to change the way these proceedings are conducted.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-sejm-22-2.u665	Madame, you are performing at a time that is meant for your club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-sejm-22-2.u666	Good. Insolence, arrogance, irresponsibleness, farce. [[Applause]] [[Shoe!]] In Polish we lack words on how the state conducts night work of the Committee on Justice and Human Rights, how you approach such an important law as the Act on the Constitutional Court. Once again, you want to push an unconstitutional bill through your knee. Why? To what? For the Polish diplomacy to rise from its knees... Did President Andrzej Duda make a gift in the form of a conciliation bill on the Constitutional Tribunal to President Barack Obama? You're thinking... Don't insult the intelligence of the President of the United States of America that he can fall for your tricks. I assure you that the diplomatic services of the United States know very well that this law paralyzes the Constitutional Tribunal and subjugates it to the executive authority. Because it is Andrew Duda who will decide in which order cases will be dealt with before the Constitutional Tribunal. Andrzej Duda will decide who will be the judge of the Constitutional Tribunal and who will not when the disciplinary court decides to file for office. It is Andrzej Duda who will elect the President of the Constitutional Tribunal against the Constitution, which gives him the right only to appoint a President. And Zbigniew Ziobro will decide whether the Constitutional Tribunal can deliver a judgment, first making it necessary to hear the case fully and then not to present itself to the court. As we know, he hasn't been there before. [[We'll wait for the State Court.]] Poland has a problem with PiS today, not with the tribunal. You need to treat the PiS, not the Constitutional Tribunal. There's no such thing as a crisis around the tribunal. Let's call things by name, there's a PiS war against the Constitutional Tribunal. And why? Because the tribunal is one of the last institutions that PiS politicians have yet to control, which has just constitutional powers to control the current parliamentary majority. The PiS, along with this bill that we are now pursuing, has placed his own political interests on the line and with them lawlessness, chaos and disrespect for the foundations of democracy. The second is the constitution, and with it the rule of law, the guarantees of democratic freedoms and the limitation of the authoritarian aspirations of the PiS. So I'm not surprised you're so aggressively attacking this institution. Ladies and gentlemen! There must be people in this room who fought for Poland to be a democratic, free state. Not only in words, they also devoted their health to it. Others may even have sacrificed their lives. Ladies and gentlemen! Messengers and Members of the PiS! Do you really think that the fact that you have 5 million votes in a 40-million-dollar country gives you the right to change the constitutional system of the country we have? You have a majority of votes in the Seym, but no one has given you the green light to destroy the democratic rule of law. The result of the election gave you power now, but think about future generations, take responsibility for your children, for Poland, for future generations. Without a functioning Constitutional Tribunal, Polish democracy will fall into a gap - faster than you think. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-sejm-22-2.u667	Okay, thank you. You have the voice of Marshal Barbara Dolniak, the Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-sejm-22-2.u668	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! We have a new bill on the Constitutional Court. The last one was good for basketball, but the same one. Yesterday's, in fact today's committee meeting clearly showed that law and justice, breaking the procedure, wants to adopt a particularly harmful law as soon as possible. This is not a matter of resolving the case of the tribunal, but of passing a law by law and justice this week. Why? We have a NATO summit. So just as long as she's there. You're making it look like the tribunal's case has been settled. You didn't settle the case. You've arranged a tribunal. [[Applause]] And now, as you say, you're waiting for your president. Breaking all standards during the work of the Committee on Justice on the Court Act is a symbolic example of the fact that the Law and Justice in restricting democratic institutions will not go back one step at a time. Giving up two non-constitutional rules does not mean that the entire law has become constitutional - because it is not. You've still preserved the mechanisms that paralyze the tribunal. You didn't do any good. You want to break the law under the law. You can't do that. At this moment the fate of democracy in Poland is at stake. Will the Law and Justice model prevail, or will we finally respect the Constitution? As you can see, you are consistent, as also demonstrated by the meeting of the Committee on Justice and Human Rights. But on this, ladies and gentlemen, we will all suffer, citizens. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-sejm-22-2.u669	Thank you very much, Marshal. Mr Władysław Kosiniak-Kamysz, Polish People's Party Parliamentary Club. [[20 more seconds.]] Please allow me to move to the speaker. [[20 seconds left, Marshal, the clock isn't lying.]] [[13 seconds left.]] There you go, 13 seconds.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-sejm-22-2.u670	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! As citizens, we need to ask ourselves who we should be loyal to: the constitution or party power. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-sejm-22-2.u671	You're welcome, Mr. Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-sejm-22-2.u672	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Once again, we will appeal for normality, to restore legal order in Poland, to end chaos, with dualism, which causes social unrest, which reflects ricochet on the position of Poland, on the position of Polish families, entrepreneurs and farmers. We have passed a law that guarantees consensus. We could count on the wider support of several parliamentary options, including the Kukiz Club15. Unfortunately, you didn't want to take advantage of this offer. Once again, I repeat the question to Members and Members of the PiS: Who did not allow you to make a compromise that you so often talk about? Who didn't let you get normal in the state? There is still a proposal that, unfortunately, was not dealt with by the committee yesterday at all, the consensus proposal of our party. We will report three amendments at second reading, which are the final opportunity to amend the law, which is, of course, unacceptable in this version. First, the publication of all unpublished judgments. Secondly, a solution to personal issues. Thirdly, moving away from queuing cases, while giving the President of the Tribunal the power to choose the most important cases. These three amendments will be tabled today. They offer a chance for consensus, for a compromise. After the experience of tonight, it is difficult to hope that they will be adopted, but we cannot remain passive either, because the call of the Venice Commission was also clear to the opposition that it must try to reach an agreement, to normality. Ladies and gentlemen! There is a need for deeper reflection on the Constitutional Tribunal. You shouldn't have done it today, you could have done it at the next meeting. There's no good will, and that's the biggest charge. There's still a chance and opportunity, but you have to get rid of the negative emotions, you have to understand the word: compromise, which means openness to the arguments of others. [[That's not a word.]] You can't just be stuck in beliefs that make you blurry in your sentences. Ladies and gentlemen! Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Today it is necessary to wake up your conscience as well. Your conscience woke up with Judge Beełkowski. After several trials, he began to distinguish between right and wrong, because this is the basic value of conscience. Today he must wake up at the PIS. Finally, you do not like the Venice Commission and the European Commission so much, and you invited her to Poland. If there is no compromise on this, then the second invitation comes from you again. The adoption of the amendments offers some hope and opportunity, but you must be open to it. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-sejm-22-2.u673	Thank you very much. Mr Krzysztof Paszyk, Parliamentary Club of the Polish People's Party. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-sejm-22-2.u674	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Many beautiful words about cooperation and about seeking good solutions in the work on the Constitutional Tribunal Act were presented by the President. However, Mr President, a little short of a chance to move from words to actions. Unfortunately, there was no will on the part of the Sejm majority and nothing was taken into account that could create a healing regulation for the Constitutional Tribunal, except for the minor minor minor amendments that we had the opportunity to discuss. The truth is, however, that there are still a few laws on the Court in this House in the near future, but if we do not face the solutions proposed by the Polish People's Party - the resolution of the personal conflict and the publication of judgments - we will unfortunately be stuck in the exact same place that we are in today. And unfortunately, as we emphasize very often and we will probably still stress, this will be an ongoing invitation to take an interest in the state of democracy, the state of the rule of law in Poland for the organization, for the European institutions, which unfortunately, we fear, will not fall for this project that we are discussing today. And hence the amendments of the Polish People's Party, [[♪ The bell ♪]] For the last time, we're still giving them a chance. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-sejm-22-2.u675	Thank you very much, thank you very much. [[Mr. Marshal, formal motion.]] Mr Ireneus now has the floor to gain on behalf of the Free and Solidarni Circle. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-sejm-22-2.u676	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Members' Circle of Free and Solidarnia, I present my position on the report of the Committee on Justice and Human Rights on the draft Constitutional Tribunal Act Nos 558 and 693. The dispute around the Constitutional Tribunal is a political dispute which destructively and even destructively affects the level of confidence of citizens in the institutions of the Polish state. This dispute has a beginning, a hot spot, which has led to the current state. This is an amendment tabled on 12 May 2015 at the meeting of the Committee on Justice and Human Rights by Mr Robert Kropiwnicki from the Civic Platform, allowing the election of five judges of the Constitutional Tribunal before the end of the seventh term of office of the Sejm, followed by the adoption of the amendment as proposed by the Sejm on 25 June 2015. The intention of this amendment was to take over the Constitutional Tribunal by a single political environment. [[There was no amendment in June.]] Among other things, they participated in this operation.: President of the Constitutional Tribunal Prof. Andrzej Rzepliński, Vice-President of the Constitutional Tribunal Prof. Stanisław Biernat, representative of the National Council of Courts, Director of the Constitutional, International and European Law Group at the Office of the Ombudsman, Vice-President of the General Council of Attorneys, representative of the Office of Courts at the Supreme Administrative Court and representative of the Helsinki Foundation for Human Rights, who, when participating in the adoption of the Act, did not raise any doubts about the unconstitutionality of this solution. Finding a compromise ending a completely unconstructive dispute around the tribunal cannot consist in proposing solutions that the other party to the dispute must accept unconditionally, making it dependent on them to continue their discussions. This remark applies particularly to Members, as they themselves have said, of total opposition. I would therefore like to remind you of the key concept for the theory of negotiation, which is: the zone of potential agreement. This is a common area of expectations allowing for a mutually beneficial agreement, on a win-win basis. The draft law on the Constitutional Tribunal by Law and Justice is not free of defects, but contains important concessions. The reduction of the full composition of the tribunal to 11 judges, the adoption of the case catalogue to be considered outside the order of influence, as well as the statutory guarantee of publication in the Official Journal of the Court's decisions from 10 March to 30 June 2016 give an opportunity to restore the proper functioning of the tribunal. The project raises a number of doubts concerning, among others. the President's consent to the removal of the Judge of the Tribunal after the expiry of the mandate has been established as a result of a final disciplinary decision. This solution makes de facto the President of the Republic of Poland an additional instance in disciplinary proceedings concerning judges. Another question concerns the introduction of provisions requiring the tribunal to postpone the hearing in the absence of a prosecutor-general at a hearing at which his presence is mandatory. Despite these reservations, the draft law by Law and Justice is the best solution for the projects submitted to the High House, as it restores the Constitutional Court to a place in the Polish legal system actually defined in the Constitution. The Constitutional Tribunal cannot be established as the third Chamber of Parliament. However, I have no illusions that the adoption and entry into force of the project will resolve the conflict and will cause the tribunal to function. This is a political dispute and, I say it with regret, it can only end in December when the term of office of the President of the Constitutional Tribunal ends. This is an objective observation resulting from the observation of the activities of Mr Andrzej Rzepliński, who as the actual author of the draft law adopted by the Sejm in June 2015 currently defends this solution at all costs. In this situation, the draft Law by Law and Justice is the only rational solution that will restore balance in constitutional separation of authorities. I have the impression that the total opposition does not seek to compromise, but at all costs, as you have just presented it, it wants to carry out its demands in the form of swearing in, taking oaths from over-normatively elected judges. In this situation, the President of the Republic would be exposed to constitutional responsibility. [[He's already exposed himself.]] [[Voice from the room: No.]] The Circle of Free and Solidarni is with permission in the country. [[♪ The bell ♪]] In the vote, we will support the bill tabled by Law and Justice. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Boo...]] [[Moravian first.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-sejm-22-2.u677	Thank you very much, sir. Now with a formal motion by Mr Adam Szłapka, please, from the Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-sejm-22-2.u678	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Mr Marshal, I am asking you to announce a break during which the Marshal will be able to call all Members into the Chamber so that we can vote on a formal proposal under Article. Paragraph 184. 3 point 8 - to change the way in which the discussion is conducted. Today we are spectators witnessing the third act of drama directed by Law and Justice. The Court of Constitutional Parallel. We know, you do it - you do it. However, what was done today with parliamentarianism in Poland is the highest scandal. We are citizens' representatives, and you, by denying us the opportunity to ask questions in the case of such a fundamental project as the Constitutional Court Act, deprive citizens of their right to know what is happening in the state. [[Scandal!]] I will, however, ask the rapporteur, Mr Piotrowicz, about the article, taking advantage of the fact that I am standing by the vote. 37 of this bill, which we are proceeding, about which you do not want questions to be asked. Like Art. 37, Mr President, is the order for the Constitutional Tribunal to proceed with all cases in order to influence the constitutional principle of the independence of the courts and the independence of the judges? After all, it is a clear violation of this principle and an imposition of how judges should work by legislative authority. So, Mr Marshal, there is a formal request for a break so that we can vote for a formal motion to change the way we are discussing so that we can ask questions, not to take away this opportunity from Members. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-sejm-22-2.u679	Thank you very much. [[Mr. Marshal, the opposite voice.]] As you know, there is no way to vote right now. [[Voice from the room: Formal conclusion.]] You're welcome... [[But it's the opposite.]] [[Voice from the room: Voice from the opposite. There is no formal application in accordance with the Rules of Procedure.]] [[Rise in the courtroom, ring the bell, applause]] [[What do you mean, it's gone? The session is not over.]] You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-sejm-22-2.u680	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I'm filing a counterclaim. In view of the wording of the Article. Paragraph 184. 4 Rules of Procedure of the Sejm I ask not for a break, but for this vote to be held immediately... [[Vote, that's it, right now.]] ...because of the lips. 4 says that about the formal application, [[Applause]] as referred to in paragraph. 3, The Sejm shall decide by a majority of the Members present. [[Applause]] [[Yes, sir.]] I don't know if you're a marshal... I see Members in this courtroom. [[Voice from the room: A trap.]] [[Voice from the room: In corrigendum mode.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-sejm-22-2.u681	Okay, thank you. Now, if you'll excuse me, sir... [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] [[Voice from the Chamber: Vote!]] ...the reporter of Bartłomiej Wróblewski's committee to speak. [[Voice from the room: But a formal conclusion!]] [[Voice from the Chamber: But vote, please!]] A formal conclusion? There's no way to process it now. [[Voice from the room: What do you mean there isn't one?]] [[The rules allow for this possibility.]] [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] Please leave the podium right now. [[Voice from the room: No! No!]] I'm calling you back to order for the first time. [[Vote!]] Please leave the podium. You're taking a seat that you should be taking right now... [[Mr. Marshal, the vote must be held.]] [[Voice from the room: According to the rules! You can't break the rules...]] [[Mr. Marshal, on what basis do you manage this? The vote has to be, Mr. Marshal.]] Marshal, I think this is the Member of your club. You're in the courtroom, Marshal. Is that okay with you? [[Mr. Marshal, you're breaking the rules.]] Please leave the podium. I'm talking to you for the third time, please leave the stand. [[Voice from the Chamber: In accordance with Art. 184 should have the marshal vote.]] [[The vote will be ordered.]] Please leave the podium. Please take your seats. Keep your emotions under control. [[Order a vote.]] [[But what does that mean?]] Keep your emotions under control. [[But take the vote.]] [[Mr. Marshal, call a vote.]] No, I won't... [[Then call the Marshal's Guard or call a vote.]] Please leave the podium. You will be punished with a financial penalty, sir. [[There you go. You can punish me financially, but it is your duty to vote in accordance with a formal motion.]] And it is your duty to leave the platform at my call. [[Voice from the O.R.: We're in the O.R.]] [[You're in violation of the Sejm's Rules of Procedure.]] [[You're breaking the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm.]] [[Sit down, don't joke.]] [[Mr. Marshal, call a vote. It's in the Sejm's Rules of Procedure.]] You're buying a platform. [[Voice from the Chamber: Request a vote.]] [[Order a vote.]] [[Voice from the room: Art. Paragraph 184. 4.]] Mr President, on the basis of the article. Point (c) of the first subparagraph is replaced by the following: 3 Rules of Procedure of the Sejm I call you to order. [[Thank you very much. I'm summoned.]] [[Voice from the hall: And we call you back too.]] [[Mr Kamila Gasiuk-Pihowicz: Mr Marshal, you are breaking the rules.]] Mr President, please leave the speaker. [[And can a marshal be called to order?]] Ladies and gentlemen, please take your seats and control your emotions. [[Please comply with the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm.]] There is no way to vote now. [[Why not? There's a formal conclusion. I don't get it.]] Mr President, please study the rules of procedure. [[Voice from the room: Art. Paragraph 184. 4.]] [[Voice from the room: Therefore, you need to take a break.]] [[Read it.]] [[38 million citizens will pay the penalty for your governments.]] [[Until he's voted out, we're gonna have to adjourn.]] [[Member Szymon Szynkowski a.k.a. Sęk: This is not a game, sit down.]] [[Voice from the gym: It's your friends who are at the game.]] [[Voice from the Chamber: Mr. Marshal, Art. Paragraph 184. 4.]] Art. 182... No, that's asking questions. [[Voice from the room: Art. Paragraph 184. 4.]] [[Excuse me, can I have a word with you?]] [[Voice from the room: You have no right to ask questions.]] Can Mr Wróblewski continue his speech? [[You can't ask us any questions.]] [[Voice from the Chamber: The Sejm decides, here there is no possibility.]] [[In that case, if there's no will here, I'm resigning.]] Thank you very much. [[Member Kamila Gasiuk-Pihowicz: You cannot break the rules in the Seym, Mr Marshal.]] Thus, the list of members of the vote has been exhausted. The discussion is closed. In view of the fact that, at the time of the second reading, the draft amendment was tabled, I propose that the Sejm re-direct this proposal to the Committee on Justice and Human Rights in order to present a report. [[Voice from the room: Formal conclusion.]] If I don't hear any objection... [[Objection!]] [[Objection!]] [[Voices from the room: Objection!]] The Sejm will therefore proceed to the third reading of the draft law after the text of the amendments and the proposal to reject the proposal has been served to the ladies and Members. We proceed with the examination of item 24 of the agenda: First reading... [[Voice from the Chamber: As is the opposition, there should be a vote.]] [[But there was an objection, Mr. Marshal.]] [[Voice from the hall: This is the vote, there is the vote against.]] Yeah, I'm fine. [[Then we vote.]] [[The motion for rejection is.]] Who's going to vote? [[Voice from the room: What do you mean? There's a vote against it. I mean, it's got to be voted out.]] [[Voice in the courtroom: You must vote, Marshal.]] The Sejm will proceed to the third reading of the bill after the text of the amendments and the proposal for rejection has been served to the ladies and Members. [[But on what grounds, what's the vote against?]] Yeah, it's an art. 48: The third reading may take place immediately if the project has not been completed at second reading referred again to the committee. [[But it was directed.]] We proceed with the examination of point 24... [[For the vote!]] You are interfering with the proceedings of the Sejm. [[But you sent the marshal to the committee.]] [[Member Kamila Gasiuk-Pihowicz: The formal proposal should be put to the vote.]] [[A voice from the hall: You wanted to be a marshal, so obey the law.]] We proceed to the examination of item 24 of the agenda: First reading of the parliamentary draft resolution on amending the Rules of Procedure of the Polish Sejm (Print No 686). I ask Barbara Bubula to provide the reasons for the draft resolution. Ladies and gentlemen, please take your seats.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-sejm-22-2.u682	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! The amendment of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm proposed in this draft resolution is based on the content of the Act on the National Media Council of 22 June 2016. The provisions of the draft resolution amending the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm of the Republic of Poland take into account the need to choose the composition of the new body, which is the National Media Council, as well as the implementation of the reporting obligations of the Board on information on the activities of the body which is required by the Act to report to the Sejm. [[Game in the O.R., bell ringing.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-sejm-22-2.u683	Excuse me, Member. [[Voice from the hall: There will be no committee?]] [[What's going on here?]] Ladies and gentlemen, please take your seats. With a small group you could stand in the passage between the rows, but Members arrive and here there is unnecessary confusion. [[Voice in the hall: This is a vote...]] [[Voice from the room: The vote was supposed to be.]] [[Voice from the room: Quiet, please.]] [[Voice from the hall: But why are you yelling?]] The seat of the envoy is... [[Game in the O.R.]] Sit still in your seat. [[Modern, sit down!]] [[Mr. Marshal, you're making a fuss.]] Mr President, once again, you are disturbing the Sejm. You're welcome, my fellow Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-sejm-22-2.u684	Thank you very much. According to Art. The 3th National Media Council Act is composed of five members, three of whom are elected by the Sejm and two are appointed by the President of the Republic of Poland. In view of the above, it is necessary to regulate in the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm the procedure for the appointment of persons to the said body by the Sejm. [[Game in the O.R.]] [[We're about to vote.]] [[Call me, the vote's coming up. Aren't you guys getting enough?]] The Act on the National Media Council provides that the Council shall present annually until 31 March to the Sejm, the Senate, the President of the Republic of Poland, the President of the Council of Ministers and the National Council of Radio and Television, and shall make public written information about its activities in the previous year. It is therefore proposed to amend the Article. 125 Rules of Procedure of the Sejm, according to which the Sejm will examine inter alia. information provided by the National Media Council on its activities. The examination of this information and the report on the activities of the National Radio and Television Council, in accordance with the intentions of the applicants, should take place no later than 3 months from the date of its service to Members. Information on the activities of the Board shall be sent to a committee which, after its consideration, shall submit to the Sejm a draft resolution on acceptance or rejection of the information. The resolution of acceptance or rejection of information, together with the comments and reservations made, shall be sent by the Marshal of the Sejm to the President of the National Media Council. The Sejm, when adopting or rejecting information about the activities of the Board, shall decide on the use of information requests. These changes also imply changes to the Article. Article 4 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 2, Article The Commission shall adopt implementing acts laying down detailed rules for the implementation of this Regulation. 3 and Article 4 of Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 16 February 2011 laying down the rules and general principles concerning mechanisms for control by Member States of the Commission's exercise of implementing powers pursuant to Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council and repealing Council Regulation (EC, Euratom) No 1605/2002 (OJ L 347, 20.12.2013, p. 1). Article 18 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013 shall apply. 3 Rules of Procedure of the Sejm consisting of adding the President of the National Media Council the power to attend meetings of the Sejm of the Republic and to take part in the sitting of the Sejm in matters falling within its scope outside the order of speakers recorded in the vote, and adding the power to consider information on the activities of the National Media Council to the Sejm of the Republic. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-sejm-22-2.u685	Thank you very much, Member. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear three minutes' statements on behalf of the clubs and the circle. I'm opening a discussion. Mr Dariusz Piontkowski, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice, speaks first. [[Game in the O.R.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-sejm-22-2.u686	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! This draft resolution on amending the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm is a purely technical provision, which is the result of the adoption at the end of June of the Act on the National Media Council. Following the appointment of this new institution, which is to supervise the national media on behalf of the Sejm, it is necessary to amend the rules which will allow the Sejm to elect members of the National Media Council, to allow the President of the Media Council to speak on matters relating to national media, but also to discuss the annual information presented by the National Media Council on the situation in national media, on the main problems of these media, on the financial situation, on how national media fulfil the public mission, and on the assessment of the rules on the functioning of national media. Hence, we propose as a club Law and Justice to adopt these regulations, which will allow us to implement in practice a resolution on the National Media Council. Thank you very much. [[Game in the O.R.]] [[Now, fellows, we have a session of the Sejm. Go out and talk to each other.]] [[Voice from the room:]] [[That's right, you can talk in the cockroaches.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-sejm-22-2.u687	Please. [[Game in the O.R., bell ringing.]] It's about peace. Mr Marek Hok, the Civic Platform Club. [[Game in the O.R.]] [[We can't hear what they're saying here.]] [[The voice from the hall:...in the clowns we won't be...]] [[Gangster outside. Go outside if you want to interrupt.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-sejm-22-2.u688	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! In these natural circumstances, is it possible to talk about a project that we are now to decide rather than behavior? So you should hit your chest. [[Game in the O.R.]] [[But your friends are bothering you.]] I think you're bothering me more than my colleagues who have just been treated... [[Your friends are in the way.]] ...by your marshal in violation of the rules of the Sejm. [[Mr. Marshal, the marshal's guard...]] [[Voice from the room: I think it's for you.]] I have the honour to present on behalf of the Parliamentary Club the Civic Platform on the draft resolution of the Polish Sejm on amending the Rules of Procedure of the Polish Sejm. The amendment to the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm proposed in this draft follows from the wording of the Act... [[Game in the O.R.]] I would ask you to listen to me or do not discuss it. [[Go on...]] [[But it's for my friends, please, over there.]] [[Go on.]] I'm talking to you, too. Don't bother me and don't wave... [[Keep talking and don't talk to your friend.]] Mr. Marshal, I'd really like to ask because what's going on right now... [[Don't bother us.]] Besides, you don't listen to the marshal either, so I don't think anybody's listening in this room. [[That's what you're saying.]] I am very curious and it is only a pity that the Member does not understand what we are talking about at the moment. So... [[Speak up and don't pay any attention to us.]] Professor, if I may say so... [[You can and you have to say that.]] ...would require more culture than a person... [[Game in the O.R., bell ringing.]] Well, maybe you don't even need to.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-sejm-22-2.u689	Member, please do not discuss this. [[But you're bothering us at all.]] [[Voice from the Chamber: Madam, please step out into the hallway and lead...]] [[You guys go out in the hallway.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-sejm-22-2.u690	It's picking up.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-sejm-22-2.u691	This is unfortunately the level...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-sejm-22-2.u692	So the Member of the Civic Platform Club...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-sejm-22-2.u693	...publishers who perform here.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-sejm-22-2.u694	...who picks on... [[Game in the O.R.]] [[Mr. Marshal, please respond.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-sejm-22-2.u695	You're gonna have to react there.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-sejm-22-2.u696	...publishers of Law and Justice, he wanted to say that the Civic Platform would be opposed to a draft resolution on amending the Rules of Procedure. As the National Media Council Act has been passed... [[Game in the O.R.]] [[Don't they have a clubroom?]] ...in violation of all democratic principles, all the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm, so the consequence of this is that we cannot support this draft resolution, which is also the consequence of this violation of the Rules of Procedure, breaking democracy in the Polish Parliament. The Civic Platform will oppose this draft resolution. [[Applause]] [[Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-sejm-22-2.u697	Thank you very much. Mr Piotr Apel, the Kukiz Club15, now has the floor. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-sejm-22-2.u698	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The draft resolution is actually technical, while this is a good opportunity to remind you what happened. It happened that six months ago there was a simple law for the exchange of personnel in public media, and for these six months, in accordance with the Kukiz15 amendment, a full media law was to be established. It didn't happen. Six months wasn't enough to create a media bill. In return, a new institution was created, completely unnecessary, because nothing changes in the public media. I understand that this is a technically required resolution, but once again I ask you to consider what we are really doing, because we are not changing anything in public media outside the authorities, we are not changing anything in funding, we are not changing anything in mission records. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-sejm-22-2.u699	Thank you very much. Mr Jerzy Meysztowicz, the Modern Club, has the floor now. [[Hand. Hand out of pocket.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-sejm-22-2.u700	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! As we are discussing the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm, I have a proposal to amend the Rules of Procedure, which define the possibilities for the Marshal to act and to call the Member to order. I'd like to introduce a record that speaks of bringing the marshal to order, because what you're doing today, Mr. Marshal, is just outrageous. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: And that's not about it.]] [[Voice from the room: scandal.]] To tell you the truth, I don't believe that like you, Judge Beszczółkowski, your conscience will wake up in you, and I don't count on it anymore. Today, with your smile, you just decided practically that we didn't have anything to count on. We have nothing to count on. [[What did he decide?]] [[About what?]] [[Voice from the O.R.: Not on the subject.]] [[Game in the O.R., bell ringing.]] And I'll tell you what I want to talk about. [[Game in the O.R.]] [[Not in the Seym.]] I'm saying right now... [[Game in the O.R.]] I've got... No. I'm gonna say one more thing, and I'm gonna ask you a question. [[Don't ask any questions.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-sejm-22-2.u701	Excuse me, sir. I ask Members not to interfere with your speech. This is... [[But what's it about?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-sejm-22-2.u702	Mrs Pavłowicz, I think you had ADHD as a child... [[I had measles. And diphtheria. And scarlet fever. And a rose.]] ...and the problem is... [[Game in the O.R.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-sejm-22-2.u703	Mr President, please bear with the words, okay? [[And you just had a fixum wardum and you're still here tonight.]] I would like you to count on your words, sir. You're on... [[Speech Off the Microphone]] Yeah, but I'm calling you back to order, too. [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off]] [[Voices from the room: Microphone!]] [[Member Kamila Gasiuk-Pihowicz: Microphone!]] [[Voice from the room: Censor!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-sejm-22-2.u704	Okay. [[Speak politely to the marshal.]] But I speak very politely to your marshal. [[I'm talking to this camaraderie.]] Ladies and gentlemen, let me ask you a question that may be a little different from this debate. [[Very much.]] I have one question: which draft Constitutional Court Act are we working on right now? Is this a parliamentary project... [[But we're at a different point.]] [[Doesn't he know what voice he's in?]] [[Voice from the room: Rules...]] ...is this the project that prepared your marshal's team? I'd like you to take an example from your president who wanted to fly a helicopter like Lieutenant Borewicz, but he paid for it. A cop chopper. [[What nonsense are you talking about?]] [[So what? And that's important, right?]] Therefore, I have a question: Will the Marshal pay back the money of the Sejm Chancellery for the costs incurred by the Marshal's team? And the question is, what did we pay for as taxpayers when we were working on a parliamentary project? The question to your marshal is, what was your marshal's team doing? Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Does your brother pay taxes?]] [[Joy in the Chamber]] [[Did you pay your taxes?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-sejm-22-2.u705	Thank you very much. I wanted to point out that you were wrong about your agenda items. Please, Mr Piotr Zgorzelski, the club of the Polish People's Party. [[No, he's gone, he can't stand it.]] [[We're closing now.]] [[You have a coalitioner.]] [[We'll wait. We've got time.]] It's in writing. Yes, a motion for rejection made in writing. 31 people, ladies and gentlemen of the House have joined the questions. I'm closing the list of questions. I'm setting the time for questioning - one minute. [[50 pp.]] Mr Grzegorz Furgo, the modern club, is the first to ask the question. You're welcome. Does the Member ask a question? [[Voice from the room: Grzegorz, question!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-sejm-22-2.u706	Mr. Marshal! To be honest, as the Member I am for the first time, I can really say, ladies and gentlemen, that I am a little confused... [[It can be seen, heard and felt.]] ...because such a mess, a circus that's been here for days, with nights...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-sejm-22-2.u707	(PL) Mr President, please ask the question.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-sejm-22-2.u708	...then no one would have imagined it, ladies and gentlemen. It was last night... [[Isn't Gorzelski coming?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-sejm-22-2.u709	Time is one minute.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-sejm-22-2.u710	...breaking the wheel of Polish democracy, what was on the committee, what you were doing, Mrs... [[Why isn't Zgorzelski here?]] ...and Mr. Piotrowicz, it was simply, ladies and gentlemen... [[Where's Zgorzelski?]] ...so-called. living in the night of Polish democracy. Today, in turn, all possible ways have passed. [[The statements will be here in an hour, sir.]] You're just acting like you're in a circus or a bazaar or something. [[Applause]] The honourable head of the Committee on European Affairs wants to close the session because you have to go to the game? It's what the cameras have. [[I didn't say that.]] You said it. Finish it, we're going to the game. [[Voice from the room: Lies!]] [[Don't be provoked, we'll keep them quiet.]] Ladies and gentlemen, you have no honor, no culture. I'm not talking about ambition anymore. I'm with something like this. [[♪ The bell ♪]] I've never met anyone in my life. I hope society... [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off]] [[Your time is up.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-sejm-22-2.u711	Mr President, you have not asked a question. The question is asked by Mrs Marta Golbik, the Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-sejm-22-2.u712	Mr. Marshal! I'll ask the question. Thank you so much for letting me ask you a question at all. I must say that I am impressed by the efficiency with which the Law and Justice call their Members... [[Thank you, thank you.]] ...in situations like this, when a marshal should vote something, and he doesn't vote it out. First of all, in relation to the matter of the Constitutional Tribunal, I wanted to make all that is the purpose of the Law and Justice when it comes to dismantling the Constitutional Tribunal. The aim is to maintain the rule of law and justice. By what? [[Not allowing Modern to do anything.]] By changing the electoral order, by amending the constitution and finally bringing Poland out of the European Union. [[Game in the O.R., bell ringing.]] But your constituents aren't stupid, your voters want honesty too, they want justice too, and under the cover of the name Justice, you can't hide it, even under the cover of the night, just as we have it today. So that I would very much ask you to include the opposition in this whole discussion, because not allowing questions is just reprehensible. [[Applause]] [[You're standing there and you're talking.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-sejm-22-2.u713	Thank you very much. The question is asked by Ms. Cornelia Wróblewska, the Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-sejm-22-2.u714	Mr. Marshal! The draft law on the Constitutional Tribunal introduced an amendment to the publication of... [[Voice from the room: Wrong point.]] ...decisions of the tribunal issued from 10 March to 30 June... [[Mr. Marshal, that's not the subject.]] ...within 30 days of the entry into force of this Act. [[Not about that.]] I ask you to answer the question: Why should this be just judgments given after 10 March? [[Voice from the room: Get to the point.]] [[We're talking about the grandstand.]] [[But the grandstand is over.]] [[That's not the point, ma'am.]] Ladies and gentlemen! I would remind you that the most important judgment of the Constitutional Tribunal, as the counter placed before the Chancellery of the President of the Council of Ministers indicates, was handed down 119 days ago, March 9th. [[Mrs. Cornelia, embarrassment, no.]] Why are you afraid of publishing the most important sentence? President Kaczyński - unfortunately you are not here - in an interview for the portal in Politics. Not so long ago, because on May 17th, you said all the sentences would be published. Now you're ordering the Prime Minister...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-sejm-22-2.u715	Madam President, I would like to point out that you are not speaking on the subject.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-sejm-22-2.u716	...the publication of judgments only after March 9th. [[Game in the O.R.]] Why should this infidelity serve its own words? Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Not on the subject, to bring it to order.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-sejm-22-2.u717	Ma'am, you're welcome to ask questions. From now on, I will pay attention to the content of the questions. If the questions are not on the subject that we are currently dealing with, I will ask you to leave the platform. [[Game in the O.R.]] [[But you're being ridiculous. You haven't been allowed to do that lately.]] [[The voice from the hall:...you didn't stop talking about the Volyn slaughter.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-sejm-22-2.u718	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! I'd like to remind you that in the course of time for... [[She's giving out cards, and they're reading like rams.]] ...the Kukiz 15 Club, Mr Romekowski for most of his time spoke about the Volyn slaughter at the time when we talked about the Court.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-sejm-22-2.u719	These were club speeches, sir, and now you are asking a question. Ask me a question about it. [[Game in the O.R.]] [[Member Kamila Gasiuk-Pihowicz: No, this is hypocrisy.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-sejm-22-2.u720	I understand that Mr. Marshal breaks the rules, you break the constitution... [[And you're breaking everything.]] ...but may I remind you of other acts, namely Article. 6 the European Convention on Human Rights and Article. 47... [[Not about that.]] ... Charter of Fundamental Rights of the European Union... [[But please don't promote some publishing houses, this is a cryptoreklama.]] [[Get to the point.]] ...requires legal proceedings... [[Voice from the O.R.: Not on the subject.]] ...including the constitutional court... [[Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off]] ...in a reasonable time. In 1996, the European Court of Human Rights stated that the role of a constitutional court... [[Game in the O.R.]] [[Voices from the hall: Disgrace!]] ...constitution makes him sometimes have to take into account... [[Applause]] [[Voices from the room: Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-sejm-22-2.u721	Mr President, I have drawn your attention to asking you a question about the subject. Please, the question is asked by Katarzyna Lubnauer, the Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-sejm-22-2.u722	Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, We are talking about the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm, but how important is the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm if you have no right? The state wants to break the rule of law system in Poland, destroying the Constitutional Tribunal. [[Let's clap her now.]] [[Applause]] What's the point of dealing with the rules if we're destroying the constitution and the three divisions of power? What is the purpose of dealing with the Rules of Procedure if you have the right for nothing if you do not vote on the proposals of Members of the Sejm? What's the point of dealing with the rules if the law doesn't matter to you and the constitution is garbage? For the State, the Constitutional Tribunal is only an obstacle to the conduct of illegal governments. There is no law for the State that is enshrined in the Constitution. The state has no respect for the rule of law, no respect for the three divisions of power. [[But it's not about you.]] What is the significance of the Sejm's Rules of Procedure in this situation? [[Mr. Marshal, this isn't about.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-sejm-22-2.u723	Madam, you are asking questions, but not about them. You're welcome... [[She's laughing at herself.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-sejm-22-2.u724	For you, the only purpose is that the Constitutional Tribunal cannot rule on any non-constitutional law... [[Get to the point.]] ...which the country will take over the next three years. [[♪ The bell ♪]] That's why... [[Time's up.]] [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off, applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-sejm-22-2.u725	Thank you very much, Member. The question will be asked by Mr Truskolaski, the Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-sejm-22-2.u726	High Izbo! Mr. Marshal doesn't respect the rules, so what's the point of changing him? Maybe we should just delete the rules at all. [[Yes!]] [[Yes!]] I want you to keep the marshal up to speed on what the rules are supposed to be. Let him say yes every day, yes and yes. [[Applause]] Firstly, we do not allow opposition to be heard. Secondly, there are no formal applications. Third, only the PiS can speak on this platform, and the opposition has to have gagged lips. [[Bullshit.]] [[Member Kamila Gasiuk-Pihowicz: Democratic package, right?]] [[Voice from the room: Doctor's best. So a pack of them.]] Poles are a proud and committed nation to the love of civil liberties and freedoms. Today, freedom and civil liberties are being violated by your marshal. We are Members of the Sejm, and we are bound by the rules of procedure, which the marshal repeatedly violates. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-sejm-22-2.u727	Mr President, you are not asking a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-sejm-22-2.u728	I'm talking about the rules, marshal. [[Member Kamila Gasiuk-Pihowicz: Why change the rules?]] Marshal, I'll say it again. What's the point of changing the rules if he makes no sense to you? You don't use it at all. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]] [[You're welcome.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-sejm-22-2.u729	You're welcome. The question is now asked by Mrs Joanna Augustynowska, the Modern Club. [[Why aren't you sitting down?]] [[Because they have ADHD.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-sejm-22-2.u730	Mr. Marshal! The debate is about the rules, but why do we need the rules if we're breaking the constitution? [[Why are you lying? Don't lie to me.]] [[Voice from the room: The album is broken.]] Why do we need the rules when the Constitutional Court Act states that we live in two systems and legal regimes? [[Which constitution is it now?]] You will admit that this part of the room is governed by one legal system, and that we, citizens, opposition, local governments, common courts, completely different. What's the point? That's my question. [[Applause]] [[Woof, woof, woof!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-sejm-22-2.u731	Thank you very much. The question will be asked by Mr Adam Cyranski, the Modern Club. [[Adam, please.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-sejm-22-2.u732	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! [[Game in the O.R., bell ringing.]] We're going over the rules right now. [[Game in the O.R.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-sejm-22-2.u733	Ladies and gentlemen, allow me to ask you a question. I'm asking you to calm down. [[In the name of our friendship, Adam.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-sejm-22-2.u734	I didn't get a chance to ask a legal question under the Rules of Procedure...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-sejm-22-2.u735	Please, sir...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-sejm-22-2.u736	...so I will try to ask: On what basis was the Committee on Justice and Human Rights convened on 5 July in this way? [[Voice from the room: Read the rules.]] [[But that's not about it. Please.]] But I'm trying to speak in accordance with the rules that you want to change. In view of the re-trial of the Law and Justice project, from the beginning of its work on the committee, does it not seem advisable for you to proceed with it in accordance with the law? [[Voice from the room: The platform is thin today.]] Apart from ignoring two opposition projects, calling a committee meeting with the intention of working on a different project than it originally did, i.e. instead of three projects combined with only one, it would not have been [[♪ The bell ♪]] Uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off, applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-sejm-22-2.u737	Please ask Mr Zbigniew Gryglas, the Modern Club. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-sejm-22-2.u738	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! Law and Justice have won parliamentary elections and no one is questioning that. [[Right. Bravo!]] [[Members of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice chant: Democracy! Democracy! Democracy!]] No one's questioning that. On the other hand, Poles, citizens did not give you the right to change the state of the Republic. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]] [[Yeah, yeah...]] [[So where's the rest of it?]] Citizens, Poles did not give you the right to change the state of the Republic of Poland. [[Applause]] [[But they will.]] Until there are new elections, you must have a constitution that is now, respect and respect it, because that is the law in the Republic of Poland. [[Applause]] [[Okay, here's the thing.]] [[You're out of time.]] I would very much like to ask Mr Czabanski a question, but since I do not have time, unfortunately I will not do it today. [[Joy in the O.R., applause.]] [[Bravo!]] [[He's embarrassed himself.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-sejm-22-2.u739	Please, the question will be asked by Paulina Hennig-Kloska, the Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-sejm-22-2.u740	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Mr Jarosław Kaczyński at the last convention... [[Congress.]] ... The law and justice have made it clear... [[Game in the O.R., bell ringing.]] [[Were you at the congress?]] The rule of law and justice will be the opposite of the rule of law. [[Voice from the hall: It was a congression, not a convention.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-sejm-22-2.u741	Mr...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-sejm-22-2.u742	Today, Mr Marshal and your fellow Members prove to Poland that it was not a slip of the tongue. Today in Poland, the rule of law will definitely end. You break the law, you break the constitution, you break the rules we're working on today, for a long time, and today we're done with three divisions of power. [[Calm down, Member.]] [[Don't lie to me.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-sejm-22-2.u743	Mrs...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-sejm-22-2.u744	Why are you trying to bring the three divisions of power into legal order... [[But it's not about.]] ...the President's right to enter into the case law of the Constitutional Tribunal? [[Game in the O.R., bell ringing.]] [[Voice from the Chamber: But the Member will calm down, Mr President.]] If you do not respect the Constitution, you will also not respect the rules you want. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Work today. [[Time's up.]] [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off, applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-sejm-22-2.u745	Please ask Mr Michał Jaros, the Modern Club. Are you an MP? There it is. You're welcome. [[Traitor!]] [[Betrayal!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-sejm-22-2.u746	Thank you. Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Comrade District Attorney! [[Applause]] [[What does Rysiek say?]] But you have repeatedly appeared before the Constitutional Tribunal. [[But we're not talking about the Constitutional Court.]] [[Voice from the room: We speak.]] I hope the marshal will add a few minutes.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-sejm-22-2.u747	Don't disturb me, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-sejm-22-2.u748	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The most important issue that has been broken in this House today is the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm. How can we discuss the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm if the marshal does not allow questions to be asked in the case of the Constitutional Tribunal? [[Applause]] [[How can you not? What are you doing?]] [[What are you doing on that podium?]] How can you, like the Law and Justice, people who have the right in the party's name, allow the question of the Constitutional Tribunal not to be asked? [[What are you doing?]] Mr. Marshal... [[Game in the O.R., bell ringing.]] I'd ask for a few seconds longer. [[Ask that question.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-sejm-22-2.u749	I'll charge you two seconds. [[Joy in the O.R., applause.]] [[Have mercy.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-sejm-22-2.u750	Mr. Marshal, they were disturbing us. [[♪ The bell ♪]] [[Voice from the room: Time's up.]] [[Sit down.]] My question is: How can you obey... [[Time's up.]] ...constitution, if you don't respect... [[Time!]] ...the rule of the Sejm?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-sejm-22-2.u751	Thank you very much. The question is asked by Mrs Ewa Lieder, the Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-sejm-22-2.u752	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Rules of Procedure... [[Just read it fluently.]] Calm down, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-sejm-22-2.u753	Member, wait a minute. Wait a minute, Member. Please, Members, do not disturb the questioners... [[Voice from the Chamber: Please sit your Members in the benches.]] ...stopping, noisy. Let us not take the wrong example from the behaviour of some Members. [[You always read. It's so smooth.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-sejm-22-2.u754	I'll read it fluently for you. [[Bravo, thanks. Attention, we're listening. Is he gonna make it?]] [[It's a reading test.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-sejm-22-2.u755	You're welcome, my fellow Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-sejm-22-2.u756	May I? Yes? Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, the rules of procedure, but if you don't allow... [[And justice must be on your side, huh?]] [[Joy in the Chamber]] Justice will be on our side sooner or later, because this time we have, ladies and gentlemen, right and we have the right to ask questions about the Constitutional Court. [[Well, go ahead. We're waiting for those questions.]] As a result of the 30-day deadline proposed by you... [[Don't read the card.]] [[Mr Kamila Gasiuk-Pihowicz: It is better to read than to talk nonsense.]] [[But tell me once.]] ...before the end of which the trial cannot take place? This will cause, ladies and gentlemen... [[But it's dealt.]] ...extension of court-martial recognition. It should be stressed that the Venice Commission, in point 86 of its opinion, indicated that there is a European principle that courts should be free to set time limits for proceedings. [[Game in the O.R.]] [[Gentlemen, calm down. Really.]] That was a question, ladies and gentlemen. The Venice Commission's opinion also stresses that constitutional courts need flexibility, which you do not foresee at all, because you want to... [[♪ The bell ♪]] [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off, applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-sejm-22-2.u757	The question is asked by Mr Paweł Kobyliński, a modern club. [[How about without a card now?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-sejm-22-2.u758	No card, yeah. [[Bravo, there's no card. Attention, we're listening.]] No, I don't. [[Game in the O.R., bell ringing.]] Is that okay? Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I would also like to ask your applicants about this. Imagine... [[Like that?]] Dominik, please, man... [[But that kind of thing? What's that phrase?]] Imagine that you're on the other side, that you're here, and that's most of it. [[Impossible.]] [[Voice from the room: 8 years.]] Okay, I understand, eight years old, you have one line.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-sejm-22-2.u759	Members, please do not discuss with the Member who is asking the question. [[Voice from the room: But with your hand in your pocket?]] You're welcome. [[Mr. Marshal, drive...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-sejm-22-2.u760	Imagine if you didn't react the same way, right? You're welcome. I'd like you to ask yourselves this question about how you behaved. Mr President, as you set an example for others... [[No hand in his pocket.]] ...as you set an example for people, e.g. Young people who look at the boot and the arrogance you show? [[What kind of example do you set?]] Give it a rest. Let's do the proper Seym, not the crap you guys do all the time. [[Then don't do it.]] ...you're presenting. Goodbye. [[Typical Al Capone.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-sejm-22-2.u761	Thank you very much. The question is asked by Monika Rosa. You're welcome. [[Voice from the room: Shh...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-sejm-22-2.u762	Mr. Marshal! [[Attention, there will be a smooth reading.]] [[Voice from the Chamber: Politely, sir.]] [[Voice from the room: Do you want to go solo?]] High Izbo! Mr. Shieldinski! Shut up, please. Now it's me. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Ooh!]] [[Room voice: Bravo, Monica!]] [[Mouse aggressor.]] Ladies and gentlemen! My question is, why do you have the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm if the only law you know is the law of fists? But why? [[But we've heard it four times before.]] You've heard it four times and you don't understand. [[Applause]] Ladies and gentlemen! I say this for the fifth time: Why do you need the rules of the Sejm... [[Madame, you have a bad accent.]] [[But it went up the heels.]] [[You leave Mr. Five alone.]] ...if you don't understand it, if you don't understand the Constitution and if you don't follow it? Unlimited obedience, which you present here, requires darkness not only in the person who leads, but also in those who are in an unlimited manner simply obedient. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-sejm-22-2.u763	Thank you very much. [[Voice from the room: Question?]] The question is asked by Radosław Lubczyk, a modern club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-sejm-22-2.u764	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! [[Don't read it, please.]] [[Anything.]] Anything solo? Solo? [[Game in the O.R., bell ringing.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-sejm-22-2.u765	Mr President, I asked you not to interfere with the proceedings. [[Voice from the room: Solo. Come on, man, solo.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-sejm-22-2.u766	Mr. Marshal! I have a question for your marshal because we all know that the marshal knows the rules of the Sejm very well. I have a question about whether the marshal knows the constitution, too, because I understand that there have been requests. A similar question is addressed to the applicant. I have this question because if there were formal proposals, I understand that they should be voted on. It wasn't done. I understand that we are waiting for the end of the match for all the Members of the Law and Justice to come to the Chamber and then we will vote on these formal proposals. [[Mr President, we ask you a question.]] The question is: Will all Members of the Law and Justice come to the Chamber after the match and we will vote on the formal proposals? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-sejm-22-2.u767	Thank you very much. The question is asked by Mrs Joanna Scheuring-Wielgus, the Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-sejm-22-2.u768	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! It is amazing to see the pace at which the Members of the Law and Justice come together tonight. [[Voice from the room: Where are the others?]] [[Like moths.]] Dear Listeners and Internauts! Members of the Law and Justice have never taken part in the work of the Sejm. [[Joy in the Chamber]] [[Voice from the O.R.: They're in the O.R., they're working.]] They're coming down today because they don't want to... [[They're working.]] ...to pass the rules. [[The voice from the room: Asia, look...]] Ladies and gentlemen, free and sovereign courts... [[Voice from the room: Is Marshal Terlecki here?]] [[Voice from the hall: Where is the marshal?]] Free and sovereign courts [[Game in the O.R., bell ringing.]] should be in Poland. You've been here for eight months...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-sejm-22-2.u769	Member, please don't yell. We're hearing it right.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-sejm-22-2.u770	...you're biting the Constitutional Tribunal like moles. Ladies and gentlemen, the courts are like a tree and we have to water it, and the state has been here for eight months... [[Voice from the hall: Lord marshal, call to things.]] ...watering the Constitutional Court with poison. And we're actually having a black week... [[♪ The bell ♪]] [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off]] ...Polish democracy by you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-sejm-22-2.u771	The question is asked by Mr Jerzy Meysztowicz, the Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-sejm-22-2.u772	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! I wanted to apologize to the professor, because my attention wasn't the happiest, so I'm sorry. But, ladies and gentlemen, since we're working on the Sejm's rules, wouldn't it be worth considering... When you took power, you said that you would prepare for the opposition such a democratic package to make the opposition feel that they had at least something to say. [[Voice from the room: You talk all the time.]] Mr President, we are only talking because we came up with the idea that because the marshal did not allow us to ask questions about the tribunal, we had to take advantage of this situation. I don't think this is the most appropriate thing because we should normally ask questions in accordance with procedure. [[That's what we're waiting for.]] [[Voice from the room: You don't follow the rules simply.]] We're doing this by accident now. Now I'd like to refer to what you're discussing right now. [[Voice from the room: And you don't understand what they're saying?]] Well, I think it would be possible to think about changing the rules of the Sejm so that, in fact, the rights of the opposition... [[♪ The bell ♪]] [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off, applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-sejm-22-2.u773	The question is asked by Mr Krzysztof Mieszkowski, the Modern Club. [[The voice from the room: Oh, the rules, yes, the glasses.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-sejm-22-2.u774	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! You're commenting very strongly on our speeches, and I'm really scared of it... [[Voice from the room: So do we.]] ...because I see divided, divided Poland... [[Voice from the hall: We have division into voivodships.]] ...I see Poland objectified... [[Oh...]] ...by your little dictator. [[Touchdown, applause]] [[Hey, you can't do that, Marshal.]] I see Poland, which is dwarf because of you. Discredit the Polish state in the world. [[But it's not art, it's life.]] I wanted to ask you: What about Polish democracy, ladies and gentlemen? What about Polish democracy?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-sejm-22-2.u775	Thank you very much. The question is asked by Elizabeth Stępień, the Modern Club. You don't have an MP? [[Voice from the room: There isn't.]] The question is asked by Mr Piotr Misilo, the Modern Club. You're welcome, sir. [[Voice from the room: He's coming, he's coming.]] [[Here we go again with the card.]] [[Voice from the hall: Who wrote?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-sejm-22-2.u776	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! With reference to the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm and to the procedated print project No 558, the most respected institutions and legal bodies have already expressed their views. [[But that's not the point.]] The Chairman of the Bar, the National Council... [[The voice from the room: You read nicely.]] Mr. Marshal, can you calm your colleagues down? Mr. Buddy, you're welcome...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-sejm-22-2.u777	Mr President, please do not disturb me. [[Voice from the room: Audiobook Modern.]] [[The voice from the hall: It's the wrong card.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-sejm-22-2.u778	The President of the Bar, the National Chamber of Legal Counsels, the Supreme Court, the National Court of Justice and others took the floor. Has PiS read at least one opinion for its project? [[Voice from the room: With everyone.]] Perhaps the opposition is not respected enough by you to take into account its voice. However, if applicants are deaf to the comments and advice of literally all legal authorities, this indicates a complete misunderstanding of the stage of work on the draft and the substance of the opinion of the draft law by expert communities. [[♪ The bell ♪]] [[But please read more fluently.]] [[Time's up.]] What's your answer? What's your explanation? Why don't you guys care about anyone, especially... [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off, applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-sejm-22-2.u779	Thank you very much, sir. [[Voice from the room: Thank you.]] [[Sit down!]] The question is asked by Mr Mirosław Pampuch, the Modern Club. [[Voice from the O.R.: Place.]] Mr President, please leave the speaker. [[Punish him.]] Mr President, I would like to call you back to order. [[Two months of punishment.]] Mr President, I would like to call you back to order. [[Applause]] Mr... Member? No, Mr Mirosław Pampuch. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-sejm-22-2.u780	I understand, Mr. Marshal, that it's late, isn't it? Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I thought this House already knew everything. What happened today, on the other hand... [[What happened?]] ...it actually looks like it's a big puriazum. [[But what happened?]] Rejection of the opposition... [[Voice from the room: What are you doing now?]] ...unable to ask questions, then... [[Just ask the question.]] ...breaking the rules of the Sejm by the Marshal of the Sejm... [[Ask me a question. We wait, the Minister is waiting for your questions.]] ...it all sounds like a black night of Polish parliamentarianism and it's such a black night... [[You're not doing very well, sir.]] ...in which you are once again trying to pass the Constitutional Court Act breaking the Constitution The Republic of Poland. [[Oh, my gosh, you're repeating yourself.]] Mr Piotrowicz, you said that the last bastion of the Third Republic... [[You guys were the ones talking.]] ...is the Constitutional Court. No, sir. The Bastion of the Republic of Poland is a constitution on which we all swore... [[♪ The bell ♪]] [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off, applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-sejm-22-2.u781	Thank you very much. The question is asked by Mrs Kamila Gasiuk-Pihowicz. You're welcome, my fellow Member. [[At least he'll be out of his mind, not out of a card.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-sejm-22-2.u782	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Shame and shame. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] [[Voice from the room: Question!]] Shame and shame what you are doing to the Polish Parliament. You divide Poland into two worlds: the world of lawlessness, the world of injustice, chaos, authoritarian aspirations... [[What are you talking about, Member?]] ...and the second world - the world of citizens who believe... [[Do you even hear yourself?]] ...in a constitution that wants to be protected by the law... [[Voice from the Chamber: But what are you talking about, Member?]] ...and the freedoms that are written in it, who want to live in a democratic state of law, not in some tribal community where a small dictator makes his decisions. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] [[Voice from the room: Name!]] Ladies and gentlemen, where is your decency? Where is your responsibility... [[Goodbye.]] ...for future generations, for children, for democracy in Poland? There will be other people coming after you... [[Get off the stage.]] ...and will rule over Poland. This Poland will no longer have a Constitutional Court, it will have a disassembled guarantee system... [[Your children are ashamed of you.]] ... civil rights and freedoms. Where's your decency? Where's your responsibility? Shame! [[Applause]] [[Get down on the ground.]] [[Voice from the hall: Whoever is to come down is to come down.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-sejm-22-2.u783	The question is asked by Mr Paweł Pudłowski, the Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-sejm-22-2.u784	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Maybe it's a good thing you told us not to speak in the form of questions before. [[The joy in the room, the bell.]] [[Voice from the room: What are you doing right now?]] Because we have a chance not to speak in an empty room like we did before, but we have your presence. [[Applause]] I am to ask about the rules and I will ask about the rules, the most important of the regulations in Poland - the Constitution and the Constitutional Tribunal, which should stand by it. [[It's not the rules, sir.]] This is the most important regulation that applies to us, and you know it. [[It's a basic law, not a regulation.]] Since this is one of the last questions, I would like to ask whether, as a result of reflection, if this might appear, you are still proud of how you blocked the Constitutional Tribunal. Does moral law give you that someone has chosen two superior judges? [[Five in violation of the law.]] Is the moral right to violate the constitution and block... [[Vice Marshal disables microphone, applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-sejm-22-2.u785	Thank you very much. The question is asked by Mr Mirosław Suchoń, the Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-sejm-22-2.u786	Thank you. Dear Marshal, High Izbo! I do not know why we are proceeding with the regulations which are the subject of this point, since you have all the regulations, regulations for nothing. They don't give a shit... [[Member Szymon Szynkowski a.k.a. Sęk: Same again. Anything new?]] [[But don't impertinate us, ask us questions.]] The Member shouts out, I think you like me, because I haven't done anything yet. [[But you're insulting us.]] Ladies and gentlemen, it cannot be that the party that wins the elections gets some supernatural powers through which it can change the democratic system of the rule of law. You must follow the constitution, you must follow the laws, and today all of these laws are for nothing. [[Don't give us any impertinence.]] You are trying to block the Constitutional Tribunal, which, I remind you, is a redeeme to protect citizens from the temptations of politicians. You want to liquidate this tribunal to change the system to destroy the Republic of Poland. [[Voice from the room: PRL.]] All you do is do things that just destroy the reputation of our country in the world. [[♪ The bell ♪]] [[Voice from the room: Time's up.]] You're vermin, and we're gonna stop this one day. [[Applause]] [[The voice from the hall: He applauds himself.]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo me!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-sejm-22-2.u787	The question is asked by Mr Adam Szłapka, the Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-sejm-22-2.u788	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I see there's no Mr. Shieldinski in the courtroom. I understand you sent him away to calm him down because he was so excited. [[Voice from the hall: I stayed.]] Maybe that's a good thing, because Mrs Mazurek is probably not going to feel the taste, but Marshal Terlecki won't have to say he's unstable... [[Voice from the hall: But to the point, because there is no time.]] [[Question.]] ...and Mrs Paluch - yes, I will not speak from the card, I hope I will do a little bit better than you did in Mazurka's interview. [[Applause]] [[I hope so too.]] [[Member Kamila Gasiuk-Pihowicz: Shame and shame.]] The subject... We are discussing the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm, therefore the question to the applicant: Is it true that Marshal Terlecki violated the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm, refusing to allow questions to be asked in the previous point of the discussion on the Constitutional Court Act? [[He didn't break it.]] [[Please read the regulations with understanding and do not impudent the marshal.]] And didn't he break the good parliamentary custom that he's been working in this courtroom so far? And the question is, didn't Marshal Terlecki break the rules of the Sejm... [[No.]] ...without voting on formal proposals that have been made. [[Applause]] [[That's it. Time's up.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-sejm-22-2.u789	I kindly inform you that I have not violated the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm. Please, Mr Witold Zembaczyński, the Modern Club. [[Voice from the room: Formal conclusion.]] Please, sir, ask a question. [[It wasn't written down. What's this?]] [[Voice from the room: Okay, let's go.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-sejm-22-2.u790	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! I'm surprised why you guys got out of your sleep while you're still in the lethargy. But just to make it easier for you to sleep in the paranoia you're creating, I'm going to tell you a story about a country that once had a constitution... [[You guys tell stories all the time.]] ...about the country where the Constitutional Tribunal used to be, about the country where there used to be law and justice. What's left of it? It's ruined. [[Modern.]] And today the ruins have also been left by the Sejm's Rules of Procedure; they have been ruined by the ethics of the Members through your behaviour in this Chamber, screaming. It is not right to go below the dignity of the Member, because Poles look at you and feel shame. [[They don't understand.]] They expect a discussion, not a finger wave, a threat. They expect respect because this respect belongs to everyone... [[You're waving a finger.]] ...also modern opposition. And I hope that you will learn a lesson in humility and be ashamed of it. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[The voice from the hall: But the sun warmed up.]] [[Opole decided.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-sejm-22-2.u791	The question is now asked by Marcin Święcicki, the Civic Platform Club. [[Mr. Marshal, formal motion.]] [[There are no formal applications.]] There isn't.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-sejm-22-2.u792	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Six months' work during this term revealed the extraordinary weakness of the Rules of Procedure, namely the exceptions became an absolute rule. The Marshal and the chairman of the committee can simply take advantage of this situation. Laws shall be passed without any impact assessment as required by the government. [[And what was the Platform doing?]] Sometimes, it wasn't that much. You break unceremoniously the hours, the rules of the Labour Code, and you force your employees to work in the night. Non-governmental organisations are not invited to meetings, and even when invited, they are not given the floor at all. Various cases are being dealt with without proper prejudice, so that Members have no way of preparing for this. This mode causes poor quality of legislation, low quality of legislation and really needs to be amended in these matters. The Marshal and the chairman of the committee may have some special powers, but they must be exceptional, not absolute rules, as happened in this Seym. Night hours, voice-over, questions are asked or there's a ban at all. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Asking questions, and if you have questions, you don't answer them. [[Voice from the room: Time's up.]] All these weaknesses in the regulations cause very low quality of our legislative work and it is necessary in the regulations... [[Vice Marshal disables microphone, applause]] [[Give yourself up.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-sejm-22-2.u793	Thank you very much. The question is asked by Michał Szczerba, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-sejm-22-2.u794	Mr. Marshal, you often have a habit of judging Members, you have a habit of imposing financial penalties. [[You got it.]] It's worth judging you today. The sitting is not being held today, the sitting is being held today, it is being conducted itself, because you do not control this House - this is the first case. [[Applause]] You've made Parliament a rodeo. Today democracy is not riding, today democracy is being slaughtered. You did not allow 37 Members of the opposition to ask questions about the report on the law of a systemic nature. At the moment we are discussing the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm, you have allowed Members. Why didn't you do it about the constitutional authority of the Constitutional Tribunal? [[Applause]] Do you think that the leaders of the European Union, that the leaders, heads and prime ministers of NATO countries will not notice this hucpa? They'll notice. They can see. [[♪ The bell ♪]] [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off, applause]] [[Time's up.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-sejm-22-2.u795	Thank you. The question is asked by Mr Robert Kropiwnicki, the Civic Platform. [[The list is closed.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-sejm-22-2.u796	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! This is exactly the example of your helplessness, your helplessness. [[Yours.]] It's like screaming, screaming reality. You can yell us out here in the O.R. [[You're the one who made the wrong bill!]] ...you can vote us out, but you can't drown out your stupidity, what's going on, what you're doing in the Seym. [[Game in the O.R.]] [[Your stupidity!]] You won't scream all the Poles because the Poles managed. [[Because you started all this.]] They've dealt with the emperors, they've dealt with the tzars, they'll deal with the PiS, really. [[Applause]] It's not like you guys are gonna be running this place forever. [[Hysteria!]] Today you're talking about the National Media Council. Who can challenge this bill? Why and to whom, if you want to own the Constitutional Tribunal? [[Voice from the room: to Merkel.]] You're taking over the whole country, but you won't be able to shut our mouths. That's why we're going to talk to free Poland about what needs to be done... [[♪ The bell ♪]] [[Don't give me that.]] [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off]] [[Voice from the room: Time's up.]] ...to make us get our democracy back. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-sejm-22-2.u797	Mr Marek Hok, Civic Platform. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-sejm-22-2.u798	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I was hoping that most of us came to this Parliament to change the law to make good rules, but today's climate, especially the night climate, is a cabaret climate. [[You guys are making this cabaret.]] Therefore, gentlemen, Cabaret Dudek and Jan Kobuszewski, quote: Rudeness in life must be opposed to the strength and dignity of personalities. [[The forces and dignity of the people.]] There's strength here, and there's personal dignity here. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]] A question for the marshal. Marshal, is it true that there is no point in changing the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm, since you and the Marshal are not complying with these Rules of Procedure? [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-sejm-22-2.u799	The question is asked by Mr Jarosław Urbaniak, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-sejm-22-2.u800	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! It's a sad day, Mr. Marshal. [[Night.]] Shame. We have lawlessness and injustice in Poland. [[We've been lawless for eight years!]] Mr. Marshal, why didn't you allow questions in the debate on the Constitutional Tribunal today? Why did you not allow a formal motion for almost an hour during the debate on the Constitutional Tribunal? Why didn't the marshal break the rules and vote? Is it so simple, in human terms, Mr. Marshal, that you are not ashamed that you are violating the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm right now, when these Rules of Procedure are being debated?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-sejm-22-2.u801	Mr President, please bear with the words, okay? Please, sir. [[Yes, sir.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-sejm-22-2.u802	It was a simple question. Aren't you ashamed? [[Voice from the room: Mind your words.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-sejm-22-2.u803	Sober up a little bit, come to your senses.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-sejm-22-2.u804	I'm looking you in the eye. [[Voice from the room: Yes, through the glasses.]] Shame! [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Shame.]] [[It was a shame to make such an appearance.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-sejm-22-2.u805	Mr Boris Budka with a question. [[Voice from the room: Ooh...]] Please, one minute. [[Voice from the room: Boris!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-sejm-22-2.u806	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Dear Law and Justice Democrats! [[Game in the O.R.]] [[Voice from the room: So close to the PSL.]] [[It's a pretty tie. Boris, what a tie!]] Civic patterns, patterns of three divisions of power, respect and balance of power. What do you need all this for? [[New fashion in the Seym, green tie.]] Why are you destroying what Poles have been building for the last 27 years? [[Voice from the room: Boris!]] It is best to formulate the rules of the Sejm in such a way that the marshal is always right, and even if it is not, it is right in Nowogrodzka. [[But Grandma doesn't watch anymore.]] Ladies and gentlemen, you are embarrassing at what you're doing... [[Don't tell me stories, just ask a question.]] ...but if you want to do something, do it right. For now, you are presenting ignorance not only to the constitution, but, above all, even to your own regulations. [[It's green in your head.]] Why do you need the rules of the Sejm if the Marshal of the Sejm can't do it? [[♪ The bell ♪]] Follow it? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-sejm-22-2.u807	The question is asked by Mr Arkadiusz Myrch, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-sejm-22-2.u808	Thank you, Marshal. Mr. Marshal, first of all, I would like to appeal to you to get a little work done and take control of the right side of the room... [[But don't overdo it.]] ...on true patriots who are cruelly jamming, trying to drown out the statements of the Members of the opposition. Mr. Marshal, a warm appeal to you. In addition, I would like to ask you: What is the purpose of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm... [[To observe it.]] ...when the chairman of the justice committee and the prosecutor of martial law... [[Come up with something new.]] ...a resolution limiting Members of the opposition' speaking time to 2 minutes, although there is no legal basis for this? Why do you have the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm, when you decide on a committee of justice to extort the media from the Chamber with neither legal grounds nor factual grounds? [[Voice from the room: There they are.]] Why do you need the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm when you're holding an evening session, [[Joy in the Chamber]] completely without a legal basis? Marshal Terlecki is lost in the simplest regulations... [[♪ The bell ♪]] [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, applause, Member speaks with the microphone off]] [[Time's up.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-sejm-22-2.u809	Thank you very much, sir. [[Goodbye.]] The discussion is closed. [[Game in the O.R.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-sejm-22-2.u810	High Seym! Mr. Marshal! On behalf of the Parliamentary Club of the Polish People's Party, I have the honour to present our position on the draft resolution on amending the Rules of Procedure of the Polish Sejm. High Seym! The revision of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm, the next amendment - there have already been a lot of them in this term, and the democratic package is not visible - it is dictated by the adoption of a law on the National Media Council. A new creation is created by the so-called. a small staff bill, because the reform of the public media you've been talking about cannot take place because of your inability. It stopped the notification process in the European Union, and well. You wanted to put another racket on the Poles, it didn't work out. Public media have already been embezzled, presenting one real message, have been gagged. Numerous dismissals of journalists who do not correspond to the current authority are the best evidence of this. The decline in audience due to one-sided transmission is the best proof of this. Even the purchase of the Euro transmission did not help President Kursk. We are critical of the law on the new National Media Council, as are amendments to the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm. Turning to the content of the project, it essentially addresses two issues arising from the law, namely the choice of the composition of the board, i.e. those nominated by the PiS, who will then submit information on the implementation of the tasks entrusted to them, once a year, in order to check whether they fulfil their party duties. I wonder what further plan you have for public media, television and radio? How do you want to improve ratings, how to create a mission, what is the future of good, what is the public broadcaster? Is the only idea being a financial drip created on the basis of the Commercialisation and Privatization Act granting the Minister the right to fund another 20 million PLN? President Kurski should present information about the state of the Polish Television before the High Sejm, as media reports show that debts are increasing at an alarming rate. The Parliamentary Club of the Polish People's Party requests that the project be rejected at first reading.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-sejm-22-2.u811	A request for rejection at first reading of the draft resolution was made in the discussion. [[Goodbye. Step out of the podium, please. You're breaking the rules.]] Mr President, you are in charge of the speaker. We will proceed to the vote on this proposal in the voting block. [[Voice from the room: Where are you going?]] I would like to inform the High House that the Marshal of the Sejm has decided to move the next items of the agenda, i.e. 25th and 26th, planned for today, tomorrow, after the votes. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]] [[Joy in the O.R., applause.]] That concludes the agenda items today. I would like to inform you that Members have come forward to make their statements. I'm closing the list of people who have been made to make statements. [[All of you, sign up for your statements.]] Please, Mr Stefan Romecki of the Kukiz Club. [[We're booked, but for the next meeting.]] He's not in the O.R. Mr Sylvester Khrushch of the Kukiz Club. He's gone, too. [[One more request to Brussels and you'll be 0%.]] Mr Norbert Kaczmarczyk from the Kukiz Club. There isn't. That concludes our parliamentary statements.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-sejm-22-2.u812	A statement by the Members on the 110th anniversary of Maciej Kalenkiewicz's birth. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! 1 July this year We celebrated the 110th anniversary of Maciej Kalenkiewicz's birth. Kotwicz - engineer, lieutenant colonel of the Polish Army, Hubalczyk, quiet, soldier of the Home Army and commander of guerrilla forces. Maciej Kalenkiewicz was born in Vilnius. He was the son of a Member of the Polish Parliament and of Jan Kalenkiewicz's term of office. In 1924, he graduated and joined the Warsaw Officers' School of Engineering, after which he was promoted to lieutenant. He graduated from the Faculty of Land Engineering at the Warsaw University of Technology. After graduating from school, he became the commander of the platoon at the School of Squadruple Reserves in Modlin. To the Captain's degree, he was promoted at the age of 20. More studies have already stopped the outbreak of war. During the September campaign, Kalenkiewicz fought in the Suwałska Cavalry Brigade and in the 110th Ulysses regiment. In October he became Deputy Commander of the Branch of the Polish Army Henryk Two months later, he went to Paris, where he completed an officer's course of bomb squad and was assigned to the OGM headquarters in Paris. After France's defeat, he went to Great Britain, where he became the commander of the bomb squad at a school in Biggar. He was still working on the possibility of establishing air transport with Poland. In December 1941, Kalenkiewicz took a flight to his homeland and was to be thrown over it. Unfortunately, by mistake, Kotwicz was found in the territory belonging to the Reich. Together with other jumpers he was immediately arrested, but managed to escape and get to Warsaw. In the capital of Kotwicz, promoted to Major, he was assigned to the Third Operations Department of the Armed Fighting Union, the OGM, and worked on the Plan for a nationwide uprising. In 1943, he also commanded the Eastern Tape, which consisted of attacking border posts between the General Government and the Reich. In 1944. Kalenkiewicz served as an inspector of the AK command for the district of Novgorod, and then took command of the group of the Nademiańskie AK. Due to the planned offensive of the Red Army, Maciej Kalenkiewicz was included in a group of officers of the Vilnius district of the AK. The task of the group was to develop a plan for the capture of Vilnius. Kotwicz was a great supporter of Operation Ostrzy Gate. However, he could not take part in the action of conquering Vilnius, because earlier, during the fights at Iwie, he was seriously injured and had to amputate one hand. Kotwicz wanted to return to the battlefield before the wound completely healed. On 5 August 1944 he took command of the district of Nowogrodzki AK. At that time, conspiracy activities for information and promotion activities were abandoned. Kalenkiewicz was then promoted to lieutenant colonel. Interested did not get one text message with this information, because at the same time the Red Army started to liquidate Polish troops in the area where Kotwicz was staying. Kalenkiewicz's unit was attacked in Surkonts. The first attack was repelable. However, many of the fighters were wounded and during the next attack, Kotwicz's troops were finally defeated. Kalenkiewicz died with his 35 soldiers. They were all buried in a mass grave near the tomb of the January insurgents. Hello and praise the heroes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-sejm-22-2.u813	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! This month we are reminiscing about the next anniversary of the Volyn crime in the East End. The Ukrainian OUN-UPA bandits slaughtered the Polish population living in the pre-war territories of the Second Republic. The scale and form of crimes committed on Poles is unimaginable. They were killed with a bullet, an axe, a pitchfork, a saw, a hammer or other murder weapon. It was a policy of extermination of Kresowians by their Ukrainian neighbours, because not only paramilitary troops committed crimes, but also civilians. It caused total depopulation of parts of Volyn and Eastern Małopolska. So ethnic cleansing took place in vast areas of the Republic of Poland. The scale of tragedy is difficult to estimate. More than 100,000, I'd say. Poles were murdered, burned alive or shot. Hundreds of villages and settlements inhabited by Poles disappeared from the surface of the earth. As representatives of the Polish society, we must stand in truth to our nation, as well as to those who miraculously survived the pogroms. Both the victims and their descendants owe us memory and great respect for the sacrifice of their lives. However, the problem is that some Ukrainian participants in the discussion deny the organized nature of these murders. There is no acceptance that these crimes have been committed throughout the formations, which means in their opinion that it was not genocide. The symmetry of each other's wines is suggested. However, the plan to carry out mass ethnic cleansing was created on the Ukrainian side. There was no such intention on the Polish side. There's evidence of that. In the 1935 CNS training program, it was written: "The fighter should not hesitate to kill his father, brother, greatest colleague if he receives such an order and the need for it actually requires it (...) The worst torture, petitions and begging of the victims should be seen with open eyes that we are punishing the enemy of our organization or the ideas that are still alive would do the same to us or worse. High Izbo! I think it's about time we made a moral evaluation for the crimes we committed. To build a common, good neighbourly future, we must build in the spirit of truth. Let the truth become a basis for national reconciliation and forgiveness. It is high time to build a good and friendly future for our Slavic nations. Meanwhile, flagshipism is dangerously developing in our eastern neighbor. Katom is standing monuments and glorifying their crimes. You have to separate yourself from these behaviors. As representatives of our nation, we are obliged to accept the Day of Remembrance of the Murdered Kresowians. Their sacrifice of life deserves our memory and gratitude. High Izbo! The establishment of this special day of remembrance of our compatriots who did not live to see free Poland is not only our duty, but the restoration of the right place in history. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-sejm-22-2.u814	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen! On July 10th, the XXIII International Music Festival of Drozdowo - Łomża 2016 is held. XXIII International Music Festival Drozdowo - Łomża 2016 is one of many cultural events of this type held cyclically in the Podlasie voivodship. This year's edition is addressed to a wide range of audiences, to take place on July 1, 2016 and will cover small and larger towns of our voivodship. The capital of the festival is Drozdowo, where the former estate of the Lutosławski family is located. From this family comes the great Polish composer of the 20th century. Witold Lutosławski, whose 100th anniversary was celebrated in 2013. It is on the premises of this property, where the Museum of Nature is presently located, that two events are taking place which constitute the buckle of the International Music Festival of Drozdowo - Łomża Days, i.e. The inaugural concert and the final concert. Most concerts will take place every year in Łomża and surrounding towns such as Jedwabne, Czyżew, Tykocin and Kolno. These places of presentation of festival concerts are important centres on the map of Poland which testify to the multiculturalism of our homeland. The Festival is a unique event that creates the possibility of wide contact with classical music, both the demanding one and the one that is used to be called: classical popular music. The performers of festival concerts are outstanding Polish and foreign artists of opera and operatic scenes, but also young artists who sometimes take their first stage steps there gain experience by performing with well-known and recognized artists. Since the beginning of the festival, it has been the intention of organizers to present endless values of classical music, facilitate access to this music and encourage listeners to receive it. The repertoire of each edition of the festival is complemented by special concerts addressed to a wider audience, presenting hits from the most famous musicals and films, ethnic and improvised music, including traditional jazz, but also jazz classical music arrangements. The festival gathers around its ideas of people of art, cultural animators, volunteers, inhabitants of the region, builds a rich network of local partnerships and what is important promotes the culture and cultural value of the small homeland both in Poland and beyond. The event is free for the public. Artists travel to small localities to share their talents with people whose access to high culture is very limited. I cordially invite you on behalf of performers, organizers and sponsors, wishing you an unforgettable artistic experience, to XXIII International Music Festival Drozdowo - Łomża 2016.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-sejm-22-2.u815	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! A few days ago, brutal rape occurred near the railway station in Pile. A wildly attacked victim miraculously escaped with life, but the consequences of this event will struggle for the rest of his life. The co-operation of the Rail Guard, the P.I.P.D. and the D.A.'s office resulted in the suspect being apprehended a few hours after the incident. It is important to stress the personal involvement of the Minister of Justice of the Prosecutor General in this case. Mr Zbigniew Ziobra's intervention results in the conduct of the article on rape with particular cruelty. Thanks to the tighter qualifications, the rapist can go to jail for a long time. The application of this provision also excludes the possibility of conditional suspension of penalties for the perpetrator, and unfortunately such penalties are often imposed by independent courts, recently in Bielsko-Biała. The Minister's actions are directly in line with the policy of the Government of Law and Justice: zero tolerance to the perpetrators of cruel crimes. It also shows that the decision to merge the role of Minister of Justice and the Attorney General from a few months ago was right and, contrary to some comments, serves the public and public charge. The amendments proposed by the Ministry of Justice in the Penal Code, extending the statutory limits for imprisonment, are clearly good solutions to tighten the rules for sex offenders with particular cruelty. I believe that the legal changes proposed by the Ministry will find universal acceptance of all political forces, will not be contested by the Constitutional Tribunal or the Ombudsman and will be quickly implemented. With such important and fundamental issues as security, there is no room for division. The state towards degenerates must be ruthless, strong and above all effective. This is how law and justice works, and I am sure that we will be consistent in this. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, For creatures who commit great brutality and victims of innocent people, punishment must be absolutely severe. This is the only right way to go, not to create fiction, but to build a truly just state.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-sejm-22-2.u816	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! This year, the 400th anniversary of the town's location is celebrated in Nowy Wiśnicz. I am honored to be able to look with you at the beautiful history of this city when I hold the seat of a Member of the Polish Parliament. This extraordinary town is filled with history and magnificent monuments, from a powerful castle beginning, on wooden, roadside figures to the end. He owes his uprising to Lubomirski, who in the first half. The 17th century made Wiśnicz their native nest. The first owners of these lands were the mighty Gryphy family. Probably at the beginning of the 14th century, Wiśnicz got into the hands of the knight's family Kmithy of the Crest of Szreniawa. The apogee of the greatness of the family fell on the I half. The 16th century, when Piotr V Kmita, Marshal of the Crown and the Cracow Voivode, was the master of Wiśnicz, one of the richest and most influential people in Poland. After the death of the last of Kmita Wiśnicz after a few years of family disputes, he passed into the hands of Barzów, who seriously owed the cherry goods. In 1593. Stanisław Barzy sold Wiśnicz Castle and its goods to Sebastian Lubomirski. The capture of Wiśnicz by Stanisław Lubomirski started a period of greatness of the village. First of all, Lubomirski led to the establishment under the castle of the city, which was later called Nowy Wiśnicz. It happened on June 8, 1616, when King Zygmunt III Vasa granted the city a locality privilege in which he allowed three annual fairs and warehouses for goods coming from Hungary - wine, copper, iron. For the better development of trade in this city, the king released the cherry merchants from paying customs throughout the Crown. In 1620 in the city the parish was erected, which a few years later received a magnificent Baroque church founded by the voivode. The Assumptions of the Blessed Virgin Mary and St. John the Baptist. Wiśnicz's period of glory passed with the death of Stanisław Lubomirski in 1649. Neither his son Alexander, nor Joseph's grandson, nor the next owners treated Wiśnicz as an ancestral residence. In 1783, Wiśnicz suffered another loss - the Austrian Emperor Joseph II destroyed the monastery of the barefoot Carmelites, and the monastery buildings were converted into a heavy prison and a criminal court. The biggest blow to the city, however, was a huge fire in 1863, which consumed almost the entire wooden building of New Wiśnicz. How beautiful these were houses, we can see today, watching drawings by Jan Matejka, who was a frequent guest in Wiśnicz, because from here his wife Theodora from Giebultowskie came from. Today Nowy Wiśnicz is an important cultural, economic and historical centre of the Lesser Poland voivodship. 400th anniversary of the New Year's Uprising Wiśnicza is not only a celebration of the city, but above all a celebration of all its inhabitants, because it is they who create history, multiculturalism and richness of the city. That's what's going on in New York. Wiśnicz was born a great painter Juliusz Kossak, and more or less connected with this city such artists as Jan Matejko, Stanisław Klimowski, Stanisław Nowak, Marian Rojek or Jan Brzękowski. On the occasion of my birthday, I would like to pass on to the local authorities of New Wiśnicz and all its residents the wishes of the next successful years of development. May every decision made best serve the city. I wish you only exceptional days, and the anniversary will be an inspiration to the next unique challenges.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-06-sejm-22-2.u817	I'm ordering a recess until tomorrow, i.e. By 7 July 2016, at 7 p.m. 9. Thank you very much. [[Adjournment at the meeting at 3 p.m. 22 min 56]]
