ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-27-sejm-17-1.u1	I'm opening a sitting. [[Marshal hits Marshal's staff three times.]] I would like to call Peter Babiarz and Martin Duszek to the secretaries of today's proceedings. The minutes and list of speakers will be led by Piotr Łukasz Babiarz. [[Game in the O.R., bell ringing.]] I ask Members to take their seats. I consider the minutes of the 16th session of the Sejm to be adopted in the absence of objections. The group of Members submitted a bill amending the Act on Special Solutions related to the organisation of the visit of His Holiness Pope Francis to the Republic of Poland and the World Youth Days - Kraków 2016. The design is print number 446. Therefore, after obtaining the uniform opinion of the Seniors Convention, I decided to supplement the agenda by a point covering the first reading of this draft law. In this case, I propose that the Sejm consent to the application of the article. Article 37 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 4 Rules of Procedure of the Sejm. If I do not hear opposition, I will understand that the Sejm has accepted the offer. [[Game in the O.R., bell ringing.]] High Sejm, I ask you to stop talking and take your seats. The Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development has submitted a report on the government draft law amending the Act on the Registration and Protection of the Names and Designations of Agricultural Products and Foods and on Traditional Products and on certain other laws. The report shall be in print No 450. Therefore, pursuant to Article. 95e of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm, I have decided to supplement the agenda by a point covering the examination of this report. The Public Finance Commission has submitted a report on a government draft law on specific rules for the performance of certain tasks in the field of computerization of the activities of tax administrations, customs and fiscal control. The report shall be published in the Official Journal of the European Union. Therefore, after obtaining the uniform opinion of the Seniors Convention, I decided to supplement the agenda by a point covering the examination of this report. In this case, I propose that the Sejm consent to the application of the article. 51 (3) of the Sejm Regulation. If I do not hear opposition, I will understand that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. The groups of Members have submitted draft laws: - on national media, print No 442, - audiovisual contribution, print No 443, - Provisions introducing the National Media Act and the Audiovisual Contribution Act, print No 444. At the meeting of the Seniors Convention, objections were raised to the addition of these items to the agenda. These are, according to art. The Commission shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on I will put these items to the vote in turn to complete the agenda. Let me remind you that according to the article. The Commission shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 108 The adoption of the proposal to supplement the agenda will mean that the Sejm has agreed to the application of Article in these cases. Article 37 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 4 Rules of Procedure of the Sejm. With a formal proposal from Mr Ryszard Terlecki. There you go. [[Game in the O.R.]] [[Voice from the room: Shh...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-27-sejm-17-1.u2	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! I have a formal motion. I wanted to withdraw our request to limit the discussion time, the request made, from 15 minutes, as most wished, to 10 minutes. [[Applause]] I also wanted to make a second motion in view of the fact that we will vote on the three laws that are essentially unity. I would like to propose a change in the voting procedure and a joint vote on the three proposals that we are about to proceed with. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-27-sejm-17-1.u3	Okay, we'll proceed to the vote right now. There's a formal conclusion, it's three draft laws. We'll proceed with the vote. [[Voice from the Chamber: Formal requests!]] Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of deciding the points in one vote, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 445 Members voted. 249 voted against - 194, 2 Members abstained. I state that the Sejm has accepted the motion. [[Mr. Marshal, with a formal motion.]] We are voting on three draft laws to complete the order, i.e. on national media, printing No 442, on audiovisual contribution, printing No 443, and provisions introducing the National Media Act and the Audiovisual Contribution Act, printing No 444. Who is in favour of supplementing the agenda with points covering these three billings, please raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 447 Members voted. 235 voted against - 212, no one abstained. I find the Sejm has accepted the offer. [[Formal conclusion.]] [[What about the formal conclusions? Mr Marshal, there are Members who are enrolled in the formal proposals.]] These proposals are pointless as far as 15 minutes are concerned, and this has been withdrawn. I mean, the objection to 15 minutes has been dropped. The Sejm Bureau proposes that the Sejm should listen to ten-minute statements on behalf of the clubs in discussions on the draft Energy Efficiency Act. The Sejm Bureau also proposes that the Sejm should listen to the five-minute statements on behalf of the clubs in discussions on the other items of the agenda, except those concerning media matters. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the proposals. I can't hear you objecting. I would like to inform you that the Seniors' Convention accepted the proposal of the Bureau of the Sejm to consider current information at the meeting on additional tax burdens on Poles and not to assist borrowers, which was requested by the Parliamentary Club of the Polish People's Party. The agenda items of this meeting will be dealt with in accordance with the order adopted by the Bureau of the Sejm and the Seniors' Convention. Information on this matter, as well as the list of laws that the Senate adopted without amendments, are available in the Sejm Information System. Before I ask the Secretary to read the messages, I inform you that Members have come forward with formal proposals. Mr Jerzy Meysztowicz, Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-27-sejm-17-1.u4	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! On the basis of the article. 184 item 1 I would like to ask for a break in the proceedings, the convening of the Seniors' Convention and the inclusion on the agenda of the item: Information from the Marshal of the Sejm on the results of the verification of the legality of the vote on the application to the Constitutional Tribunal of Prof. Zbigniew Jędrzejewski, as well as information on the following questions: Why did you inform the Marshal in a letter to the President that everything was done in accordance with the law before the end of the investigation? Did you inform the Marshal of this incident after receiving information about the crime in the courtroom? Why, despite your knowledge of irregularities and an invalid voice, did you testify to the Marshal's untruth, stating the outcome of the vote? [[This is not a formal conclusion.]] Why did you once again break the Marshal's Rules of Procedure of the Sejm, not allowing me to file a formal request for a recess in order to collect 30 signatures under the motion for a resummation of the vote? Once again, the vote could have been of a completely different nature, a different outcome, and as a result the whole voting procedure could have changed. [[You didn't file a motion.]] Mr. Marshal! You're the second person in the country. We expect your marshal to obey the law and follow the rules of the Sejm, not the face of the President. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-27-sejm-17-1.u5	I accept with great care and humility the views of the Member, including those concerning the mines you are talking about, but, Your Sejm, there has just been a meeting of the Senior Convention, there has been no such conclusion, and therefore I do not see the need to convene the Convention. Information on the vote is available to all in the Sejm Information System, on websites. Mr Krzysztof Brejza, the Civic Platform Club, has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-27-sejm-17-1.u6	Mr. Marshal! In accordance with Article 2, the following paragraph is added: Paragraph 184. 3 paragraph 9 of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm invites us to vote by name in this sitting, using the ballot cards signed by the name of the Member. [[Voice from the Chamber: We vote...]] Of course, I justify this by the fact that on April 14 there was an outrageous incident - committing a crime in this room. Contrary to the obligation under the Act, Mr Marshal did not make available - and the application of the Civic Platform Club was submitted to your Marshal in the manner of accessing public information - recordings or information about readers by which Members voted. I will point out that this is an obligation, it obliges you, and you have no right to make the provision of this information subject to conditions that would not be governed by law. You can't freely refuse to give such information. You were talking about the ongoing criminal proceedings, about the prosecution's handling the case. Well, I'll let you know that according to the article. 5 The law must not restrict access to information on cases resolved in criminal proceedings on the basis of the protection of the interests of the party, where the proceedings concern public authorities, and this procedure concerns public authorities. [[Applause]] I'm also informing you that according to Art. You have until tomorrow 23 of this bill to comply with the citizens' platform's request. Acting against a duty imposed on you is a crime. Please talk to your lawyers, not from this team, but from the service of the Sejm, from the Department of Sejm Analysis. They'll explain it. Finally, only the roll call vote that the Platform has repeatedly requested from this place... [[They're all names.]] ...is a cure for a crime that's happened. Only in this way will we be sure that from the temple of law you will not be making cemeteries of law here. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Doctor!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-27-sejm-17-1.u7	High Seym! However, I would like to draw your attention, especially to the Member, not to abuse words by talking about crime, because there are certain regulatory consequences that can be put at risk. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] [[Voice from the hall: Ha, ha, ha!]] [[Access to public information!]] [[The marshal's scaring the MPs? What about material immunity?]] I must remind you once again that information about the vote is available in the Sejm Information System, and there you can, any of you, find out about it. [[It's on the website.]] On the other hand, if the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm are taken into account, this request has been made correctly - it is a change in the way the vote is conducted. Except because today I am not planning on holding any votes, I propose that this vote be held on Friday as point 1 in the voting procedure. If there is agreement and I do not hear opposition, I will understand that the Sejm has accepted the proposal. I can't hear you objecting. Mr Andrzej Halicki, the Civic Platform Club, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-27-sejm-17-1.u8	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! What Mr Brejza was just talking about is not a trivial matter. I would like to remind you once again that the refusal to make public information available is a violation of the article. 61 Constitution and two articles of the Public Information Act - Art. Article 2 and Article 2 10. [[Applause]] If the marshal doesn't answer all the clubs because it's a matter that concerns the whole Sejm and the functioning of this House by tomorrow, then we're running the procedure before the administrative court in due course. [[Applause]] [[The voice from the hall: Oh, dear!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-27-sejm-17-1.u9	I would like to draw Mr Andrzej Halicki's attention to the fact that he has acted in an irregular manner, [[Joy in the Chamber]] Please follow the rules for the future. Mr Wojciech Król, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-27-sejm-17-1.u10	Dear Marshal, Prime Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I'm filing a formal request for a break and a convocation of the Senior Convention. This is necessary in order to re-examine whether it is appropriate for the Sejm to proceed at this meeting of the Sejm on the National Media Act and the audiovisual fee. I would also like this break to be used by politicians of the ruling party to listen to the exposé by Prime Minister Beata Szydło, who during her exposé said that she would listen to the voice of Poles that she would talk to the opposition. Prime Minister, those words came from here. Today we have another example. The bill hit April 20th, is pushed by a knee, without consultation, and this bill is a very bad bill. It's not about national media, it's about party media, and the audiovisual fee is really a propaganda-party contribution. [[Applause]] Ladies and gentlemen, I ask for this reflection. I ask for a recess, and I ask that this bill be submitted for consultation. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-27-sejm-17-1.u11	I must remind you again and again the High House that before the beginning of the meeting there was the Senior Convention. Such requests have not been made, and I therefore consider this proposal to be pointless. Mr Janusz Sanocki also made a formal request.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-27-sejm-17-1.u12	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Dear Members of the Platform! Mr. Krzysztof Brejza! Please don't abuse the word crime. [[Formal conclusion!]] This is a formal request that you do not abuse the word "crime," because... [[There's no such conclusion.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-27-sejm-17-1.u13	Mr President, this cannot be the case. This is not a formal conclusion. Excuse me, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-27-sejm-17-1.u14	...that drives... Mr. Marshal, in that case, discipline Members who abuse the words "crime." [[I'm gonna need you to take a lesson in logic.]] No one's said that so far. Until the court finds that this is a crime, gentlemen of this Don't do it. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-27-sejm-17-1.u15	Thank you, sir. I ask the Secretary to read the messages. [[I want to correct. My name has been called, Mr. Marshal, and I want to correct it.]] Please don't disturb me. I ask the Secretary to read the messages.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-27-sejm-17-1.u16	I would like to inform you that the following Commission meetings will be held today: - to State Control in conjunction with the Committee on Public Finances, - for Petitions, - Infrastructure. All three committees at 3 p.m. 6:30. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-27-sejm-17-1.u17	Thank you very much. We proceed with the examination of item 1 of the agenda: the report of the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development on the government draft law amending the law on the financing of the common agricultural policy (prints Nos 403 and 406). I ask Mr Zbigniew Dolata to submit a report to the committee. [[Game in the O.R.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-27-sejm-17-1.u18	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! Minister! High Izbo! I have the honour to present a report by the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development on the government draft law amending the law on the financing of the common agricultural policy. This report is contained in print No 406 and the draft law to which it relates is published in print No 403. Marshal of the Sejm on 11 April this year. sent to the first reading in the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development the draft law contained in print 403. It was held at a committee meeting on 13 April. The reasons for the bill were presented by the Secretary of State at the Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development, Minister Jacek Bogucki. [[Game in the O.R., bell ringing.]] The need for an amendment to the Act on the financing of the common agricultural policy arises from the need to allow local authorities to receive funding for pre-financing of certain measures carried out in the framework of the RDPs for the period 2014 to 2020. [[Game in the O.R.]] [[President of the session includes Deputy Marshal Joachim Brudziński]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-27-sejm-17-1.u19	Excuse me, sir, would you excuse me for a moment? High Izbo! I would ask that the parliamentarians, who wish to continue the discussions not related to the agenda item, wish to turn to the colloquials in order to enable the rapporteur to report quietly on behalf of the committee. I'm asking you to transfer these conversations to the Sejm's cockroaches. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-27-sejm-17-1.u20	Thank you very much, Marshal. This applies to agricultural land consolidation activities carried out and carried out by starosts as a task of government administration. These measures are necessary to finance preparatory work, including to finance the costs of preparing the technical documentation necessary for the preparation of an application for assistance under the RDPs for the period 2014 to 2020 by the starosts. In addition, the amendment will allow the beneficiaries of the Rural Development Programme to be re-established for 2014 and 2020 by the deadline for submitting an application for an advance in investment activities and an application for pre-financing of aid in the framework of an action involving the setting up of producer groups and producer organisations. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! [[Game in the O.R., bell ringing.]] [[Calm the government down.]] The amendment will also harmonise the rules on the submission of applications to the Minister of Finance for funds to meet the needs reported by the paying agencies and help to clarify the rules on the reimbursement by local authorities of part of the non-refundable grant from the European Agricultural Fund for Rural Development. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-27-sejm-17-1.u21	I would like to apologize again, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-27-sejm-17-1.u22	The introduction of these changes will improve spending under the common agricultural policy. [[Game in the O.R.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-27-sejm-17-1.u23	Mr President, I would like to apologize once again and ask the ladies and gentlemen of the ministers who occupy their benches to allow the ministers and ladies to leave government benches and to continue these discussions if necessary outside the sitting room. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-27-sejm-17-1.u24	Again, Mr. Marshal, thank you very much. Finally, the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development at its meeting on 13 April considered the draft law that I was discussing, with a few minor amendments of an editorial and legislative nature. On behalf of the committee, I request the High Sejm to adopt a government draft law amending the law on the financing of the common agricultural policy in the version contained in print No 406. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-27-sejm-17-1.u25	Thank you very much, sir. I would like to inform you that the Sejm has agreed to hear five minutes' statements on behalf of the clubs in the discussion on this item. I'm opening a discussion. Mr Zbigniew Dolata will speak again on behalf of the Parliamentary Club. You're welcome, sir. [[To summer, to summer...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-27-sejm-17-1.u26	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I have the honour to present the position of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice on the government draft law amending the law on the financing of the common agricultural policy, print Nos 403 and 406. The aim of the project is to implement European Union law, but also - which should be emphasised in particular - meets the expectations of local governments and farmers. Its adoption will facilitate the process of consolidation of agricultural land, as the starosts will be able to receive funding under the Rural Development Programme 2014-2020 for preparatory work, including the technical documentation necessary for the implementation of the merger, even before the contract is concluded. In addition, the adoption of a draft law will enable farmers to re-establish the deadline for submitting an application for pre-financing of aid under the action: Setting up producer groups and producer organisations. This will allow aid to be obtained by farmers who, for random reasons, e.g. in connection with their stay in the hospital, they have not submitted an application within the time limit. I have already said about the other regulations that have been included in this draft law, when I speak as rapporteur for the committee, so I will not repeat these issues. Since the proposed amendments will improve the spending of funds under the common agricultural policy, the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice at third reading will vote in favour of the adoption by the High House of Government of a draft amendment to the law. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-27-sejm-17-1.u27	Thank you very much, sir. And please take the floor of Mr Leszek Ruszczyk, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-27-sejm-17-1.u28	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I have the honour to present the position of the Civic Platform club vis-à-vis the draft law amending the law on the financing of the common agricultural policy. The amendments to the Act of 27 May 2015 on the financing of the common agricultural policy aim to improve the public spending. They relate to the possibility for local government units to receive funds for pre-financing of modernisation and adaptation measures under the Rural Development Programme 2014-2020. They enable producer groups and producer organisations to be set up in the framework of the RDP and to carry out work related to the preparation of technical documentation, including by starosts, in connection with the integration of land prior to the signing of the financial assistance agreement. The Act gives the possibility to restore the deadline for the submission of an application, of course in justified cases, to allow the transfer of funds from both the European Agricultural Guarantee Fund and the European Agricultural Fund for Rural Development, which has not yet been available, to allow the transfer of funds to the paying agency on the basis of the application and the schedule of the Minister for the supervision of the action, to arrange for the obligation to reimburse unrefundable technical assistance for the revenue of the State budget, to clarify the rules and conditions for the clearance of appropriations for pre-financing eligible costs in support of local development support for the Leader initiative and to indicate on the websites the competence of the individual programme operators, which enables the beneficiaries to collect applications. In 2003 the Poles decided by referendum that Poland was part of the European Community. We're proud of it. I remind all those who contest being part of the European Community of the huge civilization leap that we have made thanks to our presence in the European Union. It is in a special way that this can be seen in the Polish village. Thanks to subsidies and EU programmes in every village, we can see modern roads, schools, fields, health centres, folk houses or renovated temples. We owe all this to the enormous commitment and work of the Polish farmer. It is the duty of the rulers - and this is what I would like to recall when discussing this law - not only to raise funds for the Polish village, but above all to supervise the entire number of officials who provide these subsidies. We see what it looks like today - I talk to farmers - professionals have been replaced by ignorant. [[Applause]] [[Bravo!]] Don't be afraid of the farmers, go to the country, you'll hear those bitter words. Instead of subsidies, the minister advises you to take credit. The only thing you've succeeded so far is the laws on land and forests, which farmers boldly call a bad change. Nevertheless, the Civic Platform Club will support this bill because it aims to implement European Union law. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-27-sejm-17-1.u29	Thank you very much. Please take the floor of Mr Norbert Kaczmarczyk, Kukiz Club15. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-27-sejm-17-1.u30	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour to present the position of the Kukiz Parliamentary Club15 on the Act amending the Act on the financing of the common agricultural policy. The project aims to enable local government units to receive funding for pre-financing operations under the action: Support for investments related to the development, modernisation and adaptation of agriculture and forestry covered by the Rural Development Programme for the 2014-2020 period. This will take place prior to the conclusion of the grant agreement and the possibility of re-establishing the deadline for submitting an application for an advance in investment activities and an application for pre-financing, the granting of aid under the action: Creation of producer groups and producer organisations of the Rural Development Programme. The project concerns two funds: the European Agricultural Guarantee Fund and the European Agricultural Fund for Rural Development. In the current law, only the appropriations in the part concerning the European Agricultural Fund for Rural Development shall be transferred to the paying agency at the request of the Minister for Rural Development, drawn up on the basis of the needs of the paying agency. In the proposed amendment, the same rule will apply to measures in the part concerning the European Agricultural Guarantee Fund. The project also sets out the conditions for the reimbursement of the non-refundable part of the European Agricultural Fund for Rural Development, introduces the possibility for local authorities to receive funds for pre-financing implementation costs. It clarifies the terms and conditions of the payment and the rules for the clearance of funds for pre-financing the eligible costs incurred for the implementation of operations under the action: Support for local development. The project introduces the possibility of re-establishing the deadline for submitting an application for pre-financing under the action: Setting up producer groups and producer organisations, introducing the possibility of re-establishing the deadline for submitting an application for advance payments after the conclusion of the award agreement and ordering the handling of applications submitted after the deadline. It is planned that the total public resources allocated to the 2014-2020 RDPs will amount to more than EUR 13.5 billion, of which over 8.5 billion will be from the European Union budget and almost EUR 5 billion is a national contribution. Within the framework of the Rural Development Programme 2014, a total of 15 actions will be implemented. Kukiz15 will support the amendment of the Act on the financing of the common agricultural policy. It is worth noting here that Polish farmers currently receive an average of around EUR 240 per hectare per year. This is below the EU average and much less than the quotas for food producers in the Netherlands or France. Richer countries maintain their market advantage despite the gradual alignment of production costs across the Union, so long-term changes are necessary. This will be detrimental to developed countries, but it seems most fair. During his campaign, President Andrzej Duda repeatedly talked about equalizing subsidies. I personally asked the President about this during his visit to the Podkraków Proszowice. During his term of office, the President assured that this would be one of his main objectives in terms of agriculture. On the occasion of the process of amending the Act on the financing of the common agricultural policy, I ask the government party to comment on the subject of compensation. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-27-sejm-17-1.u31	Thank you very much, sir. Please take the floor of Mr Mirosław Suchon, the Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-27-sejm-17-1.u32	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I am pleased to present the position of the Poselski Club on the draft law amending the law on the financing of the common agricultural policy, print No 403, following the report of the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development in print No 406. The draft amendment we are working on introduces a number of changes, which we generally appreciate positively, and implements European Union law. Among the changes that this project is introducing, I would like to point out a number of possible impacts on the effectiveness of the use of funding. However, at first I would like to share with you a brief reflection on the Rural Development Programme in general, because unfortunately, the legislative changes themselves, even the best, will not ensure the use of funds - the use in general and the use in such a way as to add value. This is where it is crucial that in the Rural Development Programme, a number of programmes are completely missed. In such a situation, even the most sincere desire only paves the way for us to a kind of hell that is, depending on the situation, or to not use the funds, or to use them in such a way that it can only be seen as a waste of resources. I'm gonna go back to the project now. New regulations include: will enable local authorities to receive funds before concluding the grant agreement for pre-financing under the sub-measures: Support for investments related to the development, modernisation and adaptation of agriculture and forestry covered by the Rural Development Programme 2014-2020. This is a significant change, as the current pre-financing of actions is only possible on the basis of an agreement already concluded. On the other hand, part of the expenditure concerns actions which in fact enable the aid to be used, which make it possible to submit an application at all. In many cases, it would not have been possible to use the funds without such pre-emptive measures. To put it simply, this change will make it possible to use the funds that are available. The project also introduces the possibility of re-establishing the deadline for submitting an application for an advance in investment activities and an application for pre-financing of aid in action: Creation of producer groups and producer organisations under the Rural Development Programme for the 2014-2020 period. As indicated by the Government in the explanatory memorandum, it will be possible to restore this deadline both in one case and in the other case at the request of the beneficiary within 21 days from the date of the end of the infringement, e.g. caused by the beneficiary's stay in the hospital. This is, of course, a change that meets the needs of the beneficiaries of the programme. This change also deserves to be supported as much as possible. Another amendment is to harmonise the rules on the transfer of funds to the paying agency for the financing of the common agricultural policy in the part to be refunded from the European Agricultural Guarantee Fund and the European Agricultural Fund for Rural Development. The harmonisation of the rules is judged as positive as possible, such standardisation is desirable. The provisions of today's proceedings also take into account the fact that the aid is granted by agreement rather than by decision. The project will also include changes to the harmonisation of the return rules for technical assistance. All these changes in our assessment go in the right direction and deserve attention and support. But, ladies and gentlemen, despite Parliament's efforts and the adoption of better laws, we cannot expect the problems of rural development programmes to cease. The main barrier to the wide-ranging effectiveness of these programmes is their mismatch. The number of programs is simply for various reasons unaccounted for, and the resources are wasted. Unfortunately, in many cases we are wasting resources that could allow for a civilization leap in rural areas. We therefore call on the government to take measures that will result in better matching of these programmes and will make changes made using these funds not only effective but also effective. And finally, in the process of this project, given what I just said about efficiency, I have to mention penalties. It's a very complex subject. There are also very complex reasons for imposing penalties on Poland. EUR 60 million already paid, EUR 115 million cancelled and 25% expenditure planned from March to February next year must lead to extortion of a better organisation on the part of the Republic of Poland irrespective of external factors. Such great measures cannot be wasted because one or another office was not prepared to carry out its duties or because the ministry could not prepare good rules. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-27-sejm-17-1.u33	Thank you very much, sir. Please take the floor of Mr Marek Sawicki. I would also like to inform the High House that, despite the late days, the observers of our debates have persisted. They're with us at the Seym Gallery. We greet them warmly. [[Applause]] And there you go, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-27-sejm-17-1.u34	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! Speaking on behalf of the Club of the Polish People's Party on the report of the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development on the Government's draft law amending the Act on the financing of the common agricultural policy, prints 403 and 406, I would like to point out that both the rapporteur and my previous speakers discussed in detail the directions of the amendments and the proposals for amendment. On behalf of the club, I just want to state that the changes are going in the right direction and that my club will support them. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[That's a good change.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-27-sejm-17-1.u35	Thank you very much, sir. I would like to inform you that three of your parliamentarians have signed up for the questions. I'm setting time for the question -- two minutes. Mr Dunin will be the first question to be asked. If there are no more questions to ask, I close the list of people. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-27-sejm-17-1.u36	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! That's a good direction to change the bill. As you can see, Minister, where you work well, where there are good ideas, good solutions, as a Platform club, we support. Like a friend in the club speech said, we'll support. I'm very happy because it's a bit of a bow towards the geodesic brothers, coming out to face when it comes to merges. Before the physical process of merging actually begins, much sooner you need to talk and spend money. So thank you very much, this is a good direction for merge work. As you know, Poland is heavily shredded. This gives us a chance to finally make these farms look good when it comes to the agrarian structure. Thank you very much. The Platform Club will support this change project. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Well, well, well.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-27-sejm-17-1.u37	Thank you very much, sir. And please take the floor of Mrs Margaret Navel.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-27-sejm-17-1.u38	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The project allows local government units to receive funding for pre-financing operations under the Rural Development Programme. In addition to other important issues, the project introduces the possibility of re-establishing the deadline for submitting an application for pre-financing of aid in action: Setting up producer groups and producer organisations. [[Game in the O.R., bell ringing.]] According to the current provision, the beneficiary may submit such an application within 30 days of the date on which the administrative decision to grant the aid became final. According to the proposed amendment, it will be possible to restore this deadline at the request of the beneficiary within 21 days of the date on which the reason for the failure to comply with the deadline, e.g. caused by the beneficiary's stay in the hospital. According to the new law, the beneficiary must establish that the infringement was without its fault. Therefore, I have such a purely technical question: How will the beneficiary have to document the reason for the failure to comply with the deadline? Will there be a catalogue of specific certificates and documents which are required to be included in the request for the restoration of the time limit? In my opinion, I think it's necessary. Thank you. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo Gretel.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-27-sejm-17-1.u39	Thank you very much. And please take the floor of Mr Adam Oldakowski, Club Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-27-sejm-17-1.u40	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! One of the Members here said that we are so bad at politics that farmers are waiting for subsidies, etc., but he did not say that we need to fix what they have ruined. Fortunately, it only lasted eight years, because if there was another term, we would really have farmers here in the Village, because they wouldn't be able to take that kind of treatment anymore. They were negotiating, they had the chance to compensate for direct payments so that they would be like in the countries of the old European Union. I have a question, Minister... [[We have led to the European average.]] It's a long way to the middle. [[To the European average. That's what you need to know, not talk nonsense.]] The European average is 800 zlotys, so you'd better count it. Minister! Is it true that we now have much less resources for rural development compared to that perspective? It is said that we have about EUR 5200 million less. [[That's not the bill.]] Is that true? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-27-sejm-17-1.u41	Thank you very much. The list of Members registered in the vote has been exhausted. I therefore ask the Secretary of State at the Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development of Minister Jack Bogucki to speak. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-27-sejm-17-1.u42	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! By answering the questions of representatives who have also asked us about issues beyond the scope of this law, I will start with what is directly related to the law and then try to answer some questions about similar to that sphere, but going beyond the subject matter of the law. Starting with the question... I thank the Member for those good words. I didn't notice any questions, so... [[There were no questions, there was nothing but praise, Minister.]] She asked how to document the lack of possibility to apply for an advance within the deadline. Any form is acceptable. It is sufficient to declare to the beneficiary that, for reasons beyond his control, he could not submit this request. This is a sufficient form of profiling this situation. Another question, Mr Oldakowski, was the issue of rural development measures. The numbers don't lie here. It was 13.2 billion, it's 8.5. Just divide these numbers by yourself, multiply by 100% And you'll be able to see how much that amount has fallen. The comments of the club representatives also raised issues of equalisation of subsidies. Kukiz club rep asked about it. As part of the review of the common agricultural policy, Poland will report and raise the problem of compensation, as these subsidies are still well below the European average. Yesterday, at a meeting with my counterpart, the Spanish Agriculture Secretary, the Spanish Deputy Minister, I raised this issue. Spain is next to us in terms of the amount of subsidies, one place above but also below the average. We have a common position here. We are looking for countries like us, and there are more in the European Union, even though statistics should indicate that there are the same number of countries... No, there are more countries below the average in the European Union than those with higher subsidies, so we are looking for allies, we are looking for those who have a similar situation and will support us in this area, but we will also convince those countries with higher subsidies that it is in the interests of the European Union as a whole to equalize subsidies. We hope that, as part of the review of the common agricultural policy, it will be possible to revise the existing position and to recognise that the very purpose of the European Union is only if, of course, subsidies are the same under the same conditions, because they also depend on other conditions, such as climate and climate conditions or types of production, but, as far as the same conditions are concerned, subsidies should be the same under the same conditions. So we don't give up on applying for equalization. The representative of the Civic Platform talked about the payment of subsidies, about the fact that we offer loans instead of subsidies. The problem is that the previous government did not prepare the IT system in time, did not prepare the state's structures to pay the payments in advance of the bill, and thus before the end of June. Worse still, the system was prepared in such a way that commodity farmers, those who produce on the market, those who bear the highest costs of preparing for production, i.e. the costs of purchasing fertilisers, plant protection products, fuel in spring, receive these subsidies in the last order. I can promise you one thing: next year it won't be like this, because you won't be able to control how this system is being prepared anymore. This was introduced on purpose in my opinion, because it looked nice statistics saying that 90% farmers received subsidies. And that's the way it is right now, but it didn't follow 90%. Money. Less than 70% is paid measures. I assure the High House that this is not due to any lack of resources. We could withdraw the entire amount within one day. The state is ready for this. All that's missing is the technical possibilities for this payout. The great amount of work that agency employees have done to speed up payments to pay as soon as possible to enter data, prepare decisions, make decisions and pay money, is really impressive, but the technical barriers could not be changed because they were unfortunately prepared. I would also like to thank the Modern Club and the PSL Club for supporting good changes. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-27-sejm-17-1.u43	Thank you very much. Please take the floor of the rapporteur for the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-27-sejm-17-1.u44	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I'd like to join those thanks. Indeed, in the committee, and here, in the plenary room, all the clubs have actually come to this project constructively. He is essential, important, necessary, so I think this can be a good example of substantive work. If there is no such party optics, then you can work and make a good law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-27-sejm-17-1.u45	Thank you very much, sir. The discussion is closed. We will proceed to the third reading of the bill in the voting block. We proceed with the examination of item 2 of the agenda: the report of the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development on the Parliamentary draft law amending the Act on Horse Races (Prints 356 and 422). I ask Mr Richard Bartosik to present a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-27-sejm-17-1.u46	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I have the honour to present the report of the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development on the draft law amending the horse racing law, print No 356. The Marshal of the Sejm, after consulting the Sejm Bureau, sent the above draft law to the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development for first reading on 16 March 2016. The Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development, following its first reading and the examination of this draft law at its meeting on 12 April 2016, brings forward: The High Sejm will approve the attached draft law. High Izbo! The draft law amending the Act of 18 January 2001 on horse racing aims to change the organisation of the Council of the Polish Horse Racing Club and the appointment and dismissal of the President of the Polish Horse Racing Club. In the new wording of the Act in Art. 8 It is proposed to reduce the number of members of the Council of the Polish Horse Racing Club from the previous one, which ranged from 15 to 25, to a permanent one, which is supposed to be 9 members. This reduction aims to improve the capacity of the Council to decide and draw up consensus. Amendment to Article 8 assumes that 6 members of the Council will be appointed by the Minister responsible for Agriculture from among the candidates submitted by the horse racing organisers, the breed breeders' organisations authorised to participate in horse races and the horse-owners' organisations authorised to participate in horse races, or from persons who have applied individually for a member of the board who were during the 5 years preceding the notification of that candidate to breeders or owners of at least five horses. Two of the candidates will be represented by training organisations or horse-riding organisations. On the other hand, one member will be the representative of the Minister responsible for agriculture. The biggest representation in the Council will therefore be the organizers of horse racing. High Izbo! In addition, the start of the term of office, which will take place on the day of its first meeting, shall be clarified. It has also been specified that the term of office will last four years. The draft shall also complement the powers of the Board to request the appeal of a member of the Board. In the mouth. 6 the grounds for appeal of a member of the Board have been established. In view of the change in the number of members of the Board, it is also necessary to redefine the procedure for adopting resolutions and quorums. Therefore, in the mouth. 9 Resolutions of the Council are expected to be adopted by a simple majority in the presence of at least 5 members. In the new wording of the article. 9 provides that the power to appoint and dismiss the President will, as so far, have a minister responsible for agriculture, but for this purpose a proposal from the Council of the Polish Horse Races Club will not be necessary. In the mouth. 2 it is prohibited to combine the office of President with the provision of work with another employer and to perform activities contrary to the duties of other occupations. It is also proposed to set a deadline for reporting on the activities of the Polish Horse Racing Club. Such a report for the previous year would be submitted by 30 June each year. The Minister responsible for Agriculture may accept or reject the report. The bill provides for the appointment of a new Council of the Polish Horse Racing Club and the President within 60 days of the entry into force of the amending act. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the committee, I request the adoption of the attached bill. At the same time, I would like to inform you that a minority request has been submitted. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-27-sejm-17-1.u47	Thank you, sir. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of the clubs. I'm opening a discussion. Mr Ryszard Bartosik will be the first to speak on behalf of Parliamentary Club Law and Justice. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-27-sejm-17-1.u48	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! In the committee's report, I set out the reasons for this proposal quite broadly, but I would like to add them and say that during the committee's work, the organisations involved in this area supported this proposal to a large extent - with little reservations, but in general they supported the proposal, claiming that changes were needed. Their need stems from the fact that it was difficult to reach consensus in this Council, sometimes it was difficult to gather quorums - it was simply not effective so far. This is also indicated by the reports of the Supreme Audit Chamber from previous years, which speak of certain irregularities and mismanagement. This was mainly due to the poor supervision of the Minister of Agriculture of the club. These changes are therefore necessary. The Law and Justice Club hopes that this will improve supervision and at the same time improve the functioning of the Polish Horse Racing Club. The Law and Justice Club will vote in favour of the bill presented. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-27-sejm-17-1.u49	Thank you very much. I ask you to speak on behalf of Mr Michael Szczerba's Civil Platform Parliamentary Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-27-sejm-17-1.u50	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! 175 years of horse racing tradition in Poland - although I will remind you, the first race took place in 1777, from Wola to Ujazdów. Ladies and gentlemen! The 2001 horse racing law is of great value. This law has also largely secured the horse racing track in Służewiec. It was she who handed over the newly created legal person, which is the Polish Horse Racing Club, the exercise of an inalienable property right of the State Treasury. This law protects the service track in Warsaw. This law also created a Polish jockey club - such clubs operate in many countries where horse racing is popular, where horse racing is organized. This law finally formed two bodies within the Polish Horse Racing Club - the president of the club and the council of the club. The club council according to this law, which operates continuously, are the best specialists. These are representatives of horse-breeding organisations, these are representatives of horse-breeding organisations, these are representatives of horse-breeding organisations and trainers, and finally they are representatives of horse-breeding organisations. Let me remind you that we have three horse racing organizers in Poland, we have three tracks: the serżywiecki track, the Partynice track in Wrocław and the Sopot track - Hippodrom Sopot. Ladies and gentlemen! What is this bill? This law is a leap to another institution for its complete depropriation and politicalisation. This law aims to limit the role of the Council of the Polish Horse Racing Club as a representative of organizations creating a racing and breeding environment. This is de. in fact, making the appointment and dismissal of the President conditional solely on the one-man decision of the Minister responsible for Agriculture. This is a law that eliminates the term of office of President, and it was previously a 4-year term. It was a perspective that also gave the opportunity to plan and enforce certain tasks defined by the Council. This bill has numerous substantive errors. This law has not been consulted with breeders' associations, which bring together horse owners, nor has it been consulted with horse riders' organisations or trainers' organisations or horse racing organisers. This law was not finally consulted with the Polish Horse Racing Club, a statutory state legal person. You have prepared a parliamentary bill because the Polish Horse Racing Club has not been included in this group of civil service-related laws, as well as in the ownership of functions in government agencies. That's why you're making this amendment. There is no other substantive justification. It is a parliamentary project written on the knee, which on the anniversary year, on the 175th anniversary of horse racing in Poland destroys the Polish jockey club. Ladies and gentlemen! The Civic Platform applies for rejection in full in the second reading of the Parliamentary draft law on the amendment of the horse racing law. We will not allow another politicisation of another institution, which should be characterised by absolute professionalism and substance. The Polish Horse Racing Club cannot be another horse stud in Janów Podlaski, it cannot be another experiment of good change. We are aware that it will be difficult in this House to reject this proposal. That's what we're applying for. I'll put it on your marshal's hand right now. Therefore, we also make an amendment that increases the membership of the Council to 11 members, which increases [[♪ The bell ♪]] breeders' representation, also increases the representation of horse racing organizers, eliminates the possibility for individual horse owners to submit candidates. Ladies and gentlemen! This isn't a representation. This is an absurd project that we oppose. Thank you, Marshal. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-27-sejm-17-1.u51	Thank you, sir. And please take the floor of Mr Robert Mordak, the Kukiz Club15.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-27-sejm-17-1.u52	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Kukiz Club15, I have the honour to present my position on the amendment of the Horse Races Act. The project of this law is to facilitate the activity of the Polish Horse Racing Club, except that in the draft act doubts arise the appointment and dismissal of the president of the Polish Horse Racing Club. Well, he will be appointed and cancelled by the Minister of Agriculture. Unfortunately, the Act does not specify the term of office of the President of the Polish Horse Racing Club, which clearly politicalises this function. In addition, the amendment of the law does not in any way refer to the possibility of self-financing of horse racing, which maintains the existing funding from the state budget for this organisation. This can undoubtedly be astonishing. I would like to point out that worldwide this type of activity is highly profitable. Nevertheless, Kukiz15, having regard to the welfare of horse breeders and treating this law as a transitional act in relation to the law which will adapt the matter of horse racing to European and global standards, will vote in favour of the amendment of this law. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-27-sejm-17-1.u53	Thank you. And please take the floor of Mrs Elizabeth Stępień, the Modern Posel Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-27-sejm-17-1.u54	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! All I have to do is sigh. A good change changes everything one at a time. First there was a staff in Janów Podlaski and Michałów, and now it is time for the Council of the Polish Horse Racing Club. So far everything worked well and properly, but the appetite of the ruling party reached for positions in the Polish Horse Racing Club. And in a moment we will have a new council, a new president, because the council, which has so far functioned properly, to which there were no major reservations, will no longer function after the first convening of the council. The proposed amendments strengthen the role of Minister of Agriculture, while increasing the scope of the President of the Council, who is actually appointed by the Minister himself. The organisation of the work on racing has not raised much concern so far, but this is where you need to master it, and this is where you need to change something. A reduction in the number of members of the club council from 25 to nine on the one hand can and will introduce some kind of savings related to salaries, but on the other hand it will also make it possible to suppose that when it comes to the appointment of members of the club, we will have less competent people, with less orientation, and at this point it will only make it easier to make decisions that are in line with the will of the chief. In line with the proposed amendment, six members of the Council will be appointed by the Minister of Agriculture from among the candidates submitted by horse racing organisers, breeders' and horse owners' associations admitted to participate in horse racing or persons who have submitted their candidacy individually. How can people who apply individually know the specifics of this type of activity, where people have worked out processes to facilitate and in principle improve the level and quality of the club's activities for many years? I think it should be arranged that it can't be: or, just, two candidates from here, two from here, two from here. It gives a system and a voice of reason on this council. A good change will also consist in the fact that if a member of the council makes work difficult, i.e. he has a separate opinion from the rest, he can be cancelled in accordance with the provisions that you are introducing. This is unacceptable, and I would say dangerous. Such an appeal could only be made by the organisation recommending the candidate. Similarly, with the President, the Council may appeal to the Minister for Agriculture. The authority of the Minister of Agriculture refers to the appeal of a member of the Council on his own initiative. The only thing that is not controversial is the adoption of resolutions by majority in the presence of at least half of the members. The President shall be appointed and cancelled by the Minister of Agriculture and the Council shall not be required to do so. Eventually, the Minister may at most consult. The analysis of the report NIK confirms only that nothing bad is happening in the Polish Horse Racing Club. The club works well to improve horse breeding and the development of races. The supervision of the running of the track in Służewc by PKWK is also carried out without major reservations. The irregularities indicated in the NIK report are really related to outstanding rents for boxing and stables. This is the only one, the biggest offense. The tasks imposed on the club were carried out in a manner consistent with and in accordance with the law. Until now, PKWK has been a supervisor for horse racing in Służewiec, in Partynice or Hippodrome. The modern one opposes such changes, of which it is evident that the minister decides on the shape of the council and appointed president, and the council still takes decisions according to the will of the chief. To sum up, [[♪ The bell ♪]] It is time for you to learn lessons from the lesson entitled: Amateur riding in horse studs, which cost our country irretrievably loss of image and consequently also financial. Bet on professionals, not passive, mediocre and faithful. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-27-sejm-17-1.u55	Please take the floor of Mr Mirosław Maliszewski.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-27-sejm-17-1.u56	Mr. Marshal! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, The position of the Parliamentary Club of the Polish People's Party vis-à-vis the parliamentary draft law on the amendment of the horse racing law will be negative, as we cannot really talk about any substantive changes in this project, we cannot talk about changes that are intended to improve the functioning of the Polish Horse Races Club or improve the organisation of horse racing, which in Poland have a great tradition and also have great achievements. This law is, of course, a personnel law or a personnel law, or, more specifically, as we have said here before, a law on the conversion of non-specifics into their own. For this reason, this law deserves to be rejected, at least in support of it. But the second thing that is very important, and which has a dimension even wider than the content of this law, is the limitation of the role of the Council of the Polish Horse Racing Club, not only by changing the number of members, which will cause that many organisations, active organisations that function in this sphere, many people who have great experience in this matter, will not be able to find themselves in this council because of lack of space. It's anti-Citizenish. It is also anti-Jewish that the role and competences of the Council of the Polish Horse Racing Club in this law are restricted. This is the exact opposite of where we should be headed. In well-developed societies, civil society is rather given more power to those who operate in a given sector in public space, including non-governmental organisations, than the influence of the government itself is cemented. This provision, which refers to the appointment and cancellation of the club president, gives this competence only and exclusively to the Minister of Agriculture, without giving any competence to the Council in this respect, is precisely what this cementation shows. I'd like to say something good about this project, but unfortunately I can't. We know that he is used to make personal changes and to find people who will be more subordinate to the minister. Maybe the minister would like that power, but it's also dangerous, not only for the council itself, but also for the minister himself. Once again, I will repeat these thesis that have been made concerning the situation of the stud in Janów Podlaski, where, without the competition procedure, incompetent people have been appointed for certain functions, who, within the meaning of many, have led to the difficult situation of this stud, or at least to the fact that it has lost its great achievements and respect in the international arena. After all, Mr. Marek Trela seems to be part of the current horse racing council, so perhaps... Mr. Marek Trela, who recently was the head of the Janów stud, who will probably be mentioned for this advice. I would also like to say and express my hope that if you do these changes in staff, they will be more thoughtful than those in Janów Podlaski, because we cannot afford another ridicule, another loss of trust or another exposure of institutions, organizations, and such are horse races in Poland, to international ridicule or to national ridicule, not to mention the possibility of such a tragedy as in Janów. To sum up, the Polish People's Party believes that this law is a bad change, not a good change, and for the few reasons that I said earlier, we will not support it in the further legislative process. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-27-sejm-17-1.u57	Thank you, sir. Eight ladies and gentlemen joined the questions. If there are no more volunteers, I'm closing the list of people who are written down for questions. It's time for the question to be asked for two minutes. You will be the first to speak with Krzysztof Truskolaski. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-27-sejm-17-1.u58	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Law and Justice once again proposes a law which is intended only for personal changes. PiS wants to put his hand on another institution where he wants to introduce the so-called. a good change, but unfortunately as usual it is a change only human resources. To quote the classic: they have to work somewhere. Ladies and gentlemen of the Law and Justice Members, do not go this way. As you know, Minister Jurgiel doesn't have the right hand to choose his associates. We have an example of this in the studs in Janów Podlaski, Michałów. This good change has spoiled much, and even too much. Are you going to make those mistakes again? Ladies and gentlemen, do not repeat these mistakes again. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-27-sejm-17-1.u59	Thank you. Please take the floor of Mr Stefan Romecki, the Kukiz Club15.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-27-sejm-17-1.u60	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have a question for the applicants. I've already heard it in part in the statements of the predecessors. My question is, do you really think that the president of the horse racing club must be from a political broadcast? Will you then politicize other similar institutions, sports clubs or sports clubs, dick associations, tobacco and other ointments? I think it's time to bet on the pros, not the amateurs, the laymen from the political broadcast. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-27-sejm-17-1.u61	Please take the floor of Mr Arthur Dunin.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-27-sejm-17-1.u62	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! As with the previous law, I was able to commend the government, yes, Mr applicant, reporter, unfortunately you did not even read this project well. You didn't know what you were talking about. Unfortunately, I have to say this with regret. You are the one who should explain to the Members what this bill is all about, and you are lost in it yourself. A reduction, we admit, maybe you should do this reduction, just really tell me the truth, what is the reduction, who is the representative there. It is not as you said. The minority project I tabled, the state of all the amendments at first reading you rejected, you weren't... you didn't want to talk, and there was an environment that told you that this bill was badly prepared on your knees. Or maybe one of the senators had his fingers in this bill fast, which is probably the best way to prove it. In Janów he played, now he'll play at horse racing. This is your problem, pick better tippers, better people who will write you a good project, and in fact this bill is really what the Platform representative Mr Michael Szczerba said... In fact, it is suitable for rejection and we will vote for it. On the other hand, I ask you very much to consider the amendments that have been tabled by the Civic Platform Club and the amendment, which I have already tabled during my work in committee, because it would be a good amendment if the representatives of people who know each other, professionals, could actually participate in the Council. That's my question. [[♪ The bell ♪]] whether you will consider the amendments tabled by the Platform and accept these amendments. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-27-sejm-17-1.u63	Thank you, sir. I would like to ask the floor of Mrs Joanna Kluzik-Rostkowska.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-27-sejm-17-1.u64	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I have three questions. First of all, I wanted to ask the government why you don't learn from your mistakes. You decided to manually control changes in studs in Janów Podlaski and Michałów, and the effect of this is very visible. What's more, you must withdraw from your decisions right now, and you must withdraw from the management of the stud of the man you put up there, and you are now announcing the competition. My second question. Why is it such an absurd idea that a bill to regulate the minister's duties should be a parliamentary project? I'll be honest with you, it's very surprising. I am a third member, and it would seem that what, but the laws that directly concern the minister's work, should be government laws. I think the minister himself should want to know, to want to know the opinions of different environments... [[The Minister doesn't have much to say about horses.]] ...about the job he's about to do in the future. The third question will be about personal matters. First of all, I haven't been able to find out for a long time, and maybe today I'll find out if President Durmała, i.e. Chief Michałów, is president of the office or already full president. I'm trying to find out, from Minister Jurgiel, I still can't. Secondly, in the context of cases in Janów and Michałów two names appeared. First name is Jan Dobrzyński, second name is Andrzej Wójtowicz. [[We're talking about horse racing.]] The horse environment is concerned about their presence and what these gentlemen are doing around horse-related matters, so I'd like to know if any of these gentlemen are considered as future... [[The Member says what he wants.]] ...the head of the horse racing club? Thank you. [[Applause]] [[It's in the statements.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-27-sejm-17-1.u65	Thank you. I would like to ask the floor of Mrs Margaret Płępek.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-27-sejm-17-1.u66	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! During the examination of the project, the Supreme Audit Chamber report was referred to in committee. It concerned the performance of tasks set out in the Act on horse racing and the ownership of the horse racing track in Służewiec. The irregularities established by the Supreme Chamber of Audit consisted mainly of the non-payment of rent charges for the rent of stables and boxing. These arrears arose before May 2008, i.e. before the club passed the racetrack on Służewiec to the Totalizator Sportowy. The Supreme Audit Chamber's report, mostly positive, deals with financial issues, while today's project focuses on personnel changes. The Act aims to reduce the number of members of the Council of the Polish Horse Racing Club from a liquid number from 15 to 25 members to a fixed number of 9 members. The Act only provides for changes in the organisation of the Council of the Polish Horse Racing Club and changes in the mode of appointment and dismissal of the President of the Polish Horse Racing Club. I have the impression that the purpose of the bill is not to make any changes, but to replace the members of the board and the president of the club within 60 days of its entry into force. I have a question for the applicants: Is it likely that there will be a repeat of situations that we remember from Janów Podlaski and Michałów? This is another good change from the PiS side. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-27-sejm-17-1.u67	Please take the floor of Mr Wojciech Kossakowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-27-sejm-17-1.u68	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! When discussing this project, I would like to ask the rapporteur for information from the Supreme Audit Chamber, which the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development had the opportunity to see on 12 April. It concerned the results of the audit of the performance of the tasks set out in the Horse Racing Act and in the scope of ownership supervision of the horse racing track in Służewiec in Warsaw. Did the analysis of this document and the proposals put forward by the NIK translate into the work of the committee on the process of this project? Second line. Have outstanding rent charges for the rent of stables and boxing been recovered? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-27-sejm-17-1.u69	Please take the floor of Mr Piotr Olszówka.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-27-sejm-17-1.u70	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I would like to ask the Minister a question: Is it true that a reduction in the number of members of the club will only improve the functioning of this club? Then I would like to refer to the fact that there were very strong words here, you can say, about the action, about how it would be bad after this change that will happen, I hope, soon. Nevertheless, there was no good will in the committee to discuss this subject in substance. I'd like to ask the applicants again. So far it has been registered in the Act that the number of members of the club was between 15 and 25. Did it ever happen that there were those 15 members? I would also like to ask: Will it always be like this, whatever the agricultural committee has in common... will it come down to only changes in horse studs? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-27-sejm-17-1.u71	Thank you. And please take the floor of Mr Michael Szczerba.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-27-sejm-17-1.u72	Ladies and gentlemen! When you talk about horse racing, you can't avoid breeding horses - pure Arabian horses. These are racing horses. Michałów and Janów Podlaski provided the best Arabian horses for horse racing, for these selection attempts of horses. Ladies and gentlemen! This is another law where the state's assets, our common assets, can be handed over to irresponsible hands. In the 20s of the previous century, the most prominent citizens of the city. Warsaw, horse enthusiasts, horse racing, founded this place - a racetrack on Służewiec. The company bought 150 ha. There were horse racing and one of the latest facilities in Europe, whose designer was Count Plater-Zyberk. Today you organize horse racing and this fantastic facility in the heart of our capital, the pearl of architecture, pass it on to the incompetent person, to the person whom one person calls. The council which you wish to establish under this law will have no influence on its appointment. It'll be completely facaded advice. Even though you're writing down a four-year term of office for the council, in any case the minister will be able to cancel a member of the council. Earlier, he could only do so at the request of the organization that posted him. Question to the Minister: How is the Minister responsible for agriculture [[♪ The bell ♪]] in this situation he will supervise the Polish Horse Racing Club, the Polish jockey club, which can lose its image and brand, as before Arabian horse studs? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-27-sejm-17-1.u73	As the list of persons enrolled in the questions has been exhausted, please speak to the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development, Minister Ewa Lech. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-27-sejm-17-1.u74	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I tried to write down these questions, although they were actually very similar. Unfortunately, I do not agree with the claim that these are political actions, and I do not see much in common with the studs mentioned - in Michałów and Janów Podlaski. These are two different things, absolutely. [[This is the breeding of racing horses.]] Well, it's just racing horses that are some sort of liaison here, but they're completely different entities, other things that I do, so I don't see a special relationship here. These are not political actions. The first and most important: these changes were primarily intended to regulate the existing rules in this area, in the organisation of the Council of the Polish Horse Racing Club, the mode of work of this Council and the Racing Club. I would like to say that during this short period, since I was undersecretary of state and was instructed to supervise the Polish Horse Racing Club, I have dealt with various push-ups when it comes to members of the board. We are talking here about cases where members of the Council specifically hindered its work, there was no possibility of their cancellation or when these members were appointed to the requests of organisations that ceased to exist. There was practically no way of getting rid of such a member, there wasn't even a chance that you could trade him for someone else, someone who wanted to work for me. In short, these changes are designed to organize certain organizational matters. Of course, strengthening the supervision of the Minister of Agriculture of the Polish Horse Racing Club will take place, among others. by introducing a member appointed by the Minister of Agriculture as one representative to the Council. [[The minister appoints the president, then why should he have a member of the council?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-27-sejm-17-1.u75	Mr President, please do not enter into a dispute with the Minister now. This is the time for the Minister to speak. [[I'm taking an example from Professor Pavlowicz.]] Undersecretary of State of the Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development Ewa Lech: It is clear that reducing the number of members of the board will make work easier. It will simply be easier for a smaller group to agree on certain issues, there will be fewer separate sentences. I think it's going in the right direction here. [[That's a bad example.]] The number of people who are already reporting, even though the bill has not yet entered into force, is very large. They will be reported really competent people, and this charge is rather unfair. As for the question of who will be president or this lady - sorry, I don't remember the name - which is p.o. Chief of Michałów... [[Kluzik-Rostkowska.]] Yeah, I can't answer that because it's not in my jurisdiction, so I'm not gonna answer that question. On the other hand, if there is such a question, we can answer in writing. [[Joanna Kluzik-Rostkowska: Good.]] I don't see any more lines. In general, I said... [[Member Joanna Kluzik-Rostkowska: Can we know why this is not a government project?]] Usually the project isn't government if we want to do something faster. [[Joanna Kluzik-Rostkowska: Why do you want to do this so quickly?]] [[But a moment of honesty.]] [[Ha, ha, ha.]] Excuse me, Minister. I ask the Member not to conduct polemics. If you'd like to have a chat outside the room, please ask for a meeting with the Minister. Now, on the other hand, we are at a point where the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Agriculture speaks. You had the opportunity to ask a question. The Minister's answering. Don't do polemics. Undersecretary of State of the Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development Ewa Lech: Then I'll answer in writing, too. [[Joanna Kluzik-Rostkowska: Okay, thank you.]] We will answer two questions in writing. I think that's all I've got to write down here. Most of them, unfortunately, repeated themselves. Once again, I would like to say that this is not a political action. It is only a matter of ordering certain matters which the current law has not regulated or explained, for example, the reimbursement of travel expenses, etc. This really is a very good project. That's all. Thank you. [[Applause]] Thank you, Minister. Mr Bartosik, rapporteur of the committee, please take the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-27-sejm-17-1.u76	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Seym! A few questions have been asked here, and I'll try to address some of them. Firstly, the issue of reducing the number of members of the board. So far, there may have been 15 of them, but recently there were 25 members of the council. It seemed that one organization could have four or five members on this council. We don't think it has to be that way. Enough if the organization has one member. There's gonna be savings here, and there's gonna be representation in the council. That's another line. Does the president have to be political? Of course, he doesn't have to, and I don't think he will. There was also a question about the NIK report. Did this report translate into committee work? Of course, there were some conclusions and this project is responding to these proposals in order to improve the work of this organisation. When it comes to repayment of the money that is owed to creditors, this is, unfortunately, 10% and these measures cannot be recovered. It's also in the NIK report. Ladies and gentlemen, I would just like to share some more of the conclusions of the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development, from the discussion. Namely, there are a lot of votes here from your Members, politicians, but I would like to convey what the representatives of the organisation have said. For example, a member of the Polish Association of Horse Breeders Full of English Blood Jarosław Szmyt at the meeting of the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development, when we examined this project, said, quote: I am a race horse breeder. I could only add to what the previous speakers said that change is going in the right direction. It's an action in the right direction. This is the voice of the representative of this environment, but what is more, this gentleman says this: Ladies and gentlemen, there are voices in the Chamber and there is such an opinion that the present members of the Council of the Polish Horse Racing Club are superfans. Nothing more wrong, says the representative of the environment. More harsh words have been said, and I will quote them too, not my words, but the representative of the environment: A group of smart-ass men ran to the minister to force their people, who later very often had only one task on the board - to vote for the right candidate and then to hold this candidate. Ladies and gentlemen! If the environment has such voices, I don't know where you're getting the opinion that everything has been fine so far. These words are contained in the full record of the committee meeting. But also another representative of the environment, director of the Polish Association of Horse Breeders Andrzej Stasiowski, states: In fact, there was no doubt that there was a need for change. There was also no discussion about the fact that the number of members of the board should be reduced. There were many such voices, ladies and gentlemen, in the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development. We listen to these voices and our project is going in the direction that is in line with the demands of the environment. Thank you, Marshal. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-27-sejm-17-1.u77	Thank you very much, sir. The discussion is closed. In view of the fact that, at the time of the second reading, the draft amendment was tabled, I propose that the Sejm re-direct this proposal to the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development in order to present a report. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. [[And the rejection?]] I can't hear you objecting. Thank you very much. We proceed with the examination of item 3 of the agenda: Report from the Committee on Public Finance on the Government's draft law on specific rules for the performance of certain tasks in the field of computerization of the activities of tax administrations, customs and fiscal control (prints No 395 and No 430). I ask Mr Luke Schreiber to present a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-27-sejm-17-1.u78	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour to present a report to the committee on the government draft law on specific rules for the implementation of certain tasks in the field of computerization of the activities of tax administrations, customs and tax control. The Committee on Public Finance at its meeting on 13 April this year. She's been looking into this project. The position of the government was presented by Undersecretary of State Mr Leszek Skiba. The Commission recommends that the High House adopt this government proposal without amendments. A few words about the project itself. Of course, we are dealing with an attempt to seal the VAT system. The VAT gap is estimated by the European Commission, carefully, for about EUR 10 billion, and by the Polish government even for about PLN 55 billion. The European Commission also estimates, in terms of VAT avoidance, that since 2010, there has been an increase of 18% potential VAT collection in Poland up to 27% possible revenue achieved last year. There is therefore a need to talk about rapid growth, and it will be even greater, given that in 2005 it developed at a rate of only 9%. What is the purpose of setting up a special purpose vehicle? It is intended, of course, to ensure that this company prepares a central invoice register, and this is intended to help prepare complex IT tools and purchase appropriate modules so that the tax and customs administration can operate effectively, not on the principle of oppression towards honest entrepreneurs, but on the basis of the principle of selecting potential actors in which things are to be checked. Besides, such actions, which are being taken by us today, are already in practice in other countries. There is even talk of the Portuguese effect, but this also applies to other countries. The proposals put forward by the government in this project are in line with the proposals of the Supreme Audit Chamber. For all these reasons, the Committee on Public Finance recommends that the High House adopt this draft law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-27-sejm-17-1.u79	Thank you, sir. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of the clubs. I'm opening a discussion. And please take the floor on behalf of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice by Mrs Gabriela Mastowska.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-27-sejm-17-1.u80	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Tax administrations today need increasingly effective methods to combat criminal tax fraud, particularly VAT, and tax carousels. Modern IT solutions are needed today for such effective, effective activities. As in the early 1990s, the previously unknown method of banning has been introduced in terms of excise duty collection, so at the moment there is a need to develop other methods to overtake the ideas of dishonest taxpayers. The existing solutions are insufficient. Both the amendments to the law and the checks carried out do not keep up with the ideas of tax evasion hiding in the grey area. This results in a massive reduction of tax charges in the budget. They are often detected too late and are impossible to recover, to enforce. The data from the Supreme Audit Chamber's audit show, just now presented to us the President of the Supreme Audit Chamber, that VAT fraud at the Supreme Audit Chamber in 2013 is estimated at PLN 19.7 billion, in 2014 it was already PLN 33.7 billion, in 2015 it is already PLN 81.9 billion. So that we clearly see a decreasing ratio of VAT revenue to gross domestic product, as well as all tax revenue to gross domestic product. Between 2011 and 2015 when we were dealing with a wave of unfair tax practices, the ratio of VAT revenue to gross domestic product decreased from 7,7% up to 6.9% Whereas the ratio of all tax revenue to gross domestic product in Poland decreased from 15,5 to 14,5% , which shows that the power of the state budget from this main source of budgetary revenue, i.e. tax revenue, is weakening. Therefore, taking into account these circumstances, taking into account the needs of the Polish economy and Polish society, as well as international experience, the current government has taken a very urgent approach to a series of measures to prevent unfair tax practices. This law is one of the elements of these actions, which are undertaken quite quickly and, hopefully, will be very effective. They require a great deal of effort from the government, the applicants, the initiators, but they also require a great deal of effort from Parliament. During the discussion of the project in the Committee on Public Finance, the opposition, as usual, raised issues such as the security of sensitive data, the way in which they were protected, costs and savings, and raised doubts about the benefits and the organisational form of the special purpose vehicle to be established and to carry out the basic tasks at this stage. The Legislative Office has made very numerous amendments, which were accepted by representatives of the Ministry of Finance, by the Undersecretary of State. As a result, the Committee on Public Finance sent this draft to further legislative work, 20 against 8 opponents, accepted this proposal. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-27-sejm-17-1.u81	Thank you very much, Member. And please take the floor of Mrs Isabella Leszczyna, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-27-sejm-17-1.u82	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! Minister! The essence of the submission is the establishment of a special purpose vehicle to build an IT system sealing the tax system, a system that is de facto to enter a central invoice register. This is another step in sealing the tax system after the uniform control file introduced by the Government of the Civic Platform and the Sejm of the previous term. That's very good, that's where we agree. However, why did the Ministry of Finance come up with the idea of setting up a company which, using the latest information technology, which, according to the Minister, cannot afford the Polish state to filter economic events on the market? We do not understand this and we generally disagree with this solution. We agree that the actions of the Civic Platform government in sealing the tax system should continue, perhaps modify, perhaps where necessary, to strengthen, because it is usually so that fraudsters are one step ahead of us. This has to be done to make tax collection more effective. This is where we agree again. However, in our opinion, it is simply dangerous to get IT services sealing the tax system outside the resort. Employing external companies to operate in this area dramatically increases the risk of unauthorized access to sensitive data. Moreover, those employed in such a company will be targeted, which is obvious, extremely commercially, and this also poses additional risks. The civil servants you unfortunately destroyed have vowed to uphold the principle of selflessness, and such a principle in business does not apply. Finally, it is surprising that the party which, while in opposition, criticized the appointment of special purpose companies for tasks that are far more suited to commercialisation than tax collection, calls the company to be able to pay more to IT professionals, and this is due to the justification and words of the Minister. At the same time, the State reduces the remuneration of department directors. This is completely irrational. I would also suggest that the government consider whether it needs the Ministry of Finance at all, since you are outsourcing tax powers to the market, and many other important competences you pass on to the Minister of Development's Printing Act 405. Minister! I wish you more faith in your employees. It's really worth trusting these people, appreciating them, rewarding them. At the same time, I wish the finance minister a more upright attitude towards other resorts, because it is the finance minister who is responsible for the state of public finances, and this obliges. Fingers crossed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-27-sejm-17-1.u83	Thank you, Member. And please take the floor of Wojciech Bakun, Kukiz Club15.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-27-sejm-17-1.u84	Good morning. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Once again, we are dealing with good assumptions, while implementation can actually be on average. As a computer scientist, as well as the entire Kukiz club15, we are in favour of good IT, good IT in government administration. I specifically marked the word "good," because, as experience has shown in previous years, it can be different with this. In order not to look far away, I will point out the recently processed transfer of the CEPiK 2.0 system or e-Recipes. There are a whole bunch of other projects that have never been completed or have significantly shifted over time. The fact is, this company has one purpose. The company is to build, maintain another IT system. In fact, you are building another monument of incompetence, guysity, nepotism. [[How do you know?]] Another 7 and 12 persons employed in the company. At the moment such tasks can be performed by external companies, can be carried out by the Ministry of Digitalization. And that should be the role, not the role, but the direction of this development. This should move towards consolidation of systems, not even greater fragmentation. That is exactly what Minister Anna Streżyńska said. Fact two: you are inconsistent in your good change. On the one hand, there is a ministry headed by Mrs Anna Streżyńska, rightly speaking about the need to consolidate the system, on the other hand, the state, who wants to set up another company implementing the project in a very narrow area, I dare suspect that it is medium-compatible with all the other systems operating in our administration. You are writing about the termination of this special purpose vehicle. I will ask: Who will upgrade and maintain this software after the end of the company's operation? If any of you have any idea about the design, production and maintenance of software, you should know that maintenance and modernization consume much more resources than the creation of software itself. The acquisition and preparation of this software by another entity will cost a lot more than if it were done by the company that produced the software. Ladies and gentlemen! We have some of the most talented IT specialists, and in 28 European countries we have 23rd place in terms of computerization of administration. In our administration, as Minister Streżyńska said during one of the interviews, more than 4300 systems operate. In many cases, these systems are incompatible. It costs us about a million dollars a day to maintain this whole IT chaos you're funding for another company. Ms Anna Streżyńska, Minister of Digitization, also in one of the interviews after taking office, said: We are like insolvency syndicates. Do not add another company to this bankruptcy estate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-27-sejm-17-1.u85	Thank you, sir. And please take the floor of Mrs Paulina Hennig-Kloska.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-27-sejm-17-1.u86	Mr. Marshal! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, It is true that a good IT system must be created in Poland, which will support you in the fight against tax frauds and VAT fraud companies. This is what we have been talking about in Poland for a long time. No one has any doubt that among others. This is the way we should go. The share of tax revenue - as a percentage of GDP - in Poland is low in relation to the countries of the European Union and has been steadily decreasing for 10 years. While this is the case, it was basically explained in the case of CIT revenues, as we had some economic slowdown, which reduced the profits of companies, while the decrease in VAT revenues when raising the tax rate in 2011 was astonishing. Sealing the VAT gap is indeed one of the better ways to raise revenue to the budget. Firstly, there is considerable money at stake, and secondly, there are fraudsters here, there should be a duty of the State to break the law in force and to reduce these practices. The recommendations of the International Monetary Fund for Poland are, to remind you, actually. the proposal to make drastic changes in terms of the computerisation of our country and this sphere, because we have a huge backwardness here. This is also shown by the experiences of other countries. The UK - there has managed to significantly reduce the VAT gap with a reduction in the number of checks, because in 2010 a new control system was put in place. The system recognises the risk by using data on irregularities and fraud found in documents previously submitted by the same but also different taxpayers. On the basis of this information, the system shall assess the degree of risk. The system is similar in Germany, where the fight against tax fraud has also been slightly improved. On the other hand, the path that the Ministry of Finance is starting to take is completely unacceptable to us. The share capital - PLN 5 million, the company's board of directors - 3 and 5 persons, the supervisory board - 5 and 7 persons, the purpose - to build an IT system, which will be among others. The central invoice register, as the Minister tells us. The job needs to be done, but I'm afraid the companies aren't going to make professionals. That's what my predecessors were talking about. We're afraid companies won't make professionals. We fear that the company will actually expand only an army of Nicodemus Dismows composed of friends and family of Law and Justice, that these people will power the management of the company, that such people will power the supervisory board and they will not create a good IT solution, but another system whose implementation in practice will not give any added value. The transfer of this to everyday work on VAT fraud will not give any added value. [[How do you know?]] Besides, we are very surprised at the way the Minister chose, because we have the Ministry of Digitalization, which should take responsibility, among others. For projects like this. We also have a Central Computer Science Centre that could implement such projects within its resources. These are cells that are just waiting to set up additional tasks for them. Meanwhile, what does the Ministry of Finance propose? The Ministry of Finance proposes further multiplication of State stools, which can be allocated to people associated with the Law and Justice environment. [[How do you know?]] [[Voice from the room: Do not disturb.]] Ladies and gentlemen, due to these doubts that appear on the horizon, we are absolutely not in a position to support this project. There are also many other doubts that arise, and therefore concerning the costs - as was mentioned here - of securing the data that will be used to work in the company concerning the possibility of leaking important information. These are additional doubts, which also appeared in the committee, and we absolutely believe that the effect can be [[♪ The bell ♪]] It's completely different than intended. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-27-sejm-17-1.u87	Thank you, Member. And please take the floor of Mrs Genowefa Tokarska.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-27-sejm-17-1.u88	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Parliamentary Club of the Polish People's Party, I have the honour to present my position on the report of the Committee on Public Finances about the government draft law on specific rules for the implementation of certain tasks in the field of computerization of the activities of tax administrations, customs services and tax control. The draft law presented in the report of the Committee on Public Finances is in principle not much different from the original form of the project. The Public Finance Commission examined the project on 13 April this year. At the request of the Sejm Legislative Office, numerous amendments were made, but only editorial and clarification. I would remind you that the purpose of the Act is to provide tax administration, Customs and tax control of ICT systems supporting the control and detection of tax infringements. For this purpose, the Minister of Finance representing the State Treasury will set up a limited liability capital company according to the project, which will have the task of expanding and modernising existing systems as well as building new ICT systems. The use of modern, modern information technologies in the field of tax administration and tax control should certainly increase the effectiveness of detecting and punishing tax offences. In particular, this is particularly true of increasing the efficiency of VAT collection, where fraud and shortages are so-called. The VAT gap is particularly large. It is estimated that these shortages amount to even several billion zlotys per month. Today, at the meeting of the Committee on Public Finance, we took note of the information provided by the NIK about the placing on the market of invoices documenting fictitious activities. These are seemingly legal commercial transactions created by the network of several or more entities whose real purpose is to extort VAT reimbursement which has not been paid at an earlier stage. As a result of such organised crimes, the state and honest entrepreneurs are deceived. This activity is very often linked to the structures of organised criminal groups of an international nature. The negative consequences of the tax carousel are not only the lack of influence on the state budget due to VAT and the extortion of an undue refund of VAT, but also the weakening of the competitiveness of honest traders who are unable to compete with fraudsters. So far, systemic and organisational solutions have proved insufficient to combat tax fraud. Among the solutions, I will remind you, there was e.g. the reverse charge mechanism was the establishment of an institution of joint and several liability of the buyer. However, according to this report by the NIK, fraud was detected with delay, when the frauders disappeared, sometimes the people left behind, acting as pillars. Therefore, the introduction of modern ICT systems, including the creation of a central invoice register, should contribute to the effectiveness of detection of tax offences and offences, as well as to the faster enforcement of fraud or unpaid tax amounts. The company, which is to carry out tasks related to the use of ICT systems, has received very high powers: using databases of various institutions or entering personal data without the knowledge of these people, a solution which is therefore correct but which is strongly interfering in the field of data protection, protection of secrets. Supervision of compliance with this is an issue, I believe, very important and important. Hence, we have some doubts as to whether the representative appointed by the supervisory board will be sufficient to guarantee proper supervision in this necessary but very sensitive subject matter. Shouldn't there be more guarantees from the Minister of Finance so that there is no leak of protected information, and it's not just tax? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-27-sejm-17-1.u89	Thank you very much, Member. If there are no more ladies and gentlemen willing to ask questions, I will close the list of those who are written for questions. The first question will be asked by Mr Piotr Polak, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice. I'm setting the time to ask you a question for two minutes. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-27-sejm-17-1.u90	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! The information we heard in the course of the discussion about the scale of VAT fraud in Poland is shocking, because from a few billion in 2013 to a dozen in 2014, and already last year VAT was extorted in the amount of tens, probably 80 billion. This is indeed a huge loss to the state budget. In this Chamber, in the context of the discussion on this good project - one can say that we finally have a project that meets the needs and will end this criminality - we have heard skeptical voices, voices of surprise that such a project has emerged. And we're debating it today. My voice is also a voice of surprise, and I would now like to ask the Minister why in Poland we are so late dealing with this topic, why it was only us, why in previous years, for example, the previous management of the Ministry, the previous government did not follow the example quoted here and shown in Portugal, where the introduction of a similar system has successfully reduced the scale of VAT fraud. I would therefore like to ask the Minister once again how it happened that the previous ministry did nothing. Did it? Can you share this information with us? Have similar solutions been worked on, and if not, then why have we not seen such solutions in the Polish Sejm of the previous term? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-27-sejm-17-1.u91	Thank you, sir. Please take the floor of Mr Waldemar Buda.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-27-sejm-17-1.u92	Dear Marshal, Minister! High Izbo! Finally, state policy, government policy, is doing something other than the fact that it sets statistics, sets the rising millions, the amount that grows every year due to VAT losses. Today it was possible to learn that in principle the Ministry controlled the process of dishonesty in the field of VAT by collecting statistics, how much we actually lost. Today we have real actions and we thank you very much for that. What they will have will, of course, be shown after some time of the company's operation and the IT system, which will make it easier, but it is certainly a step towards action, not counting how much we are losing, and it is undoubtedly a good step. On the other hand, as regards the questions, I would like to ask: is this special purpose company supposed to be of a temporary nature, i.e. Will it function for some time, carry out tasks, pass on, as I understand it, these computerization orders, these things and will be solved, or is there already an expected time of its operation today? That's one thing. Secondly, is there a name for this company? Because today we read that this is a special purpose vehicle for computerization. Will she have a name? Thirdly, who will it equip with these elements, these mechanisms that it will develop, which it will purchase? Are these gonna be tax houses, or are they just gonna be KAS, or are they gonna be servants? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-27-sejm-17-1.u93	Thank you. I ask the floor of Mrs Isabella Leszczyna.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-27-sejm-17-1.u94	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! Minister! During the work on this law in committee, you replied to my doubts about the security of sensitive data out of the resort that you were actually calling this company to build this system and work on the test data, and then you would not have access to these real sensitive data. I ignore the fact that this is not possible at the moment, such a solution cannot be introduced. We talked about this. It's not like one crew is building a system, and a completely different team later uses this system, that someone who has built a very complicated IT system must accompany it throughout his life, that another solution will be very expensive, inefficient. Besides, ensuring the security of these data - but I will insist - which in some ways must be carried out outside the established state services will be extremely costly, because security in such systems always It costs the most. But assuming that this is what you say it is, please tell us what time horizon you are assuming, which is how many months, because after all, you are doing everything so quickly and it is you who have taken real action. So tell me what kind of time horizon you're building. When is this company going to end? When are we gonna get that IT invoice log? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-27-sejm-17-1.u95	Thank you. Please take the floor of Mr Blaze Parda.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-27-sejm-17-1.u96	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I tabled an amendment to the article. 7, the deletion of point 5. There is no reason not to apply the so-called provisions to the members of the company's board of directors. the chimney law, according to which the maximum remuneration is six times the average salary, i.e. around 24 thousand. zł. The Prime Minister may additionally increase this amount by 50%, i.e. to around 36 000. zł. I think that's enough for the board members, so I don't see any reason to throw it out of this bill, especially since this company will actually be doing the tasks of the Ministry of Finance. In addition, the company, I suspect, will never achieve its goal, even though it is a special purpose company, because only now will the game of cat and mouse start and try to catch up with the Mafia. After all, once created software is not perfect, you will need to update it, you will need to improve it. So the next question: What if it turns out that it is insufficient and the company ceases to exist? Will you then appoint another company to carry out the update of this software again? It's very, very unprofessional. Maybe let the ministry create a company that'll even do all the work for the entire ministry. Who knows, maybe it'll be cheaper for the state budget? One of my previous speakers was wondering about the name. I think it could be called PiS off - PiS outsourcing finance fiction. Who knows, maybe it would fit? [[Voice from the hall: Ha, ha, ha...]] In general, we support the idea of sealing the tax system, as much as possible, bravo for just taking up the subject, but not necessarily in such a reckless way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-27-sejm-17-1.u97	I would like to ask the floor of Mrs Gabriela Masłowska.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-27-sejm-17-1.u98	Minister! I'm interested in a case, a question I don't think I've received a clear answer to. Namely, we deal with such solutions, such systems, when the software is created by an external company or is used by a license, including source access codes for operators who use it. Not only does this make this solution more difficult, but it also creates danger, it creates a great deal of dependence. Therefore, are you considering whether the IT system that is being built by the company will create its own software, or will you use the license agreement? Will it be your own software, access codes, or will you use external instruments under license? I believe that this is quite an important issue. Does the Ministry of Finance see the problem? Will you attempt to address this issue? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-27-sejm-17-1.u99	Thank you. Mr Mirosław Suchoń will be the last to speak. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-27-sejm-17-1.u100	Thank you. Dear Marshal, Minister! High Izbo! Of course, there is full agreement here: the sealing of the tax system is absolutely necessary, although we believe that it is better to implement it by simplifying tax systems than by introducing further mechanisms which are more oppressive than any other. And so I wanted to ask the Minister why this company really is and what its objectives are, because the definition of these tasks, which is included in the legislation, in the draft law, is quite broad, and the discussion shows that it is to be an invoice register. What are the objectives of this company, what will its scope be? In the regulations that we find in the project, we have for this company a very broad authorisation regarding access to databases. What kind of databases are they gonna be, specifically? I would very much ask you to clarify this, because citizens have the right to have knowledge of what data, the registers of which, and the nature of the data that will be processed by a de facto private company, apart from the control of state institutions, but only with the ownership supervision of the Ministry. I would also like to ask who will decide on the security measures, because this is a very important aspect of the data that this company is supposed to process under the law. What's gonna happen to the licenses? It is very often the case that licences for information systems are sold to specific entities. You're talking about the company being liquidated. What's gonna happen to those licenses? I wanted to ask you again, [[♪ The bell ♪]] why the state does not want to approach it systematically and exploit synergies by giving management to the project, e.g. The Ministry of Digitalization. And why you didn't want to use e.g. The Central Computer Science Centre, which would support different systems in different ministries, in different areas, could have this synergy effect also for the benefit of the state budget...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-27-sejm-17-1.u101	Thank you very much, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-27-sejm-17-1.u102	...generate? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-27-sejm-17-1.u103	Thank you. The list of Members registered in the vote has been exhausted. I therefore ask that the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Finance of Minister Leszek Skiba speak. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-27-sejm-17-1.u104	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! To answer your questions - thank you very much for these questions - firstly, I will draw attention to the temporary nature of this company. Indeed, the purpose of this company is to create a central register of invoices. The aim of this company is to create an IT solution at a rapid pace. The European Commission estimates a VAT gap of about PLN 400 billion. That means that every month of delay is... [[40.]] 400 billion zlotys, right? Each month of delay is about PLN 3 billion in the budget less, right? Therefore, it can be said that time simply matters, and that is the basis for this IT solution to be prepared in an extraordinary way in a fast manner. This is actually the justification of a special organization for this solution. I understand that such a company could be created for a long time, that this IT solution could be otherwise prepared for a number of years. Only the basic problem is that the Polish state cannot afford to lose PLN 3 billion from VAT revenue each year. And that's the reason why extraordinary mode just makes sense. When's this company gonna stop functioning? Of course, when it creates a central invoice register, when it turns out that this central invoice register after this test period actually works well. You could say he'd lose his target then, right? That is, he will lose his goal in the sense that this goal will be achieved. We estimate that this will be done in 2018. The year 2017 will be the year in which the company will already operate, so it will be the period during which we will be able to actually check what these effects are. We assume that in 2017 there will be effects of the new system, but probably only in 2018, we can estimate, will be completely sure that this company operates and this IT solution works and therefore the existence of the company does not make sense. At the same time, I answer Mrs Leszczyna's question, what is the certainty that the officials of the Ministry of Finance, the IT specialists of the Ministry of Finance will know the content or, you might say, the mechanism for the functioning of this system. It is simply that we assume that the officials of the Ministry of Finance will cooperate in creating this solution, will have knowledge, and at the same time the intention is that the IT agent of the Ministry of Finance will practically every day participate in the creation of these solutions in the special purpose company. In fact, the competence of knowing what's inside will remain in the Ministry of Finance. They will also remain as soon as the company is dissolved. That's the intention. There was also a question of safety. The intention of all these security records, the Minister's intention is also to ensure that this special mode of creation of these IT solutions is under the full control of the Polish security services. The risk that any data will leak is minimized precisely because this company will be absolutely under the full control of the Special Services with all consequences of the operation of, for example, the Act on Access to Confidential Information. Is it new that an external entity creates IT solutions? It's not new, is it? I mean, we had to do in Poland - also at a time when the Deputy Minister of Finance was a Member - with companies, institutions outside the Ministry of Finance, which created IT solutions for the tax administration. In this case we can say that this risk of data leakage is less, because it is not just a commercial company, it is simply a special purpose company under the full control of the special forces. Indeed, the purpose of this solution and the temporaryity are worth emphasising. Ms Masłowska's question. Since the company will cease to function, it is absolutely certain immediately that all information, all data, source codes, licenses will be transferred to the Ministry of Finance for this reason simply because the company will cease to exist, right? That is, all that the company owns will be transferred to the Ministry of Finance at the moment it ceases to exist. At the same time, we know that most of the solutions will be created by on-site IT specialists, but there are solutions such as database engine, some universal solutions that simply need to be bought from other IT companies. After purchasing this engine database of course the legal basis for using this engine at the moment when the company ceases to exist will be transferred to the Ministry of Finance. A question from Mr Suchon. What's the point? The aim is indeed to create a central register of invoices. At the same time, the company will use the databases, all the databases that are needed. I mean, these databases are just a lot in the Ministry of Finance. We inherited the Ministry of Finance, where the functioning of databases very often, you can say, encounters certain limitations. These databases together in the Ministry of Finance are between 100 and 200. Therefore, it is quite difficult to list all these databases from which the company will benefit here. It will certainly be those data that concern the purpose, i.e. the creation of an invoice register for VAT taxpayers. From all databases that concern this area, the company will use at the test stage in such a way that later there will be full functionality in the Ministry of Finance and for these databases to be connected, you can say, to this mechanism, this IT instrument in the Ministry of Finance. I'm looking to see if I answered all the questions. As far as the chimney bill is concerned, if we want the company to start quickly, it's simply that some savings resulting from the fact that computer scientists will pay less or this very professional staff of people who manage IT projects... You just have to pay those people the right market rate to do their job as professionally as possible. You should not look at savings, because such savings that we will reduce the remuneration by some amount to the board members in order to implement the chimney bill, while at the same time delaying, lowering this salary or finding a much weaker specialist in this area... If this would result in the company being set up a month later or ending a month later, then this month later it is just PLN 3 billion, so I have the impression that this calculation does not make any sense. For this reason, the suspension of the chimney law is justified, but I also note that the chimney law is currently being amended, there is a project that will go to the High Chamber, which is a project of the Ministry of Treasury, which, of course, radically changes issues related to the chimney law, and it can therefore be said that this situation is also worth considering. We don't know the name yet, it's not the thing we were really thinking about. What matters is what this company is going to do, more important than what it's going to be called. That's why I can't tell you her name. Once the bill is adopted by the High House, it will go to the Senate and later be signed by the President, its activities will be initiated and, at the time of initiation, some name will, you can say, be given to this company. I feel like that's all, I didn't miss out on... Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-27-sejm-17-1.u105	Thank you very much. I would ask the rapporteur of the committee, Mr Schreiber, to speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-27-sejm-17-1.u106	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! In fact, the Minister answered all the questions. Maybe I'll just talk about two things. One point is that it is the question of the idea that the Ministry of Digitalization should set up and manage this company. On the contrary, that would be the defragmentation of all tasks. It doesn't seem to be intentional. However, this finance department has in its resources all... among its departments the entire tax and customs administration and this seems to be the right thing to do. Secondly, the criticism of this idea already at the start, the statement that the company will serve to cast some party associates... How do you know that? [[In practice.]] You might as well wear anything. The experience of your governments... [[From the experience of 6 months of PiS government.]] ...dear honourable Member, the experience of your governments teaches that, unfortunately, nothing has been done in this case and the VAT gap has grown from year to year. [[In my experience, gentlemen, you know that. A list of the disgraces of the Civic Platform.]] If we're talking about experience, that's what it looks like. [[Mastalerek, Jasinski.]] It is necessary to finally do something about it. Let the government see how this idea works in practice. As far as data security is concerned, the establishment of this company does not exclude any control mechanisms, all services will watch over it. It's impossible... Again, some assumption of breaking the law here is basically absurd. Finally, this oppressive character of the company, of which Mr Suchoń was gracious to mention. On the contrary. It is today that the administration often chooses, maybe not missed, but a much bigger problem is to identify the actors that need to be checked. By setting up this company, it will be possible to control no matter who, just companies, entities which show some trends which should be clarified in connection with VAT invoices. In conclusion, it seems that there are no compelling arguments against the establishment of this company. Let me stress this once again, the government has put in place these mechanisms that it has announced, because experience has taught us that in recent years the situation is getting worse. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-27-sejm-17-1.u107	Thank you very much, sir. The discussion is closed. In view of the fact that, at the time of the second reading, the draft amendment was tabled, I propose that the Sejm re-direct this proposal to the Committee on Public Finances in order to present a report. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. We proceed with the examination of item 4 of the agenda: First reading of the parliamentary draft law on the completion of the construction of the Swine Poręba Water Tank (print No. 427). I ask Mrs Anna Paluch to present the reasons for the bill. You're welcome, my fellow Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-27-sejm-17-1.u108	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The construction of the Swinna Poręba reservoir aims to improve flood protection in the Skawa valley and consequently to reduce the culminating flood wave on the Vistula Vistula in Krakow. The large variation of flows in the Małopolska rivers causing a flood risk is a very important factor in reducing the safety and quality of life of inhabitants. The Skawa River is one of the most cumbersome and dangerous, therefore the reservoir built between Wadowice and Sucha Beskidzka is crucial to ensure peace and proper living conditions of residents not only in western Małopolska, but also in a much wider area. This investment has been carried out since 1986, i.e. for 30 years. The extension of work to complete it causes very many inconveniences for the local community, is detrimental to the environment and hampers economic development. High Izbo! The location of investments that meet public objectives - the reservoir is the need for many families to change their place of residence, leave the old ones, and build new houses and premises of companies. For the public authorities, such an investment calls for the reconstruction of the communication system, water and sewage infrastructure, schools, churches, cemeteries, public space. Let me remind you that the investment has been carried out since 1986. Until 1999 it was financed from the state budget as a central investment. Between 2000 and 2004, the decision of the Polish Parliament and the Senate to co-finance all investments in water management, including the construction of the Swine Poręba Water Tank, took over the National Fund for Environmental Protection and Water Management. In 2005, the Sejm and the Senate, at the initiative of the Polish Parliament, worked on the bill establishing a multiannual programme for the construction of the Świnna Poręba Water Tank in 2006-2010. In order to ensure that this timetable can be implemented for the 2006-2010 period, the 2005 Budget Act then allocates about PLN 110 million from the Enterprise Restructuring Fund for the construction of the vessel. However, it should be noted that the pace of implementation was dependent on the amount of funds raised and that these measures were far insufficient in relation to the timetable for the implementation of the investment. By the end of 2005, before the entry into force of this multiannual programme adopted by the Law, 573.5 million PLN was spent on the purpose of construction. The Law of 4 March on the establishment of a multi-annual programme of the Swine Porba Water Tank Construction Programme in 2006-2010 was intended to ensure that this construction was completed by 2010. Unfortunately, the provisions of this law, which concerned the timetable for the execution of works, were not implemented. While funding was in principle in line with the multiannual plan under the rule of law and justice, significant delays occur in the years to come, i.e. in 2008 and subsequent years. And in 2006 less than PLN 261 million was awarded in budget law 170 million and this was done. It was 65% of the amounts set up in the multiannual programme. In 2007, out of the planned 263 million, less than 259 million were awarded, or 98% , and made 212, i.e. 82% expenditure planned in the construction schedule. The catastrophically low level of investment funding was in the next 2 years, after the change, after the entry of the PO-PSL government. And let me remind you that only 93 out of the planned 255 million were made in 2008, or 36,5%. A year later, in 2009, only 76 or 31.5% of the planned 242 were made. It was a little better in 2010, but still the task was far from complete. In principle, this law should have ended its life in 2010. Then it was unconventional that, so to speak, 3 months after the expiry of power, the government of PO-PSL resumed this law by legislative action. Let me remind you that it was passed on April 1st. In February, at the beginning, 3 February was the first reading, the committee report - 1 March, the adoption took place on 1 April, the entry into force - 24 May 2011. Let me remind you that under this law, funding has been transferred to the National Fund for Environmental Protection and Water Management. And exactly on the date of the entry into force of the national fund signed an agreement with the investor, but, ladies and gentlemen, it was already halfway through the investment season, which is why the execution of 2011 expenditure was really small. Instead of PLN 325 million, 199 million were made, or 61%. Similarly, the performances in the following years were low. In 2012, planned expenditure - 331,5, completed - 114 million, or 34%. For 2013, planned expenditure - 358 million, completed - 282, i.e. less than 79%. As if the renewal of the life of this law occurred in the following year, but further difficulties in 2013 and 2014, which, so to speak, were translated then... Let me remind you that the government was obliged to submit information about the construction every year. At that time, the Minister explained lengthy proceedings, too low funding, etc. In turn, 2015 is a hydrological drought which forced the 2015 implementation plan to be amended, especially as regards start-up. And despite our strong questions, the government did not answer the money from which the operation of this power plant will be financed after its start-up, which did not change the fact that this investment was officially opened last autumn and with a bang last autumn. But the investment is far from complete and therefore the need to resume this task. I'm moving on to the presentation of the bill. Art. 1 of the draft law contained in print No 427 lays down the rules for financing the completion of the construction of the Swine Porba water tank. Art. 2 specify the proposed deadline, i.e. 2017, as the deadline for completion. Art. 3 talks about total financial expenditure on completion of construction, which together cannot exceed 53 230 000. PLN, of which in 2016 will amount to 46 530 thousand. PLN, fixed at 2016 prices, and in 2017 it will amount to 6700 thousand. PLN, also at the price level of 2016. Funding will be provided by the National Fund for Environmental Protection and Water Management. These issues are detailed in the annex to the Act. The implementation of the task will be carried out by the Regional Water Management Board in Krakow. Art. The 5th project specifies that these measures of the National Fund for Environmental Protection and Water Management will be provided in the form of grants within the meaning of Article. Article 4 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 point 2 of the Environmental Law Act and that details will be included in the contract concluded by the National Fund for Environmental Protection and Water Management with the entity which will be responsible for the implementation, i.e. with the Regional Management Board of Water Management in Krakow. Of course, all the rules for financing public tasks are included in the article. 5. Art. 6 clarifies that the Minister responsible for Water Management will supervise the implementation of this task, who will be required to submit information to the Council of Ministers and the Sejm annually, no later than 31 May of the following year, on the implementation of the tasks set out in this Act. There's a 14-day vacathio legis, which is, I'd say, as decent as possible, but short. Ladies and gentlemen! High Izbo! The tasks which are included in the programme are set out in the annex to the Act. It's a task and it's a tank. It is proposed to allocate 6930 000 to its implementation. zł. All this money will be spent in 2016. The II task is to rebuild roads, an amount of 20 600 thousand. zł, also to be realized, issue this year. On the other hand, task III is to stabilise landslides. In 2016 the release of 19 million PLN is planned, and next year - 6700 thousand PLN. zł. In total, it will be 25,700,000. zł. The total amount, as I said at the beginning, will be 53 230 thousand. zł. High Izbo! I would like to point out that in 2013 the construction costs were overestimated and then the total cost of construction was set at PLN 2207 million. This is 200 million PLN less than the original. So that's the amount that we're talking about right now, 53 230,000. zł, falls as if in those originally estimated construction costs. As for the detailed definition of the tasks that will be included there, I would like to point out that when it comes to task I - Tank, these will be: robots necessary to carry out in the bowl before starting, i.e. the cutting of trees and shrubs, the demolition of roads, etc., the start of the barrier, the bowl skulls and the power plant, the sealing of the control and injection gallery at the stage of the floor. The investor also has to pay fees for the exclusion of land from agricultural and forestry production. In task II - The reconstruction of roads were included: construction of the commune road Brankówka - Wodniakówka - Gołębiówka, it is on the eastern side of the lake, and construction of the communal road Dąbrówka - Durówka. On the other hand, the III task is to stabilise landslides. Here we are dealing with emerging landslips, which as the tank is flooded can become more intense, so some of these landslips need to be stabilized by now. For the landslip and landslips 1/21, appropriate documentation shall be prepared. In short, High Izbo, this is the scope of the work that is expected to be done. High Izbo! The previous government spent money on very different, sometimes questionable tasks, e.g. 4.5 times overpaid Pendolino, highway-like products, legally passable, 2-time overpaid stadiums, and somehow there was no money to complete the investment much needed, i.e. reservoir with retention, flood protection, energy, investment that can be a flywheel for the local tourism economy. High Izbo! The Law and Justice government has found money for this important investment and will end it. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I ask you, on behalf of the applicants, to adopt and adopt a draft parliamentary bill on the completion of the Świnna Poręba Water Tank, contained in print No. 427. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-27-sejm-17-1.u109	Thank you very much, Member. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of the clubs. I'm opening a discussion. Mrs Barbara Dziuk will be the first to speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-27-sejm-17-1.u110	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The draft law on the completion of the construction of the Swine Poręba Water Tank is an investment project, which consists of four tasks: tank, road reconstruction, railway reconstruction, water reservoir protection. The investment has been implemented since 1986. The pace of implementation depended on the amount of resources raised, far insufficient in relation to the timetable for the implementation of the investment. By the end of 2005, 573.5 million zlotys were spent until the Act came into force. Due to the failure to comply with the timetable contained in the Act, the financing and implementation delays caused mainly by the amendment of the provisions of the Act were It's been updated twice. However, in 2013 and 2014 it was not possible to carry out works for the full amount provided for in the timetable set out in the Act. The current hydrological drought in 2015 forced the 2015 implementation plan to be amended, especially as regards start-up. The previous government of the Civic Platform did not provide the means to complete the task in 2016. The following works remain to be carried out: the tank, the reconstruction of roads, the stabilisation of landslides. The above actions are necessary for completion before filling the tank. All the above mentioned facilities were included in the investment programme and are not additional facilities. The implementation of roads is essential for the creation of a disturbed tank of the communication system in the municipalities. The fact that in 2013 the aggregate cost statement of the investment project was updated and its cost estimate was reduced by about PLN 200 million is required. This bill sets out the costs and deadlines for the implementation of activities related to the completion of the Świnna Poręba Water Tank. A strategic environmental impact assessment is not required in accordance with the provisions of the Act of 3 October 2008 on the provision of environmental information, public participation in environmental protection and environmental impact assessments. The draft law shall not be notified in accordance with the provisions of the Council of Ministers Regulation of 23 December 2002 on the functioning of the national system of notification of standards and legal acts. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Today was the time to finally - I stress, finally - complete the very necessary investment, which is the construction of the Swine Poręba Water Tank, which the inhabitants have been waiting for since 1986. I am pleased that the Law and Justice brings this law and that the investment that the inhabitants expect will be carried out. This is a historic moment, and truly, High Izbo, I feel very moved that it was through Law and Justice. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-27-sejm-17-1.u111	Thank you very much, Member. Please take the floor of Mr Mark Owl.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-27-sejm-17-1.u112	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Yes, it is true that the investment started in 1986, 30 years ago, but it can be said that for the first 20 years several years it was only the maintenance of the construction site. In the 1990s and early 2000s, this investment was simply not realized. Small funds were allocated to it, after a dozen, 20 million PLN. In fact, it started following the adoption of the law mentioned by the Member. It is worth recalling the initiators of this law: Mrs Teliga of Wadowice, Mr Rydzoń - members of the Democratic Left Alliance. They're the ones who did the project... [[Talaga.]] ...and it was thanks to them that this law was passed in 2005. [[Mrs Talaga.]] Talaga. It predicted a very short period of investment, but it quickly turned out that this was impossible to implement. It must be said that from the very beginning the funds entered in the Act were not spent. The Government of Law and Justice carried out investment plans in 70% in 2006 and 2007. It was a performance. [[Mr President, I just gave you how much.]] That's right, 70%. and 63% in 2006. [[65 and 82.]] In fact, in 2008 this indicator was very low, 30%, but this is because it was a budget prepared and submitted for 2008 by the government of Prime Minister Jarosław Kaczyński. [[How you push it down, sir.]] But I think that there is nothing to argue about, because the important element is that the investment is practically finished and that from the amount of PLN 1600 million spent since 2006 it was in the years of government of the Civic Platform and the Polish People's Party that over PLN 1200 million was allocated for this investment. [[For eight years.]] For eight years. It must be said that the investment needs to be completed, there is no doubt, but what we write down in this law is only 3% of the expenditure since 2006. Ladies and gentlemen! I have to say, the Swine Poręba tank is already paying off in a way. In 2010 he saved Kraków and Małopolska from flooding. Thanks to the fact that it has adopted a huge amount of over 100 million m3 of water, the water level in Cracow has decreased by almost 70 cm. Whoever was in Krakow at the time knows perfectly well that there was virtually no clearance between bridges and the river. Ladies and gentlemen! This investment needs to be completed not only because of its fundamental character, due to flood protection. It needs to be completed and given to start a water power plant, it needs to be completed and given to make this water reservoir a big boost for Western Małopolska. There is no doubt to me that this will be a big tourist attraction. In addition, together with the municipalities Mucharz, Lanckorona, Stryszów and Zembrzyce, the local government is preparing a development and development plan around this reservoir. We have funds in the regional operational programme. These funds will simply be invested because it needs to be realised. I am convinced that this will be a great opportunity in terms of economic recovery, and whoever is in this area knows very well that these investments, including private ones, are already being implemented on a large scale today, that this area has changed. A very important element, and that is what I would like to say, affecting the timetable, was the problems - yes, Madam - with obtaining permits. The railway line Skawina - Sucha Beskidzka and further to Zakopane was rebuilt. It's all true. A number of local roads were built. Today, and I regret this to you, I regret that we are giving you the satisfaction of completing this tank by spending so much money. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Finally, I would like to say once again that you have been very critical of the model of financing this investment, and today you are proposing exactly the same. [[Better.]] In order not to take the time, I would like to ask the applicants and the minister one question whether it provides for Łękawica - Zagórze and Stryszów roads - Rztowka included in the collective set of this investment to be co-opted for this investment, because I see that there is no justification for this, and these two roads are included in the plans prepared by the regional directorate. Thank you very much. [[Chairman of the proceedings includes Deputy Marshal Stanisław Tyszka of the Sejm]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-27-sejm-17-1.u113	Thank you very much. Mr Józef Brynkus, Kukiz,15 has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-27-sejm-17-1.u114	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! There is little to be said about a special law guaranteeing completion of the Swine Poręba tank. Perhaps only that it is necessary to thank the applicants for piloting the matter and for creating a group of Members who present this parliamentary project. And it is good that it is the Seym that will guarantee this money, because the promises of the PO that the money will be made before the elections in October 2015 did not actually cover. They weren't secured anywhere. They were neither directly in the 2016 Budget Act nor in the National Fund for Environmental Protection and Water Management. To make matters worse, the national fund claimed that this investment was completed in every technical element of the vessel, which was allegedly to confirm the checks of September and December 2015. The National Fund therefore did not provide for any funding to complete this investment, since it considered that the investment was ready to be filled with water. Now the money will be there. I hope that they are sufficient, because estimates talked about the need to allocate about PLN 70 million. It is also appropriate to allocate them to use within a specific period of time. A positive issue is the use of considerable resources for the construction of roads. There are great expectations of local residents, local authorities and tourists, but the problem of completing the construction of the tank in Świnna Poręba is a much broader issue. This is because it concerns a substitute investor of this investment, i.e. the Regional Management Board of Water Management in Krakow. This is based on an analysis of the activities of this institution. An example of irresponsibleness, or even pathology, is the situation with the use of money that was provided in the previous specialty. These funds were transferred to the investor, but did not use them to stabilise the landslides due to a lack of organisation of the work to the funds transferred to him. Moreover, in July 2015, the priority programme for the financing of this task by the RZGW was amended, but the RZGW did not submit an appropriate proposal because it had not obtained, as a result of poorly prepared documentation, an opinion in this respect issued by the relevant unit in the Małopolska voivodeship. The real and shocking symbol of the lack of competence of the investor was the statement by the director of the construction of the tank during the event that ended the supposed investment, and in fact, the election party of candidates for MPs from PO and PSL, in which he stated that the construction took so long because it was working in a highly complex area, which was ironically commented that he clearly did not know what a complex hydrological construction was. The investment is necessary. It is followed by the flood-related importance of the facility, its possibilities for recreational use, the potential benefits of the hydro power plant and, finally, the natural benefits of the fishing activity, but without special supervision of the investor - now fortunately, according to the Act, it will be the responsibility of the Minister for Water Management - may continue to be costly but without results. For example, the tank has been cleaned many times before, spending millions when it could be used for other purposes. There was also documentation of recreational use of the area around the tank, but it was wasted. It is also necessary to look at the construction of the tank in Świnna Poręba, taking into account the expectations of local authorities towards the state in this regard. They go beyond the completion of the investment. Local government demands that they be given the area around the reservoir to be used for the local community. This is difficult, however, and the state must protect such areas. It is also necessary to ensure that the exit from the A4 towards Chrzanów and the construction of the road from this highway towards Sucha Beskidzka is reasonable in the perspective of recreational use of the tank. The issue of the renegotiating of the agreement on the use of the A4 motorway by Stalexport should also be addressed. The price for using it can effectively deter potential users of the tank in Świnna Poręba. Let the completion of this investment in the minimum, although to the extent possible, compensate for the damage to the inhabitants of the surrounding towns and the owners of the areas taken over for the construction of the reservoir often under psychological pressure, even in violation of the law, and make up for the many years of difficulties associated with it, such as communication. The Kukiz Club15 will support this bill. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-27-sejm-17-1.u115	Thank you very much. Mr Jerzy Meysztowicz, Modern.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-27-sejm-17-1.u116	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I have listened to the rapporteur here... [[The applicant.]] The applicant, okay. ...and I'll say I'm really impressed. I'm impressed by the propaganda you're doing... [[Well, that's insolence.]] ...because in order to finish this tank, it took 53 million PLN. What prevented these funds from being included in the budget of the national environmental fund? Then it would be quiet to spend these funds, the investment would be completed, but no, we need to make a special law that transfers 53 million PLN. As I recall, about the 20 million zlotys you've allocated for Rydzyk's father... [[This is ridiculous.]] ...it wasn't a special bill that was needed. All you had to do was issue a distribution so that the National Environmental Fund could sign the relevant documents and hand over the money. Therefore, it seems to me that this is a little bit of overgrowth of form over content, because it was easy to finish it off and then there would be no big deal. Well, indeed, after completing this construction and investing an additional 53 million PLN, it will be possible to make a solemn opening. I'm just wondering what name this tank will bear. [[The solemn opening was already in the election campaign, sir, as you know.]] You know what? I do not answer as a Member I am not responsible for your great successes in the 2005-2007 period, nor am I responsible for the terribly great failures of the 8-year-old governance of the Platform. We're not here to judge these actions, and we want to think ahead. As we think ahead, we believe that this investment is really needed, the completion of this investment is needed. 30 years is far too long to make such an investment, because it is definitely an investment that improves not only the security of Małopolska, but especially Krakow. The data quoted by Mr Owl is indeed true, this mirror can be lowered in Krakow with a maximum flooding of 70 cm, which can save Kraków from a really great flood. In addition, it is also necessary to take into account that this reservoir can actually be an opportunity for local residents to develop the tourism, agrotourism industry. That's why I think it would really be good to finish this investment. Of course, it will not be finished immediately, because the process of flooding this tank may take two years depending on the hydrological conditions, so it will also last. It would also be good to point out that speeding up the completion of this investment will bring some financial benefits to the Treasury. No one mentioned that a 4.5 MW water power plant is being built in this tank, which is able to earn several million zlotys a year. Therefore, it is an investment which, taking into account possible profits for the residents, for the municipalities around it, will be a profitable investment and will have very positive financial effects. In principle, there is no doubt here that this money will - I hope - be used quickly and properly. The question is whether really the conditions are going to make it possible not only to use the recreational function of this reservoir, but also to protect against flooding and for the Skawa, and for the Vistula valley. It is also worth considering that this reservoir can provide water for irrigation of adjacent areas at the time of drought. In summary, the amount of positive things that will result from this investment is indeed considerable. Therefore, the club The modern will definitely support this bill and will cross our fingers for Law and Justice so that this investment is finished as soon as possible. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-27-sejm-17-1.u117	Thank you. Ms Urszula Pasławska, Polish People's Party, has the floor. Oh, the Member has made a written statement. Let's get to the questions. If any of your fellow Members would like to sign up, please. I'll close the list after the first question. Mr Józef Lassot, Civic Platform. Question time - one and a half minutes.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-27-sejm-17-1.u118	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Actually, I have one question. Of course, I could presume to ask whether today's ruling crew even notes that the tank has been built and indeed these cosmetic works need to be completed. The fundamental question I would like to ask the Minister. There is talk of fees for the exclusion of agricultural and forestry land. Which land is it? For I understand that when it comes to those that are under investment, the case must have already been settled. Is this about those areas that stick to the tank, and how does it relate to the plans, what were they, that local governments should also manage it? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-27-sejm-17-1.u119	Thank you. Mrs Małgorzata Płępek, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-27-sejm-17-1.u120	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen of the Messengers! [[Members.]] High Izbo! Don't leave, Mr Meysztowicz... It's a town, isn't it? [[Joy in the Chamber]] The Civic Platform is well criticized, and they will soon be criticizing Modern, because somehow you can't see the effects of your work, and the tank is, the tank's up and nobody's gonna take it. Unfortunately, that's the truth. The bill sets out the rules for completing the construction of the Swine Poręba reservoir. This tank has been building for 30 years - as has already been said here - and more than PLN 2 billion has been spent on this task. This is a large amount. Today's project highlights the transfer of funds to important investments for local residents related to this reservoir, namely road reconstruction and the stabilisation of landslides. The vast majority of the tasks will be carried out as early as 2016 and the completion of the construction is planned for next year. I would like to address the question not to the Members of the applicants, but to the Minister for the Environment, because the Ministry states that it has a plan to complete the construction, but does not give any details. I would like on behalf of interested parties [[♪ The bell ♪]] inhabitants and local authorities know the concept of the Ministry of the Environment to complete the construction of this tank. I'm asking for a written reply. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-27-sejm-17-1.u121	Mr Marek Polak, Law and Justice have the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-27-sejm-17-1.u122	Thank you very much. Dear Marshal, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I think it is wrong that the previous government has neither prepared such a law nor secured the means to carry out these necessary tasks, because the completion of this investment that has been going on for decades is unnecessarily prolonged over time. It is a good thing that such a need is perceived not only by Members from Małopolska, but also from other regions of the country who signed this bill. But I have a question for the Minister. I would like to ask: Does the Ministry support all the provisions of this bill and what is the government's position on this project? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-27-sejm-17-1.u123	Thank you. Mr Wojciech Kossakowski, Law and Justice have the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-27-sejm-17-1.u124	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! This investment is intended to protect against the flooding of Kraków and other villages located below the barrier over Skawa and Vistula. At the end of last year, as you may remember, a loud opening of the dam's crown itself took place. Of course, the whole performance was organized only to show the campaign of the Civic Platform somehow. Even then, the rules for further financing of this investment, which absorbed nearly PLN 2 billion, had to be presented. Let us therefore provide stable funding to end this investment in the end, after 30 years. I have the impression that it has so far served only as a background for promoting and making electoral promises. Finally, I would also like to address the important issue of stabilization of landslides. Will this cost be included as part of the implementation of this project, or will it be implemented under the national environmental fund? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-27-sejm-17-1.u125	Thank you. Mr Wojciech Skurkiewicz, the Law and Justice have the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-27-sejm-17-1.u126	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! If you build long, you build hard. If you've been building for a very long time, this construction is very expensive. And here's an example: 30-year-old construction consumes huge financial resources. The investment, which should be implemented from the state budget, has largely also absorbed the funds of the National Fund for Environmental Protection and Water Management - the funds that could have been earmarked for a completely different purpose. And it was strange - especially in the context of this discussion, which takes place in Parliament in this term of office, and accusing Law and Justice that it acted inappropriately and irresponsiblely - in 2011, when in Parliament, in Parliament and in the Senate and in the Senate We've been updating the bill, which, in fact, ended its life, lost its status... Because it was a periodic act until the end of 2010. We did not update this law, which was no longer in the legislative process until April 2010. [[2011]] 2011 The State of the Civic Platform just forgot about this investment. From the very beginning, you've been so hard on her that she wouldn't be brought to a happy end. We want to bring her to this happy end right now. [[♪ The bell ♪]] - with this, already small, amount of PLN 53 million. My question to the Minister. Minister, what was the total cost of this investment over the past 30 years? How much money did Swine Poręba absorb?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-27-sejm-17-1.u127	Thank you, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-27-sejm-17-1.u128	How much money from the National Fund for Environmental Protection and Water Management was allocated...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-27-sejm-17-1.u129	Thank you, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-27-sejm-17-1.u130	...for this purpose, measures that could also be earmarked for other environmental actions? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-27-sejm-17-1.u131	Mr Zbigniew Biernat, Law and Justice have the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-27-sejm-17-1.u132	Mr. Marshal! Mr Fellowships and Mr Fellow Members, Minister! I would like to begin by thanking Members of Law and Justice that a bill has been drawn up that will allow the completion of the construction of the Swine Poręba reservoir. 30 years of construction, actually the last period... Looking at what was happening at the construction site and, above all, how the RZGW project was prepared, I have doubts whether anyone was supervising this investment. The process and the percentage of use of funds show that, as you have said here, this investment has been forgotten. No one controlled the investment process prepared by RZGW. I now have a lot of doubts as to whether all the landslips are recognized, whether, as some say here, it is enough to flood this tank. Therefore, I have an appeal to the Ministry to take a very careful look at the preparation of these investments when it comes to completing and flooding the tank. It is a very necessary investment for local governments not only as a flood tank, but also a reservoir that regulates the flow of the River Skawa. Along the River Skava [[♪ The bell ♪]] there are many shots of drinking water, but there are also commitments of the RGW in the form of agreements. I have a specific question: Will it be possible to include an investment bill in this project...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-27-sejm-17-1.u133	Thank you, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-27-sejm-17-1.u134	...reconstruction of a wooden bridge on the Ternawka stream in the municipality of Zembrzyce...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-27-sejm-17-1.u135	Mr President, time is up.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-27-sejm-17-1.u136	...which has been guaranteed by an agreement by the RZGW? It's about...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-27-sejm-17-1.u137	Mr Mark Owl, Civic Platform, has a voice.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-27-sejm-17-1.u138	...jobs, as well as... [[The Vice Marshal shuts down the microphone]] ...house buildings. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-27-sejm-17-1.u139	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! The course of this discussion led me to ask a few questions, because it seems to me that your picture shows that very little has been done there so far. Minister, I would like to ask you: Is it true that the hydrological part of the dam has actually been completed? Is it true that the construction of the hydropower plant has actually been completed? Is it true that the emergence of drains was found after the floods in 2010, when they came out, and then it was necessary - it was the minister who would respond - to include a completely new budget line and in the programme of this investment? Is it true that a number of tasks related to the construction of sewage in neighbouring municipalities have been financed under this law? Is it true that the railway line was moved from Skawina to Sucha Beskidzka in the part passing through the Świnna Poręba reservoir? The same applies, of course, to road DK28. Is it true that over PLN 1200 million was allocated from the national fund and from the state budget in 2008 and 2015? [[♪ The bell ♪]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-27-sejm-17-1.u140	Thank you, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-27-sejm-17-1.u141	Question for Members of the PiS: Why didn't you support the amendment to the budget? You wouldn't have to prosecute this bill. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-27-sejm-17-1.u142	Thank you very much. The list of Members registered in the vote has been exhausted. Please take the floor of the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Environment, Mr Mariusz Gajda.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-27-sejm-17-1.u143	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! First of all, I would like to thank the Members of the Law and Justice very much for this parliamentary initiative, because this will enable us to complete this construction. I'm gonna say one thing, I'm gonna quote one ad slogan. Indeed, this investment is almost ready, but it makes a difference. [[Joy in the O.R., applause.]] Ladies and gentlemen, I have stood by the office of Undersecretary of State in charge of water management before the problem of how to complete this investment. This investment, it was actually... He asked if it was true that hydrological objects had been carried out. Actually, it's not true that hydrological objects have been made because hydrotechnical objects have been made. [[Joy in the Chamber]] On the other hand, if it is true that the railway line has been postponed, I will answer: yes, this is all true, because the documentation which was prepared in the 1990s and later, in 2006-2007, was very strongly verified, when I was president of the National Water Management Board, included all these investments, including the improvement of the sewage network around the tank, with the improvement of the sewage treatment plant. Unfortunately, not all the investments planned at the time were made in this regard. And now we've faced the problem of how to finance this investment. The money in the national fund for this is, but the law does not allow this money to reach, especially as regards these local roads, because environmental law clearly states what this money can and cannot be used for. Therefore, I have asked Members for help, and I have received such help from Members. We finish this construction, finish it in such a way that we can fill this tank in such a way that people around it will have access. Of course, it can be said that in 2010 these objects had already partially fulfilled their role, but this tank could not be filled because there was no local roads, because there was no money for a simple start-up, among others. on landslides control, on firewall seals control and other structures, and that's what the money is needed for right now. Time really plays a very important role here, because given the World Youth Days, which will take place near Wieliczka, that is, in an area that can be largely protected by this reservoir - and I remind you that this area in the Beach is behind the flood shaft - it must be ready in time, and it will be ready for that time. I assure Mrs Małgorzata Płępek that we have an excellent plan, we have an excellent plan to build this. Besides, we had this plan 10 years ago, except somehow the previous government left us with a kind of abandoned construction. After all, it was enough to extend the previous law by a year... [[That's right.]] ...and there wouldn't be a problem at all. Now I'd like to answer a few more questions. Indeed, money has been spent for all these periods, we do not deny it, but unfortunately, procedurally this spending has not always been effective either. It was often the case that the investor, even though it was registered in the law, received money from the national fund in October or November and could no longer use it for public procurement. As for the road Łękawice - Zagórze, in fact this road is not covered, but this is the modernisation of the road. To be clear, we can't, we can't solve all the local problems with this bill. There's a lot more to these problems out there. After all, these towns are expanding, among others. new sewerage networks, new waterworks are needed due to the already prepared tourist infrastructure, but at some point it is necessary to say that this investment is limited to the necessary values. I think the municipalities will manage, if not from their own resources, there are other measures for modernising municipal roads and there should be no problems here. As for the wooden bridge - maybe not so in turn, but it is about this wooden bridge - it is really about getting to a company from the national road, but a much cheaper solution will be, instead of remodeling this wooden bridge and adapting it to the parameters of the transportability of TIRs, simply making the exit from the national road. Mr Lassota asked about the purchase of agricultural and forestry land. The point is that, because there was no floor at the moment, there was no need to transform these agricultural and forestry land, it would be unnecessary expenditure. Not until it's upstairs to normal floor level... The normal level of flooring is assumed at 290 m above sea level, while the maximum level, i.e. this level of flood reserve, at 312 m above sea level, and we also need to regulate all these matters. Before that, there was no need, because it would be unnecessary expenses until there was an upstairs. Mr Kossakowski asked about the landslips. Ladies and gentlemen, landslips are, of course, dynamic in a way. Water-ground conditions are changing and these landslips can be formed after filling the tank. The ones we predicted had already started are already included in this. We suppose that two more - I say: we suppose - may have started, but of course the start is also an urgent observation of all the phenomena that occur around the tank, and then we will have to react, but with landslides there is so much less problem that the National Fund for Environmental Protection and Water Management has a special landslides program that can be used, or we will be doing so as part of our own resources. I think I may have answered most of your doubts and questions. [[Costs.]] Uh-huh, costs. I am sorry, Mr Skurkiewicz - I have written here - he asked about all the costs. [[Total cost.]] The total cost of construction is about PLN 2.2 billion, including from the National Fund for Environmental Protection and Water Management as much as PLN 840 million, which is very much. In fact, this national fund was used as a parabudget of the state, and therefore there was a lack of money for other investments. This is a reasonable cost. I must say that this is a reasonable cost, it is not an unjustified cost, but what was in 2006 and 2007 was that it was financed by the state budget, including special funds, from the special reserves that Mrs Anna Paluch referred to. And yet I wanted to say about 2008 that it is not true that there was no planned budget resources for this purpose. [[They were, of course.]] They were in full height, but unfortunately, again, there was a problem with running them at the right time. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-27-sejm-17-1.u144	Thank you very much. Please take the floor of the applicant's representative, Ms Anna Paluch.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-27-sejm-17-1.u145	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Firstly, I would like to thank the representatives of the clubs who declared their support for the bill discussed today. With great gratitude I accept these declarations, and I am very happy with them. The vast majority of the questions were addressed to the Minister, but at least one of them I would like to answer here. Mr Meysztowicz is not here, but I think he will read in the minutes. Well, you need a particular intensity of bad will and resistance to accepting publicly given facts, to ask questions such as Mr Meysztowicz, I quote the question: Why did the special law concerning Świnna Poręba not need a law for Father Rydzyk? Well, Mr Meysztowicz, we discussed, among others, in the Environment Committee. These issues and information have been made clear by the Management Board and are widely available. The funds that were transferred to the Lux Veritatis Foundation were the result of a judicial settlement. And the management of the national fund set up by the previous team was well aware that he would have to pay that money because he had been making a reserve for this commitment for several years. [[Applause]] So it takes a really special amount of bad will to tell such an andronic story from the Seym platform. As for the issue of expenditure from 2008, Mr Owl simply did not listen to me, because I gave this data expressis verbis. I'll say it again, sir, to make it permanent. In 2008 only PLN 255.6 million was made out of planned PLN 93 million, i.e. 36,5%. The budget was prepared, the money was there, you just couldn't spend it. As regards the complaint over administrative proceedings, the administrative difficulties involved in the preparation of investments, I apologise, but someone in 2009 set up regional environmental directorates and general management, someone determined that, so to speak, the law, implementing the directive by laws of 3 October... [[Yes.]] ...someone has set up these institutions and somebody has promised that environmental behaviour will improve. Well, you can see, Mr Owl, how these actions have improved. [[Applause]] [[They're late.]] Thank you very much. I think I answered all the questions. [[Great, Anka!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-27-sejm-17-1.u146	Thank you very much. The discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-27-sejm-17-1.u147	Construction of the barrier in Świnna Poręba is one of the longest ongoing hydrotechnical projects. Back in the '50s. The first land development project was created in the 20th century. Its construction began in 1986, in 1988 and 1992 the Wadowice - Skawce railway line was demolished, which took place on most of the areas planned for flooding. Due to financial difficulties related to economic change after 1989, the work was delayed. The work schedule adopted by the Sejm in 2005 is also not being implemented. As a result of the financial crisis, the construction of the vessel was halted in 2009. In 2010, the government decided to finalise this investment. So far, the construction cost more than PLN 2.2 billion. The planned total investment cost is to close to PLN 2.3 billion. In order to finish it, it still needs about 70 million PLN. PSL supports the proposed regulations aimed at completing the construction of the Swine Poręba water reservoir. For this purpose 53.2 million PLN is to be allocated. The project envisages the completion of the investment next year. This year more than PLN 46.53 million will go to the construction site, and next year PLN 6.7 million. Most of the money saved in the law will be spent on stabilizing landslips - 25,7 million PLN in 2 years. The reconstruction of roads will cost PLN 20.6 million. The remaining PLN 6.93 million will be allocated to investments related to the vessel. These include among others: construction of dams, tanks and power plants, demolition of asphalt roads and sealing of the control and injection gallery during water flooring. The funds will come from the National Fund for Environmental Protection and Water Management. The tank will perform flood protection and retention functions for, among others. Wadowice and Cracow, and at the same time water reservoir for municipal and industrial purposes in the war. Silesian, is intended to contribute to the development of the technical and economic infrastructure of the surrounding areas.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-27-sejm-17-1.u148	The Marshal of the Sejm, after consulting the Sejm Bureau, proposes that the Sejm refer to the Parliament's draft law on the completion of the construction of the Świnna Poręba Water Tank, contained in print No. 427, to the Committee on the Protection of the Environment, Natural Resources and Forestry for consideration. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. This concludes the discussion of the agenda items scheduled for 27 April this year. I would like to inform you that Members have come forward to make their statements. Would any of you and your fellow Members like to make a statement? No one's checking in. I therefore consider the list of Members made to be closed. Please, Mr Czesław Sobierajski, Law and Justice have the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-27-sejm-17-1.u149	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! Today is the second anniversary of the canonization of St. John Paul II, on the other hand, 38 years have elapsed this year since the joyous papam said the world Cardinal Karol Wojtyla's election to the capital city of Peter. And the great pontificate of St. John Paul began II. We received a unique gift - the gift of life in the same times in which the Holy Father John Paul lived. II, the gift of listening to his words and drawing from his teachings. We received a pope who was truly a man of faith, hope and love. Pope John Paul II has a special place in the history of Poland and Europe. His determination to claim the right of our homeland to freedom among the peoples of Europe, his practical defence of the rights of our nation made John Paul II the most important of the fathers of independence of Poland. During the first pilgrimage of John Paul II to Poland in 1979, a process began, which resulted in the rise of the solidarity, the liberation of the nation from the reign of communism and the reconstruction of the unity of Europe. For us Poles, the pontificate of the Polish Pope is therefore of special importance. We are proud of the fact that this great man with extraordinary imagination, deep knowledge, man of great culture shaped the Polish tradition. In the teaching of the Holy Father John Paul II we find what is the greatest in our history. His attitude, his teachings are deeply embedded in the history of our nation. Thus, the Holy Father taught how much from the recognition of human dignity, from respect for human rights, from the ability of dialogue and forgiveness, from the building of social order on truth, freedom and justice, from respect for every man, from the defence of every human life from conception to natural death, from respect for family and natural human relationship, from the building of civilization of love as much as the opportunities of society and development and peace both internally and internationally depend on all of this. The Pope could hear and understand everyone as no one else could. He has solidified himself with every man, with every community, especially the suffering, the poor, the harmed and the enslaved. He met with them - with the majority personally, with all spiritually. He was with them, and they knew that he was one of them - the poor, the afflicted, the persecuted. In this world full of uncertainty, violence, doubt, John Paul II took initiatives to facilitate the resolution of social, political and international conflicts. He was a true man of peace and hope. Unusual weather and love, but also extraordinary strength and certainty indicated to the whole world, to every community, to all men and to every man, how to make life more human. He taught us that no community can survive without true solidarity, but also solidarity cannot exist without love. We remember his words: Solidarity means both, and since the burden is a burden borne together in the community. There can be no fight stronger than solidarity. We remember the wonderful moments we had during the unforgettable pilgrimages of the Holy Father John Paul II to Poland, with which, as the Pope repeated, my heart could never part. By pilgriming on Jasna Góra to Our Lady the Queen of Poland, he entrusted our homeland and each of us. He reminded that Jasna Góra is the spiritual capital of the Polish nation and that here, in the heart of the mother, it beats the heart of the nation. For if you want to hear how the heart of the nation beats, you must come here and put your heart to your mother's heart. He pointed out the principles on which the reborn independent Polish state should be based, warned that democracy without value would turn into an open or camouflaged totalitarianism, spoke to us with the love of the father and with the power of the prophet, evoked our consciences. We didn't always want to listen to the Pope when we were sighed at freedom. It's time to catch up on St. John Paul II. I express my deep joy that universal requests for the canonization of Pope John Paul II - santo subito - were fulfilled immediately, expressed on the day of his departure to the Father's house. I would like to express my gratitude and thanks to the great St. John Paul II, the greatest authority of our time, who, referring to the sources of Christendom, taught us courage and humility, firmness and understanding, principality and openness, wisdom and serenity of the spirit. Let us be faithful to these values and principles and implement them into individual, social and national life, so that the construction of our country is based on a solid foundation and with its strengthening [[♪ The bell ♪]] Let us draw from the vault the magnificent legacy of St. John Paul II. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-27-sejm-17-1.u150	Thank you very much. Mr Simon Giżyński, Law and Justice have the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-27-sejm-17-1.u151	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! Grzegorz Schetyna's answer to his idea of total opposition written from Wisława Szymborska's works: Every instinct seems to me to be jealous. But one in particular, it's called the instinct to brake the blows. Animals within their own species often fight each other, but the fight usually ends bloodless. At some point, one of the opponents re-enters, that's all. Dogs don't bite, birds don't peck, antelope doesn't stab to death. Not because of the sweetness of the disposition. It's just that there's a mechanism that limits the momentum, the impact, or the shortness of the jaws. This instinct disappears only in captivity and does not occur in many breeds produced in breeding. Which is pretty much one thing. So much Wisława Szymborska in response to Grzegorz Schetyna's proclamation of total opposition. Thank you kindly. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-27-sejm-17-1.u152	Thank you. Mr Józef Lassot, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-27-sejm-17-1.u153	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! In my statement, I would like to state that I fully support the letter to the Poles signed by the former presidents, ministers and opponents of 25 April this year. And I will quote the text of this letter: Let us restore the democratic rule of law. The coming months will determine the fate of the rule of law and democracy in Poland. Law and Justice does not intend to get out of the way of destroying constitutional order, paralyzing the work of the Constitutional Tribunal and the entire judicial authority. Parliament works under the dictation of a small majority, disregarding the arguments and interests of minorities. There are draft draconian laws, such as the absolute ban on abortion. Power escalates conflicts and divisions in society. The rulers chose a confrontation with the Euro-Atlantic community. The dispute in the Court's case is in real danger of restricting the rights of Member States in the European Union. Anti-European and xenophobic statements and actions by the rulers undermine the coherence of the Union, act for the interests of imperialist Russia. With a reliable, valued partner in the Union and NATO, we become a'special need state'. The foundations of our security and economic development are wavering. Poland is going to authoritarianism and isolation in the world. In order to halt this trend, full mobilisation of the opposition society and environment is essential and a joint action programme for the defence of democracy is to be developed. 1. We call on all Poles to follow their daily work and act in a legal order consistent with the Constitution. The attempt by PiS to create its own order is a usurpation of power. We call on the politicians of the governing camp, which is expensive for state and democracy, to refuse to participate in their destruction. We would like to remind you that the people responsible for violating the Constitution will be responsible. 2. We express our appreciation and respect for the responsible, decent attitude of judges of the Constitutional Court, other courts, representation of lawyers and departments of university law. The judges, prosecutors and representatives of other legal professions should be given special protection against the consequences of unlawful action by the authorities. 3. Parliamentary opposition must not be subject to pressure from the rulers. Fundamental issues cannot be negotiated, in particular the obligation for the government to publish judgments of the Constitutional Tribunal, the oath of three judges of the Constitutional Tribunal elected by the Sejm of the previous term of office and the amendment of the Constitution in order to change the current composition of the Tribunal. We call for the cooperation of opposition politicians in defending the rule of law and civil liberties. 4. We commend the Committee for the Defence of Democracy, which has become a focal point for the coordination of the citizens' opposition movement. The measure of social demand for its activities is the mass participation of Poles in actions organised by the Committee. In order to fulfil its mission effectively, the CODE should remain a social organisation which does not engage in party competition. 5. We commend the Euro-Atlantic Community and the European Union for their commitment to the protection of the rule of law and democracy in our country. Discussions conducted in their forums, resolutions, opinions and recommendations are not 'an interference in Poland's internal affairs', but an expression of legitimate concern about the state of our country and citizens' rights. We call for perseverance in the common concern for the values that unite us. So many letters, and in this situation I appeal: citizens of a worse sort, let's join together! Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-27-sejm-17-1.u154	Mr Łukasz Schreiber, Law and Justice have the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-27-sejm-17-1.u155	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! This is the first time I've made a statement, but this is also an unusual situation for me, because it's an extraordinary event. Yesterday was the 96th birthday of the oldest sports club in Bydgoszcz - Star of Bydgoszcz. It is April 26, 1920, members of the football section at the parish of St. The Holy Trinity in Bydgoszcz, so-called. The Terminators' Society, they've established this sports club. Since 1924 the star has participated in the competition for the Bydgoszcz Championship, as well as in the district football association in Toruń. At the turn of the 20s and 30s, she competed among others. from KS Toruń, in 1936 and 1937 she fought for the Pomerania Championship, losing to Gryf Toruń in the finals. Since 1926, the club has been a multi-section club, with sections such as table tennis, light athletics, kayaking and volleyball. Before World War II at ul. Bronikowski was created an object. Over the years, thousands of players, juniors and seniors have gone through the club. Among the most famous players were among others.: Stefan Majewski, World Football Championship medalist, Marian Sypniewski, double Olympic medalist in Floret, or Daniel Walkowiak, canoemaker, Olympic medalist. Today the club is counting, for the moment, over 300 people. Zooleszcz Star Bydgoszcz, a section of table tennis, is the pride of which the team plays in the highest class of the game. Since 2011, the football section of Star Bydgoszcz has been reactivated thanks to the activities of activists and players. Today you can say that the wish of 100 years Star would be at least insensitive. Therefore, I would like to wish you 1000 years and the greatest results of Star of Bydgoszcz. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-27-sejm-17-1.u156	Thank you. Mrs Teresa Nolas, Law and Justice have the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-27-sejm-17-1.u157	Thank you kindly. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen! I welcome the fact that in the Ministry of Agriculture, the public consultation on the government draft law amending certain laws to facilitate the sale of food by farmers, including the creation of favourable conditions for the development of the production and retail of food produced from their own crops, from farming or farming without the participation of intermediaries. For years as an agricultural environment, we have fought for the legality of the sale of products produced directly by farmers, which, although healthy, until recently banned, were an illegal product. Luckily, that's gonna change. Following the signs of time, the challenge of present societies is the production of healthy food, targeted at high quality indicators, without chemical additives and various types of preservatives. Today everyone knows that all these improvers used in food production have a negative impact on human health, resulting in an increase in the incidence of many civilizational diseases such as cancer, diabetes, allergies and others. Life itself! And yet, Jan Kochanowski has long warned: Noble health, no one will know, as you taste, until you break down. I think we're on the so-called. Turn around. It is therefore appropriate to direct, point out the problem, to look for simple solutions. So let us give freedom to massagers, bakers, farmers, and everything - I am absolutely convinced - will go in the right direction. After all, we've been eating our own sausage for years, drinking unpasteurized milk, sour cream, eating soda cakes baked on the kitchen plate, enjoying all kinds of juices, syrups, tinctures. So? I'm sure we were healthier. And I dare risk being happier, too. The present food supplied to us by all kinds of companies that pretend to smoke, that they ferment, that they swirle, earn at that cost, nothing is worth it. I'm afraid the world has gone too far. They are aware of this by the society of all the countries of the world, with 80% in favour of changing food from corporate to organic food. I have recently read the consumer opinions of Western European citizens, who present their views on this subject in common, knowing the seriousness of this issue. One such example is the opinion of Mr Chris Kordziński, the son of a Polish farmer, the exile of Sibir, expressed as he confessed, in a gesture of gratitude to his father and his work, quote: These small farmers in the future will be our salvation when we wake up and understand that corporations control governments around the world. It is they, small farmers, who provide the best quality agricultural products. I'm sure this is the moment. Finally, ladies and gentlemen, to all those corporate food producers who like each other in all kinds of chemical improvers, sandy baggies, beet-free buffets, meat-like products, so-called. meat with a large refill of water, and who knows, maybe something worse, veal sausage with 2% meat content and a whole bunch of fillers, you'd like to say: Enjoy! You would like to, but I do know - I think you also - that they do not consume such food. That's the whole business. Thank you kindly. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-27-sejm-17-1.u158	Thank you. Mrs Anna April, Law and Justice have the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-27-sejm-17-1.u159	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! April 18th this year a solemn unveiling of the plaque commemorating Radom local governmentman Tadeusz Wydra took place. A board in the City Office at ul. Kilinski 30 dedicated His Excellency to Bishop Henryk Tomasik. She was exposed by Margaret Otter's wife. Tadeusz Wydra, a man of great culture, an idealist, a prominent self-government officer - so mentioned by his relatives and co-workers - was born in 1958, died in 2013. A civil servant, manager, social worker, graduate of the Electronic School Complex in Radom and the Department of Transport of the Higher Engineering School, a local patriot. He always cherished his family's sides. Even when his career took on momentum and became CEO of the Ministry of Finance, he never forgot his hometown, Radom. It's where he shaped his character. His activity, not just athletic activity, was already noticed in the tech school. As is well known, he loved the retina, and at times he said that it contributed greatly to the formation of his personality. He was also happy to participate in the camps of academic pastoral ministry conducted by the sleeper. Fr. Jerzy Banaśkiewicz. He continued his studies at the Department of Transport of the Świętokrzyski University of Technology in Radom. Shortly after his studies, he began working at PKP Radom, then returned to a facility where he once gained knowledge. Now he had the opportunity to stand on the other side as a teacher in the Electronic School Complex. He was a really good man, everyone liked him - that's what his students remember him. In 1991 he started working at the regional office as a general director while also becoming the city councillor of Radom. Tadeusz Wydra did not settle on laurels, always expected more, above all from himself. His ambition pushed him further to the position of CEO at the Mazowieckie Voivodeship Office in Warsaw. In recent years of his career he worked as CEO at the Ministry of Finance and then at the Technical Supervision Office in Warsaw. After moving to the capital, he cared about the city's interests, Radom's interests, he never forgot about it and always sought its development. Thanks to him, the data processing centre and the technical supervision headquarters were established in Radom. Tadeusz Wydra was a model worthy of imitation, he was a born civil servant who did not lock himself in his office, but always came to people with initiative. He died after a severe illness on 25 March 2013. He is one of the people most deserved for the modern development of our city. He was a man of service. If everyone served Poland in the same way as Tadeusz Wydra, Poland would be an insurmountable country, unbeatable - said former finance minister Mateusz Szczurek. Colleagues and friends commemorated Tadeusz Wydra with a memorial plaque, which can be seen on the first floor at the municipal office. The ceremony of unveiling the plaque was attended by parliamentarians, representatives of the city and voivodship authorities, co-workers and colleagues. Tadeusz was a man of division. He was special. I remember meeting him 15 years ago. When I had to give a public address, I looked at Tadeusz, his warm eyes and a gentle smile. I knew everything would go well. He was a man of great empathy. He was able to unite everyone over political divisions. It didn't matter who had the opinions, what it mattered was that you had a heart and could talk. He was special. That is why I am making my first statement in this Parliament in honor of Tadeusz Wydra. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-27-sejm-17-1.u160	Thank you very much. Mr Waldemar Andzel, Law and Justice have the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-27-sejm-17-1.u161	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! 1050 years ago, most likely on 14 April, Prince Polan Mieszko I accepted the sacrament of baptism, thanks to which he integrated his country and united the tribes living in it, giving the same origins to the Polish state. At that time it became a member of the family of Christian European countries. This event, preceded by marriage Lives I with the Czech Princess Good, was groundbreaking in the history of Poland and Poles, and its significance is undeniable. Quoting the records of the Chronicle of Galla Anonymous: "The first prince of the Polish City received the grace of baptism by means of his faithful wife; and for his glory and glory it is sufficient [if we say] that in his day and through him the heavenly Light visited the kingdom of Poland. Thanks to his baptism, Mieszko I was able to conduct effective diplomacy and foreign policy, and our country was fully recognized on the international stage and protected from possible conquests under the pretext of Christianization. The established ecclesiastical hierarchy has greatly facilitated the management of the young state organism, and Poland has entered into a group of states which constitute a community of faith, which are the cradle of wonderful scientific and cultural achievements, countries from which Greek philosophy and Roman legal order originate. On 15 April this year. The National Assembly took place, which celebrated the 1050th anniversary of Poland's baptism and the beginning of the Polish state. This was the first gathering in history. Both chambers of parliament met in Poznań, i.e. in a city which, according to most historians, was a place of reception by the House of the First Sacrament. Poznań is also the city where the first bishopry was established in Poland. The meeting was chaired by the Marshals of the Sejm and the Senate, attended by members of the Council of Ministers with Prime Minister Beata Szydło, members of the Polish Episcopal Conference chaired by Archbishop Archbishops. Stanisław Gądecki, metropolitan of Poznań, as well as representatives of European Parliaments and diplomatic corps. During the assembly, Andrzej Duda, President of the Republic of Poland, gave his message. After the session, the Poznańska Philharmonic performed an oratory of 966.pl, which was composed specifically for this ceremony. President Andrzej Duda, on the other hand, unveiled a plaque commemorating the historic National Assembly at the Poznań International Fair. As part of the celebration of the anniversary, there were also many other events that allowed people and tourists to get closer to the story from 1050 years ago. The whole country hosted performances, musicals and exhibitions, including multimedia ones. A special anniversary edition of the Millennial Bible, as well as commemorative bills, was also published. It is not surprising that anniversary celebrations and events attracted many Poles. For all of us, the 1050th anniversary of the adoption of baptism by the Living One is extremely important. The Christian religion played a huge role throughout the history of the Polish state, and the Catholic Church since the very beginning of its existence in the Polish lands has been an integration function, always being the rock of Polishness, whether during the break-up of the district, or during the partitions. The memory of such important historical events should be an opportunity to reflect on the history of our nation. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-27-sejm-17-1.u162	Thank you very much. Mr Kurzepa, Law and Justice have the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-27-sejm-17-1.u163	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Dear citizens of the Krosnień District on the Lubuskie Land and Other Listeners! Poles! I'm meeting you guys for the next time in a row in this formula. Different issues motivate me to talk to you. Today, unfortunately, I am returning to the case of the district hospital in Krosno Odrzański, which was decided by the county council years ago to commercialize. This decision, which was to start a golden period for this hospital, becomes his curse and a big problem. I've talked about the hospital situation twice, and I'm sending it back to these speeches. Today I would like to ask myself, you and the governing Polish government, the question: What is a good change in detail and what is it supposed to be? Almost a laboratory example of the pathology of the commercialized hospital care system can be replicated by recalling Lubuskie hospitals managed by a private consortium, a hospital in Kwidzyn or the meeting of the parliamentary task force discussed today. nurses and midwives in the hospital in Wyszkowie. There are so-called mechanisms everywhere. Sawicka's strategies are effectively implemented and smart privatisation has taken place. The effects don't keep you waiting long. Going back to the hospital in Krosno Odrzański, I remind you. The nurses have been in a collective dispute with the company for months. The county council has neither tools nor determination by the fact that the badly constructed agreement pushed it into an alley from which there is no way out, and does not know how to act effectively in relations with the company. Doctors on duty in the E.R. are not available, in the intern's absence, the nurse's not available. Doctors come to the hospital from other institutions managed by the company from a distance of up to 300 km, they are on duty combined in the chamber and in the internship. ICU's offline, staff's gone. Isn't that enough? People are afraid to leave their loved ones there for treatment. The county council is paralyzed by lack of idea and determination. Nurses are dealt with in dispute by lawyers of large law firms defending the interests of large privatization players in the area of healthcare. I'm the victim of a trial where I've been charged $10,000. For fighting for the hospital. The doctor I'm working with, Dr. Zdion, has three trials and 40,000. punishment for talking about this pathological commercialization. People ask: Is there anyone who can help us? To whom should we ask for help and rescue? I therefore appeal to the Ministry of Health to use the article. 118 and 119 of the Act on Medical Activity, on immediate referral to Lubuskie voivodeship on comprehensive control in hospitals managed by the company, on the establishment of an interministerial consultative and advisory team for local governments, professional groups or simply frightened citizens in order to help them in the situation presented in this statement. I'm asking you to. I'm running. Tomorrow, at the council meeting of the village Gubin, the matter will be reopened. Next week, the meeting of the Council of Krosnieński County will be held again. I realize, ladies and gentlemen of the local government, that you will again crash into the wall of inability. I am calling out loud here in Parliament: let us help those local governments that are being played by powerful corporations and powerful companies. What about the people? And people die. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-27-sejm-17-1.u164	Thank you. That concludes our parliamentary statements. I'm ordering a recess until tomorrow, i.e. 28 April 2016 at 3 p.m. 9. [[Adjournment at the meeting at 3 p.m. 22 min 08]]
