ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-01-sejm-15-3.u1	Resume session. I ask Members to take their seats. I would like to call Peter Lukasz Babiarz and Piotr Olszówka to the secretaries of today's proceedings. The minutes and list of speakers will be led by Piotr Łukasz Babiarz. Formal proposals have been made by Members. Mr Jarosław Kaczyński on behalf of the Law and Justice Club. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] [[Voices from the room: Ooh...]] There you go. [[Game in the O.R., bell ringing.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-01-sejm-15-3.u2	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! [[The Gathered Rise Up]] Tonight, Mr Artur Górski died - a man of exceptional bravery, exceptional idealism, in the whole sense of the word, devoted to the matter of Poland. Here I will use a phrase, which in his case is not a phrase - devoted to God and his homeland. He died of a severe illness after a heroic struggle against this disease. Give him eternal rest, O Lord, and let eternal light shine unto him forever. May he rest in eternal peace. Amen. [[The voices of the hall: Give him eternal rest, O Lord, and let eternal light shine unto him forever. May he rest in eternal peace. Amen.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-01-sejm-15-3.u3	Thank you. Mr Andrzej Halicki, the Civic Platform Club, made a formal request.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-01-sejm-15-3.u4	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The Civic Platform Club requests that the Senior Convention be convened and that the Minister of Justice and Attorney General Zbigniew Ziobra should be able to submit him to the Constitutional Court, the President of the Constitutional Tribunal, Mr Rzepliński, who is not present today. On what grounds, by what law and by whom did it be decided to change the proceedings before the President of the Constitutional Tribunal? Yesterday, Mr President spoke about dialogue, the resolution of the constitutional crisis through dialogue and constructive cooperation. Is that what this constructive cooperation and dialogue is supposed to be like? Are you in control of the Minister of Justice and the Attorney General, who, as you can see, is doing something else, even though he participated in this meeting. This cannot be the case in a democratic state of law. We demand that the Senior Convention be convened and that the agenda be completed for Zbigniew Ziebra's information on this subject. [[Applause]] [[But they're all under the law.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-01-sejm-15-3.u5	From a formal point of view, this is not the subject of debate, but, yes, I will ask the Senior Convention after the vote. [[Everyone's under the law.]] I ask the Secretary to read the messages.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-01-sejm-15-3.u6	Communication on the meetings of the teams. Today, a meeting of the National Democratic Parliamentary Group will be held immediately after the vote. I would like to inform you that today there will be a meeting of the Committee on Administration and Home Affairs - 15 minutes after the end of the vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-01-sejm-15-3.u7	Thank you. The European Union Commission has submitted a report on the amendments tabled to the parliamentary draft resolutions on: - immigration policy of the Polish state within the European Union, - immigration policy of Poland. The report shall be published in the Official Journal of the European Union. Therefore, after obtaining the uniform opinion of the Seniors Convention, I decided to supplement the agenda with a point on the vote on this report. The Bureau of the Sejm has submitted a proposal for amendments to the personal compositions of the Sejm committees. The application is print number 383. Therefore, after obtaining the uniform opinion of the Seniors Convention, I decided to supplement the agenda by a point covering the examination of this proposal. We proceed with the examination of item 20 of the agenda: the report by the European Union's Committee on European Union Affairs on draft resolutions on: - immigration policy of the Polish state within the European Union, - immigration policy of Poland (prints no. 18, 230, 250 and 250-A) - vote. I ask Mr Szymon Szynkowski, aka Sęk, to present an additional report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-01-sejm-15-3.u8	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! Mr. Messengers! Gentlemen! High Izbo! I would like to present the effect of the work of the European Union committee, joint work on two draft resolutions by the Kukiz clubs15 and the Law and Justice. These discussions have been going on for weeks. The leading project and the project that will ultimately be voted on today is by the Law and Justice Club. I wanted to draw attention to four essential elements. Firstly, the negative assessment of the decision of 22 September 2015 taken by the previous government, the Civic Platform Government and PSL in support of the relocation decision of 160,000 was included in the resolution. refugees. It was a surprise to our partners from the Visegrad Group that Poland supports such a decision. It must also be made clear that our country's foreign policy has changed 180 degrees to this extent and that any such decisions cannot be agreed by our government in any way. The second point is to call on the government to apply the national refugee policy criteria particularly precisely. It's a very important matter. Until today, decisions on relocation of refugees to Poland have not been implemented, which is worth noting. Here, some of the members of the Kukiz Club have even tabled such an amendment to halt the implementation of the decision to relocate refugees. These decisions did not start to be executed, so there is nothing to hold back, and they did not start to be executed precisely because, so far, the eligibility criteria have not been met, who really is a refugee, who is an immigrant. A system has not been created to evaluate this effectively. In this situation, in view of the security of our country's citizens, the need to apply these criteria is very important and no immigrant or refugee will be admitted before sealing this system. The third is a strong opposition to the establishment of any mechanisms for the allocation of refugees for the future. There is no such surprising and shameful agreement on the one hand, which was expressed in September 2015 contrary to what I will stress once again, the position of the Visegrad Group states. And finally, fourth thing. It is our moral duty to engage in humanitarian activities, helping people in conflict areas or in neighbouring countries. This is very important. Poland does not evade this obligation and the Government of Law and Justice will not evade this obligation either. Ladies and gentlemen! As I said, in the course of these discussions, Kukiz15 tabled one amendment. This amendment was not approved by the committee, but it could not obtain approval for two reasons. Firstly, she referred to the question of referendum. As you know, a referendum in the legal sense... Today the procedure has not been started, it does not exist legally, so it would not be justified to refer to this in the resolution. And secondly, it was said in this amendment that the decision had not been implemented. This decision did not begin to be made. This decision will not be implemented if the conditions for the safety of Polish citizens, i.e. the national criteria for refugee policy, are not met, and this is very important, that is what I draw attention to. The Government of Law and Justice is pursuing a sensible policy on possible reception of refugees. The conditions have not yet been met and refugees cannot therefore be accepted. We support this government policy, we call for a resolution to strengthen the PiS government's policy on this issue. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-01-sejm-15-3.u9	Thank you very much. Of course, Mr President, you are the rapporteur of the committee, because on behalf of the government, the Minister of Home Affairs can speak. [[Exactly.]] Let's move on to the vote. The Commission requests the adoption of a draft resolution from print No 250. At the same time, the committee presents an amendment on which we will vote first. In the amendment, applicants propose, after the third subparagraph, to add a paragraph calling on the government to stop the process of reception of refugees under the relocation scheme in the European Union until the nation has spoken in a referendum on this issue. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. There's a question. The question is asked by Robert Winnicki from the Kukiz club15. How much time do you need? Would a minute be enough for you? There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-01-sejm-15-3.u10	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! This amendment, which calls on the government to refrain from any action to implement decisions on relocation of immigrants, refugees, terrorists, whatever we call it, ladies and gentlemen, is nothing but the fulfillment of the words of Prime Minister Beata Szydło a week ago after the assassinations in Brussels. I am therefore surprised at the Law and Justice that it does not want to accept this amendment. This is the fulfillment of this declaration. We will not accept any immigrants, because the ratio of the state of the Polish state is zero. [[Don't rely on the state.]] No immigrants, no refugees, no terrorists in the Polish state. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-01-sejm-15-3.u11	The committee rapporteur, Mr Szymon Szynkowski, a.k.a. Sęk, would like to address this, but that was not really a question, but an expression of surprise. [[Joy in the Chamber]] [[Not an hour, please.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-01-sejm-15-3.u12	Once again, Mr. Marshal, I wanted to explain, even though I've said it before. The decision did not start to be implemented by the government. How, then, can we amend the provision that the implementation of the decision should be suspended? This decision has not been implemented by the government and will not be implemented until the refugee policy criteria have been met. [[But the decision is.]] It's very clear. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-01-sejm-15-3.u13	There you go. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 434 Members voted. 36 Members voted against - 395, 3 Members abstained. The Sejm rejected the amendment. We proceed to the vote on the whole draft bill, the resolution, I apologize. Members have come forward. Mr Marcin Święcicki, Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-01-sejm-15-3.u14	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! We are here in the House under the sign of the cross, on which is Jesus Christ, who was a refugee. [[Applause]] We listened to Pope Francis' appeal to receive refugees, and we saw his symbolic gestures in this matter. There is an appeal from the Polish Primate on the reception of refugees. I would like to ask why our House in the 1050th anniversary of Poland's baptism is cut off from European solidarity to help refugees, in a completely symbolic way. There's an amount of $7,000 coming on us. the refugees we were supposed to receive within two years. Meanwhile, High Izbo, daily comes to Poland 40 thousand. foreigners and we feel safe, letting them into our country, only by carrying out appropriate border controls. About the $7,000. refugees who were due to arrive within 2 years - each of them was to be checked by our services, his identity [[♪ The bell ♪]] She was supposed to be checked on the spot. I ask myself: Isn't it disgraceful for our House to adopt a resolution that separates itself from European solidarity when this solidarity is needed by Europe and these refugees? [[No.]] Isn't it disgraceful for our country to be shut out of this decision? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-01-sejm-15-3.u15	Thank you. I do not see the desire to cut back on European solidarity here, but it is the Member who is asking the question. [[Censor!]] Member Robert Winnicki, Kukiz club15, has the floor. [[Censorship again?]] [[The platform is a very nice club.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-01-sejm-15-3.u16	Mr Święcicki, the answer to why on the 1050th anniversary of Christianity we do not want to accept Arab, Muslim immigrants... [[Refugees, you don't understand the difference.]] ...is very simple: because we want Poland to remain Christian. Yes, we want Poland to remain Polish. We want Poland to remain Christian. [[Applause]] And we do not want those errors of multiculturalism that Western Europe commits and tragically experiences. [[And who were your ancestors, Adam and Eve? The Hebrews.]] The answer is why we don't want to accept $7,000. refugees, immigrants, terrorists, it's very simple. Because it doesn't take 7,000, it doesn't even need 700, it's enough 7 to make a swing. And that's the best answer. No immigrants, no refugees, no terrorists in Poland. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-01-sejm-15-3.u17	Mr... In fact, Mr Winnicki should address the question to the rapporteur. [[Aye, aye, Marshal.]] No, sir. But only in correction mode and please use this mode.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-01-sejm-15-3.u18	In corrigendum mode. I wanted to say once again that I was perhaps misunderstood by Mr Winnicki. Well, I wanted to say from a security point of view that we let in 40,000 every day. foreigners to Poland and we feel safe about it. How many bombers can there be, terrorists? Somehow we accept that such a micro-risk exists. Why shouldn't we take 7,000? refugees? It doesn't matter what kind of religion, but suffering persecution, war, hunger, which children can't go to school. This is unchristian, sir. [[Applause]] Then I guess I don't understand Christianity like you do. And apparently, the Pope understands it differently, otherwise our primate understands it, and otherwise than you, sir, other Christians understand it, the very dimension of Christianity. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-01-sejm-15-3.u19	Please. The question was asked by Mr Krzysztof Mieszkowski, the Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-01-sejm-15-3.u20	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I'm listening to the embarrassment of the Kukiz Member15. This is embarrassing. [[That's your opinion.]] I hope this House will have a lot of tolerance for people who are fleeing bombs, trying to protect their lives, loved ones, children, etc. Well, ladies and gentlemen, Adam Mickiewicz was a refugee, Cyprian Kamil Norwid was a refugee. These were people who found refuge in a country other than Poland. St. Luke, if you don't know, was Syrian. I would like you to think deeply of those who seek refuge in the protection of their lives today. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-01-sejm-15-3.u21	Please. We proceed to the vote on the whole draft resolution. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting the draft resolution as a whole in print No 250, will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 439 Members voted. 14 Members abstained from voting 267 against - 158. I state that the Sejm has adopted a resolution on the immigration policy of Poland. [[Applause]] We return to the examination of item 13 of the agenda: the report of the Communication Commission with Poles abroad and the Committee on Foreign Affairs on the Commission's draft law amending the Polish Charter Act and some other laws. The additional committee report shall be in print no 371-A. We proceed to the third reading. I would like to ask Mr Michał Dworczyk to present an additional report.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-01-sejm-15-3.u22	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! I have the honour to present on behalf of the Committee on Communication with Poles abroad and the Committee on Foreign Affairs a report on the meeting of the Joint Committees. A second reading took place yesterday, with two amendments tabled. Both committees also met yesterday and gave a positive opinion on both proposed changes. Before we proceed to the vote, I would like to ask the High House to unanimously support the proposed amendment. The Polish Charter Act, which was adopted in 2007, had one fundamental goal - to help our compatriots living on the borders of I and II of the Republic in contact with the matrix. That is why there were regulations that made it easier to obtain a Polish visa, so there were privileges for our fellow countrymen in the East. Today's amendment is addressed to the second very important group of Poles living in the former Soviet Union, to those who want to come to Poland and settle here permanently. We create such an opportunity for them, more, we enable them to receive Polish citizenship very quickly, and during the first months, the most important ones, the most difficult ones, the Polish state will provide them with support so that they can feel at home here. The Ministry of Internal Affairs and Administration estimates that thanks to these regulations in the coming years several tens of thousands of our compatriots from the East can come to Poland. [[Applause]] High Izbo! This is the first law in the history of the Third Republic, which really treats our fellow countrymen in the East. For the first time, we treat them as individuals and give them a choice. Those who want to stay on the land of their fathers, on the land of their grandparents, we say: the Polish state will support you, will support the maintenance of Polish national identity, culture and Polish language. And to those who want to come here for different reasons, we say: we make it easier for you, we give you Polish citizenship, we expect you with open hands. Ladies and gentlemen, this is a very important step towards building a Polish national community, a national community beyond the modern borders of Poland, a national community regardless of what kind of citizenship our compatriots today have outside the country. That is why I am asking the High House to support this project. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-01-sejm-15-3.u23	There you go. Of course, it's a print project no. 371. The committees also present minority proposals, as well as the additional report on amendments, on which we will vote first. All minority proposals and amendments were tabled to the Article. 1 draft amending act containing amendments to the Polish Charter Act. In the 1st minority application, applicants propose to add Chapter 2b on the form and modalities of providing support to the holder of the Polish Charter granted for an indefinite period. And here Mr Zbigniew Gryglas, the Modern Club, raises the question. [[Voice from the Chamber: Speak, Mr. President.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-01-sejm-15-3.u24	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Seym! Mr. President! I address Mr Jarosław Kaczyński because the President is a member of...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-01-sejm-15-3.u25	But, sir, I apologize very much, this is a non-regulatory phrase. [[But without censorship in the Seym!]] Please, sir, ask either the rapporteur or the representative of the government, otherwise I will have to... [[Mr. Marshal...]] ...sir, take the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-01-sejm-15-3.u26	I just wanted to say that the president is a member of the committee. The novel, which we are talking about, is a good project, enables Poles from the East to settle in our country. We will support this law, as the President has called for. It is only a pity that in this novel we forgot about our oldest compatriots, about people who are over 65 years old, who have an unmarked Polish Charter on time. These are the people we owe the greatest respect and the greatest gratitude, [[♪ The bell ♪]] because it was they who reported Polishness to our time. In this amendment I ask for them, I ask you to support this amendment. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-01-sejm-15-3.u27	Thank you. At this point, Mr Michał Dworczyk, rapporteur of the committee, would like to take the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-01-sejm-15-3.u28	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! This is of course a valuable and noble initiative. However, during the work of our committee, including yesterday's meeting, it turned out that the proposer is unable to present reliable data and financial implications for the budget. That is why we could not accept and accept this amendment. On the other hand, I know that this subject is analyzed by the Marshal of the Senate of Mr. Karczewski and by the Senate, to which I hope the bill will soon reach. [[You should have done it right away.]] And I hope that then this important problem will be solved. At this stage, however, we could not support this amendment. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-01-sejm-15-3.u29	Please. [[In corrigendum mode.]] In corrigendum mode? I understand the rapporteur... [[But you have to correct it, Mr. Marshal.]] In the mode of correcting Mr Zbigniew Gryglas, there you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-01-sejm-15-3.u30	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Seym! I have been preparing for this amendment for a long time and professionally, and I have asked the Ministry of Foreign Affairs in the interpellation to provide detailed data. These data have been provided and, unfortunately, these data have been challenged by your President without justification. They are available in the interpellation, we estimated the revenues exactly. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-01-sejm-15-3.u31	Thank you. I understand, of course, that they were evaluated by the committee, not just by the chairman of the committee. [[The Ministry of Foreign Affairs has provided new data which were inconsistent with the data provided by the Member.]] Thank you very much. [[So how does this Foreign Office work?]] We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the first minority request will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 438 Members voted. 204 Members voted against - 234, no one abstained. I state that the Sejm has rejected the minority's motion. In the second minority proposal to Article. 13 the applicant in the new wording of paragraph. 4 propose to amend the authorising provision. The question is asked by Mr Zbigniew Gryglas, the Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-01-sejm-15-3.u32	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Seym! You rejected the noble amendment, it's very sad. But right now, I'm proposing a rational amendment. This amendment is aimed at rationally spending budgetary resources... [[Bravo, bravo, noble.]] ...to seal the system so that the certificates referred to in the Act can only be issued under special circumstances. It is about certificates that confirm the activity for Poland and for Polish associations abroad. I'm asking for your support. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-01-sejm-15-3.u33	Thank you very much. I understand that noble is also rational, and rational is also noble. [[Not always.]] The rapporteur of the committee wanted to answer. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-01-sejm-15-3.u34	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! When the government of Prime Minister Jarosław Kaczyński worked on this law in 2006, we predicted a special procedure for receiving the Polish Charter. Because of the dramatic history in the 20th interwar period of our compatriots in the Soviet Union, the persecution they suffered for decades, starting with the deportation in 1936, through the so-called. Polish operation, when in 1937 111 thousand. people were shot only because they were Poles, several tens of thousands were sent to the camp - these traumatic events left a trace in some Polish families until today. Some of our compatriots destroyed all the documents that confirmed their Polishness because they were afraid that they would be killed only for being Poles. And that is why we introduced the possibility of obtaining a certificate by selected, indicated by the Prime Minister of the Republic of Poland Polonia organizations. It is about certificates that allow such people to receive the Polish Charter. Only 5% people receive the Polish Charter thanks to such certificates. We cannot close these people's way to Poland. We can't lock these people's way to the Poles' Charter. The amendment was negative because it would prevent these people from applying for the Polish Charter and would bureaucraticize the system and would not cause any improvement in the situation. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-01-sejm-15-3.u35	There you go. Then we shall proceed to the vote. Who among the ladies and gentlemen of the House is in favour of the second minority request will want to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? [[Voice from the room: Problem.]] 439 Members voted. 190 Members voted against - 244, 5 abstentions. I state that the Sejm has rejected the minority's motion. In the third minority proposal to Article. Article 13 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 8 applicants propose that the assessment of the knowledge of the Polish language referred to in this provision be carried out in accordance with the European system of certification of foreign languages for A1 level, i.e. the lowest basic language. The question is raised by Members. Mrs Elżbieta Borowska, Kukiz.15.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-01-sejm-15-3.u36	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Poles in the East have been Sovietized for decades, sometimes very violent. We have contact with such Poles who do not know the Polish language or only know the proverbial prayer, for example in Belarus. Then how do I check - to the applicants - Polish knowledge in such cases? I know that this is a small group and that there are many abuses in issuing the Polish Charter, but there is a group of Poles, people of Polish nationality who do not know Polish language. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-01-sejm-15-3.u37	Ms Joanna Fabisiak, the Civic Platform Club, will speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-01-sejm-15-3.u38	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The requested request of minorities is very important for the whole system, because the condition for granting the Polish Charter is knowledge of Polish language at the basic level of the lowest level. However, in order to determine the level of language at which he is using the Polish Charter, an evaluation must be carried out. The current provision states that if there is no relevant certificate: he graduated, graduated from school, completed his studies in Polish, then the consul or voivode conducts a conversation, but it is not specified what is the basis of this conversation. For several years Poland has been in the European system of certification of foreign languages and for level A1, the lowest, are precisely defined parameters. I will refer to what the Member said just now. Well, that's what it's all about. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Allow the marshal to finish my sentence. Lack of clarity, lack of definition always gives rise to the possibility of abuse. And before these abuses, before any of this, the consulate certainly has the best intentions, but any freedom always gives birth... [[Danger.]] ...some impreciseness - this is what this amendment protects against. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-01-sejm-15-3.u39	Thank you. And yet, Mr Paweł Lisiecki, a club called Law and Justice, came forward.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-01-sejm-15-3.u40	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have a question for the applicants of this amendment, because for me it is a little incomprehensible that you want to test Poles from Polish before accepting to Poland, and on the other hand we just had a vote on the reception of refugees to Poland. [[Applause]] To me, it is incomprehensible that Poles are to be tested... [[Yeah, right.]] ...instead of refugees we are to accept without any criteria. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-01-sejm-15-3.u41	To the amendment applicants, sir, I cannot accept this question. Mr Janusz Sanocki, non-attached Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-01-sejm-15-3.u42	Ladies and gentlemen! The minority's proposal for this bureaucratic examination scares me. It shows that we do not know our history. At Monte Cassino there are graves of Ukrainians who fought in Polish uniforms, Belarusians. Many Polish patriots came from families of German officials who were Polish in Galicia. They were great patriots. Hemar, the poet, was a volunteer Pole. How can we introduce such criteria today and demand that we test bureaucratically whether someone speaks perfectly at the basic level when he has lived for many generations there, abroad. I really think this is absolute nonsense. I believe that the criteria should be extended and even granted the possibility of applying for a card, for a stay for all citizens from the borders, for all whose ancestors were citizens of the Second Republic. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-01-sejm-15-3.u43	Mr President, I would like this to be a form of question, because you are addressing this question to the rapporteur. [[That's the question, marshal, exactly.]] I see. [[Joy in the Chamber]] We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 3rd minority request will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 439 Members voted. 152 Members voted against - 274, with 13 abstentions. I state that the Sejm has rejected the minority's motion. In the first amendment to Article. Article 16 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 4 applicants propose that this provision should apply to the Polish Charter, which is no longer valid due to the obtaining of a permanent residence permit. The committees are asking for this amendment to be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the first amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 438 Members voted. The vote was 432, against - 4 and 2 Members abstained. I conclude that the Sejm accepted the amendment. In the second amendment to the article. Article 20 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 Point 1 (2) of the proposal for an amendment of the reference. The committees are asking for this amendment to be adopted. The question is asked by Mr Robert Winnicki, the Kukiz Club15.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-01-sejm-15-3.u44	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! As a descendant, I find it difficult to vote in favour of this law, although I will eventually do so. Why? It is a law that is extremely beneficial for our fellow countrymen in the East. It is a law, which unfortunately for those who are particularly poorer in material terms, and such is very much, in Belarus and Ukraine will lead to a specific action that will make the Polish environments in Ukraine and Belarus depopulated. I understand that the threat is that in one generation, they would be ruined and zukrainized. Nevertheless, let us remember that there are Polish environments in the East, such as the Polish minority in Vilnius, which do not expect another repatriation, but expect strong support from the Polish state. And here's the question to the applicants: [[♪ The bell ♪]] Do we foresee a significant increase in financial support for our minority, for those who want to stay in the East because they were not the ones who were leaving, only Poland changed its boundaries? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-01-sejm-15-3.u45	There you go. I am the only one who would encourage your fellow Members to put this in the form of a question, not any more polemics or statements. All the more so because I think you wanted to refer to the whole draft law... [[Mercy, Marshal, mercy! Don't explain what he meant.]] ...and not to this amendment, which is in fact legislative, because there is a change of reference. But since the committees are asking for an amendment, we will proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the second amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 439 Members voted. The vote was 438, 1 against, no one abstained. I conclude that the Sejm accepted the amendment. We are now voting on the entire bill. And this is where you come in. Mr Adam Andruszkiewicz, Kukiz.15.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-01-sejm-15-3.u46	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! As a Kukiz club15, we are very pleased that we are finally talking in the Polish Chamber about improving the situation of Poles, especially Poles, in the world and in Europe, especially in the East, because for the past 26 years Poles have been left to themselves, especially in the context of the last 8 years. The Member of the Civic Platform now proposes to introduce certification to test Poles in the East if they are Poles. [[Member Iwona Śledzińska-Katarasińska: This is where the evaluation of the relationship is.]] My grandfather was born in Belarus, he was a soldier cursed and told me that during the Soviet Union there was a threat of exile or death for teaching Polish Poles. And now we will ask the descendants of such people how they speak Polish? And we're gonna accept immigrants at that time... [[Bravo, Adam, bravo!]] ...who won't have to speak whether they speak Polish or not. [[Applause]] I have a question for the rapporteur, and a question from the border communities: How will we continue to support as a committee Poles there, Lithuania, Belarus, Ukraine? What will be the specific mechanisms not to leave them there alone? On the other hand, Kukiz15 will support this law because we believe that there is one nation across borders. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-01-sejm-15-3.u47	Thank you, sir. Mr Mieczysław Kazimierz Baszko, a club of the Polish People's Party, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-01-sejm-15-3.u48	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Prime Minister! Membership! It's extremely nice that this bill... The Polish Charter Act of September 2007 was not perfect, even those who prepared it knew that it was not perfect, but the beginning was given. And because it is now this draft committee, first of all from this place, I must congratulate the President for his great commitment and great work also the committee. Finally, we will sort things out for the Poles... the historic debt of gratitude that has been paid to us by various invaders and countries. Poles from Belarus, Ukraine, Kazakhstan, Russia and more [[♪ The bell ♪]] they can return here to Poland. And although we were as PSL for the amendments, because it is always necessary to seal the law, but not to harm, for this reason the Polish People's Party is very keen to adopt this bill on the Polish Charter. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-01-sejm-15-3.u49	Thank you. Ms Joanna Fabisiak, the Civic Platform Club, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-01-sejm-15-3.u50	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! If the marshal extends my time... [[Voice from the room: No!]] ...then I will explain to Mr Andruszkiewicz what he does not understand. [[Voice in the room: In the committee.]] It's probably not gonna extend, so I'd like to invite you to join me when the votes are over. Let me explain to you that [[Game in the O.R., bell ringing.]] It's just... [[Question!]] ...so there's no freedom in judgment, just concrete. Now, here's the question. I would like to address the question to the applicant, which concerns financing. The adaptation package is a great thing. The adaptation package is expensive. Since there is a vacathio legis and it will enter into force only from 1 January, I would like to ask, Mr Poznan, if there are secure measures, because assuming that at the level of the current year 6900 Pole Kart holders will apply for a permanent residence permit, [[♪ The bell ♪]] 42 million are needed for this. Mr. Marshal, I'll finish... [[What's the point?]] ...if I may. But the bill states that not only those seeking a permanent residence permit are entitled to this benefit... [[It's been half a minute!]] ...but also the spouse... Let me finish this because this is an important issue. [[Game in the O.R.]] [[Time!]] ...but also married and underage children. So this sum is going to be multiplied. So I'm asking you to answer what amount is secured, that's prognosis... [[Voice from the courtroom: Time, Marshal!]] ...what is planned in the future budget for this purpose. Thank you very much. [[Learn to speak succinctly.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-01-sejm-15-3.u51	Thank you. Mr Adam Andruszkiewicz also came forward as corrected. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-01-sejm-15-3.u52	Mrs. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! Madam President, Polishness is carried in the heart, not in European certificates. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Yes, sir!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-01-sejm-15-3.u53	Thank you. Mr... Yes, it's for you. Mr Michał Dworczyk will now speak. I would like to inform the High House that Mr Michał Dworczyk, in addition to being the rapporteur of the committee, also acts as an applicant on behalf of the group of Members. I understand that your question was also addressed to him as an applicant. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-01-sejm-15-3.u54	The special reserve for each year is set individually, separately and by the government, when planning the 2017 budget, I am sure that it will provide for such a special reserve. These calculations, which we did together with the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, with the Ministry of Internal Affairs and Administration, indicated that in order to secure support for about 10,000. people who can settle in Poland next year would need about PLN 30 million. On the other hand, in one opinion, I must refer to Mr Winnicki's statements and all those who want to organize the lives of our fellow countrymen on the limits. I emphasized that, for the first time we treat them subjectively. We're not saying that you have to be there, we're just saying that if you want to be there, we'll help you there, but if you want to come, we'll give you the opportunity, too, because you have the right to come to your homeland as Poles. And to those who want Polishness to be defended on the former borders, I recommend that you go to the Ukrainian province for a year, work for 500 PLN a month, raise your children for it, support your family, and then such people will have the right to instruct our fellow countrymen in the East, what needs to be done and where to live. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-01-sejm-15-3.u55	Thank you. We proceed with the vote on the entire bill. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting in full the draft law in print no 371, along with the amendments adopted, would like to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 439 Members voted. I inform the High House that the Sejm unanimously passed a law amending the Polish Charter Act and some other laws. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo, Michael!]] We return to the examination of item 25 of the agenda: the report of the Committee on the Environment, Natural Resources and Forestry on the draft law amending the Geological and Mining Law Act and the Act amending the Geological and Mining Law Act and some other laws. We proceed to the third reading. The Commission calls for the adoption of a draft Print Act 376. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting in full the draft law in print no. 376 will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 438 Members voted. I state that the Sejm unanimously passed a law amending the Geological and Mining Law Act and the Act amending the Geological and Mining Law Act and some other laws. [[It's called a convincing report.]] We are returning to the examination of item 4 of the agenda: the report of the Committee on Administration and Home Affairs and the Committee on Territorial Government and Regional Policy on the Senate draft law on the prohibition of the promotion of communism or other totalitarian system by the names of buildings, facilities and public utility facilities. The additional committee report shall be in print No 351-A. We proceed to the third reading. Mr Jarosław Krajewski, rapporteur of the committee, will speak in order to present an additional report.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-01-sejm-15-3.u56	Dear Marshal, Prime Minister! High Izbo! I have the honour to present an additional report to the Committee on Administration and Home Affairs and the Committee on Territorial Government and Regional Policy. The four amendments tabled were examined by the committees today at the joint meeting. The committees ask the High House to reject all amendments. High Izbo, in a moment we will vote on a groundbreaking and historic bill, which will be the symbolic end of communism in Poland. I think it's also worth talking about the state of things today. There are more than 1300 streets in Poland that glorify the communist system. These are the streets of the Red Army, Felix Dzierżyński, Wanda Wasilewska or Marcel Nowotka. I think it is time to make a good change, to make a change over divisions, which will rule out solutions so far, that streets of real Polish heroes fighting for freedom and independence of Poland cross with the streets of their communist oppressors and executioners. I hope the High House will vote in favour of this important bill. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-01-sejm-15-3.u57	There you go. It is about the adoption of a draft law from print No 351. The committees present a minority proposal and an additional report of amendments on which the Sejm will vote first. In Amendment 1. to Article. 1 applicants shall propose the addition of paragraph. 3. Amendments 2 to 4 are combined with this amendment. We will vote on these amendments together. The adoption of these amendments will render the only minority proposal irrelevant. The committees request that these amendments be rejected. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the amendments 1 to 4 will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 439 Members voted. 154 voted against - 253, 32 abstained. I state that the Sejm has rejected the amendments. In the sole request of a minority to Article. Article 6 (6) (a) 1 applicants shall propose that the period referred to in that provision be 5 years. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of accepting a minority request would like to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 420 Members voted. 134 votes against - 278, 8 abstentions. I state that the Sejm has rejected the minority's motion. We proceed with the vote on the entire bill. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting in full the draft law in print No 351 would like to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 439 Members voted. 438 voted in favour, no one voted against, one Member abstained. [[Applause]] I state that the Sejm passed a law on banning the promotion of communism or another totalitarian system by the names of buildings, objects and public utility devices. We proceed with the examination of item 21 of the agenda: Changes in the personal compositions of the Sejm committees (print No 383). Bureau of the Sejm on the basis of the Rule. Article 20 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm, after consulting the Seniors Convention, submitted a proposal for amendments to the personal compositions of the Sejm committees. Would any of you and your fellow Members like to speak on the proposals put forward? No one's checking in. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting the proposal in print No 383, will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 436 Members voted. The vote was 428 against - 1 with 7 abstentions. I state that the Sejm has adopted a resolution on changes in the personal compositions of the Sejm committees. I'm declaring a three-minute break. [[Adjournment from 10 a.m. 10 mins 03 hours 10 min 10]] Please take your seats or leave the Chamber if you do not continue to attend the session of the Sejm so that we can resume these proceedings calmly. I'll resume the session after recess. I will start by welcoming the residents of the village of Turk and students of the First High School from this village. I hope that the Sejm is pleased and that you are looking with curiosity at the proceedings today. We proceed with the examination of item 22 of the agenda: First reading of the civil draft law on the creation of the Medical University of them. Louis Rydygier in Bydgoszcz (print No 226). I also wanted to welcome Mr.Rafal Burski, president of the city of Bydgoszcz, representatives of the Student Government of the College Medicum UMK in Bydgoszcz, members of the Civic Committee of the Legislative Initiative and residents of the city of Bydgoszcz, [[Applause]] who will listen to the session of the Sejm in the section on the draft law on the establishment of a university in Bydgoszcz. I ask the representative of the Legislative Initiative Committee of Mr Zbigniew Pawłowicz to present the justification for the bill. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-01-sejm-15-3.u58	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! Mr Fellowships and Mr Fellow Members, I have the great honor to represent the Civic Committee of the Legislative Initiative Act on the creation of the Medical University of them. Louis Rydygier in Bydgoszcz. The bill is contained in print No 226. I would like to thank the inhabitants of Bydgoszcz and the Kujawsko-Pomorskie voivodship, as well as the whole country, who have engaged in the citizens' initiative and signed to support it. [[Applause]] A meeting of over 160,000. signatures within 3 months are a great value for Bydgoszcz and an expression of public confidence in the effectiveness of the citizens' initiative. It confirms that the rank of medical university in our city is very important for residents who strongly identify themselves with the need to create a medical university and expect a positive decision of the Sejm of the Republic of Poland. This is an important decision to strengthen the position and development of academic education in Bydgoszcz, professional training of doctors and nurses and integration with other universities of our city. Mrs. Marshal! Please accept your thanks for making such a quick and positive decision to refer the bill to the first reading. This action confirms that citizens' legislative initiatives in the Sejm VIII of the term of office are treated with due seriousness and are carried out without undue delay. The medical history of higher education in Bydgoszcz began in 1951 when the first doctor training facility in Poland was established for the needs of the whole country. In 1971, thanks to a good cooperation with the Medical Academy in Gdańsk, the Medical Academy was established in Bydgoszcz, and a branch of the Medical Academy was established with a branch of the Medical Faculty. The breakthrough year was 1979, when the Second Faculty of Medicine of the Medical Academy in Gdańsk was established, whose dean was Prof. Jan Domaniewski. The Act of 23 July 1984 established the Medical Academy in Bydgoszcz. The following years are the intensive development of the Bydgoszcz Medical University by the establishment of the Faculty of Pharmacy and the Faculty of Nursing, renamed the Faculty of Health Sciences in the coming years. During this time, the authorities of Bydgoszcz transferred the university to its functioning many buildings, as well as apartments for independent academics coming to the new medical university from Wrocław, Białystok, Poznań, Gdańsk and Łódź. In 2004, after 20 years of existence of the Medical Academy. Ludwik Rydygier in Bydgoszcz, its potential was 115 scientific and educational units, of which 44 at the Faculty of Medicine, 23 at the Faculty of Pharmacy, 42 at the Faculty of Health Sciences and 6 interdepartmental and general universities. 551 academic teachers were employed, including 113 independent scientific and teaching staff, 26 ordinary professors, 66 extraordinary professors, and 21 habilitated doctors as assistants. The doctor's degree had 244 academic teachers. What was the state of the medical academy. Ludwik Rydygier in Bydgoszcz in 2004, best describes the statement of her rector, Professor Jan Domaniewski, in the medical paper at that time, quote: To the international class, which included 28 best public universities in the country, we are only 0.5 points out of 100 possible. The goal that we decided to achieve in the first 20 years was to reduce the distance to other medical institutions that were already active in the interwar period or were created immediately after the war. This task has been accomplished. In the passing year of 3721 students, we had more students than the Medical University in Łódź and Medical Academy in Szczecin, Białystok and Gdańsk - the end of the quote. Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! The integration policy of smaller universities and the establishment of larger academic structures must take into account the nature of the connected universities, the local specificities. There should also be substantive historical indications - e.g. in the case of the University of Cracow, medicine already in the 14th century, when the university was established, was its component - or socio-cultural premises. These conditions were lacking in the case of inclusion of the Medical Academy in 2004. Louis Rydygier in Bydgoszcz to Nicolaus Copernicus University in Toruń. In fact, it was the elimination of the independence of a dynamic medical university and its inclusion in a university in another city, which had no experience in medical education and management of a medical university. This was not a natural solution, resulting from the daily life of both universities, their mutual cooperation and rational reasons. It is difficult to determine the connection between the Medical Academy in Bydgoszcz and the Nicolaus Copernicus University in Toruń - cities with different historical conditions, 50 km away and until 1999 located in different voivodships. This was, on the other hand, the result of the will of the Senate of the Medical Academy, as expressed in its resolution of 14 October 2003, which believed that the combination of universities would make better use of scientific, educational and clinical potential for the development of science, education of students and staff. It should be emphasized that already at that time the City Council of Bydgoszcz and the inhabitants protested. The arguments that were quoted at the time, justifying this decision, as it turned out, were very unfavourable for the further development of academic medicine in Bydgoszcz, were questionable values and life showed that they became negative arguments. All the other nine medical academys turned into medical universities in 2007. They work very well in organizational, scientific and educational terms and fully cooperate with the local authorities of the cities in which they are located. None of these medical universities intend to connect with another university, even though they are located in their cities. Of these nine medical universities, as many as five have fewer stationary students than Collegium Medicum in Bydgoszcz, and yet they are independent universities. In addition, they all receive a much higher basic grant per student from the Ministry of Health. The authorities of the University of Toruń do not take action to change this disadvantage for the level of funding of medical training at the College of Medicum in Bydgoszcz. The distance of cities and other characteristics of the Toruń part as a university and the Bydgoszcz part as a medical university are real reasons for their lack of integration. The students of the College Medicum are practically not taking advantage of the opportunities offered in Toruń - facilities, classes, academic circles, university lectures - because of the distance and well-filled program of studies. Nor do they benefit from the attractions of student life offered by the Toruń campus. Relations between two student, Toruń and Bydgoszcz authorities are not conducive to closer cooperation. Scientific and teaching staff do not engage in organizational, scientific and teaching activities in Toruń, as this combines with commuting which lasts several hours in total both ways, taking place at their own expense. As a result, there is often a shortage of representatives of Collegium Medicum at various meetings held in Toruń and decisions are made which do not take into account the specifics of medical universities. The academics of the Collegium Medicum do not have the right to the awards of the Minister of Health and can only compete with the workers of the Toruń part for the award of the Minister of Science and Higher Education. Thus, they have difficult access to such distinctions, which are a very important incentive factor. On the other hand, medical university employees, often smaller than the Collegium Medicum, have such rights. Paradoxically, therefore, Collegium Medicum, located in the university structures, loses on this and does not receive any benefits, e.g. additional material assistance from the Ministry of Science and Higher Education, which UMK received several times in the past years, was dedicated only to the part of Toruń. Most administrative solutions are prepared according to the needs of Nicolaus Copernicus University. The Collegium Medicum cases are considered secondary and sometimes not taken into account at all. The Toruński campus often fails to understand and support the specifics of the medical university, and sometimes makes it difficult to act. Let me give you a few examples, High Izbo. First of all. The withdrawal in 2007 by the Rector of the UMK of the application for the extension of the teaching base of the College Medicum in Bydgoszcz by setting up a teaching centre, because at the same time the Toruński campus submitted its own application for the construction of the Interdisciplinary Centre of Modern Technologies in Toruń, which was implemented. In practice, because of its location, it is used only by the Toruń campus, among others. The state-of-the-art functional magnetic resonance imaging located there is not used by the Collegium Medicum and does not serve patients treated in two university hospitals in Bydgoszcz. Second. In 2010, the authorities of the University of Toruń effectively hindered the formation of the biomedical engineering in the Collegium Medicum in cooperation with the University of Technology and Nature in Bydgoszcz. Three. The Toruń administration has created formal difficulties in organising English-speaking medical studies in Bydgoszcz, which are now considered a flagship example of internationalisation of teaching. Fourth. In 2012, the application of the Collegium Medicum to the Ministry of Health to launch postgraduate studies in health care management was effectively rejected by the rector for economic affairs and submitted by the Faculty of Economic Sciences and Management of the University of Toruń. Five. The decision of the Rector of the University of Warsaw in 2012 was to liquidate the Department of Children's Surgery at University Hospital No.2 in Bydgoszcz against the interests of the College of Medicum. Six o'clock. The Toruń campus extended the duration of the winter intersemester period, which forced the summer break to be shortened and consequently the time to implement the holiday practice programme for the students of Collegium Medicum. Seven o'clock. The establishment of the Medical Children's University in Collegium Medicum was prevented, because according to the Toruń campus authorities, this is only possible on the basis of the University of Toruń Foundation. Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Students studying in Bydgoszcz want to receive diplomas from the Bydgoszcz University, which will be consistent with the real place of their education. According to Collegium Medicum UMK graduates, employers are more likely to employ people who have graduated from a medical university than a non-medical university. Before the merger, the Medical Academy was a Bydgoszcz university, not a Toruń university. She identified with the city, and the city identified with the university. The university must be involved in education policy and city development strategy. The current situation causes the city of Toruń not to identify itself with the Collegium Medicum located in Bydgoszcz, and the authorities of the city of Bydgoszcz have limited opportunities to support not their university. The best example of this is the failure of the University of Toruń to implement its commitments in the light of the resolution of the Bydgoszcz City Council of 27 February 2013 on donations to the Nicolaus Copernicus University in Toruń Collegium Medicum in Bydgoszcz with significant value located in the city centre at ul. The train station. It was transmitted in connection with plans to launch new courses of education in the Bydgoszcz College Medicum. This property became the property of the University of Toruń and for 3 years no action has been taken to which it was committed. The building's just ruining. Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! The authorities of the University of Toruń use the achievements and intellectual potential of the College Medicum as a sign for applications for grants and grants, while their implementation takes place only in Toruń and they are presented as investments in the Bydgoszcz University. Here are some examples. Firstly, the grant received by the team under the leadership of a prominent scientist from Collegium Medicum in Bydgoszcz in the STRATEGMED programme worth PLN 33 million is implemented in Toruń in cooperation with the city hospital and two university hospitals in Bydgoszcz have been omitted, for which the Rector of the UMK is the founding body. Secondly, the EnFoodLife project worth more than PLN 100 million, which did not include any specialist units from Bydgoszcz University hospitals dealing with nutrition or gastroenterology or teaching units of the health science department leading dietetics. The programme is realized by a clinic of gastroenterological surgery and oncology of the Collegium Medicum on the basis of a foreign voivodeship hospital in Toruń, which does not have the status of a university hospital. Once again, the Toruń environments, as in 2004, when the Bydgoszczian was threatened with the liquidation of the Medical Academy, manipulate the facts and represent half-truths. In order to defend this wrong and unacceptable social decision, public money is spent on billboards installed in Bydgoszcz, which are to show, convince the inhabitants to the success achieved by the Collegium Medicum by including it in the UMK in Toruń. Over the past years, the Collegium Medicum has developed not through its presence in the structures of the University of Toruń and its support, but through the determination and involvement of many employees of various levels of the University of Bydgoszcz and its collegial, dean and administrative authorities. The current potential of the College of Medicum in Bydgoszcz meets the criteria for the establishment of a medical university: three departments - Medicine, Pharmacy and Health Sciences - 15 courses of studies at first and second degree and single master's degrees, the university also performs English-language studies in the medical field, has six doctoral qualifications, three qualifications for habilitation, the staff has 1191 employees, of which 649 are academic teachers, including 56 professors, 60 Habilitation Doctors, and 542 are other non-teachers. Currently, the university teaches 5885 students, including 4800 stationary, 1085 stationary and over 170 foreign students in English-speaking studies. The increase in the number of studies and students in recent years is mainly due to the rapid development of medical sciences and health sciences in the world. It should be emphasized that during this period, medical universities in our country developed much more dynamically and the ranking position of some is comparable to the position of the UMK in Toruń. The College Medicum, on the other hand, is the last place in the medical university ranking and the distance to other universities is growing every year. There is no positive effect of including universities in the University of Toruń. Mrs. Marshal! Mr Fellowships and Mr Fellow Members, Today's citizens' bill in the High House addresses a very important problem for all of us, namely the training of medical personnel. The organisation, quality of training for doctors, nurses, other health professionals determines the level of health safety of the population in an important way. The creation of the 10th independent medical university in Bydgoszcz meets these needs and is in line with the health minister's strategy regarding the need to increase the number of medical students in the coming years. Currently, the Ministry of Health expects a 20% increase in the number of medical students. At present, 165 students are studying the medical course in Bydgoszcz for the first year, and an increase in the number of medical students in Bydgoszcz will be possible with the extension of the teaching and hospital base, as declared by the President of the City of Bydgoszcz and the City Council of Bydgoszcz present today. At the same time, it should be added that the Marshal's office located in Toruń makes it difficult to expand the teaching base in the field of children's diseases in Bydgoszcz by refusing to conduct teaching classes at the child's hospital in Bydgoszcz. Currently, students are being delivered to the children's hospital in Toruń for part of their children's disease classes. Students, especially English-speaking students from other countries, do not understand this solution. According to the Act of 27 July 2005, the Law on Higher Education based on the Collegium Medicum in Bydgoszcz may be established by the independent Medical University of Bydgoszcz. Ludwik Rydygier, because the organisational units have at least six powers to confer a doctoral degree, including at least four in the field of studies covered by the university profile. The entire property and teaching bases of the Collegium Medicum are located in Bydgoszcz. These are real estate transferred by the authorities of the city of Bydgoszcz, including in the years 2004 to 2015. The transfer of powers to conduct studies and degrees, take over employees, students, postgraduate students and training courses will take place on the basis of the law, as was the case in 2004 when the Medical Academy was incorporated into the Nicolaus Copernicus University in Toruń. The Medical University of Bydgoszcz will offer the opportunity to adopt modern organizational solutions, planned and expected in higher medical education in the country. The duality of supervision of the Minister of Health and the Minister of Science and Higher Education will be abolished. The Minister of Health will have legal tools to exercise direct supervision over the achievement of teaching and scientific objectives in the organizational relationship with clinical hospitals, and the established Medical University will create better quality and organisational conditions to increase the number of students in medical training. It is important to stress the separation of medical institutions in the higher education system that it carries out teaching and research tasks in connection with the promotion of health and the provision of health services provided by the clinical hospitals for which it is the body for which it is the creator. At present, hospital directors need to work closely with the medical university in the field of teaching and research. The leading role of the UKK and its rector is that the most important task for directors of Bydgoszcz clinical hospitals is the financial result, and scientific and educational activities are carried out in the background and are often treated as an activity which worsens this result. The hospital will perform teaching and research tasks better if the director of the clinical hospital is subject to the rector of a medical university rather than a non-medical university. The decision-making process will be shortened, decisions will be made more quickly, as they will take place in an autonomous university with an understanding of the specifics of medical matters, for the benefit of students and patients and building positive relations with other medical universities in the country. The intellectual potential and resources of Bydgoszcz's infrastructure, the largest city of the region, will be used more effectively by broadening the cooperation between science and business. It will be possible to exploit the potential of the Bydgoszcz Industrial and Technological Park. A modern project is currently underway: the idea of start-up to support young researchers in innovative technologies, the creation of clusters with pharmaceutical industry and IT companies. The university cannot be anonymous and should enter into the city's life. For students, the medical university offers more opportunities to develop cooperation with Bydgoszcz universities, use of their facilities and scientific facilities. When studying in Bydgoszcz, they will receive diplomas from the Bydgoszcz University, which will be in line with reality and their expectations. Employees will better identify with the medical university and its authorities in their own city. The level of integration of the medical scientific community and involvement in the promotion of the city will significantly increase. In Toruń there are projects for the creation of academic medicine. [[That's not true.]] The county office applied to start nursing and obstetrics, and a dental center prepared for the education of students was built in the children's hospital. On the Toruń campus departments there are courses directly related to medicine: medical physics and medical chemistry, and there are proposals for the development of pharmaceutical units in the chemistry department. At the same time, the Marshal's office implements the construction of a provincial hospital in Toruń for PLN 715 million, which is already referred to as a clinical or university hospital. These activities cause considerable concern to the Bydgoszcz communities, as they are perceived not only as a desire to establish medical courses for the University of Poland, but also as a gradual elimination of teaching and scientific units in the College of Medicum in Bydgoszcz and transfer their tasks to Torun. This increases the conflict between these cities and gives the impression of internal competition for the development of medical units at the university. The establishment of the Medical University in Bydgoszcz will help to calm the emotions and end disputes about belonging to the Collegium Medicum to Bydgoszcz or Torun, which will improve relations between the two neighbouring cities. One of the most important sources of these conflicts will disappear. A natural situation will be restored in relation to the location of the medical university in Bydgoszcz. At the same time, there will be unfettered opportunities for the development of the University of Toruń without conflicting with the surroundings in the implementation of innovative medicine projects based on basic science and using extended own infrastructure and current medical investments in the city. Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! The Ministry of Science and Higher Education supports the tendency to consolidate higher education in the age of demographics and activities to create large and strong academic centres based on smaller universities, while increasing care for the quality of education, better use of human resources and infrastructure. Why Bydgoszcz, the largest city of the voivodship, the eighth city in the country, with a total of 360 thousand. The inhabitants were deprived of the possibility to create and implement their own strategy for the development of a public medical university existing in the city? This question, High Sejm, is asked by the inhabitants of Bydgoszcz and therefore a citizens' initiative on the Law on the Establishment of the Medical University of them was taken. Louis Rydygier in Bydgoszcz. The Medical University is one of the most important motors of the development of the voivodship. This university involves the development of hospitals, scientific development and infrastructure and the need for innovative medical technologies. Bydgoszcz and Bydgoszcz deserve a separate Medical University. Its creation is a strategic goal for our city, as it will enable us to build a strong Scientific and educational centre by establishing an association of universities in Bydgoszcz, which will contribute to strengthening cooperation and development of universities in the region. Relationships can be created, among others. University of Technology and Nature, with eight departments, University of Kazimierz the Great, with seven departments, and, I hope, appointed by the High Chamber Medical University, having three departments. The association of universities in Bydgoszcz with the potential of 18 departments is a new quality of organization and opportunity for better use of infrastructure and the potential of scientific and teaching staff. Three Krakow universities: the Mining and Hutnicza Academy, the Krakow University of Technology and the Agricultural University, formed the first university union in our country in 2015. It aims to enrich the teaching offer, improve the management of universities, facilitate the acquisition of grants and improve the quality of research carried out. Kraków today sets standards and trends in higher education. Bydgoszcz and Bydgoszcz want to benefit from these good designs. We ask the High House and the Council of Ministers to give us this opportunity by accepting the citizens' legislative initiative on the law on the establishment of the Medical University in Bydgoszcz. [[Applause]] Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! On behalf of the Civil Committee, I request that the citizens' draft law on the establishment of the Medical University be sent. Louis Rydygier in Bydgoszcz to continue to process in the High House. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-01-sejm-15-3.u59	Thank you so much for presenting the project. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of the clubs. I'm opening a discussion. Mr Włodzimierz Bernacki will be the first to take the floor of the club's representative of Law and Justice. I ask you to speak on behalf of the club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-01-sejm-15-3.u60	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Dear guests! - so many sitting at the gallery today. I have the honour to present the position of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice towards the bill, print No 226, about the establishment of the Medical University to them. Louis Rydygier in Bydgoszcz. There is a really difficult task for me, so I will say first of all that I am neither from Bydgoszcz nor from Torun. I am a scientific employee of the Jagiellonian University in Krakow, and therefore I am associated with the Krakow environment, to which you have been addressed by the Member representing the applicants and thus representing the citizens' initiative. Indeed, the task is extremely difficult, because on the one hand we have very clear, strong and completely understandable ambitions of the inhabitants of Bydgoszcz, but also probably the scientific community of the Collegium Medicum operating in Bydgoszcz. It's natural, it's understandable. After all, I am connected, like everyone else, to this or to another local environment. I am an employee of such a department, not of another department, I am an employee of such an institute, and as a scientist of the Institute of Political Sciences and International Relations, as an employee of the strongest institute in the department I do not always feel satisfied with politics, whether it is the department, or the rector of the Jagiellonian University, who does not always appreciate the activity of my institute or my plant. Ladies and gentlemen! If we're discussing this case here, then we're talking about setting up the Medical University for them. Louis Rydygier in Bydgoszcz, we should point out that this year 2004 is the moment when the Medical Academy for formal reasons had a great difficulty, because it lost as if the basis for being able to continue to function as a Medical Academy, without having an adequate number of independent academics. This is what I found in the proposal submitted by the representative of the citizens' initiative. So let us be aware that this situation that we are dealing with today, so this comfortable situation of the Collegium Medicum, so having enough scientific staff to function possibly within the Medical Academy is a state developed over the years since the Collegium Medicum has functioned within the Nicolaus Copernicus University. When we look at it this way, we are convinced and find such a tendency among Polish universities, but also Western European universities, that we should join forces, not disperse them, and that is for sure. I would like to point out that the Medical Academy in Krakow on 12 May 1993 became part of the Jagiellonian University. Today, the rector of the Jagiellonian University is Professor Musta, who is an employee of the Collegium Medicum. Graduates or potential students line up to study at the Jagiellonian University precisely because they find university graduates more attractive than medical academy graduates. Believe me, it really translates into a number of students from Norway. This number of Norwegians or Americans who study in Krakow is really incredibly large. Ladies and gentlemen, a number of arguments could, of course, be invoked. Finally, as the time is running out, I will refer to the opinion of the Main Council of Science and Higher Education of 11 February 2016, where the Main Council of Science and Higher Education takes a negative opinion on the proposed citizens' initiative, pointing above all to the [[♪ The bell ♪]] in Article 2, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: OJ L 347, 20.12.2013, p. 671. 5 Constitution of the Republic of Poland: The autonomy of higher education institutions is ensured under the rules laid down in the Act.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-01-sejm-15-3.u61	Mr President, please move towards the end of your speech.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-01-sejm-15-3.u62	In conclusion: Parliamentary Club Law and Justice will take this position. We propose that the Committee on Education, Science and Youth lean on this project. On the other hand, we may gain this time to have a really important debate on the functioning of universities in the Republic of Poland at all and to consider whether this success will be achieved by sharing or by combining. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-01-sejm-15-3.u63	Thank you so much for speaking. I would ask Mr Tomasz Lenz to speak on behalf of the Civic Platform Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-01-sejm-15-3.u64	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! Mr. Messengers! Gentlemen! Mr. President! Dear Raphale! Delegate of colleagues and colleagues from Bydgoszcz! Under the civil draft law on the establishment of the Medical University under consideration today. Louis Rydygier signed over 150,000 in Bydgoszcz. persons. [[160.]] As you can see, the number increases over time. This is a significant number which shows the importance of citizens' interest in this project. By directing the draft to the committee, to further Parliamentary work, we are aware of the extremely difficult challenge that MEPs will face in it. The biggest obstacle to the implementation of this project is the contradiction of external actions aimed at dividing the Polish Academy of Sciences with the principle of autonomy guaranteed in the Constitution. This is clearly mentioned in Art. OJ L 347, 20.12.2013, p. 671. 5 Constitutions. This principle is also confirmed by the Law on Higher Education. I would like to remind you that earlier, in 2003, 13 years ago, the merger of the Medical Academy and the University of Science took place at the request of both universities. Therefore, on 24 November 2004 the Sejm at that time had no doubt that it was taking the right decision. Today's situation, in which the Senate of the University voted in favour of maintaining the integrity of the University, makes the bill discussed today incompatible with the applicable law. This was confirmed by the de facto position of the Conference of Rectors of Polish Universities and the Conference of Rectors of Polish Academic Schools. However, it has been pointed out in particular that this project has no substantive justification, is contrary to the interest of Polish science and the strategy of consolidation of universities, it is contrary to trends that modernise higher education and science systems. The discussion on this project is based on the alleged lack of dynamics in the development of the Collegium Medicum in recent years. However, the facts contradict it. After joining the Medical Academy with the Medical University in 2004 the Faculty of Pharmacy of the College Medicum was built in Bydgoszcz. Thanks to the targeted grant of the local government of the voivodship in the amount of PLN 23 million, a utility building with an area of more than 5 thousand was created. m2. In addition, a multi-annual medical programme for the extension and reconstruction of University Hospital No. 1 was also implemented using the State budget. Jurasza in the years 2007-2015. The total cost of this investment is as much as PLN 326 million. The Collegium Medicum building was adapted at ul. Lukasiewicz. The total cost of this investment is PLN 14 million. The modernization of the Collegium Medicum building at ul. is underway. Karłowicza and is scheduled until 2019. The total cost is over PLN 20 million. We have seen the consolidation of universities in Europe and worldwide for years. This has to do with building strong academic centres. In Poland a good example was given by Kraków, where cooperation took place, in various structures and on different principles, the Agricultural University, the Mining and Steel Academy and the Krakow University of Technology, in order to increase staffing potential, facilitate scientific and teaching cooperation and increase investment opportunities. In the Kujawsko-Pomorskie region such a decision, as I have already said today, was made much earlier, because already in 2003. Polish health care system, but above all patients need much more doctors. According to OECD data, there are only two doctors per 1,000 inhabitants in Poland. This is one of the lowest indicators in the European Union. Plus about 16,000. Doctors over 50 years old, over 8,000. Doctors are more than 71 years old. This means that in a moment the doctors will simply be missing. Hence the conclusion that more people need to be trained in medical sciences and, in particular, in the medical field at all times. There's no shortage of eager ones. I will remind you that last year in Olsztyn spent as many as 19 people per seat, in Bydgoszcz - 29, in Kielce - 40, and in Rzeszów as 65. Thus, the minister, who deals with the possibility of development related to the needs of the Polish patient, decided that this year in Kielce, in Zielona Góra, in Rzeszów, and maybe also in Opole we will accept more students in the medical field. It seems to me that in the case of finding an agreement in the Kujawsko-Pomorskie region, dialogue with the rector, the Senate of the University of Poland is an opportunity to increase the number of places and receive more students for medical purposes. We need to look for common understanding, roads, [[♪ The bell ♪]] to increase the possibilities and potential of the Collegium Medicum in Bydgoszcz, but also to look for solutions to make more young people undertake studies also in the Kujawsko-Pomorskie region and also in the area... [[Is this your club performance?]] ...the city of Bydgoszcz. I believe that it is possible that this should be done and that such a dialogue should be conducted. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Tell me how the club is going to vote.]] [[Great. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-01-sejm-15-3.u65	Thank you very much, sir. I would ask Mrs Barbara Chrobak to speak on behalf of the Kukiz club15. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-01-sejm-15-3.u66	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! A draft law prepared by the Civic Committee of the Legislative Initiative on the creation of the Medical University. Louis Rydygier in Bydgoszcz assumes the creation of him in place of the Collegium Medicum im. Louis Rydygier in Bydgoszcz at Nicolaus Copernicus University in Toruń. According to the applicant's proposal for a law on the establishment of the Medical University of Bydgoszcz, the existing Collegium Medicum conducts joint activities with other universities in Bydgoszcz, among others. with the University of Technology and Nature (studio for biomedical engineering) and the University of Kazimierz Wielki. [[Clinical Communication Centre and postgraduate training in clinical psychology]] The university does not maintain such cooperation with the Nicolaus Copernicus University in Toruń. According to the applicant, also the educational base, the hospital base of the medical academy developed exclusively in Bydgoszcz. The university received buildings from the city, and based on this base it carried out teaching activities. In support of the bill, the Civic Committee of the Legislative Initiative proves that the existing College Medicum has a great potential and rich teaching offer created by more than 600 teaching staff who work in three departments and pass on their knowledge over 5.5 thousand. students. Undoubtedly, an asset to be created as a result of the adoption of the bill of the individual is the existing database of teaching buildings and scientific facilities. The conversion of the Collegium Medicum to the Medical University of Bydgoszcz would not entail significant costs for the state. However, it must also be noted that than demographics in Poland, we have fewer and fewer students in schools, who later also attend universities. In Poland we have nine medical universities which should compete and compete with the best medical centres in the world. Therefore, there may be doubts about the establishment of another university, which will disperse and not focus students on medical universities, and will deprive the country's leading university in Toruń, which is part of the College Medicum. Perhaps it is right to maintain less, but also strong academic centres where students can learn with a better result. The citizens' bill was signed by 160 thousand. the supporters of this change. Therefore, we all, both the rulers and the opposition, should carefully consider their voices. In view of the need for a more detailed analysis of the bill under review and the fact that the proposed solution does not apply solely to Bydgoszcz, on behalf of the Kukiz Club,15 I request that the bill be directed to further legislative work. Thank you. [[Applause]] [[Chairman of the proceedings includes Deputy Marshal Stanisław Tyszka of the Sejm]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-01-sejm-15-3.u67	Thank you very much. Mr Michał Stasiński, Modern.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-01-sejm-15-3.u68	Dear Marshal, Dear Mr. President, Mr Fellowships and Mr Fellow Members, I had my speech ready, but I changed it by listening to all the speeches that were before mine. Mr Pavłowicz, congratulations on your speech. In fact, after your speech it is difficult to add anything on substantive issues, but I would like to support this voice and tell people who are neither from Bydgoszcz nor from Torun, and very often do not understand the point of the problem that this problem is not really political. Although a little unfortunate, this initiative of collecting signatures took place at the start and the duration of the election campaign, but this vote was in favour of making a sound assessment of the functioning of the College Medicum in such a formula, appeared much, much earlier. In fact, the basic criterion for assessing this project should be the substantive criterion, which clearly shows that this functional system of the Collegium Medicum UMK is simply inefficient, it simply does not work, and in my opinion, for the next years it will absolutely not improve. To the Member of the Law and Justice, who referred to this proposal. The fact is that in 2004 there was such a danger that the Medical Academy in Bydgoszcz, then the fastest growing medical academy in Poland, would be connected to the University of Poland. It was just a threat, and it threatened many other medical dorms, but the threat didn't come true. We therefore have today to correct the wrong decision that was made in 2004. We just have to fix this wrong decision. 160,000. This is not a vote against the U.K., this is not a vote against Toruni. This is the voice, which is an expression of the concern of the inhabitants of Bydgoszcz and this region to ensure the right conditions for the development of the medical university in Bydgoszcz. A symbol of the difficulty in operation is the building we talked about, the building of the former Prussian Eastern Railway Directorate at ul. A train station that's been empty for three years. This shows how dysfunctional the university management system is, which in fact benefits from the favor of the city of Bydgoszcz and is managed with Torun. And it has nothing to do with politics. We are only talking about substantive matters here. We as a modern club will definitely vote in favour of directing this proposal to committee work. We will work very hard and reliably to persuade Members from all groups to support this proposal. Thank you so much for your attention. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-01-sejm-15-3.u69	Thank you. Mrs Joanna Scheuring-Wielgus, Modern.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-01-sejm-15-3.u70	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Mr. President! Michael, thank you for that vote. As you can see, at the Modern Toruń Club with Bydgoszcz they can cooperate and share their opinions. Let me just add that the senates of both universities agreed to join these two universities in 2004. There was a wise policy of synergy between the two potentials of universities in line with the principle that together we can more that we have potentials that complement each other and not exclude each other. On the same principle The College Medicum of the Jagiellonian University is functioning, as Mr Biernacki mentioned. Over these more than 10 years of cooperation, the benefits of this synergy have been shared by both sides. This was a really good example of Toruń-Bedgo cooperation, and unfortunately there are very few such examples in our region. I would like to say that in this global village we are as Toruń and Bydgoszcz actually a very small drop in the sea. For many, many years, Toruń and Bydgoszcz have behaved and fought as if they were superpowers. That's not true. They're cities that should work together. Therefore, as my colleague at the Michał Stasiński Club mentioned, Modern will opt for the project to be continued in committees because it signed as much as 160 thousand. persons. On the other hand, as the national board, we will also work out good solutions for this situation as Kujawsko-Pomorskie. We want to lean on it and show that Toruń and Bydgoszcz can cooperate, Mr. President. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-01-sejm-15-3.u71	Thank you. Mr Eugeniusz Kłopotek, Polish People's Party, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-01-sejm-15-3.u72	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! There are two historical dates. The year 1984, when after many years of efforts by the Bydgoszcz voivodship, I will remember at least a few names: Aleksander Schmidt, Edmund Lehman, Bogdan Królewski, Stanisław Kubczak, as well as the town of Bydgoszcz, the establishment of the Medical Academy in Bydgoszcz took place. And 2004. Let's be honest with ourselves, a certain fear that the university can be eliminated and, on the other hand, the efforts to take over this university by the Nicolaus Copernicus University, because this has increased the prestige of the Toruń University. There is no doubt about that. Ladies and gentlemen, what I am most concerned about is that rational reasons, rational, I stress, especially in the context of this future health policy in our country, where we need to increase the number of students studying at dorms or medical universities, are telling me to say straight away: and what prevents all parties to make final decisions, both government, local government and these two universities, or today one university and College Medicum, from sitting together, together and working out the following compromise, the only one, in my opinion, with the tension that accompanies all of us? Let the Medical University of Bydgoszcz be established. Let him establish cooperation, closer than ever, with two public and public universities in Bydgoszcz, my mother university, the University of Technology and Nature, and the University of Kazimierz the Great, and perhaps in the long term from this relationship, which is, to be honest, my dream, one large university in Bydgoszcz, the University of Bydgoszcz will be established. On the other hand, nothing stands in the way of creating a medical faculty at Nicolaus Copernicus University in Toruń. The university base in Toruń is growing, it is becoming more modern. In my opinion, it is necessary to give a chance, the High Chamber should give a chance, give a green light to the Medical University of Bydgoszcz and - once again I stress - in the next two to three years will lead to the establishment of the Medical University of Bydgoszcz and the establishment of a medical department or the medical department of Nicolaus Copernicus University in Toruń. This together, together, can make it possible that even today's debate will not be by many Poles, but also by many members of this House seen as another element of our Bydgoszcz-Toruńska, so-called, war, which we do not want to bring about, and which, however, always comes along on this kind of initiative. That's not what we're talking about. High Seym! I also believe that this project - if the Sejm Bureau, Mr Marshal, decides so - should also be addressed to the Committee on Health, not only to the Committee on Science and Higher Education, but also to the Committee on Health. I believe that with the goodwill of both sides - because as we can see in the hall, Torun will be behind Torun, Bydgoszcz will be for Bydgoszcz - it can be done together, together, in compromise: Medical University in Bydgoszcz, Medical Faculty at Nicolaus Copernicus University in Toruń, which God forbid will happen. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause]] [[Amen.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-01-sejm-15-3.u73	Thank you. Let's get to the questions. If any of your fellow Members would like to join the floor, please. I'll close the list after the first question. Due to the civic nature of the project, the time to ask questions is 2 minutes, but please do not exceed this time. Mr Tomasz Latos, Law and Justice have the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-01-sejm-15-3.u74	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! My friends from Bydgoszcz! Because I perform not on behalf of the club, but on behalf of my own, I can clearly and unambiguously, without playing certain conventions, tell you what I think about it all. To begin with, I would like to thank all the inhabitants of Bydgoszcz very much for the effort to collect 160 thousand. signatures. I am aware that if everything were okay, if everything were okay, if there were no tension on the line with the Marshal's office, probably these signatures would not have been collected. A big historical error was made in 2004, but it was probably assumed that this cooperation would be better. At the moment, she's completely not functioning as she should be. It was quite clear, and especially locally it was discussed many times, presented. You can't act in such a way that you marginalize your own College Medicum, because that's what de facto comes down to decisions that are taken by the authorities of the University of Warsaw. Examples can be multiplied. It is a matter of development of the Collegium Medicum, it is a matter of building on the street. The station, the creation of the Collegium Stomatologicum, is a question of irrational from the point of view of the map of health needs investment in medical facilities in Toruń, as I understand with the intention of moving the Collegium Medicum to Toruń, these are finally investments in equipment, for example - a famous example - the robot Vinci. In my opinion, neither today nor in five years' time, nor in 20 years' time, will be good. Therefore, let us really seek agreement. [[♪ The bell ♪]] There is now a need to create new medical universities. Let's give the green light, let's look together for money, several hundred million to build a medical base in Toruń.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-01-sejm-15-3.u75	Thank you, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-01-sejm-15-3.u76	This is, in my opinion, an objective that should be a kind of compromise. Thank you. Excuse me, Marshal. [[I was negotiating the length issue.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-01-sejm-15-3.u77	Thank you, sir. Mr Piotr King, Law and Justice have the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-01-sejm-15-3.u78	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! Friends from Bydgoszcz! It so happens that in 2004 I had the undoubted privilege of being a councillor of the City Council of Bydgoszcz. I remember at an express pace and what half-truths and lies, today we were fed, saying that either the medical academy has to be transformed or that it will simply be eliminated. Examples of other medical academy, with the exception of the one in Krakow, have to be said for honesty, show that it was possible to transform into a medical university, so we can certainly say that the debate we are debating today is, if any years late, but it is good that it is taking place. I also join the thanks, because first of all we have to emphasize, and it is extremely important that these 160 thousand. signatures are the true power and these are signatures not only of the Bydgoszczian people, but also of the Bydgoszcz people who remember the Medical Academy, know about the potential of our city, and about the potential we have. I would like to ask the Minister and I would like to inform the High House today what this Toruń-Bedgoska cooperation looked like in practice after the liquidation of the Medical Academy in Bydgoszcz. Well, I don't know if all of you know that because of the fact that the hospital that was taken over had liabilities, it was borrowed by the Nicolaus Copernicus University in Toruń by a loan of PLN 100 million. And that's how it happened - I reached the list of buildings that secure this loan - as it happens, High Sejm - and I can exchange with addresses, if anyone wishes - that the guarantee of the loan that the Nicolaus Copernicus University in Toruń took is only and only buildings located in the city, which is called Bydgoszcz, i.e. someone apparently accepted in the UMK, that in Bydgoszcz in the hospital only bullying is treated, although we know that patients from all over Poland are being treated. So if we were to assume that somebody wouldn't pay off that loan someday, it would turn out that they would only pay for it with cattle, we would only pay it with property, [[♪ The bell ♪]] who was picked up by the Bydgoszcz. Therefore, Minister, the question is: Is there any chance that you will make this data public, which shows how criminally the UKM dealt with securing this loan for the Bydgoszcz hospital? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-01-sejm-15-3.u79	Thank you, sir. Mrs Ewa Kozanecka, Law and Justice have the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-01-sejm-15-3.u80	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Dear Bydgoszcz! I would like to present a comparison of data from several universities. And so, as far as the scope of staff potential is concerned, in the Collegium Medicum in Bydgoszcz in 2015, it developed at a level of 1191 employees, of which 649 are academic teachers, 131 are independent researchers and 542 are other employees. In turn, at the Medical University of Bialystok, the staff is 741 academic teachers. At the Warsaw Medical University, I note that this is the largest public university in Poland, there are almost 1,700 employees. Currently 5885 students study in Bydgoszcz, 4461 students in Białystok, and 9030 students in Warsaw. In addition, individual departments in Bydgoszcz, as has already happened here at the beginning, have several doctoral and habilitation powers, as well as conducting doctoral studies. My question, Minister, in connection with the above: Does such a large resource of scientific staff and independent academics provide sufficient grounds for the establishment of the Medical University in Bydgoszcz, taking into account, of course, the above comparison of data? Can the scientific potential presented in the field of titles be a basis for the establishment of a university? I would also like to ask: Is it true that medical departments are to be established in Kielce, Rzeszów and Zielona Góra? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-01-sejm-15-3.u81	Thank you very much. Mr Łukasz Schreiber, Law and Justice have the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-01-sejm-15-3.u82	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Invited guests from Bydgoszcz! Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to say that in Bydgoszcz really - what we are talking about - we made two mistakes in recent history: in the late 1990s, when at our request we agreed to move the Marshal's office to Torun and in 2004 in the Collegium Medicum case. But that's 160,000. The Bydgoszczian who signed on to this project is an expression of pain. A little frustration, that's the expression of the city of Bydgoszcz's injury. Ladies and gentlemen, I would also like to hear the words and beliefs of the students of the College of Medicum, a community of 6,000. students who also expressed them at a session of the Bydgoszcz City Council and whose representative drew attention to a very important issue. Well, on the ten most besieged courses at Nicolaus Copernicus University, as many as seven are courses at the Bydgoszcz College Medicum, and it is worth remembering that. I also have a question for the Minister and the Government, because I understand that from the government's point of view, the government's intention is to create strong academicism in the country. But what is better? Is the situation that we have today, or the situation that, in the next few years, would lead to the establishment of the Bydgoszcz University on the basis of the University of Kazimierz the Great, the University of Technology and Nature and today's College of Medicum? And can academics in the country only be strengthened by two or three strong centres, or do you need at least eight or ten of them? [[♪ The bell ♪]] In that case, Bydgoszcz has a place. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-01-sejm-15-3.u83	Thank you. Ms Krystyna Skowrońska, Civic Platform, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-01-sejm-15-3.u84	Dear Marshal, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Minister! Mr. President! Dear guests! I would like to begin by congratulating all those who signed this citizens' initiative. It is a great determination, a great ambition, and it deserves a serious debate. In the end, I'd like to... I hope that this will be a positive decision and a realization of these ambitions regarding the establishment of the Medical University in Bydgoszcz. It's been a policy since 2004. I remember how much it was said in this room - and with what concern - that Collegium Medicum was attached to the University of Toruń. I am very pleased that Mr.Aleksander Bobko, Minister of Higher Education, is in this Chamber, because perfectly as the rector of the University of Rzeszów he remembers with what determination many undertakings were born, among others. the medical department at the University of Rzeszów. But this shows that Nicolaus Copernicus University also has a chance if there is such determination. We cannot close ourselves in today's laws, as my colleague Lenz said, we cannot. We need to be open to citizens' initiatives and this initiative is extremely important. If we want to talk about civil society, let's look at the students who drive, they are brought to Torun in some cases, and the rest of their education takes place in Bydgoszcz. I wish, Zbyszek, on your hands, on Mr Zbigniew Pawłowicz's hand to make this initiative [[♪ The bell ♪]] She had a happy finale, and to all those who signed up for it - so that you would be happy, and to all of you from Torun and the people of Torun - let them take matters into their own hands.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-01-sejm-15-3.u85	Thank you, Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-01-sejm-15-3.u86	Rzeszowski University Rector... He did it. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-01-sejm-15-3.u87	Thank you, Member. Mr Jerzy Wilk, Law and Justice have the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-01-sejm-15-3.u88	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! At first, I'd like to say that I'm more in favour of combining rather than dividing. There were animosities between Elbląg and Olsztyn. We didn't take advantage of these divisions of office. If this were the case, perhaps cooperation between Elbląg and Olsztyn would be more possible. On the other hand, my declaration raises a question. The proposed regulation does not take into account issues related to the university's international cooperation, e.g. under the Erasmus programme, which currently opens up the possibility for students at the College of Medicum to study in foreign centres. The contracting party is Nicolaus Copernicus University. In practice, the proposed law may limit the possibility of existing students studying at College Medicum from student exchange, as well as the possibility of studying at Nicolaus Copernicus University to students from other centres. In this context, how do designers intend to resolve issues such as agreements on pay for educational services, concluded with students in the event of forced university change, or decisions on individual student cases, in particular administrative decisions, or cases with documentation from the course of studies? Answer that question. Thank you. [[Applause]] [[Please don't multiply your problems.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-01-sejm-15-3.u89	Thank you. Mrs Lidia Burzyńska, Law and Justice have the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-01-sejm-15-3.u90	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Dear guests! The proposed law is not consistent and consistent. Why? In fact, it does not always provide for a detailed staffing cast for individual bodies, as well as for those who will act as bodies created. It is hard to imagine that a dean of a certain department of Collegium Medicum automatically becomes dean of the university department. It is necessary to obtain the consent of such a person each time to take up this function, even temporarily, and in relation to the bodies of the collegial councils, it must be stated that not all members of such body are members of that body. This is the case only for academics with a postgraduate degree, while other members come from a choice. In the case of the organisational changes mentioned at the outset, there may be a situation in which a collegial body is not sufficiently filled to be able to take binding decisions. So my question is: How do designers intend to solve these problems according to the letter of law? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-01-sejm-15-3.u91	Thank you. Mr Jan Krzysztof Ardanowski, Law and Justice have the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-01-sejm-15-3.u92	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen! I want to start by saying that I'm not a resident of Torun. I have a good relationship with both Torun and Bydgoszcz, where I studied. On the other hand, I am a citizen of the Kujawsko-Pomorskie region, a region that was very difficult to create. I care very much about his integrity. If the creation of a new university in Bydgoszcz, as in many other places in Poland, would be just an element of improving the academic structure or solving local problems, I think there would be no particular conflict in this matter. On the other hand, the initiators of this idea, the then Members of the Civic Platform, the candidate for Parliament Mr Pawłowicz, the leading politician of the Platform in Bydgoszcz, Mr Rafał Bruski never hid that it was a political initiative of the Platform and encouraged such an initiative before the parliamentary elections. There is talk of a large number of signatures that need to be respected, but it must also be remembered that many confused, hopeful and convinced people were involved in service to the public welfare of young people, the bishop's curia, parishes, and signatures were collected not only in Bydgoszcz, but also in many other towns. [[Good.]] Besides, I am absolutely convinced that everywhere in Poland we would get a positive answer to this question: Are you in favour of setting up a new university? [[You can also collect in Toruń.]] Surely the division of the University of Nicholas Copernicus would weaken this recreated after the defeat of the war, transferred from Vilnius the most important university of the Kujawsko-Pomorskie region. I allow discussion and questioning: How to improve the quality of education, the quality of staff in Collegium Medicum? How to increase the number and quality of students educated, as a last resort, the number of researchers in our region? These are important and valid questions. On the other hand, if the establishment of the university is to be only part of the war between Bydgoszcz and Torun, then my consent is not to do so. [[♪ The bell ♪]] And to conclude, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to say that this kind of discussion...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-01-sejm-15-3.u93	Thank you, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-01-sejm-15-3.u94	Why would Bydgoszcz and Toruń be in one voivodship?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-01-sejm-15-3.u95	Thank you, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-01-sejm-15-3.u96	Let's get rid of the Toruń parasites. Paranoia to make a humanistic university... [[Applause]] [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off]] [[Long live Bydgoszcz, the royal city.]] [[The royal city is Toruń.]] [[Voice from the room: Founded by the Teutonic Knights?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-01-sejm-15-3.u97	Mr President, please leave the speaker. Mrs Bernadette Krynick, Law and Justice have the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-01-sejm-15-3.u98	Mr. Marshal! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! The legal status of employees of a public university is, in principle, governed by the Law on Higher Education and by implementing rules. Issues not covered by the Higher Education Act are e.g. the acquisition of employees by the new employer. Then there must be the will of a particular worker. This is particularly important in all areas of the functioning of the university, which are actually dependent on the number of employees who have the relevant degrees and degrees of education, who agree to include them in the group of persons who are the basis for a specific entitlement. This applies in particular to the powers to grant degrees and degrees and the powers to conduct studies. I therefore have a question for the applicants: How, without knowing the will, the applicants intend to design the acquisition by law by the newly created entity of this type of rights held so far? And second question. Do applicants realise that such rights can only be passed if the staff criteria are met by individuals following the change of employer? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-01-sejm-15-3.u99	Thank you very much. Mr Dariusz Kubiak, Law and Justice have the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-01-sejm-15-3.u100	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! It is known that arbitrary transfer - which projectors do not know why they assume - of academic teachers to a new unit without their consent is impossible. It is precisely the possession of the authority to conduct the course of studies that is conditional on the inclusion to the minimum of staff of the basic organizational unit of the university of the corresponding number of academic teachers. Do the projectors know that if a medical university is set up, it will be necessary to re-examine the powers of the new university in terms of conducting, teaching students in different fields of study? Did the projectors tell the public that this new university will not meet the requirements for the right to conduct specific courses? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-01-sejm-15-3.u101	Thank you. Mr Andrzej Gawron, Law and Justice have the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-01-sejm-15-3.u102	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen! It is always necessary to lean on the citizens' project and examine it in depth, because it is a great effort to collect so many signatures expressing the support of citizens. That is why I think that such an in-depth discussion will be held in committee. But I have some questions for the applicants. How do designers want to circumvent the existing rules, saying that the allocation of the authority to an organizational unit is determined first by the number of employees with titles and degrees employed in that unit? Do the designers know that persons belonging to the minimum number of persons employed should be employed at least 1 year in the unit and that the right is granted on request and not ex officio? And one last question. How do designers want to ensure the proper functioning of the new university in terms of awarding degrees in the context of the precarious situation of individual employees and the composition of university bodies? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-01-sejm-15-3.u103	Thank you. Mr Szymon Szynkowski, a.k.a. Sęk, Law and Justice, has a voice.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-01-sejm-15-3.u104	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! In September last year I was in Bydgoszcz at a meeting of local government officials, meeting of the Polish Towns Association. Then I met, among others. with the then self-government officer, today a Member from Bydgoszcz, Mr Łukasz Schreiber. We talked about various issues concerning Poznań's cooperation with Bydgoszcz. These are cities that are only 120 km away, so there are quite a lot of these areas. At the same time, for the first time I met with this very interesting argument, for me a new one, that it would also be possible to cooperate with medical units at university level, if I had just - earlier I did not know that it was a branch of the University of Toruń - was created an independent unit in Bydgoszcz. I must admit that I am a little worried about the fact that I am trying to include this initiative, as it seems very interesting, in conflict, in dispute and discussion between Torun and Bydgoszcz, because it seems to me that really big cities on the one hand deserve to have autonomous units of medical universities, on the other hand, we should all take care to ensure that the cooperation of these individuals, not only as close as I hope, in the future - Bydgoszcz and Torun, but also of all individuals in the country, is harmonious and serves to exchange knowledge and enrich scientific experience in this area. In this connection, I would like to ask the applicant: What are the prospects - because I think such prospects are also perceived by the applicant - of strengthening cooperation with other university centres in the country after the establishment of the Medical University in Bydgoszcz? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-01-sejm-15-3.u105	Thank you. Mrs Anna Elizabeth Sobecka, Law and Justice have the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-01-sejm-15-3.u106	Thank you. [[Long live Bydgoszcz!]] Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I ask you, as we know, in 2003 there was a ongoing discussion about the future of higher education in Poland and a concept emerged that there are too many small medical universities in Poland. [[Long live Bydgoszcz!]] It was said that the smallest had to be eliminated and that this plan was openly mentioned, among others. Bydgoszcz. Just remind me... [[Long live Bydgoszcz!]] You're bothering me, sir. It is enough to remind how small and weak the Academy of Medicine was in 2004 and how strong the College of Medicum is now in all respects - the number of students, directions and sizes. And let me remind you, revenue - there were 44 million, now there is 141 million PLN, the value of assets, including specialist equipment and real estate, was 152 million, and now there is 416 million in Collegium Medicum... [[Voice from the room: Because I fought for investments.]] ...the number of courses - there were seven, now there are 22... [[Give it back!]] ...including English - to four students, the number of students increased from 4.4 thousand. to 6.4 thousand, including foreign students - to more than 200, and at the time of joining the academy there were only 10 of them. [[What about the other universities?]] The number of doctoral permissions increased from two to six and the number of habilitating permissions increased from two to three. The number of clinical hospitals increased from one to two [[♪ The bell ♪]] And student homes from two to three. Is that true? Thank you very much. [[Eight years of the Civic Platform.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-01-sejm-15-3.u107	Thank you. Mr Paweł Szramka, Kukiz.15. [[No, it's an autonomous university, UMK.]] [[The platform provided money for 8 years, Member.]] [[Voice from the room: A in 2004...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-01-sejm-15-3.u108	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I appeal for peace first, there's no point in yelling. I would also like to point out that I am neither an bovine animal nor a torunian, so that I can look at this conflict coolly, a little bit from the side. On the other hand, I am a citizen of the Kujawsko-Pomorskie Voivodeship and I also had the opportunity to study both in Toruń and in Bydgoszcz. Looking at all of this, I have no doubt that this is primarily a political conflict. All the problems that Collegium Medicum is facing are to be solved without the need to divide the university. And from what the Bydgoszcz side says, the biggest problem you have is that the Collegium Medicum is subject to Nicolaus Copernicus University in Toruń. So how can this not be linked to political conflict? Unfortunately, we have two electoral districts in Kujawsko-Pomorskie voivodship. This means that we still have rope pulling between Bydgoszcz and Toruń, instead of working together for the benefit of Nicolaus Copernicus University, which is subject to the Collegium Medicum, for the development of both of these units. I would like to ask the Minister if the students were really asked about this, because when I talked to them, it turned out that they were not very favorable to the idea that they would receive a degree from the College of Medicum, not the vibrant and well-known University of Nicolaus Copernicus in Poland. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-01-sejm-15-3.u109	Thank you very much. Mrs Anna Cicholska, Law and Justice have the floor. [[Game in the O.R.]] [[Voice from the hall: Bydgoszcz is a prestigious, large city, Mr.]] [[I know, I have nothing against Bydgoszcz.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-01-sejm-15-3.u110	Dear Marshal, Minister! High Izbo! Dear guests! I'm not from Bydgoszcz or Torun. As a Member, I work in the Committee on Education, Science and Youth. What I'm trying to say is that the sloppyness of the project is shocking. It can be seen that this text has been written - it is difficult to even call it a bill - for the purpose of the election campaign and the overwhelming desire to share society not only the Kujawsko-Pomorskie voivodship. There was no basic analysis of the organisation of Nicolaus Copernicus University. The proposed law states that the deputy administrative director of Nicolaus Copernicus University in Toruń becomes the administrative director of the planned university. Do the designers know that this function was abolished several years ago? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-01-sejm-15-3.u111	Thank you. Mr Wojciech Murdzek, Law and Justice have the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-01-sejm-15-3.u112	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Today we are talking about a particular university, about two specific cities, while how we will continue to process, I think, matters because it is probably not the only case in Poland. Therefore, I think it is important to point out that the existing Polish law of statutory rank does not contain grounds for the division of public universities, so without amending the law, it is currently not possible under the Law on Higher Education to create a university based on an existing university. Therefore, I ask: Will it be a precedent for this incident, so to speak, a specialist? The level of complexity of this process means the need to introduce exceptional regulations in practically many fields related to the functioning of universities. And I would ask you to indicate differences in the legal basis in the case of the division of higher education according to your will or against the will of the academic community expressed by the competent authorities, because this is certainly of great importance not only in the sphere of emotion, but in the legal sphere. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-01-sejm-15-3.u113	Thank you very much. Mrs Joanna Borowiak, Law and Justice have the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-01-sejm-15-3.u114	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Dear guests! On the one hand, one must understand the desire to create an autonomous medical university, which has its traditions in Bydgoszcz. On the other hand, consolidation seems to be the only way to achieve their stable development in the current realities of universities, as it provides a much better position, stable development and competitiveness. As a Member, but also as a scientific worker, I would like to ask the applicants whether, when preparing the project, they consulted students on the exclusion of the College Medicum from the Nicolaus Copernicus University and the establishment of the Medical University in Bydgoszcz. What's important? The decision to study is taken by the candidates by the prism of the direction, but also, and often mainly, by the prism of the particular university at which they want to take part. It matters to them. These decisions have already been made by the students of Collegium Medicum. So did the applicants take into account the student opinions? If so, how many students have commented on the above, and what was the outcome of the consultations? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-01-sejm-15-3.u115	Thank you. Mr Marcin Horała has the floor. [[This is a citizens' initiative, Mrs...]] [[But this is a social side, Madam Member.]] [[But that's not what's on the citizens' projects...]] [[But this is important, my fellow Member.]] [[But you have to learn...]] [[Game in the O.R.]] Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-01-sejm-15-3.u116	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I am not a Member from Torun or from Bydgoszcz, I am a Member from Gdynia. Gdynia is a large, dynamic city, which probably in many places on the map of Poland would have the potential to be a voivodship city - it happens to be located next to Gdansk. With our neighbours from Gdansk we love each other very much, but it is often difficult love. Why am I talking about this? To say that, as city councillor for many years, I understand to pain various conditions of harsh, male friendship between Bydgoszcz and Torun. What do the most important cities seem to me in such a relationship? The aim is to make sure that certain identity, subjectivity, and the associated specific interests are respected. To make every city feel that no one enters its territory, that what is for it, for its inhabitants, in the field of power, also in the field of title, important, it all belongs to this city. And only from this position of mutual respect, mutual subjectivity can you talk to each other, get along, work together, solve problems. Hence the question: Am I reading correctly the intentions of the applicants, that it is in the area of this medical university that the intention is to regain a certain subjectivity and from this position, perhaps in the future, also to cooperate, to take up various kinds of challenges together, to solve problems? But it's always the case that you have to take care of your home first, your family first. When it is secured, further challenges can be addressed together with others. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-01-sejm-15-3.u117	Thank you very much. Mrs Lydia Gądek, Civic Platform, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-01-sejm-15-3.u118	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Many people began by not being from Torun or from Bydgoszcz. I'm Małopolanka, too. I graduated from the Faculty of the Silesian Medical Academy, currently a medical university in Katowice. I specialized in Warsaw, Krakow and Łódź. Ladies and gentlemen, we are going to deviate here, giving the political trend to this project, from the clou theme. First of all, there's over 160,000. signatures, which means there's a will. It is not possible that there are no students in this group either. I don't believe it. I can't believe there's no scientific staff. I do not believe that there are ordinary citizens who have the good not only of Bydgoszcz as a place on the map. In general, ladies and gentlemen, we are all aware of how much we lack doctors in Poland. Every new department, wherever it is open, is a new perspective on improving the efficiency of the health system in Poland. Therefore, I believe that these political, non-political, possible regional disputes should be left completely aside. Please note that between Krakow and Katowice, two powerful clinical centers, there are only 60 km. Here, 50. Kielce, where, in our previous term of office, we created a new medical department, is 80 km. What's the harm in that? It's just helping us. I have a question and to the applicants, and at the same time to the Minister. If this initiative succeeds, and I hope it will succeed, and I wish you very much, is there any chance of increasing the number of students educated, and is there any chance that after we have separated the independent university from the medical departments in Bydgoszcz, we can also create it in Toruń, so that we can finally have enough educated medical staff? Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[In Rzeszow, too.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-01-sejm-15-3.u119	Thank you, Member. Mr Paweł Skutecki, Kukiz.15.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-01-sejm-15-3.u120	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Dear guests! This is the first time I have been happy to agree with Mrs Godek... It's a sponge. [[Not Godek.]] Not the last one. I feel like we're a little confused here in this discussion. This is the first reading. Today we are discussing not the meaning or meaninglessness of the uprising of the Medical University in Bydgoszcz, but whether we are going to refer this project to the committee or whether we are going to put it in the basket. I can't imagine anyone in this room, at least one Member, who would have the audacity and conscience to turn to a basket of 160 thousand. signatures. This isn't the time of the previous term when a million signatures could have been thrown in the trash. [[Applause]] As for the project itself, the idea itself, here I have a question for the applicants and perhaps for the Minister. We just heard that there's a trend in university consolidation. It seems to me, from what I notice, that at universities such a specialized trend is rather the opposite. Rather, it focuses on individual fields of science in view of the fact that it is more effective to build specialised universities based on only one field. Am I wrong, Professor, or am I wrong? Second question, maybe more general. I'm a fanatic or a fanatic of competition. Wouldn't it be that if a medical faculty were established at the University of Nicholas Copernicus and the Medical University of Bydgoszcz, competition between universities would cause, would force higher quality of teaching and the organisation of these universities at all? Thank you. [[Applause]] [[Of course.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-01-sejm-15-3.u121	Thank you. Mr Jerzy Gosievski, Law and Justice have the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-01-sejm-15-3.u122	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Dear Minister, All of us, ladies and gentlemen, we accept that every citizens' bill should be considered and not thrown into the trash. I think it's gonna happen this time, too. I express my appreciation for the Legislative Initiative Committee, which collected the required amount of signatures under the draft law on the establishment of the Medical University of them. Ludwik Rydygier in Bydgoszcz, which would be created mainly on the basis of the Collegium Medicum of Nicolaus Copernicus University. I also pay tribute to many of your fellow Members, among others. Mr Łukasz Schreiber, who asked me before coming here for my opinion on the matter. I believe that every sentence of all of these and of Mr Luke Schreiber should be considered. It also seems to me that the submission of this bill, we hope, will create an opportunity to discuss the nationwide network of universities in Poland. I would like to ask you a representative of the Legislative Initiative Committee: Has the possibility of giving the new university the name of two patrons, both Louis Rydygier and Nicolaus Copernicus been considered? Thank you very much. [[Long live Bydgoszcz!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-01-sejm-15-3.u123	Thank you. Mr Antoni Man, Civic Platform, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-01-sejm-15-3.u124	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! As a Torunian, I did not want to speak on this matter, on this bill and on this legislative initiative, so as not to aggravate this conflict between Torun and Bydgoszcz, because I am actually in favour of the conclusion between Bydgoszcz and Torun. On the other hand, this statement by the applicant was rather curiosity. It was very one-sided and highly politicized, politicized by looking at Bydgoszcz. In fact, the intention was probably to look at this university through the Bydgoszcz prism, but this prism is opaque. You only focused on Bydgoszcz's interests, not the university's. In this speech, there was no interest in the university, students, or academics. [[Voice from the Chamber: The Member did not listen.]] I've been listening. [[Voice from the room: No understanding.]] And this is pointed out above all by the position of the General Council of Science and Higher Education, which has completely critically assessed this draft law with justification. She stated that these facts, which are given in the explanatory memorandum, were false. You've added a lot more of these facts today. I don't think they're entirely right either because you've left out the problem at all that there's such a tendency to combine medical academy or medical universities with universities. You missed the Jagiellonian University problem. [[Voice from the room: Where did they come from?]] On the other hand, in the position of the Main Council of Science and Higher Education, there is such a point that in other strong academic centres in Poland this possibility of combining medical universities is also considered. Today, strong centres want to connect with university centers. [[In one town, in one city.]] Excuse me, these trends are noticeable. [[But where?]] I am just asking the Minister because I would like you to confirm whether the position of the General Council of Science and Higher Education is real, whether such trends exist and where there is room for the autonomy of universities, because this is not seen in this bill or in the justification that you have extended today. Thank you very much. [[And then we forced them, in 2004.]] [[Long live Bydgoszcz!]] [[Long live, sure.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-01-sejm-15-3.u125	Thank you, sir. Mrs Iwona Michalek, Law and Justice have the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-01-sejm-15-3.u126	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! Nicolaus Copernicus University is the best brand in the Kujawsko-Pomorskie voivodship and one of the best in northern Poland, it is an excellently developing university. This project intends to Destroy it. [[That's not true.]] The most important argument for applicants is That it was signed 160,000. persons. You are often very accentuated. It is worth knowing, however, that this campaign was organized during the election campaign and was an idea to take place in this campaign, probably effective, from what I see. [[Good. What about 500+?]] This action was further organised, for example. in an oncology hospital among patients in Bydgoszcz schools under the municipality. There were also actions organized by the president of the city. [[And that's not allowed? What's that?]] [[You're still signed by the Bishop.]] Calm down, ma'am. It just so happens that my mom was in an oncology hospital, and the girls came up to her with letters. And I must tell you that when I urge you to sign this list, I quote exactly, they said: Should cattle be treated again in Bydgoszcz? Sign your name. Do you really think that's how you manipulate people? Aren't cattle treated now? If there is a medical academy in Bydgoszcz, will they be better treated? [[The Member is from Torun.]] Think about what you're doing. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-01-sejm-15-3.u127	Thank you. Mrs Teresa Piotrowska, Civic Platform, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-01-sejm-15-3.u128	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Mr. President! Dear Bydgoszcz! Ladies and gentlemen, please. Indeed, our cooperation with Torun is difficult, but Bydgoszcz deserves to be able to develop its scientific potential. The Bydgoszczers never accepted this connection. It was then, in 2004, we all remember a political decision. Nobody consulted, no one asked anyone, even though the entire teaching base, clinical hospitals are in Bydgoszcz. Students are in Bydgoszcz, students study in Bydgoszcz, and the sign on their diploma has a Toruń university. We don't want to take Toruni away so he can develop medical science at his university, but we want to have a medical university in Bydgoszcz because it was the Bydgoszcz that built this university, this potential for the university to be established today. We also want, and here, a question to the Minister, to consolidate the Bydgoszcz universities. It's almost 370 thousandths of a city. Don't take away our ability to build our Bydgoszcz scientific potential. We want to consolidate Bydgoszcz universities through the University of Kazimierz the Great, through the University of Technology and Nature and through the Medical University. [[Do it!]] Minister, is it possible for us to find a solution so that medical departments can be established at Nicolaus Copernicus University and that we can successfully consolidate, cooperate and compete healthyly? We don't want to destroy the potential of Nicolaus Copernicus University, [[♪ The bell ♪]] But do it at home, and let us, the Bydgoszczers, develop our teachings, including medical ones.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-01-sejm-15-3.u129	Thank you, Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-01-sejm-15-3.u130	Because that's where the academy started. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-01-sejm-15-3.u131	The list of Members registered in the vote has been exhausted. Please take the floor of the Secretary of State at the Ministry of Science and Higher Education, Mr Aleksander Bobka. [[Minister with optimism.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-01-sejm-15-3.u132	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Dear guests from Bydgoszcz with Mr President in charge! As you can see, the discussion shows that the issue we are dealing with today is difficult, but we need to be optimistic and positive about it. I have the honour to present the position of the government at this stage of the procession, and I would also like to share a few comments on listening to the discussion. Well, ladies and gentlemen, first of all, I would like to stress that this is clearly apparent from the Constitution, but for the Ministry, also clearly, the issue of university autonomy is absolutely fundamental. In this case too, this basic principle of university autonomy should be taken into account, because here we have the problem that there is a difference of opinion within the university. It is best if, on the basis of the principle of autonomy, one position is reached, if not, then some kind of external arbitration will be needed and here is the role of the High House and the wisdom of the High Chamber. The second thing is that this project appears at a time when it is planned and in fact it is already beginning to take on dynamics of some reform or transformation of the higher education system in Poland, and we are also observing the dynamics of the development of medical universities. In the last year, several medical departments have been given the authority to train doctors, several more are applying for it, so here they are creating whether there are opportunities, perhaps also positive for this issue we are talking about. It's worth remembering. Another thing is, let's say, in the plans of the ministry or in certain priorities of the ministry. I mean, we're talking about consolidation, about the need to create big, strong academic centres. Here I would rather argue with one of the Members who said that the world trend or the expected trend is to create smaller specialized universities. This is not the case, rather large universities have more opportunities after all, and medical departments traditionally at European universities were just one of the four founding departments of the traditional European university. Various options are available today, but the ministry's position is that on the one hand consolidation and the creation of large centres, but also these large, strong universities should operate in the regions. It is therefore a priority for building strong regional universities. And here, undoubtedly, your region, both Bydgoszcz and Toruń, has a huge potential to have strong academic centres in these cities in the region. It would be best if they lived together in harmony and in partnership. Fourth thing, about the bill itself. Well, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to point out, however, that the complexity of the possible operation of the separation of the College Medicum and the establishment of the Medical University is much greater than could be concluded by reading the law itself. I'm not gonna talk about the details here, that's what the committee's gonna do. But maybe I'll say one thing, because she was also in the discussion. Unfortunately, academic rights do not move automatically. According to the Act, if a new scientific unit was created, and this would undoubtedly be the case here, this new entity would basically have to apply for academic powers again, so all the powers that the College Medicum holds today would have to be reconfirmed. We can assume that this would happen, but this is an additional process, with a certain risk. And that's the risk, the kind of things that complicate this whole operation, there's more here. I'm not gonna talk about this now for the time being. As far as the specific questions that have been raised here are concerned, I do not have the knowledge of securing loans which, according to one of my fellow Members, were to be secured by the wealth of the university, not the university, but by the wealth of Bydgoszcz. It's to be checked. All I'm gonna say is that universities have, on an autonomous basis, far-reaching freedom to dispose of their assets. Here, in case of having more value, consent is required, acceptance of the treasure minister, but this is to be verified. I also have no knowledge of the position of students. Perhaps, or perhaps even in the course of the discussion, during the next few weeks, attempts will still be made to obtain the opinion of other bodies or bodies from both Bydgoszcz and Torun. Ladies and gentlemen, in summary, at this moment, i.e. at this moment, reading the law itself, the positions of academics, precisely because of the indication or awareness that the complexity of this operation is large, the positions of academic authorities, both the main council and the Conference of Rectors of Academic Schools of Poland are negative. These difficulties are indicated. At this point, the government's position is also expressed in such a spirit. On the other hand, we are clearly in favour of directing this law to the committee to look for solutions there. There are probably other possible solutions, not only zero-one - either rejection or acceptance of this law in the form proposed by the applicants. There seems to be other possibilities, more co-ciliative. That's the thought I'd end with, of course, that he's building a consensus. I am convinced that, in such a spirit, this bill will be continued in committee. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-01-sejm-15-3.u133	Thank you, Minister. Mr Zbigniew Pawłowicz, representative of the Legislative Initiative Committee, please take the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-01-sejm-15-3.u134	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I would like to thank all the Members and the Minister who spoke in the debate very warmly. These were valuable remarks. There were many questions that were asked with concern for the implementation of this project. I wanted to thank you very much for them. I am aware of some of the shortcomings of this project, especially as regards the matter of the Administrative Director. It is a certain formal oversight, but unfortunately as the project was submitted already at the beginning of September to the marshal, it can no longer be changed after his registration. This is therefore a procedure and, unfortunately, this cannot be done. In order not to extend, I would like to say, ladies and gentlemen, that consultations, student positions were and are. There are positions of associations of students of education, the Parliament of Students of the Republic of Poland, and there is also the position of the Student Government of the College of Medicum. I couldn't add these documents for formal reasons. I think, and it must be thought that the bill will be further examined, that it will be included in it. I referred it to the head of the Sejm Chancellery. I also wanted to tell you that there is a resolution of the Conference of Rectors of Academic Medical Universities, which supports this project fully. Other environments also support this project. There is also a legal opinion on all those issues that have been raised and by the Minister and the various uncertainties that I fully share. I think this is to be worked out in committee in cooperation with the Minister and the Government. Finally, I just wanted to say one thing, ladies and gentlemen. Maybe it was in my speech that I didn't think that if we looked at 9 universities and Collegium Medicum's funding data today, because they're funded by the Minister of Health, it's the Collegium Medicum that teaches in stationary studies almost 4.7 thousand. students are the 5th medical university in the country, and in terms of funding is in the penultimate position - on average 18 thousand. for a student, the highest is 33 thousand, and the majority is financed well above 25 thousand. These are the records from the Ministry of Health. Why is this happening? This is probably because the Rector of the UMK has other problems than the problem of financing by the Minister of Health - what I emphasized. Finally, I also wanted to say one thing, ladies and gentlemen. Here, in particular, Mr Man emphasized this, which is also written in the opinion of the Main Council, with which I am not going to argue - let us stop swearing at reality, ladies and gentlemen. I am a doctor, I have been an academic teacher at the University of Lodz for almost 20 years and today - this is due to my knowledge, perhaps, Minister, I am mistaken - no medical university from 9 independent universities takes any action towards joining a general profile university operating at its headquarters. Therefore, today let us stop saying that the best example for Bydgoszcz and Torun is the UJ. Ladies and gentlemen, the Jagiellonian University established in 1364, immediately had two medical cathedrals. What the Minister said - European universities were created also on the basis of medicine. This is a university with history and conditions. On the other hand, when it comes to Bydgoszcz and Toruń, there are completely different conditions. Finally, Minister, the request that you, when we consider all these nuances, take into account the fact that Bydgoszcz is seeking to establish a union of medical universities, out of his grace and great kindness. That's our goal. The problem today is that we're missing the medical university. And our request is that the Minister of Science and Higher Education appoints, it would also be our success, his decision this year, the union of three universities in Bydgoszcz, which would become the seed of the future University of Bydgoszcz. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-01-sejm-15-3.u135	Thank you. The discussion is closed. The Marshal of the Sejm, after consulting the Bureau of the Sejm, proposes that the Sejm send a citizens' bill on the establishment of the Medical University to them. Ludwik Rydygier in Bydgoszcz, published in print No 226, to the Committee on Education, Science and Youth for consideration. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. [[There's been a motion to refer you to the Health Committee.]] This proposal will be decided in the vote at the next session of the Sejm. I'm ordering a three-minute break. [[Adjournment from 10 a.m. 12 mins 15 hours 12 min 22]] I'm reopening the session. We proceed with the examination of item 23. of the agenda: First reading of the parliamentary draft law amending the excise duty Act (print No 303). I ask Mr Jarosław Sachaika to present the reasons for the bill.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-01-sejm-15-3.u136	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I would like to present to you a bill which is extremely expected by the tobacco industry in Poland. In fact, it is initiated by small and medium-sized entrepreneurs working in this area and is constantly consulted with them, which will result in the self-correction committee's work. On the one hand, the self-amendments will aim to extend the catalogue of operators who will be able to apply for exemption from excise security and, on the other hand, to seal the entire system. The bill is short, but for small and medium-sized intermediaries very important, because many of them can save from falling. Many of these entities will only exist through this law. But it is not only about intermediaries - also farmers farmers who produce tobacco will benefit from this law. The purpose of the proposed amendment is to prevent the negative effects of the regulation introduced from 1 January 2016 by the Act of 24 July 2015 amending the excise duty Act and certain other laws. This law has been imposed on intermediaries an obligation to lodge an excise security of PLN 2 to 30 million. The Act, which entered into force on 1 January this year, caused that the activity in the field of tobacco drought trading was subject to drastic restrictions. According to the reasoning set out in the explanatory memorandum of the Act, this was due to the results of controls carried out by the Customs Service in previous years which revealed irregularities in the trade in drought, which resulted in a reduction in revenue to the budget. Unfortunately, the ministry officials are once again unable to boast of the basic principles of economics, the concept of the Laffer curve is bowing down. From year to year, as the Laffer curve shifted to the right, the revenue to the excise budget increased at a decreasing rate until 2013, when there was a decrease. In 2014, the government's excise revenue on tobacco products decreased by 1.6%. , and for VAT, by 3.9%. Ladies and gentlemen! At an average price of 1 kg of tobacco dried PLN 6.50 excise duty per kilogram is PLN 218.40. It's a huge difference. The size of the grey zone in Poland is estimated at around 25% Total tobacco market and this is one of the highest indicators in Europe. In the context of the trade in tobacco products, the grey zone is mainly composed of cigarette smuggling from other countries and has nothing to do with intermediaries, mainly with high excise duties and neighbouring Belarus, Ukraine and Russia, where cigarettes are produced for smuggling into Central Europe. With the grey zone there was no problem when farmers received subsidies for a kilo of drought and each kilogram went to the first processor, i.e. buying in. As a result of the negligence of the Polish People's Party and the former Minister of Agriculture PSL was not submitted in due time documents related to obtaining subsidies for Polish tobacco growers, which resulted in no direct subsidies for tobacco production at present. As a result, the cost-effectiveness of tobacco production and the creation of a grey zone have been reduced. Instead of the first nine processors, i.e. those who bought tobacco and were supervised by the Agency for Restructuring and Modernization of Agriculture in order to pay direct payments, we have 300, because so many of them were created, intermediate agents whose control was to be exercised by customs offices. The ones we know are inefficient. This control cannot be carried out effectively because the difference between the price of tobacco and excise duty, the cost-effectiveness of tobacco production and the price of tobacco in concentration is simply colossal. According to data from the National Tobacco Producers Association, the tobacco industry transfers more than PLN 23 billion annually to the state budget, representing around 8% total budgetary revenue. In Poland we have about 10,000. growers, however, the whole tobacco industry provides employment of over 60,000. people to whom we include growers, but also employees in production and processing. The cultivation of tobacco for many farmers is often the only source of livelihood. It is an unreplaceable plant in small farms on weak soils. Planters have specialist knowledge, experience, professional machines and, above all, a long tradition in tobacco cultivation. At this point, I would like to draw attention to the labour intensity of tobacco cultivation and the high cost of its production, including labour costs associated with the high involvement of the workforce during planting, harvesting, as well as cleaning and sorting. The privatisation process of Polish factories should be mentioned. In the '90s, this process was initiated. Then foreign companies had to buy more than 40% of Polish drought. Today, with a similar cigarette production, this is less than 10%. The question arises: Why? Of course, it's about the price. I hope it's just the price. Polish tobacco is grown in accordance with standards adopted in the European Union. I am thinking of European labour standards, plant protection products, fertilisers. Such things - no one cares about tobacco production on non-European corporate plantations. Is this what we want to see only consumers of tobacco products in Poland and production and processing abroad? Despite many difficulties, our country still ranks high on the tobacco list. Poland is the second tobacco producer in the European Union after Italy. However, the fact that 9 000 are imported from Germany is interesting. t tobacco dried at a price much higher than Polish drought. In 2015, 117 thousand were imported. t drought to Poland, mainly from Brazil - 25 thousand, Mozambique - 11 thousand, Germany - 9 thousand, Malawi - 9 thousand, USA - 9 thousand, India - 9 thousand, Tanzania - 9 thousand. Polish tobacco production is only 35 thousand. t. Please, the High House, in the 1990s, we produced about 150,000. a. Intermediate tobacco operators are a very diverse group of operators. Among them are large international companies, which bought Polish cigarette factories such as British American Tobacco, Imperial Tobacco, Philip Morris, Japan Tobacco International, but also companies processing tobacco leaves such as Universal Leaf Tobacco Poland, FTK in Krasnystaw, which sell it to other tobacco companies or cigarette factories after the initial processing. They are also small or medium Polish entrepreneurs competing for companies who buy good Polish tobacco and sell it outside Poland, mainly to Arab countries for water pipes. Competition improves the cost-effectiveness of cultivation for growers. It was thanks to it that the best Polish tobacco cost more than 40%, with PLN 9.50 per kg in a concentration of up to PLN 13.50 per kg at the average price of the tobacco of PLN 6.50. The excise security rules treat large multinational small Polish companies alike, setting the upper limit of the excise security at the level of 30 million. Today, we know that this construction is hitting small and medium-sized Polish entrepreneurs, who cannot afford to put a security in millions of heights. The establishment of a maximum amount of excise security of 30 million, an identical amount for large multinationals, as well as for small, often family businesses, raises a legitimate question about the purpose of such regulation. Companies report to me that the customs authorities do not agree to excise guarantees in the form of a note or a lump sum in this small million-dollar amount, but require a security of up to 30 million. On the other hand, as farmers informed me, a large foreign entity can boast of an excise security in the form of a note. Unfortunately, there are many more negative examples. Such actions cause the destabilisation of the Polish tobacco market and have a negative impact not only on intermediate operators, but also on farmers, which we can now experience. Farmers can't sell tobacco dried last year. Today it's a few thousand tons, about 10%. last year's production. This tobacco is lying and molding. Unfortunately, if the current rules are not changed quickly, it will turn out that all medium and small Polish intermediaries will be removed from the market. The consequences of their collapse, in addition to the disruption of the tobacco sector as a whole, will be less revenue to the state budget, as well as the loss of thousands of jobs. The aim of this project is also to make an autocorrection, which will extend the number of operators that can benefit from it and, on the other hand, will allow a much lower burden on small and medium-sized enterprises. The introduction of reasonable conditions to be met by intermediaries wishing to benefit from the exemption will prevent abuse of that right. The competent head of the customs office would be entitled to an exemption from the obligation to lodge an excise security. The exemption would cover only intermediate tobacco operators which are included in the relevant register of intermediate operators who are resident or established in Poland and who have concluded an agreement with tobacco producers to supply at least 100 tonnes of tobacco dried from the harvest for the year in which the intermediary tobacco operator applies for this exemption, which has already concentrated at least 100 tonnes of dried tobacco last year, have facilities for storing tobacco dried and, of course, do not fall behind taxes. Such a clear provision will avoid interpretation doubts and eliminate bush companies that appeared as quickly as they died. To conclude, I would like to ask you very much to support this project, which will save thousands of jobs, improve the cost-effectiveness of tobacco production and increase the revenue to the budget, for example, from excise duties. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-01-sejm-15-3.u137	Thank you very much. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of the clubs. I'm opening a discussion. Mr Jan Szewczak, Law and Justice have the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-01-sejm-15-3.u138	High Izbo! Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Excuse me, ladies are here too. Ladies and gentlemen, one can say that today we have such a special convention, because prima aprilis and I think it would be perfect if we, Members, had only such laws before us, wouldn't we? Two articles, and actually the problem's over. But I think it would be too good to be true. To be honest, despite the real kindness of the Kukiz club15 and even my personal request to contact the club's representatives about this bill to exchange views... Unfortunately, it didn't work out for the reasons I didn't know. Ladies and gentlemen, the draft provides for an exemption from the obligation to lodge this excise security for intermediary tobacco operators to be introduced into the Excise Tax Act. This would be done by the competent head of the customs office, which would just exempt the intermediary tobacco operator from the obligation to lodge such excise security under certain conditions. It seems to me that, after all, it is not a good path to this discretion and such personalization of this issue, because we can easily imagine what this will cause conflicts in the local environment, if it turns out that the head of the customs office was for Mr. Zdzisio's company to make such a decision, and for Mr. Jozia's company no longer. There'll be interpretation problems and there'll be danger. Such voluntarism. So the case is very debatable, even from this side. Apart from that, I'd like to see this customs chief who will be so brave and make such a decision, and without any consequences later on in this regard. Member States, designers, authors of this idea indicate that these solutions would improve the difficult financial situation of small and medium-sized enterprises involved in tobacco processing. However, the question is whether this method would prove effective. There's a lot of doubt. How does this apply to the context of these seals in the excise duty system? After all, this amendment of July 2015, which amended the excise duty law, imposed an obligation on the intermediary tobacco operators to lodge this excise security. After all, the primary objective of this legislative movement was to eliminate very serious pathologies in tobacco drought. After all, we have a whole series of such problems related to the companies of pillars, bushes or what we call them, but yet these checks carried out by the Customs Service in 2013 and 2014 have shown that the reduction of budgetary revenues due to irregularities, to say the least, in the activities of intermediary companies, of these tobacco operators amounted to more than PLN 800 million, i.e. about PLN 1 billion, right? As far as the turnover in this tobacco market is concerned, there are very serious budget losses. Some estimate them at many, many billions of zlotys. There is even talk of PLN 4 and PLN 5 billion. The problem with fictitious sales within the framework of intra-Community supplies, non-payment of excise duties, however, is a clear phenomenon. It wasn't completely eliminated. You can even say that in some regions, like mushrooms after rain, illegal cigarette factories grow. We see these media images that show us another pretty big factory that a big company wouldn't be ashamed of. This was about cutting down on these informal sources of supply, sources of income for organised crime. Thus, it seems difficult to find such a justification for the amendment of the excise tax law proposed by the Kukiz club15. It seems to me that it is more appropriate to recommend not to work further on the subject of the project, which does not mean that it is not necessary to return to the general review of the excise legislation, especially in the tobacco sector. We've got one like it. [[♪ The bell ♪]] the problem also in the alcohol and fuel sector. So, let's get this over with. It seems to me that this is a shortcut that will not have a significant effect and will not have a positive impact on the state budget. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-01-sejm-15-3.u139	Thank you. Mrs Bożena Szydłowska from the Civic Platform has made her statement in writing. Please, Mr Norbert Kaczmarczyk, Kukiz Poselski Club15.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-01-sejm-15-3.u140	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour to present the position of the Kukiz club15 in the case of the parliamentary draft law amending the excise duty law. The Act of 24 July 2015 amending the Excise Tax Act and certain other laws turns out to be devastating for the Polish tobacco industry and thus for tobacco growers. Therefore, the Kukiz15 club law goes against the Polish tobacco industry, against farmers and small businesses. The aim of the proposed amendment is to prevent the negative effects of the regulations introduced last year and in force since January this year. The current law covers all companies trading tobacco droughts in Poland, i.e. large foreign entities as well as medium and small Polish enterprises. The security introduced by the law for the amount of PLN 1 million to PLN 30 million is a sum not available to small entrepreneurs. They are unable to generate a million or two for collateral. All companies that do not provide adequate security by 1 April, i.e. to this day, will be removed from the list of intermediaries. They will also not be able to store tobacco after that date. As far as these cases are concerned, as regards customs services that went to these companies today and yesterday, I get signals from companies in the region of Małopolska that they already have a problem with this because tobacco was behind and did not get rid of it, they did not sell it, and - as you know - tobacco sales take place in March and April. What about these companies? By the fact that this law is in force, we are destroying the Polish tobacco industry. This leads to a curiosity situation: buying in, knowing about new regulations, reduced the purchase of tobacco from growers in the 2015/2016 season in fear that they would not be able to sell the goods, whose sale usually started in March. The growers, who were left with tobacco for the next season, after they did not sell tobacco from the previous year, have no money to live - let alone continue to run the farm - e.g. having. 10 tons of tobacco in storage. But tobacco won't send the kids to school, not buy bread, not feed the family. The current situation - I mean the 2016/2017 season - is even worse. The tobacco companies do not know whether they will be on the list of intermediaries and whether they will contract tobacco at all. The producer groups have no idea who to talk to about the cultivation, and the normal farmer has tobacco from the previous year, but there is no money. Most companies are simply hoping to change their regulations. This law mainly hits Polish companies. If its aim was to monopolise the market, then we should, like the United States, set up a Polish state-owned tobacco holding company focusing on sales and buying tobacco. It would be an entity that could be perfectly controlled, and most importantly, it would be 100% composed of Polish companies and Polish capital. We should strive to rebuild our Polish capital in the economy, not to give up another branch of the economy to foreign capital. This law leads to a decline in competitiveness. A planter who wants to grow tobacco will not have the option of choosing a company that pays better. In the end, lack of competitiveness will lead to a fall in prices and hence to ineffectiveness. Another sector of the Polish economy will be destroyed. Aren't we familiar with such a scenario? Let's say no this time. Let us not let the Polish economy and the Polish farmer strike again. Why, instead of giving work to Poles, are we playing again under the dictation of the European Union, leading to bankruptcy another, supposedly-uneconomic sector of the Polish economy? Why is it that, within a community that talks about equality, on the one hand, we want to impose rules, even on the quotas of migrants, and on the other hand, we are not treated equally with Western farmers? In the West, tobacco leaves are treated like an agricultural fetus such as beet or potato. In Poland, after the introduction of excise duties on the tobacco list in 2013, a Polish farmer races like a criminal, and the excise goods become a tobacco bush torn from the ground. The gray area, instead of getting smaller, is growing. Let's put an excise on apples, because they can make moonshine, or corn, because someone can make fuel from it. Poland is becoming a country in which laws restrict virtually every sphere of life, and the economic sphere in particular. People are slowly wondering if they can walk on their own lawn next to the house according to regulations. Entrepreneurs, instead of thinking about the development of the company and building the Polish economy, become regulatory experts and legal briefs. Let us stop this and let Poles build a country, build a nation and build our economy. Let us not allow Polish companies to fall or have to operate abroad this time. Let us introduce appropriate regulations, ensure conditions and jobs for young Poles here before they go abroad. Let us take care of our country and develop it so that young people want to come back here. I fully support, I am in favour of them, the amendment of the previous law, striking directly at the Polish economy, at the Polish entrepreneur and at the Polish farmer. Finally, I submit a request on behalf of the Kukiz club15, [[♪ The bell ♪]] for the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development to also consider this project. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-01-sejm-15-3.u141	Thank you very much. Mr Jerzy Meysztowicz, Modern.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-01-sejm-15-3.u142	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! We have as a modern problem with this law, because in general all actions that will aim to remove certain restrictions for the development of Polish companies, especially small and medium-sized enterprises, are things that we will always support, and we will be consistent in this. The actions proposed in this Act are part of this relief policy not only from certain bureaucratic requirements, but also from financial barriers in this case, so that companies can function well. Of course, there are some problems, dilemmas, questions, such as the fear of the law and justice representative, that the head of the customs department will have enormous power, because he will be able to agree with one and not with the other to reduce this security. Well, that's true, but at some point we have to make it clear that if we point to people who perform certain functions, we have to trust them. You have no problem handing over such enormous powers to the head of the Agricultural Property Agency. It appears that the head of the customs office may also have the possibility to indicate those entities which may obtain such facilities. It is as if one aspect of the case, which really fits into this action programme for the development of Polish small and medium-sized enterprises, because the fact is that for some people the barrier of 2 million PLN, which constitute a security, is a barrier Invincible. Having read this project, I asked the representative of the tobacco growers' association in Poland to tell them what their attitude towards this project is. To tell you the truth, he didn't arouse any great admiration, but this representative said it would be necessary to lean on him. The fact is that the tobacco industry, the tobacco sector, is such a criminal sector. That is, such money appears there, that there is a great temptation to actually carry out certain irregularities in terms of excise duty or income tax settlement. But in turn Poland is a large, significant producer of tobacco, tobacco products in Poland. We must ensure that if we already have those smokers who smoked, smoke and will probably smoke so that Polish companies can benefit from it. If there is demand, there are customers who buy this tobacco, then let's try to get not only those companies that sell the finished product, but also those growers and intermediaries who, like, participate in the manufacturing process of these tobacco products, also make money. There is nothing to prevent us from really trying to support those Polish companies, which on this production, will make money on this turnover. Therefore, we believe that we could actually lean on this law in committee to refine some solutions, but also consult with the environment, because I think it would be good to see whether this law does not open up some gates to certain irregularities and whether it is indeed a law that reaches and supports, it is a wide range and wide range of Polish companies. Isn't it? just and exclusively such a bow towards a narrow group of entrepreneurs who actually have a problem with it, because they are unable to provide the security that will be required from the first one today? Therefore, the club Modern will vote in favour of passing this project on to the committee. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-01-sejm-15-3.u143	Thank you. Ms Genowefa Tokarska, Polish People's Party, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-01-sejm-15-3.u144	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Parliamentary Club of the Polish People's Party, I have the honour to present my position on the draft law amending the Act on excise duty from print No 303. The subject of the project is the amendment of the Act of 6 December 2008 on excise duties as amended, and here above all the amendment of the Act of 24 July 2015 amending the Act on excise duties. This last amendment of July 2015 imposed new obligations on intermediary tobacco operators, including inter alia. the obligation to lodge an excise security. This obligation is intended to prevent irregularities on the market in tobacco drought, which involve the sale of drought to operators not authorised to purchase it without paying excise duty. It so happens, High Izbo, that in the process of creating this law last year I actively participated in consultations conducted by the Ministry of Finance with the tobacco stakeholders. It was a dozen-member group of farmers and entrepreneurs from the Lublin Voivodeship, i.e. the tobacco region. The records adopted by the High House in this July Act were fully satisfied by representatives of intermediary tobacco operators, both those already operating in the tobacco sector and those who were just about to enter the market. The last group, which wanted to enter the market, was particularly difficult to talk about. The common arrangements with the Minister of Finance and the relaxation of the initial requirements did not block the emergence of new players, so there was an increase in competition in the tobacco market and, for tobacco farmers, an increase in prices at the buying-in points offered by more companies on the market. The parliamentary proposal we are currently debating provides for an exemption from the obligation to lodge an excise security for intermediaries who fulfil certain conditions. In this respect, it should be noted and stressed that the conditions to be met are very vague, giving the possibility of discretionaryly assessing the situation by the customs authorities. And so, first of all, having the right infrastructure to store the drought. Whether the infrastructure is suitable means warehouses run with all standards, with adequate safeguards, e.g. From stealing, or is it just a shed to keep it from rain? Secondly, carrying out tobacco processing activities. What does that mean? Can these be plants that process tobacco droughts so that it can be stored for many years, or is it enough to process tobacco consisting of a minor procedure not requiring special equipment? I will remind you what forms of security can be used and honoured by the inspection services, as they explain the difficulty of the conditions adopted under the existing excise legislation. Thus, the Act provides: deposit in cash, bank or insurance guarantee, confirmed cheque, own note and other document with a value of payment. The offer of security types is therefore quite extensive and the costs of handling such safeguards are not high and create the conditions for applicants to carry out such activities. When assessing the project under discussion today, it should be noted that both the Confederation of Leviathan and the Association of Employers of Business Centre Club, i.e. the serious representatives of entrepreneurs, issued a negative opinion on the project and even requested that the project not be submitted to the Parliament for further work. I agree with the statement that the reasoning behind the bill under consideration regarding the alleged negative impact on the tobacco market is incorrect. I am already ignoring the issue of the fragmentation of the tax system and the increase of the grey zone in tobacco trade, and I would like to stress the increased risk for tobacco farmers themselves who may be affected by irresponsible consumers of their annual work. [[♪ The bell ♪]] I'm almost done, Marshal. They do not deserve it, i.e. farmers, for irrationalness. Tobacco is labor intensive, difficult and unpleasant, dirty and specific. Farmers should not be exposed to the uncertainty of selling their raw materials to unauthorised operators...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-01-sejm-15-3.u145	Thank you, Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-01-sejm-15-3.u146	...not guaranteeing a fair settlement from both taxes and from farmers. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-01-sejm-15-3.u147	Let's get to the questions. If any of your fellow Members would like to enroll in the task of questions, please. I'll close the list after the first question. Question time - 1.5 minutes. Mr Norbert Kaczmarczyk, Kukiz.15.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-01-sejm-15-3.u148	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On April 1, i.e. today, one minute after midnight - Customs Service, 13 officers, protects tobacco in one of Małopolska companies, Polish tobacco companies. People have a show, half the village is down. It's not April Fool's, it's the text I got this morning. Question to the rapporteur: Will the Kukiz Act15 eliminate such situations and equalise the chances of small Polish tobacco companies compared to large holdings and can this help to increase competitiveness and increase tobacco buying prices for farmers? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-01-sejm-15-3.u149	Thank you. Ms Genowefa Tokarska, Polish People's Party, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-01-sejm-15-3.u150	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I would like to raise my question to the government, because in the light of the draft under discussion today, the reduction of excise security requirements, with the reduction of a vague and even discretionary nature, is a danger of fragmentation of the tax system and control of tobacco drought. The amendment should be expected to increase the shadow economy in tobacco trade, reduce excise tax revenue and adversely affect competition between operators legally operating on the market and those from the shadow economy. And that's the one side of the coin. The other side is, of course, freedom of business, guaranteed and regulated by law. Hence my question: What is the government's position on this matter? For me, this position is important both in terms of tax security and security for tobacco farmers themselves, who should not be exposed to risk and dishonesty. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-01-sejm-15-3.u151	Thank you very much. Mr Jerzy Gosievski, Law and Justice have the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-01-sejm-15-3.u152	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Dear Minister, I agree with the statement set out in the explanatory memorandum to the Parliamentary draft print bill 303, that mainly in the eastern part of Poland tobacco is grown in a large group of agricultural holdings, and for some farmers tobacco cultivation and its sale are the main source of maintenance. Many years ago, companies operated successfully, which, through buying points themselves directly from growers, supplied tobacco, which was beneficial for both companies and growers. Question to the Government: Minister, will the conditions proposed by the Act to be met by the intermediary tobacco operator sufficiently secure the interest of the Treasury? Second question: Will the requirement to carry out processing activities for a year without determining the degree and quantity of processing sufficiently secure the interest of the Treasury? And the third question: Will the implementation of this law possibly not result in the loss of growers and entrepreneurs who produce the final tobacco product? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-01-sejm-15-3.u153	Thank you very much. The list of Members registered in the vote has been exhausted. Please take the floor of the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Finance of Mr Wiesław Jasiński.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-01-sejm-15-3.u154	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! To answer the questions of Mrs Gosiewski and Mrs Gosiewski, I would like to say a little more about the proposal for the Kukiz Act15, to address the statements of the previous speakers, to respond to the project and to the problem, and above all to address the issue of sealing the tax system in Poland, as well as to a proposal made by Mr Szewczak, in particular the issue of sealing excise duties. I take that as a request. One at a time, then. Ladies and gentlemen! Mr. Marshal! As far as the bill is concerned, I would like to point out that we are talking here about a draft amendment to the excise tax law. This is not a law on this one issue, this one type of event, this one category of entrepreneurs. Here I refer to Mr Szewczak's request. Well, ladies and gentlemen, the government is currently generally working on sealing the entire tax system. An important element is the sealing of excise duties as such. We're talking about a lot of industries here. For each we assign some part of this large gap of tens of billions of zlotys. These problems in other industries, not tobacco industries, but e.g. in the fuel sector, they are even larger and relate to concrete solutions, inadequate solutions also to the 2008 excise duty law. We want to make very dynamic changes here, so we want to react to the sealing of the system. Seal it very dynamically with industry, changing the material tax law. I would like to inform you that there is no government position on this project, but I would like to draw attention to some of the elements of this project, to some of the solutions that seem to need such attention. Well, maybe on three, ladies and gentlemen. Firstly, including the catalogue of the proposed article. Article 64 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1b as a condition exempting the intermediary tobacco operator from the obligation to lodge a security, no customs and tax arrears shall be mentioned. It's a certain oversight of this project, extremely important. She also spoke about this issue when the project was being examined last year. Secondly, this project should clearly lean over the condition in point 4 of paragraph 4. 1b in Article 64. Well, there is a term for the processing of tobacco. This is not appropriate for the activity carried out by the intermediary tobacco operator. Finally, thirdly, the condition of point 2 of this project, which you are proposing, is of an individual nature and refers, according to the nomenclature adopted by the Ministry of Finance, to the average intermediary tobacco operators. At this point, you are not leaning over small entities, as we have heard from the speaker here. These are comments to this project. I did not take into account the self-correction that you are talking about. I just didn't know her. Reflection number two. All these irregularities in tobacco trade, which we have heard above all from Mrs Szewczak's and Mrs Szewczak's mouth, are known to the Polish public. These are also irregularities in the trade in drought, including irregularities in the activities of intermediary tobacco operators. Therefore, I will not get a wider divorce on this subject. Once again, I would like to stress that in 2013 and 2015 so until this point, when this lump sum security was introduced, we had to deal with illegal transactions for more than a billion zlotys and they were subject to 2628 t. Finally, a few more comments to the rapporteur. Well, ladies and gentlemen, we should be very precise here in determining this matter. This bill concerns intermediary tobacco operators, not growers. I wish we hadn't misled our opinion. There were different amounts here. There was talk of securing 2 million to 30 million, 1 million to 30 million. No, these lump sums can be lower and lower, they are e.g. Hundreds of thousands of zlotys. A special model for determining these safeguards was adopted in the Act last year. One more very important issue. Budget revenue refers to tobacco products. They do not refer to tobacco drought. And this security is for the fact that intermediary tobacco operators sell their goods in a manner that is not permitted under the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-01-sejm-15-3.u155	Thank you very much, Minister. Please take the floor of the representative of the applicants of Mr Jarosław Sachaika.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-01-sejm-15-3.u156	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Thank you very much for all your comments. A large part of them was due to the fact that we have not made an autocorrection yet and you do not know it, but it is because I consult with intermediaries all the time and also, Minister, I consult farmers all the time. Believe me, a lot of farmers are under a lot of stress right now. They haven't sold tobacco dried since last year, and that's because the brokers don't want to buy this drought from them because they're afraid they won't have anything to do with it, they won't have time to process it, because today was W hour, which is the time when they should get rid of this drought or the big excise security to pay or excise. This is the reason that farmers walk, here I do not want to mention Mrs Jaworowicz's programme, but also in many other places they walk and cry that they will have nothing to live from. As for the lack of contact that you spoke about, on my part, my colleagues actually told me that you asked for contact. Unfortunately, you know what we're doing now, what laws we're doing. I am the chairman of the agricultural committee and actually those days were spent on this committee. After all, we were investigating a huge law on the protection of the land and there were amendments to it. So that's the reason I couldn't reach you. At the same time, I know that the committee will be able to proceed. What you said about the Land Protection Act - you invited everyone to make amendments. We have tabled these amendments and several amendments made by the Kukiz club15 have been accepted. I'm very happy for you. Here, too, let us work on this law, but let us work quickly, because farmers are waiting for it, as well as intermediaries. The question was whether this method would be effective. She will be effective for those intermediaries who cannot afford to continue to exist, she will certainly help them. Ms Genowefa Tokarska said that she worked actively last year in the drafting of this law. You can see that actually actively and very effectively. Thanks to this law, the Member has also succeeded in eliminating a number of intermediaries from the market, because there were 300 of them, there are a few at the moment, maybe a few more will be added. So the bill did its job in terms of eliminating a lot of companies. But she also eliminates still those companies that existed, family companies that have invested a lot of money and that can't afford to secure another such thing as tobacco drought at the moment. I am sure you realise that we are actually the only country in Europe that has such a thing as excise security for a plant product. This is really an event that we've been able to do -- it's like we have an excise security for tomatoes, for carrots. There is no such thing anywhere in the European Union. So we did something to ourselves just in case. Why did this come about? I've already told you why it came about. PSL, a fellow Member, has not submitted documents in time and farmers do not have direct payments. Earlier, farmers carried all the pounds of drought they had produced to buy, because they received direct subsidies. Farmers received direct payments and it was known how much tobacco they produced and where. After all, you know that in production, with direct payments, each parcel is described, it is known what is growing on a given plot. Thanks to the fact that we do not have direct payments, tobacco production is not supervised by the Agency for Restructuring and Modernization of Agriculture and we do not really know how much tobacco is produced and where. As for this consultation, I do not know, you have had to consult for a long time, because a large group of farmers and intermediaries came here on Tuesday. They spoke to me, they listened to the justification I had given you, and they were pleased with this solution. They said they didn't see any further tobacco production if this bill didn't come in because big companies dictated the market. I told you about this example, that thanks to these entities, Polish intermediaries, good first-class tobacco, second-class tobacco increased by 40%. It cost 40% because it is these small and medium-sized intermediaries that buy this good first and second-class tobacco and sell it abroad. They process it, name it sometimes and sell it abroad to Arab countries because it sells very well as tobacco for water pipes. They have a culture of smoking in water pipes and they do it. And they're really looking for our Polish tobacco, because it's unique on a global scale, because it's hand-picked, it's clean, it's sure tobacco. This is not done by large companies, this is what Polish small and medium-sized companies do, which thus improve the profitability of tobacco production. What else was there? As for those who produce cigarettes, how will this affect them? In fact, we as Poland and as parliamentarians have no influence on this. I'll tell you more. This makes no difference to these large multinationals. They only think about money. They really have factories across the eastern border where they produce cigarettes for smuggling. These are the same factories that are here. Ladies and gentlemen, let's not be fooled by these big companies. The annexes to this analysis that we had here from Leviathan and from the other corporation are also those international corporations, so I'm not surprised we got such an answer that they don't want competition. Why do they even need any competition? For them, it would be best if there were only these four large factories or five large factories, which - once again I say to you - they bought, had to buy, during privatisation they were obliged to buy Polish tobacco. 40% their production was to be made from Polish tobacco. What's going on right now? We've only got less than ten. They bring tobacco from their African Brazilian fields, where it is grown under unknown conditions. [[Applause]] We don't know who's making it, we don't know what plant protection products are being used, what fertilisers or even children don't work there. These are corporations that rely only on money, whether they earn in Poland or Africa or Ukraine or Belarus. Let us give farmers a chance to sell this tobacco to Polish, developing, ever growing small and medium-sized enterprises, which really, you can say, storm the tobacco market into water pipes. They are really developing very well, the Arab countries demand this tobacco from us. As for taxes, their sealing is as much as a club we're in favour of tax sealing. Taxes have to be paid. But just like you. I said, this difference between the price of a kilo of drought and the amount of excise duty is huge. Really only legal Polish companies, who will buy this tobacco from growers at the right price, sell it also at the right price, will ensure that taxes will be paid. If we continue to allow this tobacco to buy only a few companies, there will always be criminal groups to whom it will be worthwhile to do so. Believe me, I worked for the D.A.'s office for a few years as a criminal analyst. This difference is huge. You have to believe in Polish companies that will exist, buy tobacco and pay taxes, otherwise there will always be a gray zone. Of course, Minister, this is an oversight, I said in my statement that companies that can be released here will not be able to have any tax arrears. So it's obvious. It's already in our self-correction. As for taxes, it is precisely because they will be small Polish companies that will be paid taxes. Big corporations know how to avoid paying taxes. You already know that, I think you've heard that there are international corporations that haven't paid any taxes in years. They keep coming up at zero, they still have a loss. We are mainly supported by these Polish small and medium-sized companies, which pay taxes. So please, let's give them a chance, let's give farmers a chance. As to the question whether this law will help these small and medium-sized enterprises, it will, of course, help, because they certainly cannot afford to pay these 2 million excise security measures. And I'm going to tell you that the chiefs of the tax office are officials, why would they risk it at all, firing someone from this tax in a way that they're going to give him a bill. The bills are getting really big corporations right now. They're getting it. These small companies, on the other hand, are now getting the excise security they have to pay. So I'm sure this will save these companies. I know that because I contacted them. Like I'm telling you, there's no week for these companies not to be consulted because they're watching this project. They asked when it would go to the marshal girl and when it would be processed. I can assure you that there will be a full room at the committee meeting of the people who will be watching this. Many of them will come from us, from Lublin, Member. That's the end of it. Thank you, and I would like to ask you very much to refer this proposal to further work within the Sejm Committee. I'm also asking you to get involved in this project because it's not some project that we want to own. This is a project. It is our plenary room, all Members, that we should support Polish entrepreneurship. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-01-sejm-15-3.u157	Thank you very much. Ms Genowefa Tokarska, PSL, submitted a corrigendum.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-01-sejm-15-3.u158	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! In the light of what the rapporteur has said, I am obliged to clarify certain things. Well, Mr President, on the occasion of a small bill, you also want to introduce a gateway for dishonest entrepreneurs, as I believe, or at least dividing entrepreneurs into those who are to have safeguards, and those who will be exempt from these safeguards. You're doing a huge policy that has nothing to do with the project we're discussing today. The consultation that lasted last year was not intended to eliminate anyone. Every record of the Minister of Finance in this project was accepted by the group participating in these talks. No record was absolutely intended to eliminate anyone.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-01-sejm-15-3.u159	Madam President, this is not a corrigendum, it is a communication.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-01-sejm-15-3.u160	And just one more thing, that is what you do - you don't do it when you go to the farmers. You're doing this for entrepreneurs, asking if they're all solid. Thank you very much. [[In corrigendum mode.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-01-sejm-15-3.u161	There you go. Mr Sachaiko in correction mode.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-01-sejm-15-3.u162	I am sorry, Mrs President, but I would like you to meet with these farmers and ask them if this is the case. [[♪ The bell ♪]] [[That's my business, sir, my business.]] But maybe it's enough to watch Mrs. Jaworowicz's program, where there were plenty of farmers who were crying just because they couldn't sell tobacco. It was now, this year. They can't sell. And we don't divide entrepreneurs into those who get fired and those who don't get fired. We divide entrepreneurs - if we divide them - into those who pay taxes fairly, they exist on the market, and they can apply, and those who just stood up, and the head of the tax office will have no reason to fire them. So here we don't share entrepreneurs in any way. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-01-sejm-15-3.u163	Thank you very much. The discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-01-sejm-15-3.u164	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! The Act of 24 July 2015, which has been in force since 1 January 2015, on the amendment of the Excise Tax Act and on certain other laws, imposed new obligations on intermediary tobacco operators, inter alia. the obligation to lodge an excise security. The Parliamentary draft law, from print No 303, on the amendment of the excise duty law introduces a new, additional paragraph. 1b, which shall specify the possibility for the intermediary to be exempted from the obligation to lodge excise security by the competent head of the customs office. Such exemption may be granted to an entity when it fulfils the conditions set out in the subsequent paragraphs of the new paragraph. Depending on the use of the exemption from excise duty to the intermediary tobacco operator, it will limit the possibility of applying for exemption from the obligation to lodge an excise security only to processing plants which buy tobacco produced by Polish tobacco growers, have adequate infrastructure, both for its storage and processing, and employ workers. However, in the case of tax warehouses, one of the conditions for exemption from the obligation to lodge an excise security is the application of a suspension of excise duty for at least one year. According to the applicants, the change will have a positive impact on the Polish economy and the tobacco sector in Poland and will maintain a good level of competitiveness. The proposed law is compatible with European Union law and has no impact on the public finance sector. On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, the Civic Platform requests that the bill be passed on to further legislative work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-01-sejm-15-3.u165	The Marshal of the Sejm, after consulting the Sejm Bureau, proposes that the Sejm refer to the Parliament's draft law on the amendment of the excise duty Act, contained in print No 303, to the Committee on Public Finance for consideration. The discussion requested additional referral of the draft law to the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development. We will proceed to the vote on this proposal at the next session of the Sejm. We proceed with the examination of item 24 of the agenda: First reading of the parliamentary draft law amending the Penal Code Act (Print No 306). I ask Mrs Monica Rosa to present the reasons for the bill.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-01-sejm-15-3.u166	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The aim of the project is to repeal the provisions of the Penal Code, which provide for public insulting of the President of the Republic of Poland with imprisonment until the years 3 and for public insulting or humiliating the Constitutional Authority of the Republic of Poland with a fine, limitation of liberty or imprisonment of up to 2 years, and allow the prosecution of these crimes from the office. The change proposed by us does not mean that it will no longer be possible to punish effectively for insulting public persons. Art. 216 The Penal Code allows for effective prosecution and punishment for public insult, but only from private accusations and allows for more appropriate criminal penalties. The number of convictions in the article. 216 and 226 § 1 of the Penal Code, which amounts to over 3500 each year, shows that the defence of the dignity and good name of both the ordinary citizen and the public official under these articles is possible and effective. Repeal of the Penal Code - Art. 135 § 2 and Article 2 of Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 16 February 2011 laying down the rules and general principles concerning mechanisms for control by Member States of the Commission's exercise of implementing powers pursuant to Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council and repealing Council Regulation (EC, Euratom) According to Art. 49 § 1 of the Act The Code of Offences punishes either the arrest or the fine, who, in a public place, demonstrates the disregard of the Polish people, the Republic of Poland or its constitutional bodies. In this way, partial additional protection of public authorities is maintained. That is all, ladies and gentlemen, on formal matters. Now, on the other hand, it is a question of value, because the amendment of the law is two values: the value of freedom of speech and the value of respect for the office. Freedom of expression is essential in a democratic state. This means that everyone has the right to express their views, including criticism. There is a legitimate concern that the current rules can restrict this freedom and can be used to limit this freedom, especially in terms of criticism of the state authority. Freedom of expression, including freedom of criticism, is the foundation of a democratic system. Criticism, even beyond the boundaries of culture, is inscribed in the performance of public functions. The case law of the European Court of Human Rights also points out that the scope of criticism allowed for active politicians should be much broader than for individuals in order to ensure effective control of citizens over authorities. Value to justify the admissibility of restrictions on freedom of expression, i.e. ensuring public order and safeguarding the dignity of the office is not adequately linked to the extent to which constitutional freedom of expression is restricted. Freedom of speech means the right to tell people what they don't want to hear. Of course, we are witnessing the brutalisation of language and behaviour in public debate, on the Internet, in the media. Sadly, they are increasingly taking the form of hate speech. In the face of such profound divisions in society, especially we, Members of all parliamentary clubs, of all parliamentary clubs, should take care of each other's respect and weigh every word. We are representatives of the nation and the nation is watching. Not the Penal Code, and the example coming from us, examples from the media, from institutions with authority, should show that one can differ, but with respect for another person's fundamental values and standards. At the same time, as many examples show, the issue of public prosecution has, above all, brought more trouble and shame to the head of state than good. And so we go to the second value of respect - respect for the President, the Sejm, the Senate, public authorities, respect for people with other views, respect for man, regard for faith and origin. It is a huge value, the value of an open society that does not accept hate speech, hat speech, public insult and humiliation. Yes, we want to defend the dignity of the President's office and other bodies, we want to ensure the quality of the public debate, we do not agree to the speech of hatred. The fight against cybercrime, including the good name and dignity of men, false accusations, destruction of reputation, and persecution, can sometimes lead to tragic consequences. This is undoubtedly a challenge for Polish law and judicial authorities. On the other hand, the basis for prosecuting crimes against dignity should be the accusation of a private person who was offended by the content. Pursuing all statements offensive from the office, whether for the head of state or other constitutional authorities, with the amount of content posted daily on the Internet, may result in paralysis of police work, prosecution and court. Unfortunately, today's practice undermines the prestige of the highest state authorities. The institutions of justice, which often automatically take certain measures, including in trivial matters, often fearing that they will be accused of tardiness, make it, among other things. The head of state is sometimes exposed to ridicule. I will mention just a few examples that have caused your head serious problems. Ladies and gentlemen of the PiS probably remember the case of the author of the Anti-Comor service very well. We also remember when the police entered the house of a young Internet user in the morning, who posted a ridiculously assembled video with the participation of President Duda. We also remember the case of homeless Hubert H. In any of these cases, the President-in-Office did not believe that the case required legal intervention. So today we are facing a dilemma that is important for the functioning of the state. We must weigh two values - the protection of the dignity of the Republic of Poland and the protection of freedom of expression. None of them are absolutely more important. However, the Penal Code is not a good instrument for resolving this dilemma. Maintaining the current legal situation is not enough that it can unduly restrict freedom of expression, which is a force of democracy, it paradoxically could lead to a weakening of the prestige of the authorities of the Republic. Ladies and gentlemen, out of respect for the dignity of the Republic of Poland and in order to protect freedom of expression, please, let us change the current rules. I would appreciate a calm and balanced debate. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-01-sejm-15-3.u167	Thank you, Member. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of the clubs. I'm opening a discussion. Mr Andrzej Matusiewicz, Law and Justice have the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-01-sejm-15-3.u168	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, Law and Justice, I present my position on the draft amendment to the Penal Code Act, print No 306, concerning the repeal of the Article. 135 § 2 of the Penal Code, which is contained in Chapter XVII: Crimes against the Republic of Poland, and Art. 226 § 3 of the Criminal Code, which is contained in chapter XX: Crimes against the activities of state institutions and local government. Applicants for repealing these provisions justify an unsymmetrical protection of the good name of the President of the Republic of Poland and constitutional bodies, the development of new public voice platforms through Internet portals, the restriction of freedom of expression, especially as regards criticism of the state authority. The question therefore arises as to whether the president or constitutional authorities cannot be criticized without insulting and humiliating. It is paradoxical to say to the applicants that the application of these articles can also reconcile the authority and not protect the authority of the authorities of the State. According to the applicants, the proposed amendments will extend the scope of the protection of freedom of expression and safeguard the possibility of criticising the public authorities needed in a modern democratic state. High Izbo! Art. 135 § 2 The Penal Code was examined by the Constitutional Tribunal following a question from the District Court in Gdansk in a case in which the person was accused of an article. § 135 § 2. The judgment was delivered on 6 July 2015 on the basis of constitutional models in Article. 54 (1) (a) 1 - I will remind you, this is freedom of expression, freedom of speech - art. Article 31 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 3 - the principle of proportionality - but also based on Article. 10 the Convention for the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms. The ruling was in full court. Special criminal protection due to the President of the Republic of Poland is rooted in the Polish Karnist tradition. I would like to remind you that in the 1932 Penal Code for the President's health, there was a sentence of at least 10 years in prison, and the preparation for this crime was punishable by imprisonment until the age of 10. At the value level, the punitiveisation of behaviours in part which are due to the President of the Republic of Poland is a particular subject of protection - that is, a part due to the Supreme Republic itself, and subsequently to the individual well-being of a particular person acting as President of the Republic of Poland. There is no doubt that the protection of the honor and good name of the President of the Republic of Poland results directly from the assessment of the particular role and functions of this state body and is a consequence of the protection of the authority of the State as such. I quote one sentence from the justification of the judgment of the Court of 6 July 2011: the President of the Republic of Poland deserves special respect. Execution of the act referred to in Article. 135 § 2 of the Penal Code is at the same time an insult to the Republic of Poland itself. The argument that Article cannot be accepted. 135 § 2 The Penal Code is a threat to freedom of expression, including criticism of public officials. Under no circumstances can an insult be regarded as part of an acceptable criticism. Identical arguments refer to the criminalisation of behaviour consisting in insulting and humiliating the constitutional body of the Republic of Poland, i.e. art. § 226 3. The National Judicial Council, Attorney General Andrzej Seremet, also issued negative opinions on this project. There is also a negative opinion of the Supreme Court of 18 March this year. Because it's code material, on behalf of the club, I'm bringing it in on the basis of an article. 87. 1 and Article 1 90. 1 of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm, to refer the matter to the Extraordinary Commission for amendments to the codification. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-01-sejm-15-3.u169	Thank you very much. Mr Arkadiusz Myrch, Civic Platform, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-01-sejm-15-3.u170	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! On behalf of the Civic Platform Parliamentary Club, I would like to present my position on the draft law establishing, first, the deletion of the provision which provides for punishment in the event of public insult to the President of the Republic of Poland, and the deletion of the provision which constitutes punishment in the event of public insult to the constitutional authorities of the State. The analysis of this legal matter leads to reflection that a certain correction is justified, but the proposed change in total deletion is too far-reaching. In this respect, it should be assessed negatively. The National Judicial Council is also critical of this initiative. Art. 135 § 2 The Penal Code condemns the behaviour of public insulting the President by imposing sanctions in the form of imprisonment until the age of 3. This provision constitutes lex specialis in relation to the offence of insult referred to in Article. 216 Criminal Code. It should therefore be made clear, which is very important, that this provision is not subject to a defamation offence. It consists in talking about such conduct, or of such characteristics, which could humiliate the public or put at risk the loss of the confidence needed to occupy a position. It cannot therefore be accepted, as indicated in the explanatory memorandum, that all statements on the Internet and social networks are being prosecuted of their own motion. As far as the bill itself is concerned, in the opinion of the Civic Platform, applicants have mistakenly assumed that the office of the President of the Republic of Poland is 100% the same with all public officials, as a result of which the scope of protection should be shaped to the same extent. The failure of such a position was confirmed by the Constitutional Court in its judgment of 6 July 2011, in which it was found that the act referred to in Article had been committed. 135 § 2 The Penal Code is at the same time an insult to the Republic of Poland itself, which already suggests the title of Chapter. 17th Penal Code, in which this provision is located, namely: Crimes against the Republic of Poland. Therefore, the special protection of the President's office is primarily due to the fact that it plays an extremely important role in our country's system. The subject of the discussion, as advocated by the Civic Platform Club, may be the principle of the implementation of this legal protection. In the world, this issue is regulated in a very diverse way, and therefore one dominant model cannot be mentioned. The application of this provision has not been very common in law enforcement practice so far. Although applicants indicate that there are no official statistics, I would like to quote such statistics. However, due to limited access, I can only recall data for 2011, according to which 121 proceedings were refused. On the other hand, there were literally several proceedings pending before the court, of which two cases were fined to the accused, the defendant was acquitted in one case and the proceedings were dismissed in two cases because of the slight social harm of the act. I am convinced that, following an appropriate request, the Minister of Justice will make available the current data package. It should also be noted that the threat of imprisonment up to the age of 3 does not mean that only such a sanction can be imposed against the perpetrator of a public offence of insulting the President of the Republic of Poland. In the area of the amending Penal Code, a court may or may have ruled, instead of a sentence of imprisonment, a fine or a sentence of limitation of liberty. Moreover, it is even permissible to waive the penalty under Article. 59 criminal code. This is possible when the social harm of the act is not significant and the court is simultaneously ruling a criminal measure which will meet the objectives of the penalty. It is also possible, as with any other prohibited act, to terminate criminal proceedings due to the negligible social harm of the act. Again, we have confirmation that this provision in its present form does not deserve to be completely deleted. Nevertheless, in response to the demands made in the draft law, it is appropriate to consider a concept that applies, for example, in German law. This system contains an analogy to our penal provision, but in one fundamental point it differs from the Polish model. Because these crimes are not prosecuted by law, or the prosecution is not obliged to take action whenever there is a suspicion of a crime. Such a pursuit may take place only at the request of the head of state. By introducing such a solution on the ground of the Polish state, it is possible to effectively eliminate the potentially excessive burden on law enforcement authorities without total removal of the article. 135 § 2nd Penal Code. At the same time, the protection of all the values that the applicants referred to in their speech will be guaranteed. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Therefore, the Civic Platform club considers that the bill in question should go to work in the committee during which we will propose changes in the described print. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-01-sejm-15-3.u171	Thank you. Mrs Barbara Chrobak, Kukiz Poselski Club15, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-01-sejm-15-3.u172	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Freedom of speech is not only the right to express oneself publicly, but the right to respect the opinions expressed. If the representatives of modern society knew the achievements of the Constitutional Tribunal, the ruling on the sign. Act K28/13, they would know that freedom of speech is not an absolute good. It does not mean the freedom of knowingly lying, insulting or violating someone's dignity. That is why the Penal Code provides for many provisions that impose a muzzle of freedom of speech, for example, an article. 196, 212, 216, 256 or 257 of the Penal Code. The common denominator is to protect against lies, racist behaviours, behaviours with a desire to humiliate or insult. There is also Article in the catalogue of such records. 135 § Article 2 and Article 2 226 § 3 of the Penal Code, which the applicant is demanding to terminate. Let me remind you that the constitutional authorities are those clearly defined in the Constitution. According to the Modern Project, neither the President nor the Constitutional Authorities would be particularly protected from insults or humiliation, but their protection would take place on a general basis through a private complaint process. Dear Moderns! You want to upgrade Poland? Do you really want to be called modern? Why, then, do you want to eliminate only two crimes out of these criminal provisions restricting freedom of expression? Why didn't you offer the victims a similar way of defending the damaged goods, i.e. by a private complaint trial? If you are so avant-garde and sensitive to restraining freedom of expression, then why did your representative appeal to President Rafał Dutkiewicz to block the march organized by legitimate national environments in Wroclaw? It turns out that your modern openness is hypocrisy - only manifests when expressed views fit into your worldview sphere. In order to assess the views of other citizens and their social activities, you do not hesitate to operate in the language of confrontation and aggression. High Izbo! Today we are dealing with some huge crisis of democracy, dialogue and humanity not only in Poland but also in Europe. Radical hat makes people stop hearing. It is difficult to develop democracy and engage in dialogue among the deaf and the screaming. Recently, we have seen an increase in demonstrational presentation in public places offensive or degrading behaviour, which replace genuine public discussion with ad personam arguments or the language of social margin. This is not intended to enrich public discourse, but is merely an expression of negative feelings, increasingly fed on constitutional values. Such statements and behavior serve only to undermine their authority. Disregard, and even more so, the insults shown under the pretense of criticism have reduced the rank of President and the most important organs of the state. Meanwhile, art. 135 § 2 k.k.a. protects not only the dignity of the President as a person who, in accordance with the article. Article 126 and Article 126 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 133 of the Constitution holds the highest office in the State, guarantees continuity of state authority and represents the Republic of Poland outside. The main object of his protection is the security of Poland, because historical experience shows that the attack, the active assault, and the insulting of the President poses a direct threat to the destabilisation of the state. It is a pity that, prior to the submission of the application, the Modern Court did not take note of the case law of the Constitutional Court, which has already been mentioned today, this concerns the judgment of 6 July 2011. Due to the high nature of the President's function, he is entitled to respect. This is also justified by the fact that an act of Article is committed. 135 § 2 k.k.a. constitutes an insult to the Republic of Poland itself. This is suggested by the title of Chapter XVII of the Criminal Code: Crimes against the Republic of Poland, which contains this entry. It must not be forgotten that reducing the authority of the most important authorities ultimately also harms citizens, gives people the belief that the state is disabled, and causes citizens a sense of insecurity and danger. The modern proposal made under the pretext of extending freedom of expression is, in fact, a continuation of the dismantle of the state. Neither the President of the Republic of Poland nor those who have offices of constitutional authorities perform their duties in private to defend themselves. [[♪ The bell ♪]] the dignity of the offices held. Thank you. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-01-sejm-15-3.u173	Thank you very much, Member. Mr Adam Szłapka, Modern.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-01-sejm-15-3.u174	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour to present the position of the Poselski Club on the bill amending the Penal Code Act. Like all our previous speakers, I believe that the head of state is a national symbol, and we believe that the head of state as a national symbol should be protected as well as other national symbols. We agree with the previous statement cited by the previous speakers, which was expressed in the judgment of the Constitutional Tribunal, which pointed out that the reported character of the presidential functions resulting from the basic law makes the President of the Republic of Poland particularly respectable. Yes, we agree with that, but the current rules, apart from the fact that they do not agree with the current reality in which the Internet is present, social media in which there are forums, comments on internet forums, do not provide the head of the state with due protection and due respect. On the contrary, they lower the weight of the office and do not protect the authority of the office of the head of state. Moreover, they are entangled with the head of state in often very grotesque matters, in which the President should not be involved. It's about the prosecution of the case, as it was in the case of Anti-Komor.pl. The president's hands are tied, he's unable to respond, and he has to wait for a court order to be able to pardon a person. There's nothing he can do about it. There are such very good examples of these strange, grotesque situations. I think that PiS Members know very well the case that we have already referred to here, the Anti-Komor.pl case. At dawn, ABW comes to the author of the website, secures his computer. The whole procedure begins, the whole authority of the state is involved. The whole of Poland wipes out the eyes of amazement, seeing what is happening, what is the situation. [[Voice from the Chamber: This is a matter of law enforcement.]] All politicians, especially politicians, as you remember, have made this a big political action. I do not know if you remember the statements made by Minister Zbigniew Ziobra, MEP Janusz Wojciechowski or President of TV by Jack Kurski about breaking democracy, breaking freedom of speech and the fact that the president is afraid of criticism. In this case, President Komorowski was unable to do anything, was unable to pardon a person. The whole procedure had to be conducted in accordance with applicable law. A similar situation was not so long ago. It's about a video, a photograph showing how President Andrzej Duda assembles flowers that were assembled from behind. President Andrzej Duda, I think, was also amazed at this situation, that the whole machine had moved on. There was a motion to the D.A.'s office. Law and Justice politicians cut themselves off from this situation. The president's ministers had to explain themselves. Whose expense was that? Who's lost the most? President Andrzej Duda. These regulations don't protect the President's authority, they just make it difficult for him to function, they lower his rank. The president is involved in grotesque situations. Such rules as they are now, in the current state of law, lead to such completely absurd situations, e.g. We were dealing with at the Opole school when the students wrote a sign on the toilet door, and the teachers, fearing the reaction of the state authorities, started an absurd and completely grotesque investigation into this inscription. The whole Internet is laughing at it. Everyone thinks it's totally grotesque and absurd. Who loses the most? The authority of the head of state. These rules do not protect the authority of the President's office, and moreover, they make the rules politically exploitable. Someone specially uses these statements to get the Homeland Security or Police to take him out at dawn in handcuffs, and then the whole procedure begins. Politicians take advantage of this kind of thing. In this situation, we must answer the basic questions. Which makes it more difficult and more difficult to respect the office: whether the senseless insulting entry or the most common words of the minor, or whether the police entering the author's apartment, who behaved this way, commanding the computer and dragging on for months, for weeks in the media, putting the head of the state at risk of lowering its rank? What is better, the inability of the President of the Republic of Poland to act against the obligation of the prosecution of public prosecution or the possibility of private prosecution? It is worth understanding that the world is changing and there are new, modern technologies, the Internet is developing. New solutions are needed, not being stuck in archaic solutions. In many countries, additional protection of the head of state and constitutional authorities is removed. In the Czech Republic already in 1994. [[♪ The bell ♪]] the provision on insulting the head of state and parliament has been repealed. Ladies and gentlemen, let's protect the seriousness of the President's office, but let's give the President a chance in the majesty of the state's office to lower the veil of silence on matters that are not serious...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-01-sejm-15-3.u175	Thank you, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-01-sejm-15-3.u176	...head of state and the dignity of office. Let us consider, during the committee's work, the concrete solutions that will protect him...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-01-sejm-15-3.u177	Thank you, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-01-sejm-15-3.u178	...and they didn't make it difficult for him to function. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-01-sejm-15-3.u179	Mr Krzysztof Paszyk, Polish People's Party, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-01-sejm-15-3.u180	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, On behalf of the Polish People's Party Parliamentary Club, I am pleased to present the position of the club vis-à-vis the draft law amending the Penal Code contained in print no 306. The Parliamentary Club of the Polish People's Party looks with interest towards the submitted project, also because it affects one of the many areas that stand aside, as the applicant said, from reality. The development of the Internet, emerging social networks and their growing role in communication, the infinite number of ubiquitous memes make the rules that the project repeals, are, gently speaking, archaic in relation to reality. Like I said, they stay away from her. Perhaps the direction that the designers are proposing is going a little too far. However, it is good that this area or initiative of change and to make them correspond to today's time has been taken. Of course it's true that there aren't many things where these contested rules are applicable, but even if the two situations mentioned here today are somewhat embarrassing to the office itself, and do not cause or not to make the prestige of the President's office actually significant. Another argument in favour of taking a look at the issue of prosecution of possible actions against the dignity of the President's office in the course of the work on this project is the situation which is at the moment and which can lead to the instrumental exploitation of these two rules which are currently in the Criminal Code. Well, quite recently, because a few weeks ago, we decided, in fact, as the House, to politicize the independent prosecution's office so far, i.e. to politicize the management of the prosecution in our country. Leaving these provisions in its current form may, however, lead to a sometimes deliberate, sometimes pointless temptation, that all, even the most trivial cases of critical assessments, opinions about the head of the state should be used by law enforcement authorities to sometimes take action, and people who have invention and ingenuity in expressing their opinion - what was also mentioned here today - to chase and punish. It's completely unnecessary. So, for example, in order to prevent such situations, it is worth doing so. And one last reflection. A lot of words have been said here about the prestige of the President's institution, about the fact that it is the highest office, that it requires protection. It is only very important that the President himself ensure that this prestige does not devalue himself, for, for example, a statement from two weeks ago - the country of the state of the kingdom, please bring back the Lord - on the part of the President himself does not contribute to the prestige of this office still accompanied. So that I think it is a good thing that we are proceeding on this project because we need reflection, on both sides, about the proper protection of this office, which is the office of the President of the Republic. The Parliamentary Club of the Polish People's Party is, of course, in favour of the project being put into further work. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-01-sejm-15-3.u181	Thank you very much. Let's get to the questions. If any of you would like to join us again, please. I'll close the list after the first question. Time - one and a half minutes. Mr Wojciech Kossakowski, Law and Justice have the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-01-sejm-15-3.u182	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! As the President of the Supreme Court rightly pointed out, the justification for the project is, to put it mildly, laconic. It cannot be said that it meets both the objective and the need to issue this regulation. I firmly feel that this is not just a matter of lifting the protection of the dignity of the President's office, but merely of depriving President Andrzej Duda of this possibility. There is no doubt that one of the features of democracy is the possibility of criticising such or other state bodies. However, the Modern Project wants to sanction something completely different, namely rudeness, ridicule and insult. This, ladies and gentlemen, has absolutely nothing to do with criticism, and certainly not with the constructive criticism that should prevail in a democratic state. The question to you from Modern: Is this your modernity? Thank you. [[Applause]] [[Chairman of the session includes Deputy Marshal Ryszard Terlecki of the Sejm]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-01-sejm-15-3.u183	Thank you very much. Now the question is asked by Małgorzata Navel from the Civic Platform. There is no Member. Mr Jan Kilian from Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-01-sejm-15-3.u184	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I'm not going to deal with spectacular insults from public or private prosecutions. I suggest you look at it the other way. I have in front of me a magazine of the Municipal Government of Pomorskie Voivodship No. 1 from this year issued by the Marshal's Office of Pomorskie Voivodship. I repeat: Office of the Marshal of the Pomeranian Voivodeship. On p. The 23rd magazine contains information about the celebrations in Puck of the 96th anniversary of Poland's marriage to the sea, which General Józef Haller performed on behalf of the reborn Republic. President Andrzej Duda was present at the ceremony. Article on the format page A4 contains two photos and this is a few-handed note, almost 10 sentences. But, well - there is not even a word about the fact that the President of the Republic took part in this event. I do not want to say here that this is subject to the paragraphs that you want to delete, but there is no mention of the fact that at the ceremony he was present and the President of the Republic spoke, [[♪ The bell ♪]] in my conviction they will be for the majesty of the Polish state, and thus for all Poles. I can imagine what this information would look like if it were not in the Penal Code. § Article 2 135 and § Article 3 226. I'm asking you a question...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-01-sejm-15-3.u185	Thank you very much, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-01-sejm-15-3.u186	...whether or not we share such concerns. From this point on, I would also like to thank the former Attorney General...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-01-sejm-15-3.u187	Thank you very much, sir, you have exceeded your time.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-01-sejm-15-3.u188	... Andrzej Seremet for his position, which he presented in a letter to the head of the Sejm's Office, on this bill.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-01-sejm-15-3.u189	The question is asked by Rafał Weber, the Law and Justice Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-01-sejm-15-3.u190	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen of the applicants! What else is widely understood freedom of speech, criticism of the current power or power, negative attitude to power and negative opinions about it, and quite another thing is insulting the most important person in the country, the first man of the Republic of Poland, and really the whole Republic of Poland. In my opinion, we cannot afford to disappear from the Penal Code. § Article 2 135, who is being ex officio punished by those who publicly insult the most important person in the country. High Izbo! Allow me to quote a few entries that prove that this paragraph must remain in the Penal Code as a barrier that protects against crossing a certain border. I quote: "What a pity that there was no birch. And then, I wish him death in torment. The next entry: I was ready to spend the entire pension on wreath. And one more: the first warning, the other will not be. I think these entries are well-known to the entire High House. They appeared on the official profile of the Democratic Defence Committee immediately after the presidential accident. [[♪ The bell ♪]] limousines and are not written from Facebook accounts, but are written by specific persons named after them. And a question for the applicants. Why are you wearing the tight and dirty shoes of Janusz Palikot, who was very active in insulting politicians, especially politicians of Law and Justice? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-01-sejm-15-3.u191	Thank you very much, sir. [[Sir, I really...]] Now the question is asked by Mr Rafał Weber, Platform Club... I'm sorry. I'm so sorry. Mr Paweł Kobyliński, Modern Club. [[Sir, I really...]] [[Facts.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-01-sejm-15-3.u192	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Mrs. Member! I would like to ask you whether you can provide information on how it is in other countries of the European Union in terms of protecting the image of the President and whether you can identify the link between insulting the President by not being signed in one of the periodicals published by public institutions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-01-sejm-15-3.u193	Thank you very much. Now you ask Tadeusz Dziuba, the Law and Justice Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-01-sejm-15-3.u194	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! Two questions for designers to amend the Penal Code. First: How do you assess the risk of increasing the risk of insulting the President of the Republic of Poland and the constitutional organs of the state simply increasing? In my view, this risk of increasing the risk of defamation will increase after the abolition of the safeguard provisions. The second question concerns the intention of your project. Are these intentions not justified precisely in what my previous speaker reminded us of? E.g. in online entries wishing the president death in torment. Please note that I consider these intentions to be at least detrimental to the image of the Republic of Poland. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-01-sejm-15-3.u195	Thank you very much. Would the Minister like to speak? He does. Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Justice Mr Marcin Warchoł. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-01-sejm-15-3.u196	Thank you very much. Dear Marshal, High Izbo! We look forward to your ideas. Finally, the opposition speaks with a human voice. And we have been pursuing this idea for 2 months, because we have been preparing the project in exactly the same spirit for 2 months, Mrs Izbo, ladies and gentlemen. Only that not all opposition speaks with this human voice, because part of the opposition, here we heard, continues in its anti-Citizen beliefs, anti-democratic. I would like to stress that in the previous term, a similar project was submitted, contained in print No 239, the Palikot Movement project, which the previous government, which represented the Platform in fact anti-Citizen, assessed as follows: It should be considered compatible with the Constitution and deliberate punishment. The need to ensure that the authorities of the State carry out the tasks assigned to them properly, while respecting their authority and seriousness, also requires appropriate involvement of legal measures. Finally, we read that criminal law is an element that should judge such cases. We say no, personal culture. Personal culture. And it's a question of personal culture that's an assessment of this type of behavior. The free debate in a democratic state is one of the most important guarantors of civil liberties and freedoms, stated the Constitutional Tribunal in its judgment P3/06. What this free debate looked like, shows cases from the past, the right past period of the Civic Platform's rule, when the ABW officers were sent to be a student who satirically spoke about President Komorowski, as has been mentioned many times today. I'm finally gonna point out a fine to the fans for calling Prime Minister Donald Tusk, for shouting out the slogans Donald, dumb-ass, your government's gonna tear down the kibolas. It wasn't us, but the Civic Platform brought a 19-year-old girl from Dobrzynia to trial for painting an anti-government slogan, which he then painted himself. It was not us, but the politicians of the PO, when they were in power, that two seniors stood before the Kielce court for accusing Donald Tusk of serving President Putin. After all, it was not our governments, but under the Platform, the court in Lublin sentenced a student there for calling Mr Donald Tusk an empty person and a douchebag. These are examples that outrage, which upset and here are not the issue of police and batons, and the prosecution is the most important, but the question of personal culture, conscience. We're not gonna punish you for this. However, a number of modern Members signed up for this project. Mr Richard Petru has signed his name. Mr President, was it not the Member who recently advised one of the Members of Parliament from this stand that she should hit her head? [[So she doesn't fuck around.]] So she doesn't blow her brains out. Under this project, we see the signature of Mrs Joanna Scheuring-Wielgus. Isn't it the Member who said it, and I quote, the PiS politicians have their faces tightened, their fists tightened, they have so much venom and hatred that it's scary? [[Applause]] Look, my hands aren't clamped, my face isn't full of venom and hate. In this connection, I very much liked what you said in your recent interview with the Republican Republican: that Mr Ryszard Petru was able to admit his mistake - in the context of the Three Kings' Day and not the Six Kings. I'll take that as a good coin. I hope that many unfair, offensive words you will withdraw, that such words will never again fall out of this bleacher. I stress that this is a question of personal culture, not a question of baton, not a question of punishment, not a question of the Penal Code. This provision should disappear, Commissioner, absolutely yes, and for the last two months I repeat: we are planning to abolish those rules which you are proposing to liquidate. This is a good initiative, we are happy, I stress, we are very happy, but unfortunately your project is not refined, I have to say it with regret. Please note that you are not achieving the objective you intend to achieve. Let's remember there's a § 1, which provides for punishment for insulting a public officer, and yet a public officer is also the President, in accordance with Article. 115 criminal code. That's one thing. Secondly, you did not notice that the heads of foreign countries would be protected in a different way than the head of the Polish state. We have an art here. 135. Therefore, for insulting the head of a foreign state it will threaten in such a situation until the years 3 and in the situation of the head of the Polish state - until a year. That's two. Finally, thirdly, let us remember that we have different marks. The insult of the head of a foreign state will be punished when it is done publicly, while the head of the Polish State will be protected only in the situation of performing activities in connection with the performance of activities. So we're totally going over this project when we get to the details when we go to the technicians. Therefore, we cannot support your project, but the idea is yes. As for the idea, I stress, you are shooting yourself into our project, into our idea - a question of personal culture, not a question of baton and punishment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-01-sejm-15-3.u197	Thank you very much. Is the applicant's representative... [[Yes.]] Please, Mrs Monica Rosa.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-01-sejm-15-3.u198	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Thank you very much for all the comments, all the questions, the favorable ones and the less favorable ones. And a few words of comment. Yeah, we know the Constitutional Court's ruling. The fact that the Constitutional Tribunal has held that punishment for insulting the President is in line with the Constitution does not mean that the law that weakens this provision is incompatible with the Constitution. Therefore, it is possible to change this record as much as possible. Furthermore, the Court stressed the role of the authority of the head of state and we believe that the prosecution not from public accusations automatically, but from private will promote the strengthening of the authority of the head of state, so that the unfavorable situations that have taken place so far do not arise. Here's another one. Here you mentioned the Minister that other heads of state will be better protected on the territory of the Republic of Poland than the head of the Polish State. We assume that the insult of another head of state by a Polish citizen will carry international repercussions for the position of Poland, certainly significant. Therefore, as if this imbalance would also be much greater than in the case of possible criticism, even beyond the boundaries of culture, in relation to Polish officials, public authorities or the head of state. In addition, appearing on the Internet, among others. entries on whether President Obama or Chancellor Merkel is being prosecuted. They appear in Poland, but are not prosecuted in any way. Another issue is the roots of these records and the history of the Second Republic. There have been numerous provisions on political culture, legislative solutions and we should not refer to these provisions. History history, but time has changed, the means of communication have changed, so we should also change the rules in some sense. Mr Kossakowski. Mr President, I have worked with the President of the Republic of Poland. The situation e.g. related to the Anti-Komor.pl website and later the whole media, political surroundings around it, the huge criticism which met the head of state, hit the authority of the head of state very hard. Therefore, I do not wish any other president, another president, to meet with such great criticism, hatred, because the prosecutor and the police took care of the person who criticized the head of state. It hit authority and the law firm and the president couldn't do anything about it. Mr Jan Kilian. I believe that, regardless of political views, whether we support the views of the President or not, he is the head of state and he deserves respect. The issue of the absence of a photograph in the Marshal's Office's newsletter It is already a matter of culture and taste. Some would have done it, others would have done it differently, and in no way did legislation affect it. Mr Rafał Weber. We know these entries that you quoted, but they may be prosecuted from a completely different accusation, because they were criminal threats regarding the threat of life, and of course they are outrageous. On the other hand, this provision, which is currently in operation, will not make such entries appear. We, the media, the public institutions that will tone the discussion that is currently taking place in Poland, and not heating it, can actually do this. Here the Minister quoted numerous statements which were supposed to be so critical from the modern Members. For my personal culture's sake, I am not going to quote the words that have been said here, right here, on the part of Members of Law and Justice, I think this is not a place or a time. But we probably all remember what the words were when we discussed whether it was about secular school, whether it was about the law on national and ethnic minorities, and they were scandalous words. Mr Kobyliński asked about the situation in other countries. The Czech Republic mentioned in 1994 abolished the rules which imposed criminality on the government, parliament and constitutional court. In 2001 in France, Parliament abolished the sentence of imprisonment for insulting the head of a foreign state. The proceedings in respect of insulting the President of France shall be conducted only with his consent. In 1947, the president never once gave his consent to such conduct. There is a record in the Netherlands, but it is actually not used in practice. In Spain, in 1995 the criminalisation of public officials was abolished. On the other hand, e.g. In Russia, Pride is currently working on the criminalisation of the President's paintings with a penalty of between 3 and 6 years imprisonment, and in Turkey, as much as 4 years of imprisonment can be paid for insulting the President. Ladies and gentlemen, I hope that we will have the opportunity to discuss this project in committee. Thank you very much for the discussion. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-01-sejm-15-3.u199	Thank you very much. The discussion is closed. Marshal of the Sejm pursuant to Art. 87. 2 in conjunction with Article. 90. 1 of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm are addressed by the parliamentary draft law amending the Law of the Criminal Code, contained in print No 306, to the Extraordinary Commission on amendments to the codifications for consideration. On this we exhausted the agenda of the 15th meeting of the Sejm of the Republic of Poland. I would like to inform you that one Member has come forward to make a statement. Is anyone else checking in? There's another call. I'm closing the call list. Please, Mr Simon Giżyński, the Law and Justice Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-01-sejm-15-3.u200	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! As a politician, Richard Petru resembles those individuals, as they play the totolotte, they show joyful excitement from participating in a dangerous adventure. Thank you kindly. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-01-sejm-15-3.u201	Thank you very much, sir. Now Mr Rafał Weber, also the Law and Justice Club, with his statement. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-01-sejm-15-3.u202	Mr. Marshal, thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! April 1 is a historic moment in Polish pro-family policy. This is the beginning of the 500+ family programme from now on, and from now on the issue and recruitment of applications for the payment of a 500 PLN parental benefit for each second child, and in the families of the poorest also for the first. No Polish government has adopted such specific support for Polish families since 1989, but the current government, the Government of Law and Justice, is different, is pro-family. We know that the strength of our nation is family and family must be a priority in making all decisions, especially those economic ones. Hence, the Family 500+. Hence, it is a specific financial support. In 2016 about PLN 17 billion will be sent to Polish families. These funds will be used for different purposes: from the most mundane ones, such as food, to investments in additional educational activities. Besides, parents themselves will know how to use these resources. One thing's for sure: about 90% out of these 17 billion PLN will be consumed, that is, immediately after the payment will reach our economy, and this will give another impetus to development. In Stalowa Wola about PLN 40 million will be sent to families, and in 2017 it will be PLN 60 million. It is clear that consumption of these measures will revive the local economic market. Several sales companies selling children's clothing have already been established. These are new jobs. We must also not forget about this effect of the 500+ program. It should also be stressed that this support in less affluent areas is of great value. In south-eastern Poland, earnings are significantly lower than in Warsaw or other large urban centres. For families from rural areas 500 or 1000 PLN per month is a huge injection of cash. And it is for such families that this programme is particularly important. Here the most positive effect of the program will be seen. Very good. Polish families must have at least minimal resources for life and development. Thanks to 500+, that's what's gonna happen. Today, it is worth thanking Prime Minister Beacie Szydło and Minister of Family and Social Policy Elizabeth Rafalska for the consequences with which this law was carried out. Despite the criticisms of the opposition, which on the one hand mocked the programme, saying that it was not possible to finance it, and on the other hand demanded that it include all children, the bill was able to prepare and praise at an express rate. Prime Minister, Minister, great respect. Consultations and information spots on the subject were also at a high level. This will contribute to the fact that parents will have no problem filling in the proposal. Thanks should also be given to local authorities who are very conscientious about their obligation to issue and receive applications and to assist in filling in the application itself. This good cooperation on the ministry-government line should be shown as a model and in subsequent such projects should be given as a model. I am convinced that the 500+ family is a milestone in looking at pro-family policies, and that the result of this policy will not only be financial stability for families, but also an increase in the fertility rate, which is currently very low. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-01-sejm-15-3.u203	Thank you very much. On this we exhausted the agenda of the 15th meeting of the Sejm of the Republic of Poland. We've completed our parliamentary statements.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-01-sejm-15-3.u204	A statement by the Members on the 95th anniversary of Jerzy Bielecki's birth. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On 28 March this year. We celebrated the 95th anniversary of the birth of Jerzy Tadeusz Bielecki, one of the first prisoners of the Auschwitz-Birkenau camp, who managed to escape in a bravado manner. Jerzy Bielecki was born in 1921 in the village of Słaboszów in Kielce. He graduated from Junior High School. Bartłomiej Nowodworskiego in Kraków. When World War II broke out, he was 18 years old. Despite his young age, he wanted to fight the occupier. Therefore, he and his colleagues tried to enter the Polish army in France. However, he did not join the Armed Forces because on 7 May 1940 he was arrested by the Germans. He was originally imprisoned in Nowy Targ and later in Tarnów. A month later, Jerzy Bielecki and the first transport of 728 Poles arrived at the Auschwitz-Birkenau camp and received number 243. For more than a year Bielecki worked hard in external commandos, among others. digging up foundations after demolished buildings or demolitions of houses after displaced Poles. Thanks to his knowledge of German at the beginning of 1942, he moved to work at the Babice mill, where he and other prisoners traded grain with SS men. Bielecki's colleagues secretly moved their food to the camp in Brzezinka. In the walls of the camp, Jerzy Bielecki learned his sympathy - Cyla Cybulska. She's the one he promised to escape from hell on earth. He made a plan in his head that the SS-man's uniform was supposed to lead Cyla Cybulska out of the camp under the pretext of having to interrogate him. One of Jerzy Bielecki's friends worked in a clothing warehouse for the SS. It took him a few weeks to gradually deliver individual elements of German uniform and pass on which his name was changed. Although he was not part of the escape, he never gave up help. Bielecki set an escape date for 21 July 1944 and left the Auschwitz-Birkenau walls exactly that day with Cyla Cybulska. After his escape, he joined a partisan division of the Home Army. After the war, Jerzy Bielecki graduated from the Krakow University of Technology and went to the PKS in Nowy Targ with a job warrant. Then he became a teacher, and until his retirement he was the director of the Mechanical School Team. Cyla Cybulska only met again after 39 years of separation. In 1985. Jerzy Bielecki was awarded by the Yad Vashem Institute of Remembrance for helping Jews during the Nazi occupation in Jerusalem with a medal of the Righteous Among the Nations. He also became an honorary citizen of the State of Israel. Twenty years later, Jerzy Bielecki, one of the 32 former prisoners, met Pope Benedict XVI in front of the Death Wall in the courtyard of block 11 of the former Auschwitz I camp. He died in 2011. Jerzy Bielecki was the founder and honorary president of the Christian Association of Auschwitz Families, which brings together former prisoners, their families, as well as those interested in the history of Auschwitz and those who cultivate memory of events from years ago. For his activities he was awarded the Golden Cross of Merit, the Knight's Cross of the Order of Rebirth of Poland for outstanding merits in commemorating the history and truth of the concentration camp in Oświęcim and the Commander's Cross of the Order of Rebirth of Poland. In 2011, the Christian Association of Auschwitz Families published the autobiography of Jerzy Bielecki entitled "Who Saves One Life..." Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-01-sejm-15-3.u205	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Drinking water is short for hundreds of billions of people around the world. World Water Day is a good time to remind you that water must be respected. World Water Day is celebrated every year on 22 March in order to show how much water plays a role and how much the decline in water resources poses. World Water Day has been celebrated since 1993. It was proposed a year earlier at the Conference on Water. The environment and development of the United Nations. It was approved by the UN General Assembly. The European Union has also been actively involved in day celebrations for years. Sweet water is only about 3% of the world's water, about 1.2 billion people worldwide do not have access to clean water, 3.3 billion people live in cities. The World Water Day password XXII is water and work. The 2016 World Water Day aims to show how sufficient and improved water quality can change the lives and livelihoods of workers and, as a result, transform the world's society and economy. Many regions in Poland, including Polish cities, also suffer from water shortages, drinking water resources per inhabitant in Poland have the same as in Egypt, and smaller than in Spain, which is considered to be a country practically deprived of water in Europe. How is that possible? Such a dramatic situation is caused by a robbery economy. We didn't think about the future, about nature, about ecology, we thoughtlessly cut out the woods, drained the swamps and meliorated. Every year from our cities to the Baltic Sea, a huge amount of water is being wasted. The most important, renewable source of water for drinking by nature is rainwater. Everyone should protect it, value it and respect it, well-developed it will serve everyone, but it can also cause great risks: floods, drowning, pollution of the environment. So that the day doesn't come when the water doesn't come out of the faucet. Finally, this situation begins to change, we plant forests, we recreate ponds and ponds, which allows us to increase the level of deep water. I have an appeal to society, journalists, officials, teachers, political, environmental organizations to change the 19th century philosophy of the end of drought to the philosophy of wise and responsible management of rainwater in Polish cities, as well as by each of us.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-01-sejm-15-3.u206	Information about the impact of the interpellation, queries and answers to them is available in the Sejm Information System. This concludes the 15th session of the Sejm of the Republic of Poland. The minutes of the sitting will be submitted to the Secretariat of the Sejm. The agenda for the 16th session of the Sejm, appointed on 12, 13 and 14 April 2016, will be served to the ladies and gentlemen. We're adjourned. [[The Vice Marshal strikes three times with a marshal's cane]] [[The meeting is adjourned at 3 p.m. 14 min 27]]
