ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-senat-23-2.u1	I'm reopening the session. Mr. Senators, please take your seats at the president's table. We proceed with the second agenda: the Act on the ratification of the Protocol to the North Atlantic Treaty on Montenegro's accession, signed in Brussels on 19 May 2016. I warmly welcome the Ambassador of Montenegro to the Republic of Poland, Mr Ramiz Bašić. I'm very happy to welcome you. [[Applause]] The text of the Act is contained in print No 234 and the committee's report in print No 234 A. I would ask the rapporteur of the Committee on National Defence and the Committee on Foreign Affairs and the European Union, Senator Richard Majer, to present a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-senat-23-2.u2	Mr. Marshal! Mr. Ambassador! High Senate! I have the honour to present a report by the Committee on Foreign Affairs and the European Union and the Committee on National Defence on the Act on the ratification of the Protocol to the North Atlantic Treaty on Montenegro's accession, signed in Brussels on 19 May 2016. The committees dealt with the bill and discussed it. During the discussions, the senators considered that Montenegro's membership of the North Atlantic Pact was a guarantee of security in the region. Montenegro is one of Europe's youngest countries. Independence, which I would like to stress, was achieved even 10 years ago. This was an important event for the Balkans and the Mediterranean. Montenegro's membership of NATO means a guarantee of security. It means that Montenegro in this area will be able to further develop its independence, freedom and love of democracy. Therefore, as recommended by the committee, I request that the attached draft resolution be adopted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-senat-23-2.u3	Thank you very much, Senator. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the rapporteur's senator. Would any of you like to ask such a question? I don't see any volunteers. Thank you very much, Senator. The bill was filed by the government. The Minister for Foreign Affairs has been authorised to present the government's position during parliamentary work. Would a government representative like to speak? Welcome to Minister Ziółkowski's meeting. Minister, do you wish to speak? [[Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs Marek Ziółkowski: Mr. Marshal, if you don't mind...]] Yes, you can. That's what I'm asking. Please come to the podium, because that's where we're taking the floor. [[Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs Marek Ziółkowski: Thank you.]] You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-senat-23-2.u4	Mr. Marshal! Dear Mr. Senator, Gentlemen of the Senators! I would like to inform you that, according to the Senator's report just presented, it is indeed intended to support Poland's accession of another country, Montenegro, to the North Atlantic Alliance. Indeed, there is a strong justification in the form of an open door policy, which we ourselves are the beneficiary of, for this type of act. We would really like the Senate, like the Lower House, to support this bill. We will be the seventh country to ratify the Montenegro Protocol to the North Atlantic Alliance. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-senat-23-2.u5	Thank you very much, Minister. At present, senators may submit no longer than a minute of questioning to a government representative. Does anyone wish to ask the Minister such a question? I don't see any volunteers. Thank you very much, Minister. I'm opening a discussion. I inform you that none of you... [[Voice from the room: There it is, there it is.]] [[I'm checking in.]] That's what we need to sign up for, Mr. Senator. Very... [[That's what I'm doing.]] [[Sign up.]] Mr. Senator, please take the floor if you've signed up. [[I'm just checking in.]] Sir, please take the floor. [[Thank you.]] [[Talking in the O.R.]] Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-senat-23-2.u6	Mr. Marshal! Mr. Ambassador! This is an important day for Montenegro and it is also important for our House. We have the opportunity to express our, I hope, unanimous support for Montenegro's membership of the North Atlantic Alliance. From our point of view, the countries that are Let's call it that. Old members of NATO, Montenegro's accession closes the southern flank. It makes the southern flank of the Euro-Atlantic area safer, no breach, continuous. Montenegro in the area between Albania and Croatia will play a stabilising role. For this reason, from the point of view of Poland's interests, this is an important decision and requires unanimous support by the High House. We are pleased as the Civic Platform Club that we are hosting the Ambassador and we can be at the hands of the Ambassador together with the Senate, later, after the vote, to express our support for our Montenegro brothers. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-senat-23-2.u7	Thank you very much, Senator. Mr. Marshal Bogdan Borusewicz. Please take the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-senat-23-2.u8	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The NATO Summit in Warsaw confirmed previous decisions concerning Montenegro. But it is important that the doors to NATO remain open to other aspiring countries as well. I am thinking first of all about Ukraine, which has not submitted such an application for accession, but the re-evaluation in Ukraine of the situation, the policy orientations, as we have seen, indicates that this country and wants to enter the European Union, and is also thinking about entering NATO. This is, of course, a different situation than during the period during which we entered NATO and the European Union. Well, Russia's contracts and the fact that the old NATO states have a sharp ear for all these warnings coming from Russia. All of this makes me think that if we wanted to join NATO and the European Union today, we would have problems with this adoption, like other countries where Russia is clearly dissatisfied. This dissatisfaction on the part of Russia also affected Montenegro. The various actions of Russia, including on the political side, its impact on the internal situation was undoubtedly visible, even in the form of demonstrations against Montenegro's entry into NATO. It seemed that Montenegro Beautiful country, but small military potential It should not concern the head of a power such as Russia, but in this case it was clearly countering not only verbally but also by influencing the internal situation. It didn't work. I believe that Montenegro, while maintaining this course, has shown that it wants to be among democratic states, law-abiding states, independent states. I support Montenegro's entry into NATO. I think I can say welcome to NATO.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-senat-23-2.u9	Thank you very much. Please take the floor of Senator Jackowski. You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-senat-23-2.u10	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Mr. Ambassador! Dear Representatives of the Government! I would like to express my great joy that Montenegro, before our eyes, becomes the twenty-nineth member of the North Atlantic Pact. This is a very important day that shows that, contrary to what was said, the North Atlantic Pact is experiencing a certain crisis of its identity related to the end of the Cold War. This pact is alive. This pact, contrary to what some say, is above all defensive and can show solidarity. All that was expected by the members of the North Atlantic Pact was confirmed at the last summit in Warsaw, which proved to be a huge success. Mr. Ambassador, on your hands... I am convinced that we will unanimously support this ratification. Welcome to the North Atlantic Pact Member States. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-senat-23-2.u11	Thank you very much, Senator. I inform you that the list of speakers has been exhausted. The discussion is closed. We proceed to the vote on the draft resolution submitted by the committee. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 89 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 1]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the ratification of the Protocol to the North Atlantic Treaty on Montenegro's accession, signed in Brussels on 19 May 2016. [[Applause]] I ask the Excellency of Ramiza Bašić, the Ambassador of Montenegro to the Republic of Poland, to approach the Presidency table. I'd like to give you a resolution. You're welcome. [[Applause]] [[Ambassador of Montenegro to the Republic of Poland Ramiz Bašić: Thank you all.]] Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, I declare a five-minute... no, six-minute break until 9.20. [[Voice from the Chamber: And vote?]] Yes, there will be a vote. [[Adjournment from 9 minutes 14 to 9 minutes 20]] I'm reopening the session. I ask the senators of the secretaries to take their seats as well as all senators to take their seats. We return to the examination of the first item of the agenda: the Constitutional Court Act. The meeting of the Legislative Committee and of the Committee on Human Rights, the Rule of Law and Petitions took place at the time of the debate, which responded to the proposals put forward during the debate and prepared a joint report on the matter. It is available in print No 242 Z. I would like to ask the rapporteur, Senator Michał Sewerynski, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-senat-23-2.u12	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The joint committees, the Legislative Commission and the Committee on Human Rights, the Rule of Law and Petitions shall submit to the High Senate their recommendation for the adoption of the law with the amendments attached, but we shall request that the editorial amendments supported by the joint committees, i.e. to vote in block because they are not excluded from other amendments.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-senat-23-2.u13	Good. Thank you. Do the Senators of the applicant or the other Senators of the rapporteur still want to speak? I'll trade you gentlemen... yes, gentlemen, it's all gentlemen, I've checked well. Senator Marek Pęk, Senator Piotr Wach, Senator Jerzy Wcisła, Senator Józef Zając, Senator Leszek Czarnobaj, Senator Mieczysław Augustyn, Senator Jan Rulewski and Senator Marek Borowski. There you go. [[Mr. Marshal...]] In addition, the committee's rapporteurs were Senator Zientarski, the rapporteur for the minority of the Legislative Commission and the Committee on Human Rights, the Rule of Law and Petitions, and Senator Jan Rulewski, the rapporteur for the minority of the Legislative Commission and the Committee on Human Rights, the Rule of Law and Petitions. Senator Zientarski reporting. You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-senat-23-2.u14	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the minorities, I maintain and confirm that I support the motion to reject this law. The Constitutional Tribunal's ruling, and the Venice Commission's opinion, and unfortunately their recommendations have not been met, have been ignored. I don't think we can create illegal law. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-senat-23-2.u15	Thank you very much, Senator. Is there anyone else? Senator Augustine. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-senat-23-2.u16	Mr. Marshal! I have never used this right to speak before the votes, but this time I think I should draw your attention to the amendments I have proposed. I'm gonna start with Art. 85, 86, 87 and 88 refer to the re-examination of pre-existing cases. It will completely stifle this process, prevent the normal functioning of the Court and this is not necessary to achieve the objectives set out in that law, unless it is the purpose of that act to paralyze the Court. Another thing, Art. 91. In fact, its deletion removes this legal ambiguity, under which the legislator considers that certain provisions, as it is written here, issued in breach of the law can be published and others, because there has been an infringement, cannot be published. Be consistent: either they can or they can't, they can't, they can't, they can't, they can't, they can't, they can't, they can't, they can't, they can't, they can't. And finally, art. 92. Ladies and gentlemen, in fact, it is so designed that it makes it impossible to deal with the issues of judges from whom the President has not taken the oath. Please accept the changes I have proposed.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-senat-23-2.u17	Thank you. Is there anyone else? Mr. Senator Rulewski. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-senat-23-2.u18	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! In a set of many amendments that the Platform has presented, but not only, there are several that contain a compromise and even consensus. I believe that the rejection of these amendments by the PiS means that the PiS chooses war instead of compromise and peace. He chooses war, not just here in the Senate, but with the whole world. [[Joy in the Chamber]] [[Applause]] [[Way to go, Janek.]] [[War's getting closer.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-senat-23-2.u19	I've been stonewalled. Any of the ladies and gentlemen of the senators... [[Talking in the O.R.]] Quiet, please. Would any of the ladies and gentlemen of the senators like to speak? No. So we proceed with the vote. In the first place, a vote will be taken on the proposal to reject the law and then, if the proposal is rejected, on the amendments tabled. We proceed with the vote on the motion of the minority committee to reject the bill. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 93 senators voted, 31 were in favour, 61 against, 1 abstention. [[Voting No 2]] In view of the rejection of the motion to reject the law, we are voting on the amendments tabled. Ladies and gentlemen, Senator rapporteur, Professor Michał Seweryński, has tabled a proposal that I support and pass on so that we can now vote on the drafting amendments supported by the committee. They can be voted by block because they do not rule out other amendments. These are Amendments 1, 33, 34, 35, 37, 38, 39 and 44. Is anyone against it? No. In that case, we shall proceed to vote on those amendments which are editorial in nature. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 93 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 3]] Amendments 1, 33, 34, 35, 37, 38, 39 and 44 were accepted. Amendment 2 sets out the entities entitled to report persons from which the Sejm bureau or a group of 50 Members subsequently refers to the candidate for the position of Judge of the Court. The amendment also clarifies the time limits and other elements of the selection procedure for the judge of the Court. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 93 senators voted against, 33 against, 60 against. [[Voting No 4]] Amendment 2 was rejected. Amendment 3 indicates the time limits for the appointment of a candidate as judge of the Court. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 92 senators voted, 31 for, 61 against. [[Voting No 5]] The amendment was rejected. Amendment 4 aims to emphasise that the resolution of the Sejm on the election of a judge of the Court is constitutional. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 92 senators voted, 30 for, 62 against. [[Voting No 6]] Amendment 4 was rejected. Amendment 5 eliminates the provision indicating that, after taking the oath, the judge of the Court is required to appear at the Court's premises and that the President of the Court should allow him to take up his duties. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. The votes were 91 senators, 28 votes against, 62 against, 1 abstention. [[Voting No 7]] Amendment 5 was rejected. Amendment 6 seeks to remove from the law a provision which grants the President of the Republic of Poland the power to consent to the expiry of the term of office of the Judge of the Court because of the final conviction of that Judge for disciplinary punishment of the removal from office. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 93 senators voted, 92 in favour, one abstention. [[Voting No 8]] Amendment 6 was accepted. Amendment 7 takes into account the guidelines derived from the principles of legislative technique. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 92 senators voted, 30 for, 62 against. [[Voting No 9]] Amendment 7 was rejected. Amendment 8 removes from the wording of the provision a passage which clarifies that the Rules of Procedure of the Court shall enter into force on the date of publication. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 93 senators voted, 31 for, 62 against. [[Voting No 10]] Amendment 8 was rejected. Amendment 9 aims at narrowing to two candidates, from which the President subsequently elects the President or Vice-President of the Court. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 92 senators voted, 31 for, 61 against. [[Voting No 11]] The amendment was rejected. Amendment 10 assumes that the General Assembly will present three candidates each for President and Vice-President of the Court to the President. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 94 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 12]] Amendment 10 was accepted. Amendment 11 deletes the provision which specifies that, under the procedure for selecting candidates for the position of President or Vice-President of the Court, each of the Judges has one vote and can support only one candidate. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 94 senators voted against, 32 against, 62 against. [[Voting No 13]] The amendment was rejected. Amendment 12 takes into account the guidelines resulting from the principles of legislative technique. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 94 senators voted against, 32 against, 62 against. [[Voting No 14]] Amendment 12 was rejected. Amendment 13 aims to rank the Head of the Court's Office in wage terms at the Secretary of State level. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 93 senators voted, 63 were in favour, 29 against, 1 abstained. [[Voting No 15]] Amendment 13 was accepted. Amendments 14 and 26 should be voted on together. Amendment 14 seeks to regulate the Court's compositions differently, providing, inter alia, that the full court requires the presence of nine judges of the Court, whereas Amendment 26 eliminates the need to inform the effect of the case on judges other than judges in the court in question. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 94 senators voted against, 32 against, 62 against. [[Voting No 16]] Amendments 14 and 26 were rejected. Amendment 15 is editorial. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 93 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 17]] Amendment 15 was accepted. Amendments 16, 48 and 55 should be voted on together. Amendment 16 shapes the circle of participants in the proceedings, while in the case of the Ombudsman it maintains the possibility for the Ombudsman to notify participation in any proceedings. Amendments 48 and 55 express the consequences of this solution. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 94 senators voted, 34 were in favour, 59 against, 1 abstained. [[Voting No 18]] Amendments 16, 48 and 55 were rejected. Amendment 17 is editorial. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 94 senators voted, 93 for, 1 against. [[Voting No 19]] Amendment 17 was accepted. Amendment 18 clarifies the reference. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 94 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 20]] Amendment 18 was accepted. Amendments 19, 49 and 56 should be voted on together. Amendment 19 seeks to maintain the right of the Ombudsman to report to the Court of Justice to the extent that he so far has the power to take part in proceedings. In turn, amendments 49 and 56 eliminate the provisions which were linked to the restriction of the Ombudsman's powers. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 94 senators voted, 93 for, 1 against. [[Voting No 21]] Amendments 19, 49 and 56 were accepted. Amendment 20 seeks to shape the circle of participants in proceedings before the Court in a manner consistent with the provisions of the Constitutional Court Act adopted in 1997. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 94 senators voted, 93 for, 1 against. [[Voting No 22]] Amendment 20 was accepted. Amendment 21 aims to clarify the availability of the provision. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 92 senators voted, 31 votes against, 59 against and 2 abstentions. [[Voting No 23]] Amendment 21 was rejected. Amendment 22 eliminates the simplifications contained in the provision and takes into account the generally accepted rules for drafting pleadings. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 94 senators voted against, 33 against, 61 against. [[Voting No 24]] Amendment 22 was rejected. Amendment 23 removes the requirement to demonstrate in the proposal that the constitutional question is relevant and should therefore be examined in substance by the Court. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 93 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 25]] Amendment 23 was accepted. Amendments 24, 32 and 42 should be voted on together. These amendments aim to remove from the law those provisions which enable the President of the Republic to request a specific case without requiring the case to be dealt with in a sequence of influence. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 94 senators voted, all in favour. Amendments 24, 32 and 42 were accepted. [[Voting No 26]] Amendments 25 and 41 should be voted together. They shall lay down the time limits to be respected by the Ombudsman and the Ombudsman of the rights of the child if they decide to register their participation in proceedings before the Court. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 94 senators voted, 35 for, 59 against. [[Voting No 27]] Amendments 25 and 41 were rejected. Amendments 27 and 40 should be voted together. Amendment 27 deletes those provisions which concern the mechanism for examining applications in the order of their impact to the Court, and Amendment 40 covers the consequences of such a legislative procedure. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. The votes were 95 senators, 32 votes against, 62 against and 1 abstention. [[Voting No 28]] Amendments 27 and 40 were rejected. Amendment 28 extends the catalogue of cases covered by the exception of the procedure for examining applications in the order of their impact to the Court. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 95 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 29]] The amendment was accepted. Amendment 29 confers on the President of the Court the power to appoint a hearing, disregarding the principle of the order of influence of cases where this is justified by specific circumstances. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 94 senators voted, 32 were in favour, 62 against. [[Voting No 30]] Amendment 29 was rejected. Amendment 30 provides for the possibility of a hearing, regardless of the order in which cases are affected, where there is a need to protect the freedoms or rights of the citizen or to guarantee the security of the state or constitutional order. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 95 Senators voted, 36 for, 59 against. [[Voting No 31]] Amendment 30 was rejected. Amendment 31 provides for a hearing to be held without requiring cases to be dealt with in the order of impact where there is a need to protect the freedoms or rights of the citizen or to guarantee the security of the state or constitutional order. At the same time, the amendment assumes that, at the request of 5 judges, the decision in this regard can be reconsidered. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? 94 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 32]] Amendment 31 was accepted. This one was voted, this one was voted... Amendment 36 seeks to determine the scope of the Court's cognition in the same way as under the Constitutional Court Act adopted in 1997. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 95 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 33]] Amendment 36 was accepted. This one's already been voted out, this one's already been voted out, this one's already voted out... Amendment 43 eliminates the repetition of the determination of the circle of participants in the proceedings and clarifies that the absence of the complainant and other participants in the proceedings initiated by a constitutional complaint at the hearing does not hinder the examination of the case. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. There were 95 senators voted, 33 for, 61 against, 1 abstention. [[Voting No 34]] Amendment 43 was rejected. Amendment 44 was already voted... Amendment 45. We are voting on Amendment 45. It aims to remove the provision which determines the consequences of the prosecutor-general's absence at the hearing. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 94 senators voted against, 32 against, 62 against. [[Voting No 35]] Amendment 45 was rejected. Amendment 46 deletes the provisions which introduce an institution of opposition to a group of judges to a proposal to settle a specific case under consideration by the Court in full composition and sets the time limits for adjournment of the referee when such an instrument is applied. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. There were 95 senators voted, 32 for, 61 against, 2 abstentions. [[Voting No 36]] Amendment 46 was rejected. Amendment 47 clarifies that the publication of a decision of the Court in the relevant Official Journal is managed by the President of the Court. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 92 senators voted, 30 for, 61 against, 1 abstention. [[Voting No 37]] Amendment 47 was rejected. These have already been voted... Amendment 50 provides for the introduction of the principle of interim law, according to which the existing provisions apply to pending cases. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. There were 95 senators voted, 32 for, 62 against, 1 abstention. [[Voting No 38]] Amendment 50 was rejected. Amendment 51 eliminates transitional provisions that specify the scope of the new law in cases initiated and not completed before the date of its entry into force. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 94 senators voted, 32 for, 61 against, 1 abstention. [[Voting No 39]] Amendment 51 was rejected. Amendment 52 aims to reduce the period for adapting applications which have already been submitted to the Court to the new formal requirements. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 94 senators voted, 31 votes 61 against and 2 abstentions. [[Voting No 40]] Amendment 52 was rejected. Amendment 53 deletes the provision which requires the composition of the Court and the content of the judgment to be adapted to the requirements of the provisions of the Act where a time limit has been set for public publication of the decision. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 92 senators voted, 31 for, 60 against, 1 abstention. [[Voting No 41]] Amendment 53 was rejected. Amendment 54 is editorial. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 95 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 42]] Amendment 54 was accepted. Amendment 57 corrects the wording of the provision in a way that takes into account the legislative technique for the formulation of transitional provisions. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 94 senators voted, 31 votes 62 against and 1 abstention. [[Voting No 43]] Amendment 58 removes from the Act a provision which requires publication in the relevant Official Journal of the Court of Justice decisions issued between 10 March 2016 and 30 June 2016. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. There were 95 senators voted, 31 for, 63 against, 1 abstention. [[Voting No 44]] Amendment 59 introduces a notice order within 14 days of those decisions of the Court which have not yet been published. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. There were 95 senators voted, 32 for, 62 against, 1 abstention. [[Voting No 45]] Amendment 59 was rejected. Amendment 60 provides that all judgments of the Court which have not been declared before the entry into force of the law shall be published within 30 days. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 94 senators voted, 31 votes 62 against and 1 abstention. [[Voting No 46]] Amendment 60 was rejected. Amendment 61 modifies the time limit laid down in the Statute for the publication in the relevant Official Journal of the Court of Justice of decisions issued in breach of the Constitutional Tribunal Act in force. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. There were 95 senators voted, 65 for, 28 against, 2 abstentions. [[Voting No 47]] Amendment 61 was accepted. [[Voice from the gym: They won...]] [[Talking in the O.R.]] Amendment 62 provides for successful inclusion in the formations of judges of the Court elected on 8 October 2015 as well as judges of... Whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa. Once again, it provides for the successful inclusion in the formations of judges of the Court elected on 8 October 2015 and judges of the Court elected on 2 December 2015. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. There were 95 senators voted, 32 for, 61 against, 2 abstentions. [[Voting No 48]] Amendment 62 was rejected. Amendment 63 extends the duration of the Act until 1 January 2017. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 95 senators voted, 32 for, 63 against. [[Voting No 49]] Amendment 63 was rejected. Amendment 64 extends the period of vacathio legis to 30 days. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 94 senators voted, 31 for, 63 against. [[Voting No 50]] Amendment 64 was rejected. We are voting on the adoption of a resolution on the bill in its entirety, with amendments resulting from the amendments adopted. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. The votes were 95 senators, 66 votes 29 against. [[Voting No 51]] [[Voices from the room: Ooh...]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the Constitutional Tribunal Act. [[Some senators hold up copies of the Constitution of the Republic of Poland and chant: The Constitution! Constitution! Constitution!]] We're back to processing... You're welcome... [[Some senators chant: Constitution! Constitution! Constitution!]] Ladies and gentlemen, please... [[Constitution, fool!]] [[And on June 25th...]] [[Some senators chant: Constitution! Constitution! Constitution!]] Okay, thank you so much for this demonstration. And I ask you to refrain from such demonstrations, because they are inappropriate, ladies and gentlemen of the Senators. This is no place to demonstrate your views. We demonstrate them by voting, not protesting. It was very... [[No more raccoons.]] [[The Constitution is always in place.]] [[Talking in the O.R.]] Mr. Senator, please don't argue with me. Okay? Because this arrogance of yours really... [[The Constitution is always in place.]] [[Voice from the room: Yes, sir!]] Your arrogance has always offended me, but the fact that you're so arrogant continues to alienate me. [[The Constitution is always in place.]] [[The Senate's voice is that...]] I'm asking you to calm down and not discuss it. [[...and remember that.]] [[Voice from the hall: The Senate is from...]] Please don't... Ladies and gentlemen, please don't argue! [[In June, you had to...]] We return to the examination of the third item of the agenda: the Act amending the Law on Minimum Compensation for Work and some other laws. The Committee on Family, Senior and Social Policy presented a draft resolution in which it proposed amendments to the Act "Senatski Print No 241 A. In the first place, the amendments will be voted on, followed by a resolution on the adoption of the law in its entirety, with amendments resulting from the amendments adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Amendment 1 aims to clarify the provision of the law. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 95 senators voted, 92 were in favour, 2 against, 1 abstained. [[Voting No 52]] Amendment 1 was accepted. Amendment 2 aims to align the wording with the requirements of the legislative technique. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 95 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 53]] Amendment 2 was accepted. We are voting on the adoption of a resolution on the adoption of the law in its entirety, with amendments resulting from the amendments adopted. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 95 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 54]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the Law amending the Law on Minimum Compensation for Work and some other laws. We are returning to the fourth item on the agenda: Act on Activation of the Marine Industry and Complementary Industries. The Committee on Budgets and Public Finances and the Committee on Infrastructure have presented a draft resolution in which they request the adoption of this law without any amendments to Senate printing No 227 A. We proceed to the vote on the draft resolution submitted by the committees. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 95 senators voted, 93 were in favour, 2 abstained. [[Voting No 55]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the Act on Activation of the Marine Industry and Complementary Industries. We are returning to the examination of item 5 of the agenda: the Act amending the Act on the promotion of the sustainable development of the fishing sector with the participation of the European Maritime and Fisheries Fund. The Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development has presented a draft resolution in which it asks for amendments to the Senate Act No 230 A. In the first place, the amendments will be voted on and then the resolution adopted on the adoption of the law in its entirety, as amended by the amendments adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Vote on the amendments. Amendment 1 introduces a provision that allows funding from the European Maritime and Fisheries Fund for investments on fishing vessels in equipment or fishing gear aimed at mitigating the effects of climate change and improving energy efficiency. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 93 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 56]] The amendment was accepted. Amendment 2 seeks to indicate that the tasks of the intermediate body also cover the implementation of technical assistance. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 95 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 57]] Amendment 2 was accepted. Amendment 3 corrects the editorial error. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 94 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 58]] The amendment was accepted. Amendments 4, 7, 8 must be voted in total. All these amendments harmonise the terminology of the law. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. Vote... The senators are still voting. Go ahead and vote. Please report the results. 93 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 59]] Amendment 5 is editorial. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 95 senators, all in favor. [[Voting No 60]] Amendment 6 removes unnecessary expression. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 93 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 61]] The amendment was accepted. We are voting on the adoption of a resolution on the adoption of the law in its entirety, with amendments resulting from the amendments adopted. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 93 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 62]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the Act amending the Act on the promotion of the sustainable development of the fishing sector with the participation of the European Maritime and Fisheries Fund. I'm declaring a recess for 10.20. Is that enough? We'll resume the session at 10.20. [[Adjournment from 9 minutes 56 to 10 minutes 21]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-senat-23-2.u20	I'm extending the recess until 10:40. Thank you. [[Adjournment from 10 minutes 21 to 10 minutes 40]] I'm reopening the session. We proceed with the examination of item 6 of the agenda: the Act amending the Health Protection Act against the consequences of tobacco and tobacco products. The text of the Act is contained in print No 229 and the Commission's reports in print No 229 A and No 229 B. I would like to ask the rapporteur of the Health Committee, Senator Dorota Czudowska, to submit a report to the committee. You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-senat-23-2.u21	Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! Gentlemen of Ministers! I have the honour to present on behalf of the Health Committee a report on the Act amending the Health Protection Act against the consequences of the use of tobacco and tobacco products. This law is a government submission. It was adopted by the Sejm on 9 June 2016, which was important by a large majority: 396 Members voted in favour, 46 Members against and 7 Members abstained. The purpose of the Act is set out in its title: health protection against the consequences of the use of tobacco and tobacco products. This law implements the provisions of the Directive of the European Parliament and of the European Council of 3 April 2014 in its national legal order. I'm skipping all these symbols here, and they're written in the right prints for history, for those interested, and you can look in there. In addition to the requirements of European Union law, the law respects the principle that health is more important than any economic factor that this law can bring to tobacco producers for the marketing of tobacco products. Why was it necessary to amend the law? We have a law in Poland on the prevention of the consequences of tobacco and tobacco products since 1995, which was later updated, but in recent years new products have entered the market, e.g. an electronic cigarette which was initially considered It's not anymore. For harmless, too odourless, for use in public places. With a view to it is these new tobacco products on the market that the law we are discussing regulates: banning the sale of electronic cigarettes to young people under the age of 18; introducing textual warnings on the prohibition of the sale of electronic cigarettes to persons under the age of 18; reducing the use of electronic cigarettes; baning the sale of electronic cigarettes at a distance, including cross-border distance sales; baning the sale of electronic cigarettes or back-up containers in medical establishments, schools and educational establishments and sports and recreational facilities, as well as in automatics. This law also tightens the requirements for health warnings so-called. mixed, containing words and images, at the back and front of the cigarette pack. They are intended to cover 65% surface. Legislative work on this law started already in July 2015, in the previous term. It was just in July that the project was submitted for consultation to 34 stakeholders, of whom only 16 had submitted their views, inter alia. Polish Association of Lung Diseases, Polish Trade Unions Agreement, Zielona Góra Agreement, Business Centre Club, National Chamber of Commerce. On 15 September 2015, an agreement conference was held at the Ministry of Health, which also submitted comments to the Act and in January 2016. The Ministry of Health has also addressed this law to the Minister for Agriculture and Rural Development. The discussion at the committee meeting was very meaningful. The importance of the subject is great, therefore compliance with the impact of the law on the health of Poles. Our discussion at the committee was more intellectual than political in this case. Password "Polish" free of tobacco. I don't think I'm gonna develop what the Minister said, and I'm not gonna summarize what the Minister said, because he's gonna talk about it himself in a minute. 30% of Poles smoke cigarettes or other tobacco products. We'd like to reduce this number, but I'm sure the Minister will talk about the plans in a moment. The voices in the discussion were an expression of concern for the health of Poles. Senator Wojtyła recalled the history of anti-smoking activities in Poland, the silhouette of Professor Zatoński, who has an extraordinary contribution to the anti-smoking campaign. Professor Wojtyła also pointed out how many women of childbearing age, but also pregnant, still smoke cigarettes. Senator Orzechowska talked about the need for a promotional campaign in public media. Senator Łuczak here said that there are not enough educational activities aimed at young people. Professor Stefanek spoke in the same tone. A representative of the Polish Chamber of Commerce pointed out that 30% of tobacco trade is a grey zone. I'm sure that's the problem, but not the Health Committee anymore, and I'm just reporting on our discussion. The Legislative Bureau has actually approved the bill. It had some proposals for amendments, but it did not say any unlawfulness, including European Union law. The Commission accepted a number of amendments tabled by the Legislative Bureau, mainly stylistic amendments. We've accepted a total of eight amendments. One of the most important... The most important amendment concerns the extension of the time limit for the possibility of exhibiting tobacco products under existing conditions at the places of sale until 31 December 2016 and not at a time equal to vacathio legis. On behalf of the Committee on Health, I ask the senators to adopt this law together with the amendments tabled.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-senat-23-2.u22	Thank you very much, Senator. [[Here are the corrections.]] Yes? Please. [[But they're so messed up, so I'll give them to you later. Then I'll trade it for a new one.]] Good. [[Thank you.]] Senator, please rewrite these amendments and sign them. Okay? Oh, no, these are committee amendments. I'm sorry. [[The committee, the committee.]] Excuse me. Yes, of course. I ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development, Senator Margareta Budner, to submit a report to the committee. There you go, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-senat-23-2.u23	Thank you very much, Marshal. High Izbo! Gentlemen of Ministers! I am pleased to present the report of the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development, which on 19 July was discussing a law amending the Health Protection Act against the consequences of the use of tobacco and tobacco products. I'm not gonna focus on the content page right now, because you've already had a beautiful reference from Senator Chudowska. I will simply say that at the meeting of the Committee on Agriculture, this law did not raise such a discussion as in the Committee on Health. In fact, it did not raise any controversy. There were also no questions for the Minister or other guests invited. The Commission unanimously adopted 8 amendments identical to those voted by the Health Committee a few hours earlier. Therefore, on behalf of the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development, I would very much like to ask for the support of this law, together with 8 amendments. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-senat-23-2.u24	Thank you, Senator. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the senators of the rapporteurs. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? Mr. Senator Klein. You're welcome. Which one of the ladies?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-senat-23-2.u25	Mrs. Marshal, I have a question for Senator Chudowska. Senator, I'd like to ask if the bill introduces any restrictions on the use of snuff. It is about restrictions on the rules that have been in force so far.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-senat-23-2.u26	No, it doesn't. [[Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-senat-23-2.u27	Thank you. Senator Robert Dowhan. [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[Cell phone signal]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-senat-23-2.u28	Yeah, but... [[Quiet, please.]] [[Cell phone signal]] Maybe the senator who's on the phone will talk to him first. Thank you very much. I have a question for you, senator of the rapporteur. Is smoking harmful? What is the purpose of this bill?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-senat-23-2.u29	Please, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-senat-23-2.u30	Of course smoking is harmful. I think it's enough if I tell the senator that there are more than 40,000 deaths a year in Poland because of tobacco tumors. Only because of these cancers. I'm not talking about cardiovascular diseases. And that's known. If we were gonna change this bill just because, you know, it probably wouldn't be necessary, because we all know that smoking is harmful. It's what I said at first. In recent years new forms have been introduced, including electronic cigarettes, which have not previously been treated as tobacco products. We've never been as sharp as this before, after tests and after observations. This is just as harmful a cigarette, which often comes from young people who think that it is not harmful. And this is an introduction to later compulsive smoking of cigarettes. There were no restrictions on smoking e-cigarettes in non-smoking and public places and the ban on advertising and promotion. Therefore, the regulations on this matter are contained in this law because they are necessary.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-senat-23-2.u31	Thank you. Does anyone else want to... Senator Dowhan wants to ask you a question. Yes? There you go. Then the senator...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-senat-23-2.u32	As I understand it, Senator, this bill is intended to eliminate smoking. Since it is harmful and we have to limit it in different ways... That's exactly what I'm not opposed to. The aim, as I understand it, is to improve the health of Poles by reducing the consumption of tobacco products in various forms. Then why play such a limit, write laws that can still be missed... Let me give you examples of how it works in the European Union... Maybe it's better to ban smoking if there are other banned substances, even though it's forbidden to use drugs or to smoke marijuana? Well, then we'd have had a problem. Why didn't the committee lean on it, and you as a doctor, and the other doctors on the committee didn't lean on it? Or, on the one hand, the fear of... well, of what?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-senat-23-2.u33	You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-senat-23-2.u34	This bill doesn't go that far because... I'd even be forbid, but then I'd lose a lot of friends and acquaintances in this House. It's not about bans here, it's just because everyone has freedom of choice. This law refers to the difficulties, there are detailed records of what a pack of cigarettes should look like, there will be not only subtitles, but also images, to the law, please look, if you have a bill before you, there is an attached catalogue of images that will be posted on a pack of cigarettes except that there will be information... As the senator asks... Although I was going to say this in the debate, but I will answer... It will be mandatory to put on every package of words such as "Papieros" in harm's health... I don't know. It's gone somewhere. Oh, I've got: Smoking kills Drop it now! It'll be one of the inscriptions on a pack of cigarettes. The next information that will be on the pack of cigarettes: The tobacco smoke contains more than 70 substances causing cancer. Mixed health warnings, which is a sign, but also a picture... There's a catalog of such images in the bill, the law contains a library of these images, you'll have to put these drawings, well, not very appetizing, and they have to take 65%. The whole package, the whole package. Like countries like this. Finland, where through such disincentives, as well as a whole range of penalties for non-compliance with what cigarettes are to be displayed, prohibition of promotion or sponsorship by companies producing cigarettes of all cultural events, health-promoting, sports... In Finland, I think it's down to 10%. ... we would also like to reduce, in the coming years, maybe by 2030, by 2025, so that Poland, as the Minister in the committee said, and what it will probably develop in the next few years, will be free of tobacco. May I remind you that in the days of the AWS, in the Awuesian Seym and the Senate, we passed a ban on cigarette advertising. I remember these beautiful billboards a dozen years ago, and I remember very well the billboard advertising Marlboro, because it was a beautiful woman in a red dress, with a beautiful bouquet of red roses, and she was the same size as a pack of Marlboro cigarettes at the other end of the billboard. And then I saw these blue girls at the bus and bus stations shivering from the cold... That's the picture I remember from some fall waiting room, from my expectations for the bus: the blue girl, the skinny one, and she couldn't have had any of it, or that red dress, or those red roses, but that cigarette she had and smoked, Marlboro. Poor, cold-haired girl. And we banned those ads, there's no cigarette commercials in the media. That was the first step. And we have been in recent years... maybe the last one is not said enough, we have reduced the number of smokers in Poland in 20 years, it has decreased from 50% to 30%. It's already a success. But we can move on.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-senat-23-2.u35	Thank you, Senator. Senator Jarosław Oremski. You're welcome. [[Talking in the O.R.]] Quiet, ladies and gentlemen, gentlemen of the Senators. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-senat-23-2.u36	Senator, I have the impression that now a group of smokers is in a sense the most persecuted group, that is, they are locked in such cages, from office buildings to frosts, if they want to smoke cigarettes, etc. I understand the purpose, but at the same time, when I hear these stories, I also saw pictures that have to be on packs of cigarettes, I can imagine what will be on the beer cans or wine bottles if we go in this direction. Maybe it's the right thing to do. I don't know. Here's my question. How many fashions are we dealing with in Europe? At the moment there is a fashion for the fight against nicotine, and there is a sort of loosening, drug-related liberalisation. Yes? Here we are talking about the scientific statement that this is harmful, and here there is liberalisation on behalf of citizens' freedom, the right to risk, etc. Was there a discussion on a certain inconsistency of this type of action at European Union level?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-senat-23-2.u37	No, Mr. Senator, that was not the discussion, because the committee was discussing an anti-smoking bill, in short. In this case, we weren't dealing with drugs. It'll probably be time for that. And as for the beer cans and the wine bottles, I wouldn't mind if there were some deterrent commercials. There are too many beer ads, young people today think, maybe not all of them, but a lot of young people think beer isn't alcohol. [[Talking in the O.R.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-senat-23-2.u38	Thank you very much, Senator. Ladies and gentlemen, please be quiet, because it bothers the senator and those who listen to the discussion. Ladies and gentlemen, I ask you to ask Senator Robert Dowhan. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-senat-23-2.u39	Dear Senator, Those packages, 65% of which surface, in some countries even more, is devoted to graphic signs to deter, I have seen for many years in several countries. Do they impress people who smoke? I don't know that, although I think that the fight against addiction is quite different, the forms of quitting look diametrically different. I don't think so. And if so, I wonder if there's been any research that would confirm that if someone sees a black package with black lungs, they won't touch that product anymore. That's my first question. Second question. Is it 100% in the European Union, because I read here that this is the matching to the European Union project, that these sharpenings have already been introduced in all countries? Why in Poland it is forbidden to sell cigarettes from vending machines to which you can approach, toss a coin and buy cigarettes, for example. in a neighbouring country, for example in Germany, slots are very widespread and practically 90% of sales are made from slots?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-senat-23-2.u40	Mr. Senator, you've raised a few points. Have there been studies on whether the box scares away? You will speak on this subject, the Minister of Health, because As I said at the beginning I'm not going to report on what the Minister of Health said at the committee meeting because he's about to say it himself. This box campaign, so to speak, is one part of the campaign prepared in this bill. Here is a new big money planned for promotion, for education. The Ministry of Health has a much broader approach to this, looking more broadly than merely at the production, sale and distribution of tobacco products. I do not know whether all countries have already introduced this directive, to which we are now adapting to this law. I'd like to ask the Minister about that, too.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-senat-23-2.u41	Thank you very much, Senator. Senator Rafał Ambrozik.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-senat-23-2.u42	Thank you, Mrs. Marshal. Senator, I'd like to ask you what the cost of treatment is. Were there any analyses of the cost of treatment that the Polish state incurs in connection with the use of tobacco products by citizens?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-senat-23-2.u43	Yes, Mr. Senator. There are experts prepared in accordance with... Implementation, implementation of European directives into Polish law has consequences in the form of some reporting, studies, analyses. Such analyses are also attached to this law. We didn't discuss them at the committee meeting. But in five years we'll save on treatment, on direct and indirect effects, because these are labour costs, absenteeism and the treatment of the sick... In the next two years, thanks to this bill, we will save PLN 207 million. But we know, and that's calculated. That one premature death due to tobacco-dependent cancer... The cost of treatment is PLN 621,000 per patient. 621 thousand PLN per patient is spent in case of cancer of tobacco dependent. And all I'm talking about is cancer, and there's cardiovascular disease.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-senat-23-2.u44	Thank you very much, Senator. Are there any more questions for the rapporteurs? Please, Senator Pekkis.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-senat-23-2.u45	And are the calculations of one smoker's lifelong excise income? [[Voice from the room: Yes.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-senat-23-2.u46	Yeah, yeah, they are. We've been on excise duty in five years... If we completely banned the sale of cigarettes, we would lose about PLN 1 billion in five years. But I'm now serving it as an oncologist and prevention, because that's what I do. Can this money be converted into 40,000 people lost every year due to cancerous tobacco dependence? Forty thousand is one small city... i.e. Not a small, one medium-sized city. That's not all... And like I said at the beginning, this bill The same goes for the Health Committee. He can't deal with the costs. We want to take care of people's health and do not translate it into an economy. But these calculations, of course, are.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-senat-23-2.u47	Thank you, Senator. Senator Rafał Ambrozik. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-senat-23-2.u48	Thank you. Senator, I have another question. I would like to ask about the effects of this directive on Polish agriculture, for Polish tobacco producers. Were there such analyses as the social and economic consequences of the directive?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-senat-23-2.u49	I asked the minister about the problem. The Minister replied to me as I just said: we are in the health business, not in the economy. But maybe there was more talk at the agricultural committee's meeting. We certainly do not prohibit the cultivation of tobacco, and as far as we know, we export most of the tobacco. This bill doesn't prohibit it. Of course, less demand certainly means a reduction in production and it is even calculated that perhaps a few thousand farms could lose. But it's not gonna happen anymore. It's something you can prepare for. Even in small farms, the economy can be moved.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-senat-23-2.u50	Thank you, Senator. Are there any more questions? There isn't. Thank you very much. [[Thank you.]] The bill was filed by the government. The Minister for Health has been authorised to present the government's position during parliamentary work. We have Mr. Jarosław Pinkas, Secretary of State at the Ministry of Health. Would the Minister like to speak? You're welcome, Minister. There is also a deputy chief health inspector, Mr Grzegorz Hudzik, whom I also welcome very warmly.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-senat-23-2.u51	Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! Minister! I would like to say that managing a health resort is probably the hardest piece of bread, it's constant attacks, it's constant dissatisfaction. I think that sometimes there's also a lack of satisfaction that someone doesn't appreciate what they're doing, that the effects are delayed in time. However, I have a feeling and even confidence that today the Minister of Health Konstanty Radziwiłł should have an absolute sense of satisfaction. He should feel he's a fulfilled minister. He once said this: if I had to do only one thing for Poles, as Minister of Health, I would have introduced regulations that would significantly reduce smoking. Minister, you should have a sense of satisfaction. It was your management of the resort that led to the finalization of this truly dramaticly important bill. The predecessors were afraid of it. This amendment has many different implications. This amendment is an amendment made under the hierarchy of the media, which used various methods to compose us, to show our ignorance, bad will, to act to damage, to damage widely understood. We've been through this, Minister. All the members of the department's management, the departments that worked on it, have a sense of satisfaction. We know we've done something really important. The word "knowing" is very important here. Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators, the questions have been asked here whether we have analyzed something, examined whether we were based on scientific research. Yes. Everything that's done in the health department is based on our scientific knowledge. We can analyze them, we can analyze meta-analysis. We look at what is done in the world, but we also have our own experiences. We have research institutes, we have scientific societies that support and support us, especially in the case of this law. Ladies and gentlemen, cigarettes kill. Cigarettes kill and destroy the family that died of smoking. Cigarettes cause that every year we spend 14 billion PLN on the treatment of detoxic diseases. The fight to get every billion into the system is extremely difficult. I remind you that the operation of the entire medical rescue in Poland closes to PLN 1 billion 600 million, and here 14 billion we spend on the treatment of detoxic diseases. We have really more needs. If we were able to bring about a situation where we would be a country free of tobacco, we would probably have smaller queues, more money for educational and preventive programmes, a happy society. This is the category of events. Ladies and gentlemen, there is an extremely interesting slogan here, which, we hope, in this House, in this exceptional House, should begin to live its life. This is the password: Poland free of tobacco. One of the most successful European countries in terms of public health, Finland, has started to implement this slogan in practice. The Commission shall adopt Finland is to be a tobacco-free country. It's a long time perspective, but knowing the Finns, who are very basic, I know they'll figure it out. A tobacco-free country is, according to the World Health Organisation, a country in which less than 10% smokes population. Ladies and gentlemen, we can afford this. Not through bans... This law does not prohibit anything from industry in terms of production. We don't forbid it. This is an education bill, it's a law that has an impact on young people. This is a bill about what we should do to make cigarettes stop being fashionable. I have the impression that we may be a second country after Finland, which will be able to achieve this. 20 years ago, the first such act led to a completely emergency situation. There is a senator, Professor Andrzej Wojtyla, who dealt with this subject, who was then the Minister of Health. It's a huge success: we had 50% Smoking, and right now we have 30%. If we continue to be a primate, we can also be a tobacco-free country through this directive, a country that is a country of wise people, thanks to wise parliamentarians who voted and voted in favour of this law. Ladies and gentlemen, if you don't mind, I am absolutely in a telegraph brief of what is most important in this bill. First of all, to prohibit the placing on the market of cigarettes with a characteristic flavour. It's a very important record. It's supposed to be known and it's supposed to taste disgusting. Introducing the obligation to include 65% health warnings on the packaging of tobacco products Senator Czudowska has already shown this to the outside of the packaging area. It's not a very far-reaching rule. Please bear in mind that we have countries where there is so-called plain packaging, which means there is no packaging at all... You don't really know what's inside. There are also countries where cigarettes are sold from safes. Ban on advertising and promotion of e-cigarettes. If you'll excuse me, I'm going to focus on this for a moment. It's very important that you know what we're talking about. Ladies and gentlemen, this is not a substitute for smoking a regular cigarette. It's a drug that has a huge amount of synthetic nicotine, which is extremely fast addictive. He's addicted to young people. 65% population in Łódź voivodship, youth up to the age of 17, and this poor voivodship, either wobbly or wobbly all the time. And nicotine is associated with vascular diseases. So what if there's no tar bodies? I also want to say that we have very hard evidence that an e-cigarette is an initiating cigarette that introduces a normal cigarette later, I repeat: to use a normal cigarette. Ladies and gentlemen, don't believe this is a cure for nicotine. It's completely different. Our institutes, unrelated to industry, clearly show that the amount of toxic substances that are inhaled by the vampire, is quite dramatic to health: they are immune problems, they are problems with vascular diseases. Right now, after such a short period of time, we know that it is. Here we are in the vanguard of change. And I assure you that in the European Union, the WHO will show us as the best example of those who are the principals, those who can analyze research. Introduce appropriate technical requirements for manufacturers or importers of electronic cigarettes or spare containers; ban on cross-border sales of tobacco products; ban on the sale of electronic cigarettes to young people under the age of 18; limit the places of smoking to the current ban on smoking of tobacco products in public places; ban on the sale of electronic cigarettes or back-up containers in medical operators; these are the most important provisions. Ladies and gentlemen, I am proud to present this directive to you today. Minister, thank you very much for having given me the task of introducing this directive. Thank you very much. Thank you very much, Marshal. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-senat-23-2.u52	Thank you very much, Minister. Stay here, or there may be questions for the Minister. At present, senators can report... [[Talking in the O.R.]] Quiet, please. ...no more than a minute of questioning to the representative of the government related to this item on the agenda. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? Senator Robert Dowhan. You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-senat-23-2.u53	Thank you, Mrs. Marshal. I congratulate Minister Radziwiłł for his fine description. But I wouldn't take so much credit, Minister, because it's not an innovative solution. For example, the ban on cigarettes with menthol, on packaging, because it is already, as you said, applied in many countries, in many countries it is even very restrictive, for example in Canada, where cigarettes are sold out of the closet, so they're not really visible in public... [[Question, please, Mr. Senator.]] My question: I'd like to ask you about the ban on advertising. Can tobacco products still be advertised in the European Union, or is there already a total ban and this is unprecedented? That's my first question. Second question. You mentioned that 14 billion would cost you treatment. I'm not questioning these numbers, these data. It's actually, uh, looking at the scale, it's huge... But I would like you to clarify how much excise tax money is being paid by growers, farmers, tobacco factories to the Treasury budget.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-senat-23-2.u54	Thank you very much. Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-senat-23-2.u55	Thank you very much. Mr. Senator, I empathized you with our effectiveness, not that someone did something earlier. We're the principals. Our resort is extremely basic in the implementation of this directive, we did not run away... However, the predecessors did not do so because there were many different implications. We are not afraid of these implications, they are probably still functioning, or maybe we will be in favour of this directive... But all I've ever talked about is that we're the principals. Mr. Senator, I'm gonna answer the question as to whether we know what the excise receipts are. Of course we know. But if you don't mind, I won't be comparing the proceeds, the losses on excise duties. If they are, and I hope they will. What we're actually losing, and we're losing people's lives, we're losing our sense of security in families, there's other indirect costs that are really related to the economy, medical exemptions associated with, for example, detoxic diseases, etc., etc. It seems to us that even in some way it is unethical to compile these data and please let me not answer that question. For me, as a doctor, it is an unethical question. Don't be offended by me. [[Thank you very much, Minister... please, Senator...]] [[Another question about advertising.]] If... [[Yes? Excuse me.]] I'm very sorry, Mrs. Marshal, but there was a question about advertising. Of course you don't advertise cigarettes. And, of course, we're also very basic here. There will also be no advertising at the point of sale. I would like to tell you that, of course, there is commercial information and it will be possible to expose the brand and the price, but absolutely nothing more. We've had a very difficult debate about what's going on right now. I would like to say that we have also carried out precise research into how commercial information is received in 120 thousand stores. And of course... maybe not all of them were researched, but in general this information is empathy and encouragement to sell, 90% of the commercial information is the same as advertising, which is why it won't be. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-senat-23-2.u56	Thank you very much, Minister. Senator Jerzy Chróścikowski. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-senat-23-2.u57	Thank you, Mrs. Marshal. Minister, the directive is from 2014, so we have been discussing the implementation of this directive in Parliament since 2014. There were a lot of committee meetings for the previous coalition, a lot of meetings... and the tobacco industry demanded that this law be introduced to implement the directive. We're running a lot of delays on this one. I'm glad it's finally being introduced... that it's really gonna be... But I have a question for you. You mentioned at the committee meeting that tobacco growers would not be harmed, but here you did not repeat it. What rules are applied in this law or in other laws that guarantee that tobacco producers can function? And also, if you could tell us what percentage of Polish tobacco is used in cigarette processing to show the scale to show how much you import.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-senat-23-2.u58	There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-senat-23-2.u59	Thank you very much, Marshal. Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators, Senator, I would like to make it clear that this law does not prohibit tobacco production. Our growers will continue to do so. It's hard for me to say, but I think over 80%... I have this data right here, I can ask the professionals who support me here, what percentage of tobacco is exported. But gigantic... [[We import processed...]] [[70%.]] [[Talking in the O.R.]] Yeah, 70%. I have received information from people who are probably more up-to-date with agricultural problems... There's no danger to our growers. [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[Quiet, please.]] However, I would like to say that agriculture is deeply convinced of this, but farmers have some skills to change what is produced in the fields. And there's really no danger here. We can't compare that. In my opinion, health benefits are so gigantic that we shouldn't really talk about any agricultural problems because they won't show up.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-senat-23-2.u60	Thank you very much, Minister. Senator Andrzej Wojtyla, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-senat-23-2.u61	Minister, I would like to refer to the amendment to section 5 of this amendment, which concerns Article. 5a. In the mouth. 3 to the existing legislation on the designation of a smoker... The amendment extends the possibility of smoking in health care facilities, in hospitals, i.e. psychiatric departments, with the exception of reinforced and maximum protection. So far, Art. Article 5a (1) (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013 is replaced by the following: 3 did not contain such records. This is an extension of the possibility of smoking in medical facilities. What was the reason, Minister?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-senat-23-2.u62	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-senat-23-2.u63	Mrs. Marshal, ladies and gentlemen of the Senators, this is an extremely important question. On the surface, it would seem that this solution is quite irrational. Why should we introduce tobacco smoking into psychiatric facilities? Of course, we did it with full knowledge and awareness, we analyzed all reports in the whole world literature, we also used the knowledge of experts from the Polish Psychiatric Society and a consultant in the field of psychiatric diseases. It turns out that abrupt withdrawal from a patient who smokes cigarettes, and the possibility of smoking when he gets to the hospital, causes significant problems with the metabolism of drugs that your patients are taking. And in fact, if a patient who smokes cigarettes gets into a mental hospital, it's later even, I'm sorry for colloquialism, not to be set up by psychiatrists. These patients are very special patients. And, of course, they will only smoke in designated places. You can't do that to them. but prohibit for reasons strictly clinical studies based on scientific studies. Practically all psychiatric hospitals in the world have the possibility of smoking.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-senat-23-2.u64	Thank you very much. You wanna ask me another question, Senator? [[Yes.]] You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-senat-23-2.u65	Minister, I understand that, because since 1995 the lobby of psychiatric doctors has been seeking to enter such a solution. But when it comes to research and statistics in Poland In Poland, but also around the world It follows from them that schizophrenics and other mentally ill people die in Poland not because of other diseases, but 70% because of detotonia cancers. And that is the result of this solution.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-senat-23-2.u66	Thank you very much. [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Health Jarosław Pinkas: If you...]] Yes, please, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-senat-23-2.u67	If your marshal will allow me, I would like to say that the health department is working in parallel on something completely different, in terms of... We are currently working on a complete change in the model of psychiatric treatment, we are going away from psychiatric treatment in hospitals, there is the so-called. deinstitutionalisation of psychiatric medicine, we introduce a model of centralized care, coordinated, where the patient will not be treated in such a way as to say, from hospital to hospital or with permanent return. And then, of course, you can think of patients who are suffering from dramatic diseases, rehabilitating them. But they're the hardest patients to get used to. But I think we're gonna have that opportunity. And certainly the number of deaths associated with detoxic diseases in psychiatric patients will be lower. But this is an absolutely strict medical and clinical issue. And we're not gonna write that down in the bill.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-senat-23-2.u68	Thank you very much. Senator Waldemar Sługocki.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-senat-23-2.u69	Thank you very much, Mrs. Marshal. Mrs Marshal, High Izbo, Minister, I congratulate, of course, on the principle and consequences of the bill being introduced here. I absolutely agree with that part of your speech that says that life and human health are priceless. The costs we bear for the treatment of Poles are enormous; 14 billion PLN is a huge amount. So something is undoubtedly happy, but they worry about such data, about which you also say that 30% of the population of Poles are still active smokers. However, I would like to ask you, Minister: do you have any simulations that indicate how the number of Polish smokers who are addicted to nicotine will fall within five years, I do not know? Do you have such tests? That's one thing. Secondly, what part of Polish farmers are involved in tobacco production? And do you perhaps cooperate with the Minister responsible for agriculture and rural development so that... And I'm curious about that part too. That this will not have a pejorative effect on the production of tobacco in Poland, on the situation of Polish growers. So the question is, isn't there a connection between the number of people who smoke... God forbid as many Poles as possible leave this habit, but isn't there a correlation between the number of smokers and the influence of growers, the budgets of tobacco growers? Yeah, that's not enough. What does the Minister of Finance say? Because, of course, as I said, health is an overriding issue, but I think that the Minister of Finance will not be happy when somehow the revenue from excise duties will be reduced to the state budget. So that's also, I think, an interesting topic. If you'd be kind enough to answer... Please answer me. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-senat-23-2.u70	Thank you very much. Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-senat-23-2.u71	Thank you very much. Mr. Senator, the government is a monolith. We no longer have such a silo economy, and the Minister of Finance is a highly educated specialist, and he was absolutely not opposed when this law went to other resorts. The Minister of Finance knows very well that the introduction of this law is a real profit also for the financial sector through the development of the economy, etc., etc. This is a logical sequence of events. Of course, we know that we will have at least a dozen percent reduction in smoking in the next 10 years. I say at least 'cause I'm not quite able to tell you the impact this bill will have, please remember that. Our resort is also working on other solutions. This Tuesday, Minister Radziwiłł will have another success; I keep my fingers crossed. It's really worth talking about our successes. The point is that the Committee of the Council of Ministers will work on the National Health Programme. In this program there is money for education, to put it simply, 140 million PLN. There are 6 operational objectives, including one evidently linked to the introduction of various types of action to combat smoking and other addictions. This sequence of events will lead to the situation that we will have something to boast about and that we will be in the vanguard of those countries that can deal with the problems of all kinds of addictions, because we are really talking about addictions all the time. Thank you very much, Marshal.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-senat-23-2.u72	Thank you very much, Minister. [[Talking in the O.R.]] Once again, I ask the senators to remain silent. You're welcome. You're asking Senator Robert Dowhan.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-senat-23-2.u73	Thank you very much. Dear Marshal! Minister! It is known that there is a fashion for a healthy lifestyle at the moment. This can be seen everywhere, such as the number of cyclists, runners, organized marathons, fitness clubs, etc. It also involves the fact that it's fashionable not to smoke. I can see it. I can also say that I've become fashionable myself because I haven't smoked in 20 years. But this quitting is sometimes gradual, because a person chooses lighter cigarettes, light brands, with less tar content. But to have a choice, you have to have information. This information in the form of leaflets or things that are sometimes available and which will be banned at the moment has always been on a pack of cigarettes. You could tell the difference between red and blue are more aggressive, so these are strong cigarettes, and white are less aggressive, so these are light cigarettes. Today, after the introduction of this law, it will be very complicated. A smoker who wants to read about harm, read this other information will have very limited opportunities. Doesn't the ministry fear that this will somehow limit people's freedom to choose such tobacco products as they consider less harmful or healthier, although it is known that smoking is of course harmful to health? That's my first question. Second question. You're still referring to Finland. Of course, it is a country that cares crazy about health, raising up when it comes to a healthy way of life. However, in all Scandinavia there has long been such a strange fashion for so-called. snout, i.e. tobacco not even chewable, but put in small packages under the upper or lower lip. Do you have calculations like quitting or not being able to smoke translated into chewing or keeping tobacco in your mouth? That's my second question. [[It's always been, it's always been there.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-senat-23-2.u74	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! This is a very important question and, of course, this question should be answered in a rather unambiguous way. Mr. Senator, there is no less evil. In the field of public health, such choices should not be made. We're really fighting addiction. Each cigarette is a cigarette, each cigarette delivers huge amounts of toxic substances and does not have a healthier cigarette or a cigarette, which to a lesser extent causes disease. Every cigarette must be treated the same way, access to advertising must be dramatically restricted. Keep in mind that a smoker can really handle knowing what he should smoke if he thinks he wants to use a healthier preparation. But also thanks to our research, which we have access to, we know that the industry uses every gap in a non-pardon manner. Whatever information means later an extremely simple transformation into advertising, doing something attractive, and getting more people into smoking. Let me repeat once again: in this case, we had to be the principal and we would be the principal. [[Yes, sir.]] [[Snusy.]] Snusy. Any form of tobacco use is harmful. We don't offer that kind of form. Fortunately, it is insanely periodic, it is not of great importance for the population in Europe. Indeed, only in countries in the north of Europe is this type of supply of nicotine used. But I am convinced at the moment, because I have even recently seen a study on this subject that there is quite a significant decrease in this area. So I don't think that's gonna put us in much danger. [[The meeting is chaired by Vice-Marshal Adam Bielan]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-senat-23-2.u75	Thank you very much. As the next one on the list, I have a registered Senator Pekkis.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-senat-23-2.u76	Minister, you're talking about Finland. Do you like it? Yeah, I guess so. A study is known about Finland's suicide rate against the whole of Europe, and what is the sense of satisfaction with Finn's life against the whole of Europe? That's the first question. And the second question, which is related to it. I personally knew one of the professors of cardiosurgery who I worked for for a short period of my life, Professor Religa. And I'm gonna tell you honestly, it wasn't a person who didn't smoke. Well, to say she smoked a lot isn't enough to say. You know, one way or another, there was a certain authority in the field of health, an authority for me. And he made a choice because he thought that human life, however he tried to judge it, took an endless amount of time. [[But he died of cancer.]] Don't you think that Poles are at this stage of development, information, education, that they make their own decisions in their minds about how they want to live and what they want to use? We are now talking about 30% of Poles. Isn't that what's gonna happen in the United States after prohibition? We will forbid something, and then, unfortunately, it will become attractive to young people. [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Health Jarosław Pinkas: May I, Mr. Marshal?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-senat-23-2.u77	There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-senat-23-2.u78	Thank you very much. Mr. Senator, I don't think anyone can tell you what Professor Religa would do right now. There is Minister Wojtyla in the courtroom, student and associate of Professor Religion. I myself worked with Professor Religa for 22 years, at various stages of his life. I assure you, Professor Religa would have voted in favour of this directive without a shadow of thought. I'm pretty sure of it. Choice? Yeah, we don't ban anything. Cigarettes are available. We're acting in a different way. We're trying to make sure that this bill doesn't make it easy for us to empathize with cigarettes and convince us that it's fashionable and that someone needs it. This law gives a choice, but most of all it affects young people. I have the impression that thanks to this law and thanks to the National Health Programme, we will be able to provide an increasing amount of data that clearly show how harmful cigarettes are. Let me tell you about a very interesting example. I remember 50 years ago, there were cigarette commercials in American newspapers all over the site. American doctors smoke Lucky Strike, or American doctors smoke Lucky Strike. I don't smoke cigarettes, so I don't know, but I think those cigarettes are still on the market. Doctors were advertising smoking. In the United States, a study was carried out and it turned out that the percentage of doctors smoking was 1.25%. Would you find a doctor who would agree to advertise tobacco? This is almost impossible. Well, I don't think there's a doctor like that in Poland, and if he did, I think he should be denied the right to pursue his profession. This law gives a choice, but above all it brings educational values. The message is very clear: it is dramatically harmful. There are so many alternatives in the form of different sports that we should interest peer groups in something much better and wiser than cigarettes. I think we're gonna win this battle, Senator. [[And Finland?]] [[Come on.]] [[Joy in the Chamber]] Mr Senator, Finland is indeed a leader in the introduction of various public health solutions. I think a much better example is... Please analyse Finland's achievements in combating obesity and cardiac and vascular problems. It is this country that has led society to change consumption habits. This is a country that has reduced bad fats. This is the first country that has mass introduced plant stamens. And look how fantastic the Finns live. I think the Finns don't commit suicide because they don't smoke cigarettes. And this issue should be explored, because the country where a lot of suicides are committed is, for example. Hungary, where there is a great deal of burning. The same applies to suicide among smoking ladies in Denmark. So there's no correlation between suicides and lack of access to tobacco.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-senat-23-2.u79	Thank you very much. Another one is Senator Kraska.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-senat-23-2.u80	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Minister, you've already mentioned e-cigarettes. Does the Ministry have data on how many people in Poland smoke these e-cigarettes? Does anyone examine the contents of the e-cigarettes that are sold to us? Is there any scientific evidence that these cigarettes actually help to stop smoking and that they are harmless? Because the companies that make these cigarettes, that's how they advertise. If you want to quit smoking, smoke an e-cigarette. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-senat-23-2.u81	Yeah, we've got the sales research. They are not entirely reliable, because a lot of so-called. cartridges are in the out-of-store circulation. We are also afraid that it will now be one of the elements and carriers, e.g. boosters, because it will be very easy to insert toxic substances into this cartridge. I would also like to say that for us the important threat is that the synthetic nicotine used is nicotine, which is much more addictive than ordinary nicotine. Remember, there used to be this kind of practice. Fortunately, this has already been stopped at the moment. In order to addict smokers, some tobacco companies added synthetic nicotine to tobacco. Before that, ammonia was added, which was also addicted. We, of course, have institutions that investigate this. Now all these substances will be examined in our chemical inspector in Łódź, who will especially get more jobs. So we're gonna have surveillance. I have already mentioned that the number of scientific works on the harmful use of e-cigarettes is increasing in geometric progress at the moment. Because, of course, there is an increasing period of use of this, so we know the dangers it poses. I would like to say that vaping has a clear effect on the immune system, especially the immune system of a young man. And the amount of nicotine can be compared to the amount in ordinary cigarettes. This amount of nicotine causes exactly the same amount of cardiovascular and vascular diseases as normal cigarettes. So that the situation here is quite clear. Reports that these may be substitutes, that this may be a medicinal product, are quite outrageous. I don't hide that we were also subjected to certain lobbying activities. E.g. One of the British scientists wrote me in a letter ? personally to me as a public health person That I should actually support the advertising of e-cigarettes, because it is intended to reduce the smoking of ordinary cigarettes. Nothing more vicious. We already know. .. there are such data.. It's the other way around. And when I checked with your professor from Bristol, it turned out that the work was sponsored by the tobacco industry. That's what it looks like, unfortunately. I can give you a senator. Mr. Senator is a doctor, and I'll do it with great pleasure. Send a whole package of works on how harmful e-cigarettes are and that they can certainly not be treated as a substitute or a medicinal substance or a medicinal product in the event of tobacco rehab.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-senat-23-2.u82	Thank you very much. Senator Bear.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-senat-23-2.u83	Minister! Mr. Marshal! My question will, in a way, be quite personal. In his introductory statement, the Minister used such a statement that health is the most important. I have a question about that. Well, we have different categories. Health is one of the categories considered in the axiological context, but we also have the category of freedom. And now I would like to ask the Minister if you believe that the category of health is axiologically more valuable than the category of freedom. And if so, what is the basis for such a claim? Maybe that's it for now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-senat-23-2.u84	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-senat-23-2.u85	Mr. Marshal, I must say, I didn't think I'd be under philosophical debate, but she's fascinating. Thank you very much for inspiring me with this issue. I'm the Secretary of State at the Ministry of Health. And actually, it should be the only answer. Health is the most important thing in the Ministry of Health. I think both categories are... [[Talking in the O.R.]] I think that both categories are categories that do not exclude each other, but rather the other way around. Because perhaps freedom also gives health. We don't forbid anything. There's access. We're trying to do what we can to educate. Remember, the less we prohibit, the less people who break the law will be. But to answer a very difficult question, axiological, I would like to make it clear that if there is no health, there is no freedom. And it also works the other way. Thank you very much, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-senat-23-2.u86	Senator Napieralski.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-senat-23-2.u87	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. Minister, at first I would like to say that I very much like your attitude. Congratulations. Senator Kraska took my question. I'd just like to join you, if I may, in your request for materials that you'll send to the senator because I'm interested, especially in cigarettes. I just want to clarify my predecessor's question. You've just talked a lot about education, information, teaching us. Polish people and Poles - what really brings with them smoking or using or smoking - I don't even know what to call it "e-cigarettes." I'm the enemy of smoking, I don't smoke cigarettes or anything else... But tell me what you're going to do or what action you're going to take, if you can say it really very briefly, in a few sentences. To show, especially the young part our society that this e-cigarette is not so healthy. 'Cause it's all so fancy right now that if we don't smoke a cigarette, it means it's okay. But we have e-cigarettes that are cool, we can smoke. They eat even on school grounds because they don't smoke, they don't smell etc. What are you really going to do to show it? You were just talking about it in a question. And for that to come to us? [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Health Jarosław Pinkas: May I, Mr. Marshal?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-senat-23-2.u88	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-senat-23-2.u89	Thank you very much. Mr. Senator, this is an extremely valuable question. Thank you very much. The National Health Programme has a number of operational objectives. One of them is exactly what you were talking about. Finally, the National Health Programme has money and we can just buy some or dozens of things because some things have to be bought. You have to buy advertising, you have to buy a medium, you also have to be able to get into social media, because it is a very important issue. On Facebook, I apologize for the colloquialism. Lap and smoking should be very unfashionable. Of course, that's where we want to put our information, you can do it there. We want to fight all these unfortunates. Who are sponsored by the large tobacco industry, currently operating on the Internet With hacking groups who even make some kind of manifestation. Luckily, it's only been six people lately, so it's not a big problem. But we're starting to act very quickly. I'd like to say that first of all, it's about family activities. I mean, if there's no smoking fashion in the family, then the young man has completely different interests, because if there's no smoking fashion, it's probably a fashion for something much healthier. It is also about peer groups. In this case, you have to use all the possibilities. Of course school and ♪ Like I said ♪ Social networks, idea placement. In a moment, we will sign the agreement. It seems that even next week, the Minister is meeting with the head of Polish Television. So that we can add these objectives to the television mission. The point is that wherever something happens, there's no smoking, no smoking in TV shows, so there's no limping to show that it's unfashionable. This is a huge sequence of events. Of course, the target group will be everyone, but the most important is young people. I guarantee you that most of the money from the National Health Programme for operational purposes associated with combating widely understood addictions will be spent on the youngest, but from the family...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-senat-23-2.u90	Thank you very much. Mr. Senator Grabowski. [[Voice from the room: There isn't.]] [[He went out for a smoke.]] There isn't. Senator Frost.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-senat-23-2.u91	Minister, to be honest, I'm a little surprised at these questions that many... well, maybe not many. Some senators question the meaning of these rules. I suppose Senator Dowhan even asked such a strange question from my point of view: do cigarettes hurt? I think mankind has answered that question a long time ago. My question to the Minister is so... Although we'll probably still have an exchange of views in the discussion. Minister, we are implementing the specific provisions imposed by the European Union. We're not getting ahead of ourselves here, just like some countries... And we also had, I remember, Minister Arłukowicz stopped when he became Minister of Health... Because there have already been regulations that had these warnings in the form of photographs to be introduced. I don't smoke either. I'm a strong opponent of cigarette smoking. Minister, please say, clarify that these rules are decisions of the European Union, the European Commission, and I think As far as I know. We are even after the deadline for implementing these provisions as to the necessity... Because, if I'm not mistaken, they should be in May this year, and it's July. What does it look like in the individual selected countries of the European Union?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-senat-23-2.u92	Not all countries have reported it yet. We're probably somewhere closer to the center. Of course, there's a delay. But in many countries these solutions have been very controversial. Remember, here, health must to some extent wipe out the industry. But I promise you, there's no smoking fashion all over Europe. This directive will certainly be implemented very, very quickly. We have implemented this directive in the version of Europa+... no, in the version of Europe, lightly plus, yes, lightly plus. And since we're also behind schedule, we're smarter about experience than we were in the past two years. We know what's going on in science. I have already said that this law is a law based on science, not on our will or on any of our untested views, no. This bill is already notified, i.e. we in the course of parliamentary work have notified our regulations, so it will come into force as planned. So I do not think that we are doing anything that is in some way incompatible with solutions in other European countries. On the contrary, I think we will be a good example of how to implement such a directive and will show what our ideas are. This law is a law dedicated to the Polish society, it is adapted to our way of functioning, so let's call it. It is a law not particularly orthodox. Although we could, for example, ban the sale of cigarettes in different places, sell them from safes or bring them to a situation that I think would be too far gone and would cause some controversy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-senat-23-2.u93	Thank you. Senator Dowhan again.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-senat-23-2.u94	Thank you very much. Mr. Senator Frost, if you were listening to my question, you'd know the context in which it was asked. And I find it very inappropriate to be so precise and tossing my name. Excuse me for the second time. That's one thing. [[But you asked me...]] I have two questions, Minister. First. I understand that because Senator Chudowska was talking about the extension of this bill... You initially wanted 14 days, but the deadline was extended until the end of December. That's what I understand. Thus, from 1 January 2017 at retail outlets must appear products marked by this law, which we want to introduce. So here's how I understand it: if someone buys a tobacco product legally to a commercial point in December that meets the requirements I mean, he's got an excise duty, a branding, all that's required is But he's not gonna sell it, that's... yeah, what's he gonna do with it? That's my question. He's supposed to burn it out on New Year's Eve, throw it in the trash, paint pictures on it? That's my technical question. I'm asking you this because big brandies can handle it, but a dozen sales points for tobacco products, as the Minister knows well, are small retail outlets, there's over 80% of them in small towns, and they're not always gonna make it... [[Such questions...]] ...sell everything to the end. That's my first question. And the second question is this. Should we not be able to see the entry into force of this law, there will be a ban on watching Formula One because tobacco labels are still on the car today. I'm not gonna tell you what brand it is. And we're legally watching it on our television, even public, which shows the winners? Has the Ministry therefore considered introducing a viewing ban? And if you don't, how does it have to do with the bill forbidding it? Are we gonna watch cars with black stripes, or are they not gonna be shown at all? That's my second question. [[Don't overdo it when there's slag, they advertise it too.]] [[Voice from the room: Oh, Robert, Robert...]] [[Like a baby.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-senat-23-2.u95	There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-senat-23-2.u96	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! When it comes to these cars, they drive so fast, it's rather illegible. [[No one's gonna notice.]] So it's hard to see. Therefore, we do not intend to prohibit anything. Generally, the Ministry of Health is not from prohibition. The Ministry of Health is from smart education. I would like you to have such a clear association: the Minister of Health is a wise educator. As far as this amendment on points of trade is concerned, it concerns something completely different. She forbids advertising, because most stands at 120 thousand cigarette sales points look like they're sponsored stands, there's some giant advertising, it's not any commercial information. The point is to make it disappear so that it is only commercial information, price information and information about what it is, which is the brand of cigarettes. It's not forbidden. We forbid something that was clearly advertising and which has already broken the law, the provisions of the previous law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-senat-23-2.u97	Senator Komarnicki.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-senat-23-2.u98	Thank you very much, Minister, for your words. I listened to them with care. And I must say that I am proud as a senator that here in the Senate, the Minister of Health says publicly what society has been expecting for a long time, talks about a healthy society, not sick. Many of my friends, including family members, left early because of this horrible, horrible habit that destroys human health. Thank you so much for that. At the same time, I ask you to make it appear in the media, however, similar in tone to your statement of the anti-advertisement of this cursed, very destructive human health, especially young people, tobacco. And I have a request for you. I know that young people in high school are already very thoughtful and a lot of young people are quitting cigarettes, but I ask you to work closely with the Minister of Education when it comes to young people graduating from primary school and junior high. I'm the grandfather of four grandkids. Fortunately, no one smokes in my family, but I know that during this period young people need to spend a great deal of time. I hope that, like you today, with great determination to speak about harmful, cursed tobacco, so with the Minister of Education, you will run such a campaign in schools so that the middle school youth will understand that this is a terrible curse for them. And by the way, I've been playing tennis for 40 years and often young when I'm standing in front of me, he's breathing. I know right away he's a smoker. Thank you for your attention. [[He's breathing because he wants to win.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-senat-23-2.u99	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! It's an excellent punch line. I can say that, together with Minister Radziwill, we will do everything we can to make you feel proud of the fact that you were in this room today and that we are effective. We will do this with the entire government, with the Minister of Family, with the Minister of National Defense, with the Minister of Home Affairs. Almost every minister has something to do with the fight against tobacco. We'll be the principal, I promise.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-senat-23-2.u100	Thank you very much. Senator Slugocki.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-senat-23-2.u101	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I don't smoke either, and I'm very happy about it. I am also pleased with those declarations by my colleagues who say that they are abstinent. Minister, you said the Minister of Health was a smart educator. These are very important words and I am very happy with them; I think I am not the only one. You also talked about cooperation with other important resorts in reducing nicotine addiction in Poland. I have a specific question. In a way, Senator Napieralski asked. Do you have any plans for the next time... On the one hand, we have legal regulations on this issue; I am extremely satisfied with your determination and principle. And on the other hand... Do you prepare, even in cooperation with the Minister of National Education, some massive educational action that would build awareness among the youngest generations of Poles and Poles, would build attitudes, so that the smaller population of our society would have this addiction? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-senat-23-2.u102	Thank you for that question. Yes, of course. I have already mentioned that all this is included in the National Health Programme with 6 operational objectives. All this is done together with other resorts. Public health is an area of interest not only in health resorts, but in all other resorts. Of course, we will work together, without the support of the school we cannot carry out educational activities. We work very well with the Minister of Education. I would also like to say that the National Health Programme Council was established, in which all the vice ministers are present. So we're working together, this is the massive operation of the entire government. It's not like the Minister of Health is the only one who's supposed to be in charge of health education. This is important for everyone, from the Minister of Development to the Minister of Justice. Yeah, we'll work together.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-senat-23-2.u103	Senator Dowhan. [[Oh, Jesus.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-senat-23-2.u104	Thank you. One last question. Senator Rooster, don't worry about dinner. I'd like you to clarify. I asked you not about markings, branding, advertising in kiosks... We have shelves today, sliders that are branded into different brands. I mean just a pack of cigarettes. Will this package that was legally purchased by a retail salesman be able to be sold on January 1st...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-senat-23-2.u105	Yeah, yeah. [[Without those 65%s that...]] Yes, of course. [[I see. Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-senat-23-2.u106	Senator Elephant.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-senat-23-2.u107	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Minister, you spoke of cooperation with other resorts in the field of prevention. I have a question about it. It's been in force for a few years now. The anti-smoking bill. She introduces many prohibitions, lists places where smoking and the use of tobacco products is prohibited, but we are all aware that this law is not entirely precise. In many cases... e.g. There's no smoking at the bus stop, but next door, in this environment, there's no smoking at the bus stop. Smoking there is very annoying for people standing at the bus stop. Same thing about restaurants, bars. You can't go to a restaurant or a bar, but in front of a place like this, I'd say there's no smoking ban. Very serious problems occur in multi-family blocks The stairwells, especially when there is no weather, are often like smokehouses in which it is very easy to poison nicotine smoke. Are you therefore trying to clarify these provisions in some way in order to defend this part of the society, which, however, would not want to be exposed, including those that, so to speak, are under-precise places, for tobacco smoke. Thank you very much. [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Health Jarosław Pinkas: May I, Mr President?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-senat-23-2.u108	You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-senat-23-2.u109	Thank you. Mr. Marshal, High Izbo, this is an extremely important question. The word "freedom" fell here. We can't write everything down in law. Of course, we can clearly describe the public space where smoking is prohibited. But what's really important to us is that people know that it's bad. So they don't go up that staircase, so the neighbor tells the neighbor: you know, it's wrong. So your spouse won't let you go to the stairwell because it's not like that, because it's not fashionable, because it's, I'm sorry for the word, just embarrassing. This isn't the time anymore. We're supposed to create such a good, smart idea, we're supposed to educate. You can't write everything down in law, you can't ban everything. People have the ability to break the law, move a few feet away. But just the fact that, passing by the smoker, we see that there is a much smaller group of people there, it is a symptom that it all goes in the right direction, that they are isolated, that we have the sense of freedom that we were talking about, and not them. I don't think I'm gonna go on telling you what to do. We want to educate first and foremost. We scratched the idea: it's not allowed in public space. I know sometimes we'll be helpless. But I think we're gonna be a tobacco-free country. And that's in our lifetime.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-senat-23-2.u110	Mr. Senator Grabowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-senat-23-2.u111	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Minister, as you have rightly pointed out here, you are a representative of the Ministry of Health, you are a Deputy Minister. Definitely, smoking's bad, I'm sure. But there is also the other side, the issue that has been raised here, but perhaps not enough. Senator Czudowska and you, Minister, have confirmed that the cost of treatment for smokers and former smokers is about PLN 14 billion a year, right? And excise revenue from the tobacco industry is estimated at about PLN 18 billion. Now I have a question: what is the ratio between the Ministry of Finance and the bill? For I dare say that the treatment of smokers, former smokers... Their number will not be reduced at the time of implementation of the law in question. The number of patients will not decrease, so to speak, avalanchely. However, this law may have a significant impact on the level of revenue to the budget for excise duties on tobacco products. And I have a question as to whether the Ministry of Finance estimated what this might be the size of the drop in revenue to the budget. And eventually, from what will it be compensated? Because the cost of treatment will not be lower than the 14 billion zlotys mentioned above, and excise revenue may fall in the light of the introduction of this law in an avalanche manner. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-senat-23-2.u112	Mr. Senator, I've actually answered that question today. And I would like to say once again that certain issues cannot be compared with one another. You don't compare pears to apples. The health benefits are not compared to the fall in excise duty and to the problems of the state budget. Nevertheless, I would like to make it clear that the Minister of Finance had no doubt that this law was a good law for the Minister of Finance. The State budget is not created solely by means of excise duty. The budget is much more than that. If healthy Poles work for the budget, if there are more Poles, if they do not die early, it will be the biggest profit for the state. Of course we realize that it will not replace it immediately, here everything is dragged back in time, but I think it will be quite spectacular that every year the percentage of smokers will be smaller and our country will become richer thanks to other sources of income, and really the Minister of Finance will have no problems with budget shortcoming. I don't think he even thought about making such comparisons: what happens when Poles stop smoking? If that's the case, it'll be real happiness for the Minister of Finance. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-senat-23-2.u113	Thank you very much, Minister. That was the last question. [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Health Jarosław Pinkas: Thank you.]] Thank you very much for the comprehensive answers to all the senators' questions. I inform you that the Minister, a representative of the government, has committed himself to answering in writing the questions asked by Senator Kraska and Senator Napieralski. I'm opening a discussion. As the first to speak, I'm asking Senator Rooster.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-senat-23-2.u114	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! Minister! Dear guests! Ladies and gentlemen, this bill seems to be such a simple bill, and so many questions we ask, so many discussions... It's clear to me: health comes first. In the hall there are professors, oncologists, there is a Minister of Health who knows what smoking causes. And I'll say, on my own example, yes: I smoked cigarettes, 40 years I don't smoke, and like now, after 40 years, I find clothes somewhere in the closet where there were cigarettes, it's really... When I open the closet, it turns me over from that odor. Next case. If I stand in the church with someone who smokes, in my spirit I think as a railroadman: how could I be such a grease truck that I just smelled so bad? Ladies and gentlemen, once again, I say... Next thing you know, I'm surprised at a lot of questions... I personally say this: I know Minister Jarosław Pinkas, and I would like to remind you of the years 2005-2007, when the sacred memory of the Minister of Health mentioned here was Minister Religa... It was introduced at that time, Mr. and Mrs. Dear, the Medical Rescue Act. I remember this because I was the Senator rapporteur, together with the late Marshal Krystyna Bochenek, who died in Smolensk. And I can say that today we must tell this Deputy Minister: thank you, thank you for the great consequence. Because then, when this law on rescue was introduced, how many thousands of lives were saved? After a while it would have to be an analysis, because so only God knows how many people this bill saved. Today, after 11 years, I think the time has come, Minister, to tell you: thank you. And I would really like you to have this bill, which is now being introduced, my dear country... so that you can implement and implement it with such consequence. Senator Komarnicki must also be very attentive. Ladies and gentlemen, there must be cooperation with education. Why? Because, Dear Lords, teachers must also pay attention to young people at large breaks, especially in secondary schools, that smoking is harmful. Because a very large number of young people, Dear Lords, smokes. And we need to be preventive in order to reach out to these young people so that they don't actually smoke. I, like Senator Komarnicki... Dear Lords, there was a time in my life "The Lord God has given me this." When I went to oncology with my very young brother. And I saw... Because he died too because he smoked cigarettes, and it was proven. So I appeal to those who smoke so that one day they can go to oncology and see... I don't wish anybody such horrible torments as my brother went down in. No, I don't. Buddy Senator Pekkis, there was also a moment in my life when I got on an express train in East Warsaw and had a place in my compartment. I didn't know that, but when I came in, I knew right away. In which the great Minister Prof. Religa was driving the sacred memory. And it was true that the compartment was full of smoke. And there were flowers on the shelf. I didn't know him at the time... And I say, Professor, how do you explain it to patients if you smoke? So much smoke... And then he said to me, "You know what? If I was born twice, I wouldn't take a cigarette. And here I confirm the words of Minister Pinkas: his position today would certainly be that he is behind this bill. In this compartment there was a huge friendship not between Senator Rooster, and between the Rooster Railwayr 'Cause I wasn't a senator back then. And the sacred memory of Minister Religa. He used to come to our little watchmen and really go to hospices, explain a lot of things about cancer, but he also talked about the harmfulness of nicotine. And really, Mr and Mrs Dowhan, let us not ask such unseemly questions here in the House of reflection, because health, health and health are first and foremost. Human life isn't converted into any gold. I agree with my colleague, Robert Mathematical's friend, that, Minister, this is where the debate on queues should take place. Because, as we speak about the harmfulness of cigarettes, the cancers caused by nicotine, we also need to consider whether certain treatments should wait 12 or 7 years. You shouldn't discuss it, and that's something you need to discuss. But, ladies and gentlemen, as far as this bill is concerned, I thought it would be a minute, we vote, and that's it, voted out. And here it turns out, Mr and Mrs Dear, that we are making a huge problem. Dear Mr. and Mrs. Dowhan, I know that you were the chairman of the dross club, Mr. Komarnicki too, and I was also... Dear States, as much money as possible for sport to draw people out of these social pathologies, such as nicotineism, drug addiction and alcoholism. There should be a ban on even Formula 1, on billboards, on cars... It's just not supposed to be cigarette commercials. And I really congratulate you on this law, the implementation of the European Union directive... I'm finishing up because I can see I'm way past time. I congratulate Minister Radziwill and thank Minister Pinkas for his great diligence and pursuit of the goal. And remember, companies will fight you, just as pharmaceutical companies will fight you, because this is a loss of huge influence, really huge influence. And they will attack, not only here they will be against you, but even in the media. They'll be in letters that should be valued, and I won't name names... But when I read the attacks on the Ministry of Health... So, gentlemen, let's not do anything? There will be tobacco companies making money, young people getting addicted to cigarettes early, and like my brother... I don't know... Don't let them get off this world when they're young. Thank you and congratulations.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-senat-23-2.u115	Thank you very much, Senator. Senator Radziwiłł, Minister...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-senat-23-2.u116	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Thank you very much. As a senator. I must say, I consider it an honor to be able to participate in this decision. It's an extremely important decision. Ladies and gentlemen, there have been some joke speeches, questions, a little smiles, a little discussion that sometimes seems to be slipping on the surface of the problem, and this problem is an extremely dramatic problem. In Poland, almost 100,000 people die each year because of detoxic diseases, various detoxic diseases. Ladies and gentlemen, this is about a number. No one's actually counted it. That corresponds to the number of people who died in Hiroshima during an attack with an atomic bomb. Every year such a number of people die from detoxic diseases. So this isn't really a place for jokes, because Hiroshima and that incident nobody talks with a smile and nobody dares joke, and here from time to time during questions, during intervention, discussion or also outside this room some people smile. It's just inappropriate because nobody dares to talk with a smile and joke about the attack on Hiroshima and what happened there, and we have such an event every year in Poland, it just is. This cannot be discussed because there are clear facts about it. And that's why I think it would be an honor for all of us to be able to raise our hands behind this bill, which will at least limit this number to some extent, because of course no one imagines that all people will quit smoking after the law enters into force and the case will end. Of course not. All countries around the world are taking different kinds of action. As it has rightly been said here, several years ago, the European Union had a very long process of amending the Anti-Tytonics Directive. Poland did not play a very commendable role in this process, unfortunately, but this is all behind us. This law, which we have before us today, can therefore be described as implementing the directive on the one hand, but on the other hand as a directive or a Europe+. I would say that this is not such a small plus, as Minister Pinkas said, because this plus for all those who have not come into this bill to the end is simply that everything that pretends not to be a cigarette and contains nicotine is treated simply in the same way as cigarettes. It's a short story. So we limit whether we ban advertising, we limit the possibility of smoking, or, as they say, vaping or using electronic cigarettes and so-called. innovative tobacco products, and we ban them from selling them to children, etc. There were doubts here. whether it's based on some kind of intuition, hunches, somebody's beliefs. No. We focus, as Minister Pinkas rightly mentioned, on what is called evidence-based policy, so we introduce things that unfortunately we are not the first in this area. They have already been tested, tested and are known to be effective. Do they make people quit smoking? Of course not, but it certainly affects the number of smokers. There's no doubt about that. The aim of this directive is, on the one hand, to discourage those who smoke, but it is to a limited extent, but above all, the objective is prevention, i.e. limiting, I would say, the potential to enter into the nicotine addiction of those who do not yet smoke. And in order for that to happen, you have to take a whole range of actions that will make cigarettes and everything that pretends to be cigarettes impossible, and in any case it was not available in such an obvious way. We still do not delegalize these products, so they for those who have to buy them and want to buy them will be available, primarily with an accent on those who have to buy them. And that is generally the principle or tendency to hide cigarettes, not to present them in any way, including not creating an impression, Senator Dowhan, that some cigarettes or certain products are healthier. Because it's not even a matter of lesser evil, but it's proved very strongly: it's proved that the presentation that some cigarettes are, as it used to be, light, means they have less tar, less nicotine, etc., and so on, has a negative effect, unfortunately, that people smoke more of these cigarettes, with a worse effect on their health. That, I repeat, is proven. So the presentation of this type of product information is simply counterproductive when it comes to our intentions. Therefore, it will not be allowed to present this type of content on the packaging or anywhere else. If anyone wants to check it out, go to the producer, he'll find out. The main point is that these cigarettes and those products that pretend to be better, less unhealthy, are of interest to those who are not yet addicted or who want to get out of addiction. When it comes to the latter, for them, as in all addictions, and all doctors know about it, there's only option zero-one: either I'm addicted, or even though I'm addicted 'Cause you can't get out of this. I don't take drugs. There's no way out of addiction through lighter cigarettes, there's no way. But above all, it is addressed to those who do not yet smoke, i.e. mostly young people or even children, as has already been mentioned here. And that's why we shouldn't create illusions; and that's why we're banning any such information. Cigarettes, as many experts say The experts, I stress, not those who want well They are to be thick, smelly, unattractive packaging, ugly or even disgusting, unattractive to be used only by those who really need to use them because they are sick of smoking. Because it's a disease. From a medical point of view, there is no doubt that unlike other psychoactive substances such as alcohol, cigarettes cannot be used in a way... Any use of a cigarette is a pathology, and the use of cigarettes is a disease. And the disease is healing. It's not a question of grades, it's not a question of somebody's beliefs, it's just that it is. So I draw attention to the fact that smoking is a disease, and this disease has as if two aspects. One aspect this is the aspect of toxicity, and indeed, as far as cigarettes are concerned, the greatest toxicity shows tar and tar substances that are contained in it; thousands of different toxins that are contained there. But even if it's pure nicotine, it's still the disease of addiction. Addiction has a devastating, destructive effect on the personality of every person who is addicted, and there is no doubt about it either. It causes behavioral changes, personality changes etc., etc., even if it does not cause any other adverse effects. Please note that in medicine we are talking about behavioral addictions, such as gambling addiction, very famous. There's no substance in there. The substance is produced in the head, namely endorphins, on which a person becomes addicted. So even if nicotine was completely clean and absolutely non-toxic, which is obviously not true, because nicotine itself is toxic... But even if that were the case, addiction remains a disease and therefore it is necessary to protect especially young people, especially young people, including children, from exposure to nicotine, which usually ends in addiction, even when it is called pure, so-called healthy nicotine, for example in electronic cigarettes. This is why we tend to move towards Europe+, that is to say, we go beyond traditional cigarettes themselves, and we also go towards restrictions or various kinds of difficulties in accessing any other product that contains nicotine. There's been a lot of talk here about finance. High Izbo, finance isn't just excise duty and not just medical expenses. On the one hand, of course, there are other revenues. Comparing these two numbers is just a fragmentary look. As far as costs are concerned, aside from the cost of treatment for detoxic diseases... It's not just cancer, heart attack, stroke, but also a lot of daily smoking contacts with doctors because these smokers have a thousand other diseases. These are diseases that require frequent intervention, and which are not even counted as detoxic diseases, such as. complications not very severe but requiring antibiotic therapy, after normal viral infections of the upper respiratory tract. So these are the costs, but above all, And that's what I'm paying attention to, because it's numbered. This is also the cost of sickness absenteeism and the associated lower tax flow, etc. I assure all countries of the balance sheet. It is negative, also in the field of finance. There's no doubt about it. And even if you accept only the rhetoric that Minister Pinkas mentioned that health is so valuable that it cannot be valued... That's not entirely true. The purely fiscal balance is also negative. Finally, the aspect of freedom, which has also been mentioned here by several people. High Izbo, it has already been mentioned by Minister Pinkas that there is no freedom without health. It's obvious. A person who is sick is limited, and especially when he is seriously ill, severely ill, his freedom is certainly very seriously threatened. Because I'm paying attention to the essence of what addiction is. Addiction is a lack of freedom. There is no doubt that cigarettes take away people's freedom. It's not like... some people just seem to think that smoking a cigarette means some aspect of freedom. It's not like that, it's the opposite: it's taking freedom. Finally, I'd like to ask for your support... I have no doubt that the House will vote in favour of this bill. But I think we also need to be aware of the uplifting of the moment. This is a really important project, not a political project, but a project for Poland. I think that in the context of what has already been mentioned several times, that we should go to Poland free from tobacco smoke, this is the task for all of us. We as the Ministry of Health will carry out it in terms of promotion, in terms of the various things that have been mentioned, but certainly this debate will also... I don't see Senator Rooster saying that the debate is basically unnecessary, we should vote it out, and that's it. But this debate is needed because the debate on smoking is needed in Poland at all. I have repeatedly said that if there was a fairy who would say: I would do one thing for the health of Poles, I would certainly choose such an option that cigarettes would disappear in Poland so that no one would smoke in Poland. This would certainly prevail over the construction of a thousand hospitals, the purchase of tons of medicines, the improvement of basic health care and many, many other aspects of the case. It's really something very important, and that's our job. So, after leaving this room, let us encourage the media, that the family, the Catholic Church and other churches, Boy Scouts and other NGOs should join this great work, the culmination of which will be Poland free from tobacco smoke. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-senat-23-2.u117	Thank you very much, Minister. Senator Łyczak.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-senat-23-2.u118	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Gentlemen of Ministers! We are debating a very important law, a health law that affects very many Poles. I am very pleased that there is so much involvement in this discussion. The problem is serious, so it needs to be discussed seriously. I am most concerned, and I would like to refer to this, a change, so to speak, the structure of the age and gender of smokers. We can see that now more and more young ladies, young girls, teenage girls are smoking. Just go to the streets of Warsaw, to our village street, where every 10 m stands a beautiful Warsaw woman smoking a cigarette. This is a very bad direction. A lot of these young ladies or girls are pregnant that she doesn't know about. And when they find out, it's too late because the cigarette has already done its wrong job. That's the problem. Another issue that has been mentioned many times here is the dramatic high cost of treating smoking diseases at the level of 14 billion. If only we had succeeded in what Minister Pinkas was talking about here and what I think is the dream of everyone in this room, i.e. a reduction of at least 10% Or 20% of the number of smokers, we'll save a few billion. They could be allocated to underfunded health care, as we all know, or at least a little bit to farmers who produce tobacco. And this tobacco will need less if there are fewer smokers in Poland. I believe that, in the event of such an important problem, we must go the straight way. Without philosophizing, without swinging in the clouds that took place here today when asking questions in this room. So above all, prevention. You have to start education, as it was said here, from the first grade of primary school, from the children, through the upper classes. I'm glad they're disappearing from the middle school map, which was, so to speak, the forge of creating and giving birth to smokers. I also hope that we will never see such an outrageous program as the one Mr. Lis invited Mr. Michnik to, it was probably two years ago, and Mr. Michnik was smoking an e-cigarette ostentatiously. I do not know if he was advertising this cigarette at the time, or whether he emphasized his greatness, because of which he, as the only Pole, was allowed on television, private, to light a cigarette and smoke so that the host, Mr Lisa, could hardly see at times. But I think that's the last time we've had this. As far as savings are concerned, as I said, a 10% reduction is enough. And this money can be spent on limp, underfunded health care and compensate farmers for their losses. I think that the Minister of Agriculture, if he can, will refer to how the Ministry envisages doing this, because we are sure that this law and the procedures that will be implemented will certainly make Poles smoke less. And the ricochet will affect tobacco producers who need help. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-senat-23-2.u119	Thank you very much, Senator. Senator Chudowska.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-senat-23-2.u120	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Gentlemen of Ministers! During the speeches of ministers and questions, we have almost exhausted all the key issues of this law, and as a senator, I will skip all the issues related to the provisions of the law. I would like, however, to remind the High House, as well as the people listening to us, of some important information on tobacco-dependent cancers, prevention and the necessary actions that have already been carried out. I'll tell you about the last meeting at the airport at the bar. There was a break due to the delay in the plane. A young smiling man, the bartender looked at me and watched me, smiled, and asked, "Do you have anything to do with the Senate?" I said yes, I'm a senator. And he said, "I'm counting on you." Well, I've already gotten scared, because it's different for these young people to be counting on us, and I say, well, it depends on what the case is. And he says, in the fight for health and life. And it's me, I have to admit, it's built up, because sometimes, as probably every one of you, I have a sense of, well, doubt whether what we're doing, what we're saying makes sense, and who we're getting to. But this young man really built me up and stood next to Mrs Szymanska. From the epidemiology of cancers, tobacco-dependent cancers are, as everyone knows, lung cancer, laryngeal cancer, oral cancer, throat cancer and oesophageal cancer, but there are also other tobacco-dependent cancers, maybe not with as direct, readable effects as those mentioned, it is stomach cancer, pancreatic cancer, bladder cancer, cervical cancer in women. As I said after the report of the committee meeting, answering questions, I have data from the newsletter of the National Cancer Register of the Centre for Oncology in Warsaw. These are figures for 2013, because these are always data from 2 years ago. We had 156,000 487 cancers in Poland, deaths were 94,000 125, including What did I tell you? 40,000 333 people died of tobacco-dependent cancers. There are about 4,000 different chemicals in the tobacco smoke, including 70 with proven carcinogens, which cause cancer. These are compounds such as ammonia, carbon monoxide, benzopyrene, tar bodies, cadmium, methanol, polonium. If we had received it purely, we would have turned our backs on it with disgust. Speaking about the actions of Polish governments, scientists, professors and oncologists in the fight against nicotineism in Poland, I will mention once again the name of Professor Witold Zatonski, who has intensified... [[Since the '80s.]] Even since the '80s. But since 1995 it's already been social stock from the dead. Primate of Poland Cardinal Glemp I, too, have had the privilege of attending some of these events and meetings. I will also recall Professor Jack Jassem, who in 2010 led the Sejm to establish a law on smoking bans in public places. It was a groundbreaking bill, and we can't forget that either. No matter what you set it up... I think many doctors didn't even need these laws to promote a healthy lifestyle and talk about the harmfulness of smoking. Maybe I can let the senators say a few words about my own business in this field. Since the 1980s, since I took up oncology, I don't know how many lectures and talks I've done where professors, journalists and TV stars aren't going to get there. In rural environments, in clubs, in schools, in workplaces. ♪ And always ♪ Although the demand for trendy cancers, such a trendy cancer is breast cancer My little chat, in general, is called healthier, starting with the fact that the biggest killer of humanity is cigarettes. I give you a number of publications, but I also work them out and sell them. In my professional life, it's going to be tens of thousands, no more. Every publication that I'm doing is the European Code against Cancer, and the first point of this code, the European Code against Cancer, is this: "Don't smoke! If you smoke, stop it! If you fail, do not smoke in the presence of non - smokers! Smooth smoking, as we all know, is as harmful as active smoking. In my workplace, in my establishment, which I created in 1992 and which I drive to this day, no one smokes cigarettes. If anybody's trying to get a job with me The first question I ask is whether this person smokes cigarettes. And I didn't ask the answer: 'I don't smoke at work 'cause I know what it does. Smoking disqualifies. Because if he smokes, it means he won't have a job at my facility, because even if that person doesn't smoke at work, he still thinks most of the day about going out and smoking. There's no benefit from such an employee. Those who have smokers in their workplaces will easily calculate that a few cigarettes are less than an hour's work during the whole day's work. So that this can also be calculated economically. I would even praise the fact that, a few years ago, my statement about the fact that no one smokes at work was in the context of the discussion about the Non-Smoking Act in public places, but I received additional points in the Medical Pulse. I wasn't a senator then. So it's possible, I guess... This has already been emphasised by the ministers, by Senator Łyczak. It's about everybody talking about it. Of course, it's very sad for me... I will also talk about this here, because unfortunately this also applies to many parliamentarians and ministers. It's highly harmful not to say demoralizing when teachers, doctors, nurses, coaches and sportsmen smoke. Smoking doctors and smoking health care are losing credibility, and teachers... Well, they don't do any good. And you have to realize that. In the case of exposed positions, there should be a requirement that no one can see you with a cigarette. It was mentioned in the discussion, in the questions, also to me, about these pictures on cigarettes. I encourage the senators. Because it is usually the case that if the law is not the subject of the work of the committee, then we may not be so interested in it in detail. To take this print because it has a catalog of pictures that are to be posted on packs of cigarettes. Some are very interesting and give you a lot to think about and should also find... What comes to mind? Lung cancer - Yeah, other cancers. Yeah. Well, you lose your beauty, you have atherosclerosis, you have cardiovascular diseases. But the fact that fertility decreases in men and women, that it causes impotence, doesn't happen to all of them anymore. Maybe it's worth the pictures... I mean. It's not worth it, it's just a good thing they're gonna be there. Some are horrible, some are milder. And I've got some posters here. I would not dare to show them to you, but interested persons, if possible, after discussion with me That makes smoking funny; that's also the way to reach young people. During the discussion, Senator Wojtyła stressed the importance of adapting content or campaign to a group of people. Because addressing the same content to everyone doesn't capture it. I remember when I was trained in the United States, they taught me that a poster with a beautiful young woman with beautiful breasts wouldn't encourage an old African-American woman to go do a mammogram. So everything has to be addressed to a particular group of people. The Ministry of Health allowed such posters to be published a few years ago. Maybe they're a little uncensored, which is why I don't dare show them to you, but I have them. These posters are the most impressive for young people. So that warning, fear, fear, but also a joke can cause you to start thinking about addiction properly, that you either throw it away or never take it. Poland free of tobacco. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-senat-23-2.u121	Thank you very much, Senator. Senator Wojtyla.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-senat-23-2.u122	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I am acting to correct that the first provisions concerning the ban on tobacco advertising were not included in today's amendment to the Act, which appeared in 1999. And I do not agree with the Minister here that we are merely replicating solutions that have been introduced in other countries. Because the ban on advertising we introduced in 1999 was one of the first in the world. And this, after 20 years of the anti-smoking law, is emphasized in many countries, in many publications it was said that Poland is a country that introduced very brave solutions in 1999. In 1995 this ban was not possible, although such proposals were made in the Sejm. Because of, as you have said here, the resistance of the villages and the resistance of the companies that produced tobacco, especially tobacco producers. Now we don't have such a problem because tobacco producers are low. And those who produce tobacco, they send him abroad quietly. What's the update today about? Of course, it should have been built five years earlier. I'll tell you why.: When we amended the bill and banned advertising, there were no so-called e-cigarettes. E-cigarettes were first built by Philip Morris in the 1990s. And it was a consequence of anti-smoking activities conducted in the United States. They tried to make society dependent on tobacco in a different way, especially the young generation. They weren't meant to... Because it would be funny if the company that produces tobacco introduced a substance or a way of smoking, the use of tobacco, which would reduce the demand for tobacco. They sought to otherwise addict the young generation, which, as addicted to nicotine, then, at an adult age, will be smokers for life. And that was the intention. E-cigarettes entered the European market, to Poland, only in 2006. Professor Zatonski, as the senator mentioned here, wrote, and I also wrote to Minister Arłukowicz that it is necessary to start fighting by updating the legislation on the effects of smoking in this area. Of course, I don't want to suggest anything here, but Professor Zatonski has been removed from the fight against smoking, from primary prevention. And since then, no money has been given to implement the record that was in the law, in the article. 4 Health Protection Act against the consequences of tobacco use, where there was a reference to primary prevention. I don't think it's random. Because then, in 2015, there was a law on public health that I don't know if accidentally, I don't want to suggest anything here that she deleted from the Act on the Effects of Smoking, which no one knew and no one discussed, mentioned Article. 4, thanks to which we have achieved the greatest health effect in the fight against smoking, a provision on health promotion, prevention, shaping the lack of fashion for smoking, even non-smoking fashion. And this article was accidentally deleted by a completely different law. Ladies and gentlemen, I have been in politics since 1990. I served as a minister, deputy minister, chief health inspector, and I was also a Member 3 times. When I worked on this bill, I was rapporteur twice in Parliament. There are no accidents here. I would like to appeal to the Minister to consider that all this was not done by accident. I know who. He also pressured politicians not to introduce certain solutions. We're now entering e-cigarette records. Ladies and gentlemen, we have been aware of the harmfulness of e-cigarettes since 2011. At first, it was thought that e-cigarettes were less carcinogenic, because they were mainly found in paper. Turns out it's not. Nicotine in e-cigarettes is dissolved in propylene alcohol to which glycerin is added. As a result of heating, a form of aldehyde is formed, acetylaldehyde, which is even more harmful when it comes to... It is a much more carcinogenic substance than many substances that are found in the paper. It was not by chance that no solutions were introduced to limit smoking of e-cigarettes. Just know how to read statistics. Ladies and gentlemen, in 2011 e-cigarettes smoked 200 000 young people They're official statistics. In 2014, there were 1.5 million of them. Most of them are young people who have never smoked. Similar data are available in the United States and Western Europe. This can be read in serious literature published in the world. At the moment, there are a lot of young people who will smoke for the next 40 years. It is not known whether e-cigarettes or normal cigarettes. Of course, they will do so in places dedicated to it, because we are introducing certain limitations. Ladies and gentlemen, was all this done naively or accidentally? A group of young people have been led to smoke tobacco throughout their lives. Was the law accidentally deleted from the bill, which caused the greatest reduction in the number of tobacco smokers? Well, it's a half drop, both among men and women. Since the mid-1990s, mortality from cardiovascular diseases and cancer has also decreased. If we don't... We're talking about health promotion and prevention. Well, that's what we crossed out. There's no talking about health promotion and prevention here. I have here the National Programme for the Prevention of Cancer Diseases, and I see that there is no opinion on prevention, health promotion or health education. All we're talking about is early detection of diseases and buying cancer detection machines. This is not a coincidence, ma'am, that this was the way it was done. As far as tobacco is concerned, this is in the interests of those who produce and rotate tobacco. This is how I view it from the perspective of a policy that has some experience in this area. Anyway, I already talked about it at the committee meeting. When I spoke to the Minister about the complete deletion of prevention and health promotion, I talked about Professor Zatonski, who... I was in Lyon recently at a meeting of directors of oncology institutes from all over the world. I was invited there with Professor Zatonski, who was said to be a hero in the fight against smoking. Those 20 years since the tobacco bill was passed have really been our success, as confirmed by the very serious scientists in the world. We don't have to brag about it. And the professor wasn't even invited to the committee meeting and didn't participate in the work on this amendment. Well, this is a scandal. Yes, Professor Zatonski, who in this field, in health care has made such a leap, has so affected the improvement of the health status of society that it is seen by the World Health Organization, by scientists in the United States, in the West. Ladies and gentlemen, it is no coincidence that you ruled him out, Minister Arłukowicz. He was interfering with his plan. You didn't notice. Ladies and gentlemen, of course, this amendment must be supported by us. I cannot imagine that anyone in this House is not in favour of taking care of the health of Poles. But I'd like to talk about a case like this. I spoke to Minister Pinkas. I think he's gonna keep his word. I will prepare an amendment to this law by introducing those provisions that guaranteed the conduct of health promotion and prevention actions. The senator was talking about these actions, the posters. I do not hide that together with the well-known artist Pągowski already in 1993 we decided, for which criticism fell on me, that the papieros suck. [[But young people like it.]] And Pągowski got the highest prizes in the United States and the world. That's what's most effective for young people. Then we put out a poster that says "Pala," so I smell like a girl with a cigarette and stinks. We've published a poster that says "Mom, don't smoke" in front of me, so that pregnant women don't smoke tobacco. Such actions must be carried out because they have produced the greatest results over the last 25 years. I am aware, I know, that the Minister and Minister Pinkas are very important, so that Poles, young people, do not smoke, are not addicted to nicotine. But I warn you, so my analysis shows that we can be the chandeliers of the planned actions that were implemented by the previous coalition to increase the number of people addicted to tobacco and for the next 40 years in Poland sell tobacco to those who will be addicted to it in various forms. I'm putting this under consideration on the ministerial side. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-senat-23-2.u123	Thank you very much, Senator. Senator Dowhan.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-senat-23-2.u124	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen of the Minister! Of course, no one imagines not to support this bill, Minister, which I very much value. I would also like to add that it is an honor for me to speak after the speeches of doctors, Senators of doctors, as I looked at it. This is a great distinction for me. As I said, no one today imagines not to do everything to reduce smoking, especially among young people, and the questions and discussions, actually alive on the one hand, were intended to gain more knowledge about all that is happening around cigarettes. Very valuable information comes from the numbers themselves. These include not only smokers, but also the cost of treatment and diseases associated with smoking. It is also known that not only those who smoke do harm themselves, but the nearest environment, perhaps the most, suffer from it. Here they are, Minister, these 2 poles: on the one hand health, so we want to do everything, have such a gold patent to ensure that people do not die of smoking-related diseases, on the other hand we have a huge industry in which people work, we have growers and what has so far been tried in many countries, but with different results, we have not always succeeded. I also want to say that I used to smoke cigarettes for a short time, but today, in retrospect, I don't want to go back to that. I can't imagine it. And no ads, no passwords, even if I get paid to get a cigarette. I can't reach him because he disgusts me. He's awfully unappetizing to me today. When you don't smoke and get in a taxi, you can smell it right away if the driver does. You walk into someone's house and you know it. Even if this house is well-ventilated That a householder or a householder smokes in it. It's hard to imagine the times. Young people don't remember it, I remember it, because unfortunately I was smoking at the time. When you could smoke on the plane. I don't think anybody sees a way back to this situation today. I am pleased that I introduced a few years ago the ban on smoking in restaurants, in public places. Well, it's unimaginable tonight that we're having dinner and sitting at the second table smoking cigarettes. I think that the modern European world will not go back to such situations. A good example... I didn't know about that programme in Finland that the Minister was talking about. Finland wants... I didn't understand if they wanted to completely eliminate smoking, to the end to ban smoking. Perhaps, Minister, I lacked something like this today to say about such a long-term program, according to which, let's say, in 10, 15, or maybe 20 years... The point is to signal today that we are going to fight smoking, smoking drugs, etc., and in 2030, for example... we are talking about distant dates, but... 20 years from now, no liquid fuels, and cars are supposed to be organic. Maybe we could build a programme through which in 2020 or 2025, or maybe in 2030, Poland will be a country where you cannot smoke or buy cigarettes or produce cigarettes. Maybe this is a way out. Because it doesn't really go over the cost of treatment and excise revenue, put it on the line and say what's more important. If we're gonna make more money out of excise duty, should we let people smoke? I'm sure you're right here. You emphasized that every cigarette is harmful. Of course, but the information that reached out to those who actually read commercial information said that light cigarettes are as if less harmful, which obviously does not mean that they are harmless. So over time, a lot of cigarettes appeared on the market, which contained less tar, less nicotine, less tobacco. This is the case, for example, with slim cigarettes that were not there 20 years ago. Is that a solution? I don't know about that, but if that information gets pretty clear... If someone has a choice of a cigarette with a higher concentration of nicotine and tar substances and a cigarette with a much lower concentration of these substances... I think that information should be available. Then someone will have a choice. We're not forcing anyone to do anything today. If someone wants to absorb smoke, which in theory is less harmful, then this choice should be given. I really enjoyed Senator Wojtyla's speech. The e-cigarette problem has been ignored for a very long time. As they appeared, they were like salvation for smokers. Everyone was told by adverts that it wasn't really cigarettes that they didn't hurt. And people were smoking in public places, in airplanes, because they thought only a couple were getting out of this device, and it's really something... we didn't talk much about this popular shish... [[Exactly.]] When you walk around town, you see these writings on restaurants. Especially here in Warsaw it is popular, I do not know why. I think it came to us from the East, because it's very popular in the East. This shisha is offered today at every other bar or restaurant. I think it's a big threat, too. It's like it's going through the water, but it's really inhaling smoke. I don't know if someone in the garage inhales the fumes, then after a few minutes, they're gonna pass out and the body's gonna be poisoned. This is a very important problem. I don't know the records, I don't know what the ongoing work at the Ministry of Health looked like, but I think e-cigarettes are the same threat, maybe bigger than ordinary cigarettes, for example because of the unlimited access to them of young people who can buy them freely today and demonstrate smoking, which makes them actually reach for cigarettes later. I know cases like this, and I know parents who have a problem with it today, because normally a young man didn't dare to smoke a cigarette, but the same 15-year-old or sixteen-year-old could legally walk with an e-cigarette and actually a teacher, and even no one could pay attention to it. I'm happy for you, too. I asked the same question and asked it not without a Cossack, because there is a different system of selling tobacco choices in Germany than in Poland. There are so-called vending machines, as you know, which are not allowed in Poland. And very well, because they do not restrict access, anyone can approach, throw money, take a package and light themselves. With us, however, this requirement, which has been introduced, its compliance and controls related to the non-sell of tobacco or alcoholic products to young people, is effective and most tobacco sellers are adapting to this requirement. Fingers crossed for that program you mentioned here, a program that will help more, I think, than bans. I mean, education. Education, a healthy lifestyle, promoting this healthy lifestyle, showing young people the phenomenon of life without cigarettes, without smoke. 'Cause if we went back to the days where everyone at the restaurant next door could smoke and consume dinner, it wouldn't be good. And today it is not tasty just being around smoking, smoking. Fashion is created for a healthy lifestyle. And like you said, posters or even controversial slogans that you invented go to young people. They may make us worse, but they certainly don't make young people worse. Such a slogan really goes into the imagination, especially in the imagination of young people. I wouldn't be afraid of slogans like burning is shit. Happy birthday. Of course I'll support this project. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-senat-23-2.u125	Thank you very much, Senator. Senator Grodzki.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-senat-23-2.u126	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! Minister! Dear guests! Here Mr.Kraska, when I was going to the stand, told me about the practice and it really is. I will limit myself to talking only and only about lung cancer, because this is my daily practice., I will say a joke: I feel a little threatened by unemployment if we pass this bill, but on the other hand not very much, because its positive effects, because of such and not other cancer biology, we will collect only a few years from now. But in order for you to... There were many impressive examples of how dangerous smoking is. Pay your attention: how the plane crashes and 150 people die, especially if it's because of a crazy pilot, or when 80 people are killed by a crazy terrorist, the media are alive. It's been a few days. Meanwhile, in civilized Europe day by day I emphasize: day by day 1 000 people die only of lung cancer, throughout God's year, and this does not arouse anyone's special interest. In Poland, about 20,000 people die of lung cancer a year. It's like a town the size of Stargard, Tczew, this big city has disappeared. I repeat, a year. I must say that so many arguments have already been made here that it is difficult to bore you with a kind of repetition, but I cannot fail to address the dangerous questions of some colleagues who compared financial aspects: pro, against, etc. Ladies and gentlemen, in the Senate, in the Higher House to which we have been elected in one-mandate districts, we cannot even think of such a thing. Because we can say, why treat people for cancer if a large percentage of them die anyway? Why save premature babies of 500, 700 g when they'll probably be sick and consume our money later? Why treat diseases we know are incurable? It is a very dangerous thinking rubbing against the Hitler's slogan: Lebensunwertes Leben We can't do this. One measure of civilization is the attitude towards the old and the sick, and the weak. And I still feel that Poland is a civilized country. Back to practice, I will say that I do not always agree with the proposals of the Ministry of Health, I do not always like what is being passed, but here I have no doubt that this law is a great step in the right direction, although I repeat: because of the biology of cancer we will only collect effects in a few, and in some cases in several years. I don't want to go into detail here anymore. Therefore, if we say "A', we should also say "B'. What we're proposing is primary prevention. We are talking about secondary prevention, that is, early detection of cancers, at ministerial meetings and there is something going on, and I hope that there will be a happy finale in this area. But we should also say C, because still cancers and tobacco-dependent diseases will have to be treated and these expenditures will have to be incurred. The protection of citizens' health by healthcare is one of the pillars of a modern state. And, as I say, sometimes I argue with Minister Radziwill, but here we are completely in agreement. If we move within these 4.3% GDP for health care, we won't get much, we'll get away with a lot of chances. It is our moral duty and the entire parliament to make expenditures on the treatment of Poles and Poles 'Cause that's what you gotta call it. It's a regular increase. This is absolutely necessary and you cannot leave the Minister of Health alone in this field. This is the moral duty of the entire parliament, and especially of the Higher House, which is to make the law better. I am in full support of this bill. Thank you very much. [[The meeting is chaired by Deputy Marshal Grzegorz Czelej]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-senat-23-2.u127	Thank you very much. Please take the floor of Senator Komarnicki.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-senat-23-2.u128	Mr. Marshal! Minister! Mr. and Mrs. Senators! I wasn't going to speak yet this morning, but after the Minister's speech, I also felt internally that I had to take this vote because... Maybe I'll start by saying that the person I loved the most in my life was my father. I rescued him in 1986, he had lung cancer. And I thought that if I transferred him from the primary care doctor in Gorzów Wielkopolski here, to Warsaw, to the famous pulmunologist, former Deputy Minister, Professor Milkdaje, he would save him because he was an authority then. He said, "Leave your father and come back in two weeks, I'll tell you everything." Because I didn't believe my friend, who was chief of the Gorzow hospital, that my father was younger then, as I am today. He's gonna die. I believed this professor, I believed that he was a man of light and that he would save me. When I arrived after two weeks, he took me under his hand and said, "See, this room, I'm gonna give them one lung, they're gonna live." We went to the other room, he told me the same thing. But when we went to the third room where my father was, he said: "Unfortunately, where your patients and your father lie... He'll live three months. He made a mistake three days ago. Those long conversations I had with this wise man made me quit smoking for 20 years, and I don't smoke for 34 years. And there's one more thing I want to say. I couldn't help him. [[There's nothing we can do.]] Those three months were traumatic and dramatic as he died. And that's why in the early 1990s I got so involved in something called hospice. There's a lot of people out there, smokers, dying. I support them because I know how they suffer. I've been supporting you for over 20 years. And today I owe those who have fought this battle. I address the senator, who did not speak as Minister, but as Senator: thank you, Minister, I will remember your speech. I also want to thank those senators who have shown great knowledge and what they have done so far. And that's why I asked you how we'd get into school. I have four grandchildren who are lucky to have a middle school period and don't smoke, but thanks to my conversations with them, I know one thing: we need to get this unconscious youth to the head as often as possible, that it must never be touched, that it must never be touched. And this education should be backed up by huge money, because this is the place of the worst threat. Junior high school. I'm saying this from an autopsy because I deliberately questioned my grandchildren about the situation when it comes to smoking cigarettes. Minister, you said today in your speech that you've gone a little further away from a law more restrictive than this one. Today, I want to assure you that if I continue to sit on these benches and you perform with this restrictive, next amendment of the bill, I will be your advocate. I would very much like to thank you for giving me the opportunity to vote in favour of this bill. I am proud that today we have joined a very bright part of society. This thanks to you, Minister Radziwiłł, because I think as a senator and minister you are one of the initiators. And it doesn't matter to me that I'm in opposition. Thank you so much for your attention. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-senat-23-2.u129	Thank you very much. Senator Chróścikowski, come in.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-senat-23-2.u130	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! We discuss so much, we speak and we repeat ourselves often, that we all support it in this Chamber, because health is the most important thing, that this law introduces solutions that have been expected for a long time... Some of the previous speakers indicated that they should have acted sooner, earlier. I'm sure we have some negligence, we have to be clear, but we also have achievements. In his speech, the Minister himself spoke of a reduction in smoking rates to 50%, which shows that some of the actions that have been taken were... [[Up to 30%.]] Sorry, 30%. ...that there really was the effect of the actions that were taken. But I collide and collide with the tobacco industry all the time, lobbying and lobbying all the time. In the early 1990s, when the companies took over the industry in Poland... These companies are 4 foreign companies, and I don't name them all. Which, you might say, has mastered the market. These multinationals are the owners and they decide on the production. These companies have lobbied, lobbied and already lobbied certain concessions not only here, but during work in the European Parliament, in the European Commission. We have some regulations that... the directive sets deadlines for when certain actions may still be carried out, how many years of authorised production are still in place. Let me remind you that in the case of menthols it is stated that up to 6 years, which means four more years will be allowed to apply... And these derogations are also in this law, because this cannot be changed since it has already been decided in the directive. I remember protests that were partly inspired by industry, because often it is the industry that makes producers, farmers, it is up to them whether they buy tobacco from them or not. Well, if the industry makes an offer and wants to buy raw material, farmers are willing to produce it in accordance with a certain demand; they produce the raw material they need. In 2008 there was a great battle and protest in Brussels; it was said that the European Union was withdrawing from support for industry... especially for tobacco growers who had huge support from the common agricultural policy. And that after 2008 was gradually withdrawn. I would like to point out that the previous governments have made some mistakes. Because once we knew that there would be no support, that there would be only historical payments, that is, for those who want to leave production, from tobacco cultivation... They could have switched to other activities. But when there was a struggle with producers and growers' representatives here in Parliament, the Minister of Agriculture always justified them: you have subsidies, what else do you want, if you have subsidies. These subsidies were only historical subsidies, to leave tobacco cultivation, but the minister always explained to them that they had subsidies. So some took these historical subsidies and left the crop, and the others explained: you are taking subsidies, why do you still want some support? And this policy, which has been applied over the years, has made most farmers grow bigger and bigger. And today there are already plantations not in the order of 0.2 ha, 0.3 ha or 0.5 ha, only covering 1 ha, 5 ha, 10 ha, 50 ha... These farmers have been introduced into modern cultivation technologies, equipment, high-end dryers, specialized, computer-operated. And these growers have so far maintained in the belief that this will be the case forever and so that they will invest. Today we have this topic: but what about these growers? The policy of the previous government was It's like she's not brave enough to say... The European Union's policy, the European Union's common agricultural policy, should move towards support for growers to switch to other crops, for example. Like raspberry, strawberry. These are labor-intensive plants where machines can't replace... In my region, in Lublin, where a lot of tobacco is grown, some of them were such initiators, supporters of changing to malina, to strawberry. They started growing them, and they're still growing them today. And today I can say that... recently on the committee we discussed the so-called. conflict between producers of raspberries, strawberries and tobacco producers. There is a conflict because those who want to have organic crops, especially in this direction, are doomed to the so-called. Sprays, which are sprays on their fields, which go about 500, 1000 m, applied... And at this point, they're exposed to losing their right to grow plants that are very healthy, because they're ecological, without any chemicals. And there's already a conflict between these producers today. This shows that if a clear, conscious policy had been applied earlier, today there would have been much less tobacco production, that there would not have been so many large farms, and that we would have shifted to what is best for us, consumers, i.e. healthy, green food, which really requires a lot of work, spending, and farmers in these regions would have income from it. Hence today, it is necessary to make it clear to farmers and not hide that this time is running out. And it's necessary to apply a policy so that growers can switch to other productions, not keep them aware that they're gonna be... Because there are clear provisions in the Act: by 2020, by 2024. There are deadlines and you'll have to follow them. I appeal to the government to actually take such action. The incentives, other incentives, so that growers do not invest, withdraw from this business, so that there is no conflict. And the lobbying industry, which is, is known to us, because it always appears at committee meetings, we see it in the Sejm, we see it in the Senate where they are, they go and lobby in this matter. He also calls for such action so that he does not lose his income. Because there's a lot of smuggling. We have already paid attention several times in committee meetings to the powerful smuggling from the East. Well, if we tolerate this smuggling, it's a price that's supposed to be a barrage price, because this excise duty results in a barrage price aimed at not smoking, so to speak, forcing these smokers economically to quit smoking... Well, they're half-priced smuggler cigarettes. I wonder why the current government has not yet undertaken intensive work. To limit this smuggling. Well, in bright places, there are people in visible places who sell it out of their purses. Does it take a lot of effort to do this? After all, it is enough to start the action at a few points and these smugglers will stop selling, the operation will cease to exist and the excise duty will increase in the budget. And besides, what's the guarantee here? Because for these legal cigarettes, we have some guarantee that they are at least subject to some existing standards, and as for the smugglers, we do not know what their quality is, how many harmful substances are there. Because everyone says they're light, they're different, and we don't know if they're healthier or healthier, even though they're not healthy or unhealthy, as the Minister himself said. But we can at least eliminate these things. From this point on, I appeal to the government, not to the minister himself, but to the government, to take effective action to improve profitability, to collect excise duty, because people will buy excise cigarettes and not without excise duty. And that's what we're talking about, and that's what we're saying, and that's what we're talking about, and that's what we're talking about, and that's what we're talking And I think that this control that would be put in place can also eliminate, I say, the loss of income. Because we're saying that we're gonna lose excise income in a way, and it might be complementary if we improve our collection like this. I very much support those actions which the government has taken, and the Minister in particular. After almost two years in parliament, there is this bill. The fact that the Commission is threatening to impose sanctions on us because we simply do not implement such rules... They will be implemented as soon as possible, because today we will pass the bill. And we are even going to make concessions by introducing an amendment that the Committee on Health and Rural Development and the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development have tabled to extend this transitional period until the end of the year for industry, which will be able to sell those products that are. This is also an opposite that shows that you can still adapt to these solutions. Our amendment, the committee, is a compromise for industry. Once again, I support the adoption of this amendment law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-senat-23-2.u131	Thank you very much. Please take the floor of Senator Wind.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-senat-23-2.u132	Mr. Marshal! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! We are discussing a very important law on health protection against the effects of tobacco use. Of course, prevention is always better than fighting the consequences. A moment ago, the senator was talking about secondary prevention. I'd call it deep prevention. I'm not a doctor, but what I'm about to say is an important addition to these many statements. In fact, I felt called by the minister who mentioned scouting. Indeed, abstinence in scouting has been going on for more than 100 years. But when Andrzej Małkowski started the Boy Scouts, it wasn't obvious. There was a lot of opposition to that. One of the co-founders was seen to have a brewery, and that made this abstinence from alcohol and tobacco not here... But this abstinence was won. And she is an important distinguishing mark of Polish Boy Scouting, which deviates significantly from what scouting is. Often the words "scout" and "boy scout" are used interchangeably, but this is quite an important error. Scouting organizations say that scouting is scouting. And independence. And by that statement, That scouting equals scouting plus independence The state-of-the-art dimension of Boy Scouting and the struggle for independence, both in 1920 and during World War II, should be understood, but also to build this independence with abstinence and religious education. Andrzej Małkowski's three charisms are often referred to: independence, abstinence and religious education. And the construction of the scouting with these 3 important features caused that already in 1916 at the World Scouts' rally in Birmingham the scouts stood out among the other scouts. Besides, the whole period of World War II showed this too. In the Polish People's Republic with abstinence in Boy Scouts it was different. Therefore, it can be said that horizontal structures or scouting were insubordinate, organized in the circles of scouting instructors Andrzej Małkowski, wore... instructors on scout lilies had a dozen sewn. Ten was the tenth point of Scout Law, which was about abstinence. And we were accused of only following the tenth point. Of course it was all about 10. But the truth is, the other 9 are difficult to verify, and as far as the tenth one is concerned, it's just obvious whether someone is following it or not. I'm talking about all this because an important, deep prevention is upbringing. Education based on values, but also upbringing, which gives young people a big offer. I mean sports, all activities for young people, extracurricular activities, open school, open fields. This is extremely important. First job, too. Young people who graduate and don't have a job run off to alcohol. It's very close to nicotine. That's why you have to see it all. I have to say that there were two methods used in scouting. One was about talking, about education, about books, and the other was even a denial of the method. We weren't talking about harm, we were just putting in this sharp style, and it turned out that it's just our style, our style, we're just the bad guys who are just abstinent. I have to say, in my scouting experience, there were cases when my parents came in and said, "You know, because our son is forcing us not to smoke." And it wasn't rare. This is extremely important. An example is very important, an example of teachers, educators. Well, sometimes the students talked about how your teacher said smoking was bad, and she said it by holding a smoking cigarette. So that the words I speak are an important complement to these medical analyses. Because it's also important to say that in the area that we're talking about, there's this kind of race, this kind of hackering. You said here: e-cigarette, 200,000, 1.5 million. So the producer's lobby is looking for a legal hole like this. And that's why we, in parallel, that in keeping with the law, must also think about raising, about social governance, about values. It's about education, too. I have to say that quite recently articles appeared in the press that the ZHR convention is coming up and there are plans to withdraw from abstinence. And there were huge protests of parents, speeches... So you can see that there is such a expectation of society, and of parents, and of society. Of course, we are very happy about this. But it is also worth thinking about supporting such actions, thinking about such a profound prevention that inculcates values in young people. This, of course, goes far beyond just the protection of health and the matters we are talking about today. But I think he supports it, too. That's why I thank you so much for this bill. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-senat-23-2.u133	Thank you very much. I inform you that the list of speakers has been exhausted. The discussion is closed. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held today. High Izbo, I propose that the agenda be supplemented by items: the Act amending the Energy Law and some other laws and consider it as point seven; consent to the appointment of the President of the National Remembrance Institute of the Polish National Crime Commission and consider it as point eight; the Law amending the Law on civil status and review it after the section on the Law on Government Departments. If I do not hear the opposition, I will find that the High House has accepted the proposal. I don't see any calls. In the absence of any votes against, I find that the Senate has accepted the proposal. [[Talking in the O.R.]] Ladies and gentlemen, after consideration... May I have your attention, please? After considering the point on energy law, a break will be ordered for possible committee meetings and then we will vote on the Tobacco Products Act and the Energy Law Act. After the vote, we will proceed with a point on the appointment of the President of the Institute of National Remembrance. It is possible to hold a secret vote on this matter immediately after considering this point. We proceed with the examination of item 7 of the agenda: the Act amending the Energy Law and some other laws. The text of the Act is contained in print No 246 and the report of the Commission In print No 246 A. [[Talking in the O.R.]] Quiet, please! I ask the rapporteur of the Committee on National Economy and Innovation, Senator Andrzej Stanisławek, to present a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-senat-23-2.u134	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The amending law concerned the Energy Law and certain other laws. This is senate print 246, seym print 653, 694 and 694-A. The draft law amending the Energy Law and certain other laws aims to organise and introduce greater transparency in the fuel and natural gas market. The key solutions in the project concern the systematic ordering of the liquid fuel market and are intended to prevent VAT fraud in the trading of liquid fuels with abroad. Tax issues are the most important for the project, and only to the fundamental extent concerns regulatory and concessional changes and controls. At present, the lack of a coherent system of regulation of economic activities limits the ability of competent public administrations to control fraud. The main changes introduced by the project in the field of liquid fuel trading include: the introduction of uniform definitions of liquid fuels Because so far they have been very unclear; increasing control over the process of the first introduction of liquid fuels into the domestic market; the implementation of the National Indicator Objective... What's that? This is the minimum share of biocomponents and other renewable fuels in fuels sold by petrol stations. In addition: sealing the concession system by restoring the obligation to hold a concession for the marketing of aviation petrol; extending the obligation to lodge a financial security for the trading of LPG with foreign countries; introducing a new type of concession for the handling of liquid fuels; strengthening the President of the Energy Regulatory Office as a regulator of the liquid fuel market by introducing new control powers for that authority and adding new reporting obligations for that regulator by liquid fuel operators; introducing uniform criminal liability for all types of legal entities for operating without concessions and, in the case of the importing entity, for importing fuels without registration; increasing access to market operators' information by ensuring the transparency of registers and lists of operators operating on the fuel market. The natural gas market. The proposed changes in the natural gas market aim primarily at sealing the system of holding stocks of mandatory natural gas. The current regulation makes it possible to avoid this obligation, so the project envisages extending it, while providing for flexibility in the way it is implemented. It imposes an obligation to maintain stocks of mandatory natural gas on gas importing entities and to remove the possibility of obtaining exemption from this obligation, inter alia. by small sellers, but introduces the so-called. Ticket agreement. So it will be possible from other entities that are able to store, to buy such a volume. The project aims to remove legal barriers to the supply of LNG gas to Poland. Introduces the need to obtain the consent of the Energy Minister in the event of a planned construction or 'Cause that's what's happened. Dismantling of the transmission pipeline. The committee was sitting this morning. It was quite a substantive discussion. Welcome here, Minister Naimski, who has been at the committee since the beginning and has presented the main principles of the law, which is what I have already said. He also explained why this bill should enter at such a rate, because there were reservations not only of the senators of the opposition, but of all of us that it is so quickly processed. Ladies and gentlemen, that's why it's so procedated that we have a long summer break. The gas market is governed by a little bit of other rights in relation to reporting systems and clearing systems. The settlement begins on 1 October. So we're gonna shut this whole thing down until we get in... If this bill doesn't come in, it's actually going to be a year and a half from the VAT seal. And that's what the Minister was talking about. The biggest problems concern bank guarantees, which are to be equal to PLN 10 million for all companies. And that's what the Minister said. Mr Maciej Małecki, who is the rapporteur, spoke about the grey area, which concerns up to 15%. This is mostly about diesel, but then it became clear that not only did it. Mr. German patron, our legislator, who has been involved in the bill since the beginning, has made no comments to it. Senator Augustyn was concerned about the situation of small companies, for which the 10 million may actually be a problem, because obtaining bank guarantees involves fees, and perhaps not all companies will be able to secure such money. Right? A counselor in the Ministry of Minister Naimski, Mr Jackowski, also replied. He explained to us in turn, point by point all the major changes that have taken place in this law, above all by stressing the closer control of imports of fuels, the role of the URE and penalties for the lack of concessions. I don't know if you Senators know that there's a penalty of only 500 zlotys for the lack of a license. So that you can trade fuel, pay the penalty... [[$5,000.]] $5,000? $5,000. Sorry. Zero's lost. Senator Augustyn was in favour of these concession fees for smaller gas companies being different because it could eliminate small companies from the gas market. Mr Maciej Bando, President of the Energy Regulatory Office, said that he absolutely supported the law because it concerns a very large number of entities, almost 8 000 entities, and now all these entities What may prove to be a problem for these companies will have to report everything that happens in the company. Right? Where they buy, who they buy from... All information that is in the company will have to be transmitted to the Energy Regulatory Office. The concession should be displayed in a visible place, because you believe that the president is the one who believes in the company. Minister Naimski explained that at this stage there is no possibility to change the concession fees because... I must tell you that we have not yet introduced this law, and information has already appeared that large companies that operate at the border of zones are fleeing from liquid fuels to liquid gas. If we reduce the concession fees for liquid gas, it may turn out that this bill will be leaky. The committee was attended by representatives of the Polish Chamber of Liquid Gas, the Polish Liquid Gas Organisation and the Polish Oil Industry and Trade Organisation. The Polish Chamber of Liquid Gas represented Mr Sobieralski, who said that gas represents only a few percent of the energy used in Poland and is so-called. energy for the poor that all these regulations concern diesel, to a lesser extent gas. However, he stressed that the security for gas is very high for small companies and could pose some problem in their development or even cause the liquidation of these companies. He stressed that VAT on gas is paid at the border This is done in tax collections and spills are, so to speak, except VAT. He also emphasized that Orlen's pumping plants have small businesses. That's a very interesting statement. These warehouses are very scattered, which is quite safe for Poland We have small fuel companies everywhere that keep gas in their tanks. Polish Liquid Gas Organisation had reservations on the inclusion of detailed information on the companies from which they buy the gas with which they trade on the websites of companies involved in gas trading. The Polish Oil Industry and Trade Organisation represented by Mr Jakub Ruszzel supported this law in its entirety, stating that it is very good. On the part of the representative, it has been stated that the grey zone in the gas trade represents 5 and 10%. There are different sizes of entrepreneurs. According to him, a security of 10 million should not be called into question because the cost of bank guarantees is between 30 and 60 000 per year depending on the size of the company. Members of the committee in Andrzej Stanisławek and Adam Gawada proposed two amendments, which you have on your electronic media. These amendments have been tabled. One amendment concerns Sekundeka, so that I don't get confused... Amendment 1 aims to correct the scope of the obligation to achieve the national indicative target and limit it only to regulations with liquid fuels or liquid biofuels in Poland. Amendment 2 aims to clarify the obligation for energy companies licensed to produce liquid fuels and to trade in liquid fuels from abroad only in the field of LPG. She deals with vacathio legis, postpones the entry into force of this security at the level of 10 million for gas dealers by 3 months from the date of entry into force of the Act. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-senat-23-2.u135	Thank you very much. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the rapporteur's senator. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? I don't see any calls. [[Excuse me, one more word. I didn't mention Senator Klein, who was a little dissatisfied with the lack of further discussion. Excuse me, Mr. Senator. The lack of time...]] [[I proposed to extend the period so that we could prepare amendments to this law in a responsible manner, but the majority's power decided that we would proceed as we proceed.]] [[Thank you, and I'm sorry.]] Thank you very much, Senator. The draft law was introduced by Members. Does a government representative wish to speak on the bill under consideration? I cordially welcome Minister Piotr Naimski. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-senat-23-2.u136	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Just two words, maybe two sentences. This is the law, which is the second, twin law against the one that has already been proceded and signed by the President, which concerned the sealing of the VAT system. So we divided that what was tax was brought by the Ministry of Finance, and what was involved in concessions, energy law, by Members of the Sejm. It was so good that the bill you are now investigating has already had references, and that was necessary, to the one that was signed by the President on 7 July. These laws, we all hope so, and in government, and in ministries, in ministries, I can say, in government as such, these 2 laws together will make those billions that are spilling out sideways to where they should be directed, i.e. to companies where the gray zone undermines competitiveness, and to the Treasury, where appropriate taxes should go. Thank you very much to the House for looking kindly at the fact that we want to proceed on this really quickly. Professor, the senator has provided an explanation. Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-senat-23-2.u137	Thank you very much. Please stay for a while. [[Secretary of State at the Chancellery of the Prime Minister Piotr Naimski: Okay, sorry. This is not an escape, Mr. Marshal.]] [[Joy in the Chamber]] Of course. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of questioning to a government representative related to this item on the agenda. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? I don't see any volunteers. Thank you very much, Minister. [[Secretary of State at the Chancellery of the Prime Minister Piotr Naimski: Thank you.]] I'm opening a discussion. Please take the floor of Senator Augustine.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-senat-23-2.u138	Mr. Marshal! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! As the President said, thank you for your very thorough report. As the Minister emphasized, this is already announced and supported by the members of the Committee on National Economy and Innovation, a move which aims to seal the trading of fuels, where we are aware of it and there has been very large, most likely counted in billions of gold abuse. You have to do it. You have to try. No one has any illusions that this is the last attempt, that it will certainly succeed, because entrepreneurs are always in front of legislators and they will certainly try and look for it. That's it... [[Criminals, not entrepreneurs.]] Criminals, yes, criminals, not real entrepreneurs. Thank you, Senator. Indeed, we are proceeding in express mode on this matter. This is a very large presentation, which concerns economic turnover, detailed technical and administrative issues, and it must be said that we had a really small amount of time for this. We weren't able to work this out exactly, which is why, as the president said, Senator rapporteur It has already been reported at the committee meeting that this law will probably need to be improved. We could say, okay, let's wait calmly for the review announced in this bill as well, announced by the Minister, and then let's make the correct corrections, but let's not delay in plugging this hole through which our public money escapes if not one but. During the discussion it turned out that this small section attached to this law, concerning the trade in LPG... These are probably not fully thought out in terms of rationality. I ignore the fact that in the fuel sector, the scale of abuse is estimated at around 20%, and in this segment at around 5% or less. The worst part is that out of about 90 companies that operate in the market for natural gas, actually 5 and 7 are large companies, the others are small and medium-sized companies. They were all already obliged to have a license, but now they will also be obliged to... Actually, the exception applied to the kind of companies that released them from the provision of property security is abolished. It was introduced earlier when they tried to seal the system. It was considered that the scale of abuse in this sector is small and that the number of small operators so dominant that the introduction of this security, especially at a high level and not wishing to differentiate in size, would be a nail to the coffin for most of these companies. Now, however, the government proposes to extend the full security obligation to these companies as well. Ladies and gentlemen, these companies are earning revenues of about PLN 20.30 million per year, and the amount of collateral they would provide would actually amount to PLN 20 million. For these companies it is absolutely unbearable and they are 100% they must disappear from the landscape of economic life. There were dramatic voices... A representative of such a company from Opole spoke about how he built it, how he invested it, how he brought his sons back to continue his activities, and how all this now, as a result of this one move, will be destroyed, the achievements of his entire life. And yet, as far as such a small group is concerned, there are really other tools to ensure that companies are protected if there are such entities in this small group. - which could be abused. We respect and really understand the intentions of the Ministry, we support this direction, we are opposed to excluding LPG from the requirements of this Act, but I think we should seek a compromise here in the Senate. Let these big companies actually pay this full-time security, but let's make an exception for small and medium-sized companies. We therefore propose that this amendment, which... because it is also necessary to give justice to the ministry, which itself proposed a transitional period for such companies, suggesting changes to the article. 23. But it seems to us, Minister and President, that this is not enough. What can change this shift by 3 months, since we already know the diagnosis of the situation today? What can change? Whoever can't pay won't pay anyway, so why wait for this amendment? We are therefore suggesting that the provisions proposed by the Ministry should be added to this situation. Article 2a 23 as follows: And that too, Minister, very temporarily. In 2016 and 2017 the asset security referred to in Article. 38a of the Law as amended by Art. 1. for the entities referred to in paragraph 1. It's a matter of art. The revenue of which in 2015 did not exceed PLN 50 million is PLN 3 million. That's as much as... We heard about it during the debate. You asked if it was possible for these people to pay... Let them pay, let it be registered, let this concession involve a financial commitment, but let it be done in a precise manner, i.e. so that those who can afford it pay as much as others 'Cause, once again, we're just putting up with an exception. And those who can't afford it, those who run medium-sized and small businesses, also pay not very little, but as much as they can. Mr. Minister said he would. The law also provides for this. That in 2017 a general review of the functioning of these laws will be carried out. And then you can go back to that. If it turns out there's a way to increase that security, then let's do it. And today I appeal to the senators and to the Minister for flexibility in this area. I fully respect your intentions and efforts, but let's do it so that these honest market participants can function on it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-senat-23-2.u139	Thank you very much. Would any of you like to take the floor in the discussion? I don't see any volunteers. [[Excuse me, Mr. Marshal, just one more word.]] You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-senat-23-2.u140	In my emotions, I forgot it wasn't just my amendment. I have expressed my concern about this matter with Senator Kleina, so I am making this amendment on behalf of both of us. Mr. Senator, thank you for your cooperation and for your contribution to its preparation.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-senat-23-2.u141	Thank you very much. I inform you that the list of speakers has been exhausted. Does a government representative want to respond to the proposals put forward? [[Secretary of State at the Chancellery of the Prime Minister Piotr Naimski: Can I have a seat, Mr. Marshal?]] Yes, yes, of course, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-senat-23-2.u142	Can you hear me? [[Voice from the room: Yes.]] Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Just one correction. It's a security deposit. It's not a charge. The excise duties are not amended in this Act, and this is about security. Well, such security also costs, because from the financial institution, from the bank, it is necessary to obtain from a dozen to several tens of thousands of zlotys a year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-senat-23-2.u143	Thank you very much. As legislative proposals have been made, I ask the Committee on National Economy and Innovation to respond to the proposals put forward and to prepare a report. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held today. I'm about to announce a recess for the committee meeting. As I said earlier, we will also vote on the Tobacco Products Act and the Energy Law Act. I would like to inform you that the legislative proposals in writing... [[Voice from the room: Two more votes left.]] ...you put Senator Augustine and Senator Klein together. The discussion is closed. I'm declaring a half-hour break... [[We've got an announcement to make.]] Please read the message.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-senat-23-2.u144	Thank you very much. Communication: the meeting of the Committee on National Economy and Innovation on the examination of proposals for the Law amending the Energy Law and some other laws, print No 246, will take place today, 21 July 2016, 10 minutes after the announcement of the break in session, in room 182. Thank you. [[Adjournment from 14 minutes 15 to 14 minutes 45]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-senat-23-2.u145	I'm reopening the session. We return to the examination of item six of the agenda: the Act amending the Health Protection Act against the consequences of tobacco and tobacco products. The Committee on Health and the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development have presented single-sounding draft resolutions in which they request amendments to the Act; Senate prints No 229 A and No 229 B. In the first place, the amendments will be voted on, followed by a resolution on the bill in its entirety, with amendments resulting from the amendments adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Amendment 1 is intended to use the right word. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 77 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 63]] Amendment 1 was accepted. Amendments 2 and 3 should be voted on together. They are aimed at adapting the law to the conceptual network of the Civil Code. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 79 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 64]] Amendments 2 and 3 were accepted. Amendment 4 is editorial. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 80 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 65]] The amendment was accepted. Amendment 5 aims to use the concepts defined in the Act correctly. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 80 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 66]] Amendment 5 was accepted. Amendments 6 and 7 should be voted on together. They are editorial. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 79 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 67]] Amendments 6 and 7 were accepted. Amendment 8 allows information on tobacco products to function at points of sale by 31 December 2016. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 82 Senators voted, 81 for, 1 against. [[Voting No 68]] Amendment 8 was accepted. We are voting on the adoption of a resolution on the adoption of the law in its entirety, with amendments resulting from the amendments adopted. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 83 Senators voted, 81 for, 1 against, 1 abstention. [[Voting No 69]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the Act on amending the Health Protection Act against the consequences of the use of tobacco and tobacco products. We return to the examination of item seven of the agenda: the Act amending the Energy Law and some other laws. A meeting of the Committee on National Economy and Innovation took place at the end of the session, which responded to the proposals put forward during the debate and prepared a report on the matter. It is in print No 246 Z. I ask the rapporteur, Senator Stanisław... I apologize very much, Andrzej Stanisławek, for presenting the report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-senat-23-2.u146	The Commission unanimously supported Amendments 1 and 2, and But not unanimously, it was against Amendment No 3, i.e. the amendment of Senators Augustine and Kleina. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-senat-23-2.u147	Thank you very much. Do the senators of the applicants still want to speak? Senator Mieczysław Augustyn... No. Thank you. We'll proceed with the vote. In the first place, the amendments will be voted on, followed by a resolution in full, with amendments resulting from the amendments adopted. Amendment 1 aims to limit the scope of the obligation to implement the National Indicator Objective only to the Regulation with liquid fuels and biofuels in the territory of the Republic of Poland. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 83 senators voted, 82 for, one abstention. [[Voting No 70]] Amendment 1 was accepted. Amendment 2 aims to clarify the obligation for undertakings licensed to produce or trade LPG in respect of the provision of property security. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 86 senators voted, 85 in favour, one senator abstained. [[Voting No 71]] Amendment 2 was accepted. Amendment 3 aims to reduce the amount of the asset security, up to PLN 3 million, by traders licensed for the production or marketing of LPG, whose revenues in 2015 did not exceed PLN 50 million. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 86 senators voted, 30 were in favour, 54 against, two senators abstained. [[Voting No 72]] Amendment 3 was rejected. We are voting on the adoption of a resolution on the adoption of the law in its entirety, with amendments resulting from the amendments adopted. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 86 senators voted, 60 were in favour, no one opposed, 26 senators abstained. [[Voting No 73]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the Act amending the Energy Law and some other laws. We proceed with the examination of item 8 of the agenda: consent to the appointment of the President of the Institute of National Remembrance of Crimes against the Polish Nationals. Let me remind you that according to the article. Article 10 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 of the Act of 18 December 1998 on the Institute of National Remembrance, the Commission for the Investigation of Crimes against the National Polish President of the Institute of National Remembrance, hereby appoints the Sejm with the consent of the Senate. The Sejm called for this position of Mr Jarosław Szark, and the resolution of the Sejm on this matter is included in Senate printing No 253. I would like to welcome to the Senate meeting the President of the Institute of National Remembrance, Mr Jarosław Szark, appointed by the Sejm. Hello, sir. Hello, sir. [[Applause]] I would like to remind you that the Senate may, before adopting a resolution, call on the candidate for a position to provide explanations and answer the senators' questions. Do any of you senators want to ask President Jarosław Szark a question... [[Senator Waldemar Slugocki: Marshal Borusewicz.]] ...or ask for an explanation? You're Marshal Borusewicz, aren't you? You're welcome. And your president, in that case, please go to the speaker. Because there will be questions, requests for statements. Yeah, well, you're welcome to the podium. And Mr. Marshal will now make a question or request. You're welcome, Mr. Marshal.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-senat-23-2.u148	Doctor, I would like to ask you a question about the inclusion in the Institute of the Council for the Protection of Martyrdom and Combating Memory, namely taking over the powers of the Council, in a completely different area than the one in which the Institute has worked so far. How do you see it? How will the powers of the Council be exercised regarding the protection of cemeteries, monuments, especially outside the country? And one more question about it. Do you have any concerns that the Russian Federation, which had signed an agreement with the Council for the Protection of the Remembrance of Combat and Martyrdom... [[I'm already worried about Russia.]] ...will not use it as a pretext to withdraw from this agreement? Because, you know, there's another subject at the moment. Isn't there any signal? And how are you gonna counter something like that?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-senat-23-2.u149	Thank you very much. Mr. President, wait a minute. Senator Żaryn. You're welcome. There'll be three questions each. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-senat-23-2.u150	Doctor, in my first question, I would like to know from you, given your previous work in the Kraków Department of the Institute of National Remembrance, about two issues. Because you're an employee of the educational staff. I understand that in this connection, among the new tasks of the Institute of National Remembrance, education will become a leading topic for you. How do you see this particularly in view of the possibility of conducting discussions, a dialogue which the previous president did not have to do so, with various ministries, which are also competently responsible for Polish historical policy, for Polish education? How do you see this education conducted by the IPN in the context of discussions with other entities with similar tasks? And the second question, in advance, is emotional. Do you? And if so, what would you like to take from the achievements of the sacred memory of Janusz Kurtyka?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-senat-23-2.u151	Thank you very much. Mr. Senator Jackowski. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-senat-23-2.u152	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. I have one question for now. Namely, Mr President, I would like to ask you about your three most important priorities, which, in your term of office, you would have seen, also in connection with the amendment of the Act on the Institute of National Remembrance and with the new tasks imposed on this fine institution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-senat-23-2.u153	You're welcome, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-senat-23-2.u154	Mr. Marshal! This issue of the liquidation of the council, taking over the powers of the council and distributing them between the Institute of National Remembrance, one of its newly appointed offices, and the Ministry of Culture is indeed controversial... i.e. I'd call this controversy press. Many articles have already appeared, in which concerns are expressed, among others. just about the fate of Polish cemeteries abroad. The funding of these cemeteries and the care of them remain the responsibility of the Ministry of Culture, and the Institute of National Remembrance deals with the educational and promotional sphere concerning these memorial sites, Polish cemeteries abroad. I don't think there should be any conflict here with goodwill. I do not hide, however, that this will be the subject of one of the first conversations I would like to have with Minister Gliński, Minister of Culture, Deputy Prime Minister, so as to possibly communicate on those possible fields where conflicts or disputes may arise. Second line. I don't think it's going to affect our relationship or that Russia is somehow going to question the agreements we signed earlier. I'll tell you more: we want... I mean. I intend to be the President of the Institute of National Remembrance, and it is this law that gives me this right, to a greater extent, to benefit from various initiatives just for the sake of education, to commemorate different places. One such issue Very difficult, but I believe that the state of Polish graves and memorial sites at the former ends of the Republic of Poland, in the East, in Ukraine, and especially in Belarus is demanding. There these places are commemorated, sometimes by private individuals or local associations. I know exactly what you're talking about. More, I want to take the initiative to make next year This is the year that precedes the century of independence. In Bobrujsk, Belarus, where Polish corpses were formed in Russia, where Dowbor-Muśnicki fought, later known as the commander of the Greater Poland Uprising, was somehow commemorated. Now there is no trace of it all, although over tens of thousands of Poles have come through the fortress of Bobruj. If you go to Powęzki, you will see that there is a miniature of such a mound, commemorating everyone who died in Bobrujsk, soldiers of General Dowbor-Muśnicki. There are certain dangers, of course, but I believe that with good will and willingness to agree... For my part, that's the will I declare. Everyone who's worked with me for years, who knows me, knows I won't miss it. About the senator's question about educational issues... Ladies and gentlemen, during the meeting with the Members of the Parliament, I spoke about the terrible education of Polish young people. It's caused by... it's confirmed by every person who's involved in education at every level, high school, or high school. I deal with young people in each of these stages. It's a really sad thing, and the thing that we have to... On us, the Polish state has a duty to take care of these things. For my generation and for yours, Mr. Marshal Borusewicz, the time of solidarity... Please note that the young people have chosen... that they are attracted to the generation of post-war anti-communist underground, the history of the steadfast Soldiers of the Cursed, and that solidarity, the greatest freedom movement in our part of Europe, the movement that has changed the face of Europe, changed the world's face, the sign of solidarity, and the word that was the most famous Polish word among the young generation does not arouse any emotions. More, these important names, these symbols, these places, they don't say anything to young people. I know a lot about this from experience. I do not want to give examples, because this is about many years of systemic negligence and mistakes in the Polish education system. One could say that the breakthrough moment, the event that led to great havoc in this field, was the removal of history from general education schools five years ago and, you can say, the degradation of high schools. Most young people finish their history education in the first year of high school and then no longer have any contact with history. August 1980 How many postulates where the most famous strike in Gdańsk Shipyard began, in which it was the year Many people don't know anything about it. There are a lot of witnesses living because this generation is people of age. Since then, since August, 36 years have passed, we will soon have an anniversary. We held meetings with participants of these events in Krakow, and when it was done when it was the will, the young people were very... Because it's the best. That's what I think. History lesson. I believe that reading is a fundamental issue. You have to go back to reading and this school must impose requirements that you should read. Another element is to touch this living story, and best to meet with the witness of history. This is the first element. The second important element is the symbolic return That's what I call it. To the End, to restore this whole tradition. We in Poland today were in the Sejm talking about the tradition of the Republic of Poland, this multi-national, multicultural tradition We don't have Kres museums today. A young generation... It's not just the martyrdom. This is the land from which many representatives of our culture originate. We organized, among others. for a young generation tour along the trail of Adam Mickiewicz, the trail of heroes of Trylogia. And that's what we want to continue at the National Remembrance Institute. More than that, my plan is also... As far as the Institute of National Remembrance is concerned, the word "Institute" means that it is a research facility. It is known that the community of historians, scientists, creates the foundation of the Institute of National Remembrance, but issues that are examined in the institute, scientific publications of the institute reach the narrow circle of recipients. These are the publications of 500, 1,000 copies. I would like every such publication to be also popularized in the form of educational publications or on the Internet, so that their language is accessible and that these researches become social. It's the most important thing for Senator Jackowski to ask. Education, education at many levels is a priority. I could talk about this for a long time. I'd like to focus on getting the work of each of the verticals to work. After all, a new line of research and identification is being created, even the prosecutor's post was also presented on an educational, popular level. The priority, as I said, is education. Scientific research is involved in education. I think the Institute of National Remembrance has the potential to study such a duty also introduced a new law New thematic scopes. It's coming in all the 20th anniversary between the Wars. There were such events that do not exist in the public consciousness at all, and which need to be investigated, whereas the group of historians dealing with them at the Institute of National Remembrance itself is small. I would also like to open the Institute to external environments, to universities, to cooperation. Speaking of the Ends just now, about events completely unknown, I would like to mention, for example, the year 1937 - next year will be the anniversary. In which the operation of the Polish NKVD took place, within which more than 111 thousand of our compatriots were murdered only for being Poles. We won't read about it in school textbooks, there aren't many books on it. There are opportunities to investigate these issues, even in the Russian archives, even in spite of the poor relations we have with Russia. But if there's a will, you can do it. And another important, one can also say that one of the key priorities: search, identification. This is a very important thing. As for this, I will give full support to Professor Krzysztof Szwagrzyk and his team. Besides, these cases are also legally resolved at the moment. The whole pawn was created. This is, ladies and gentlemen, a historical action, but it also stems from our belonging to Latin civilization. we need to find our heroes and bury them with dignity. First of all, this activity is another educational promotion of Polish history abroad. But it'll be effective then... We will not carry out this promotion with single articles in the Western press if we can argue about this term We will not do it here in Poland. It's also supposed to be working with cultural environments to make films, books about it, so it's all going to be popular. [[The meeting is chaired by Deputy Marshal Grzegorz Czelej]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-senat-23-2.u155	Thank you very much. Senator Major. Ask me a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-senat-23-2.u156	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Mr. President! I'll refer to the educational threads. Education in IPN is education in environments, i.e. the proximity of IPN to environments that can be educated. The region of Częstochowa, from which I come, had an IPN delegation at one time, but this delegation was closed down, although it is functioning. There's two or three more employees out there. But I would like to ask: Mr President, do you, under favourable circumstances, see the possibility of a delegation restaurant in the Częstochowa region? The Częstochowa region is... Częstochowa is the 12th largest city in Poland and this research area seems important. That's the first question. If you don't mind, I'm gonna ask you a second question right away. And the second question concerns historical reconstruction groups. Does the President envisage a greater opening of the Institute of National Remembrance to historical groups, which affect the period of the Second Republic of Poland, the interwar period, and for which, it seems, such substantive support would also be extremely valuable? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-senat-23-2.u157	Thank you. Maybe another question. Okay? Mr. Marshal Borusewicz. Ask me a question. [[Talking in the O.R.]] Marshal Borusewicz will ask you a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-senat-23-2.u158	Thank you very much. Doctor, I want to ask you a question about what you said in the Seym. Well, you said that the crimes in Jedwabne... were carried out by the Germans. Therefore, do you review the research, the results of the IPN study, which in 2003 concluded that this crime was committed by Poles, the people of Silk, and thus that the perpetrators of this crime were Poles, the people of Silk? There were Germans in the background, but the evaluation... [[Voice from the room: Were you there?]] ...the assessment on the basis of the material collected by the IPN was unambiguous in this regard. Are you reviewing the results of these tests? [[Thank you very much...]] And if so, on what grounds?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-senat-23-2.u159	Doctor, please, there were three questions.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-senat-23-2.u160	The first thing is Częstochowa's case. This is actually as far as possible. It's not just Czestochowa's problem, but it's also... The structure of the IPN is that there are branches, there are delegations in smaller towns. In fact, Częstochowa deserves not only because of its size, because here it is not the greatness that determines, but the historical place on the map and such a spiritual place on the map of Poland's history for the active presence of the Institute of National Remembrance. We have limited resources. As long as it is possible, we will not only want this delegation to exist there, but some delegations in cities such as: Kielce, we're gonna want to up the ranks of the squad, even though we know it's not in every city. This is my idea for the National Remembrance Institute: I want to go outside with the National Remembrance Institute. The Institute of National Remembrance itself will not do everything because it is not possible, but we want extensive cooperation with local backgrounds dealing with history. I met here before the Sejm, we talked a lot, Mr Andrzej Kołodziej, a legend of the Solidarity, certainly known to the Marshal, the initiator of the Pomeranian Historical Initiative. We want to work with these types of actors. We want to work with reconnaissance groups. Us, for example. In Krakow we have such cooperation, we repeatedly exploit this potential of young people. They must feel the support of the Institute of National Remembrance, because this is our capital. Looking at history, we can't tell the meaning of history at all. We are often accused that we will now have an active historical policy and we will change our view of history. No, that's not gonna happen. Ladies and gentlemen, there must be a generational change, and it must change in social consciousness. And it happened many years ago, and it happened among the young generation. I remind you, Mr. Marshal, the '90s. What we have done with the movement of Solidarity, that today the symbol of the end of communism is not this gate in flowers with the portrait of John Paul II or Our Lady in Gdansk, in the yard. Lenin, just tearing down the Berlin Wall? Because in the '90s... Like we said here, history doesn't matter that it's Styrofoam, that it's Combatancy. We have not taken care of this, and others have used this symbol today, and the icon of the end of communism are not those scenes of August 1980 that started this process. He really started in Poland many years earlier, and August 1980 was such a decisive, breakthrough stage. But we didn't take care of it because the icon of the end of communism is the destruction of the Berlin Wall. One last thing, Silky. Mr. Marshal, I am not questioning the provisions of this 2003 investigation. Part of my speech was chosen, half of my sentence quoted, yes, half sentence. I said the contractor was a group, a handful of Poles. I didn't question that. I just said that the German totalitarian system was responsible for this. Ladies and gentlemen, there is the 1907 Hague IV Convention, which goes even further and states But I didn't say that. In the occupied area, the invader is responsible for the crimes committed in this area, because it is society, these people are not the subject of this occupation. I did not say that Poles, a group of Poles used in some way or under compulsion, degenerate... We can't quite recreate it today. But, Mr. Marshal, history is such a science that there may be new documents, some new testimonies, as with other issues, and it will have to be taken up again. But I beg you, I beg you, let us not reduce at the very beginning of the Institute of National Remembrance to one topic, and this is the subject of such sensitive, so difficult, causing so many disputes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-senat-23-2.u161	Thank you very much. I'm asking Senator Jackowski to ask you a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-senat-23-2.u162	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. I have two questions. First: how would you possibly see, in the face of difficulties in developing institutional cooperation with Russian archives, the possibility of cooperation with centres such as Memorial, such as a little independent Russian centres, the possibility of some institutional cooperation in this area? Especially since the scope of the Institute's activities was extended until 1917, so without these archives it would be difficult. And second question. Does the doctor think that there should be an extended catalogue of people who are being illegible, but in such a way as to rationalise the way of examining property claims, e.g. Aldermen candidates, because they're tens of thousands... [[What do you mean, property? A fortune?]] [[Voice from the Mirror Room.]] Mirrorous, sorry. Tens of thousands of people... broadened, I do not know, about the scientific staff at the state universities, I stress: state-owned journalists in public media or cultural people who work at the same time in some managerial positions, e.g. as the director of the theater or this kind of... In your opinion, should this catalogue be extended? Thank you. [[Established by the Sejm President of the Institute of National Remembrance, the Commission for the pursuit of Crimes against the Polish National Jarosław Szarek: Replying...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-senat-23-2.u163	Okay, then I'm asking you to answer these questions. [[Just briefly, if you don't mind.]] Please provide specific answers to these questions.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-senat-23-2.u164	Good. This cooperation is already open and I am open to such cooperation. Not only with the Memorial, but also with all the other similar institutions that study history and deal with it. And many things, despite the overall bad climate, as I say, can be extracted from Russian archives. That was the first question. And the second question, about... [[About expanding the directory.]] Yes. That's even... Legislative work is already underway on the question of the shape of the vetting. In short, the court is to be lifted. There is indeed a problem here. At this point, there's a solution. And that's the problem. The fact that 300,000 claims are not yet proven. I think it was a matter of some omission... all the candidates are being mirrored. My idea. With these legal assumptions, which are the case, each candidate should make a illustrative statement, but only the one who has been elected as councillor should be mirrored, etc. The second point is, of course, a competition of public trust and certain categories... this also applies to journalists, as much as possible.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-senat-23-2.u165	Thank you very much. Senator Pop, ask me a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-senat-23-2.u166	Thank you very much. Doctor, I will say in the first words that I am very pleased, as Senator of Krakow's land, that the president of the IPN, such an important institution, will be from Krakow. I'm very happy for you. And as for the question... I have a question about the publication of the reserved set, what it will look like 'Cause that's gonna happen under your rule. The issue of publishing this collection from the IPN archives. What's your attitude towards publishing a restricted set, the one at the government level? Because it's kind of a two-track thing. Is this supposed to happen, and if so, how fast? How important is this matter from the point of view of educational policy, historical truth?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-senat-23-2.u167	That's what I'm saying. It's been almost 30 years since 1989. We cannot build foundations for free independent Poland on some assets of a communist totalitarian state. I'm in favour of making the file public as far as possible. As for the proprietary collection, it can be said that it actually ceased to exist. This cannot be the case... High expectations of the Institute of National Remembrance have been aroused regarding the disclosure of the proprietary collection, but certain elements of this collection have a clause issued by the current civil service ministers or the Ministry of National Defence. I think we need to... I don't know what's in the restricted set. I don't know what's in the restricted set, but it should be a clear message... If we don't reveal something from the proprietary collection, then the public should know why. I don't know what's in there, but if it's there, for example. Something about some kind of military infrastructure... This response, I think, will cause us to look at the restricted collection completely differently.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-senat-23-2.u168	Senator Żaryn, ask me a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-senat-23-2.u169	I asked you before, Doctor, about Janusz Kurtyka's legacy. I didn't get an answer, so I'm going back to that. I would also like to ask you a question about the near future. I have a deep conviction. I don't know if you share them. It is very possible that this recently revised IPN law will need to be revised again. I would like to ask what your attitude towards this opinion is. At the same time, I ask you whether, if such changes were to take place, you think it would be appropriate to break with the tradition of dividing the Institute of National Remembrance according to the schedule of appeals courts and move the headquarters of branches according to the division into voivodships. You have partially answered this question in your comments on Kielce, but I would like to know if you have such actions in your plans.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-senat-23-2.u170	I'm asking for an answer.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-senat-23-2.u171	How do I understand Janusz Kurtyka's legacy? First of all, this is the mission of the Institute of National Remembrance, an open institute, an active institute, an institute perceived as the main institution creating a discussion about the latest history of Poland in the 20th century, an institution around which all discussions on this subject are focused, while focusing on all the environments dealing with these topics. And inside the institute... I'd call it an active personal policy. Janusz Kurtyka had the ability to reach every employee of the Institute of National Remembrance. We have enormous scientific, intellectual potential. Janusz Kurtyka was able to find among these many employees people, whether in archives or in other departments... I believe that this potential is untapped, there are many historians of passion. And I want to get to these people, give them the opportunity to publish, exploit their potential, give them the opportunity to be fully active. Indeed, the present law requires some amendments. What Mr. Marshal Borusewicz mentioned... This may not give rise to conflicts, but there is a danger that, in the absence of agreement, such conflicts may give birth, so it is better to resolve these matters legally. Of course, there's a question... It is not such a simple matter, although it may seem that we will adapt the structure of the institute to the administrative structure. This is also related to the transport of archives, which is also a problem. However, this is the direction in which we should go despite the difficulties involved, despite the problems. Well, that's what we have to deal with, and if that's the will of the legislator, then...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-senat-23-2.u172	Thank you very much. Senator Rulewski, ask me a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-senat-23-2.u173	Mr President in spe, there is a white stain in the amended act concerning the organisation of local, branch and delegation structures. They weren't assigned assignments. It was said that it would depend on your initiative or your imagination. Question one. How do you see it? Because there are even rumors that the archives are to be moved to Warsaw, including the office so far... No assignments have been allocated, but it is said that they will exist. And second question. Isn't it that these blank spots in the bill can mean the expected large personnel changes in the IPN? My question is whether you have any vision of staff changes in the IPN, especially in the field departments and delegations. And another question. Doesn't extending the scope of the IPN's inter-war activities by individual and temporary years mean that you will have a very difficult role in someone who will investigate these stories and determine who was the hero then and who was on the opposite side? Is the IPN capable of adopting such a function? After all, there are no permanent research workers.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-senat-23-2.u174	You're welcome, Doctor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-senat-23-2.u175	To answer the first question, I don't see such a danger. Ladies and gentlemen, the Institute of National Remembrance... I don't see such danger, danger. The Institute of National Remembrance carries out specific research programmes during the operation. I within the institute have not seen such a problem at all, nor have I heard that any of my colleagues, employees have noticed the problem of transferring archives to Warsaw. Anyway, all of this stays in the wards; it's kind of a natural matter. There is a question of the new research fields of the Institute of National Remembrance that appear, but all these programs that... I don't see any danger here. The Institute operates, operates, has a gigantic accomplishment. The point is to activate this potential of the institute, make more use of it. These statutory changes don't bring any danger, they just extend... Now, the second question is to expand the research scope. Start of this activity in 1917... [[No, it was about staff changes, if there's a staff change.]] Mr. Senator, of course there will be staff changes, because there is another vision of the work of the Institute of National Remembrance, but it will be a single change. The Institute of National Remembrance employs over 2 000 employees. [[Jesus, Mary, it's gonna be $3,000 now?]] [[Thank you very much. Please...]] No, no, wait, not yet... There are 2,000, so it could be a matter of leaving a few people. Well, I guess it's natural. I don't see any problem with that. As far as the Second Republic is concerned, Senator, it is not that we will now be dealing with the whole story, because, as you have rightly pointed out, we do not have that potential. We're gonna pick out a few things. This is mainly related to the question of search and identification of victims of the Bolshevik system in the Eastern Kreses. The first victims were already in 1917, and then there was the Polish-Bolshevik war. About the line... I answered that question during the interrogation. We are going to choose two or three of these issues. After all, some issues have already been developed and examined outside the Institute of National Remembrance. Perhaps there are some threads that... it's known that under the first law, the institute was dealing with... His main task was the safety camera. So we will reach for research on the Communist Party of Poland and the Soviet agent. It's gonna be one... I already told you about 1937. It's gonna be individual... We may initiate some discussions on 1918, but they will be invited from outside historians, from the Institutes of History, especially from regional backgrounds. I want to bet on regional Poland, on activity outside large centres. There's a giant potential out there.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-senat-23-2.u176	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal Borusewicz. Ask me a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-senat-23-2.u177	Doctor, thank you very much for your response to Silke, but I'd like to make something more specific. I understand that there may be a change of assessment if new research is emerging and new facts are known, but, as I understand, there are no new facts in this matter. That's one question, to be exact. And here, right here, we'd put a dot. And secondly, I would like to ask, referring to the question of Senator Jan Maria Jackowski concerning the extension of the catalogue of people who should be mirrored, whether or not the doctor thinks that the illustration should also be covered by the clergy Catholic, Orthodox, in general clergy in Poland Because they are people of public trust, it is clear to me. And we have had and are dealing with controversies around people in the highest positions, bishops and primate, who have basically been cancelled or to whom the nomination by the Vatican has been withdrawn. To this day, the controversy continues. Don't you think it's necessary to carry out this kind of illustration because you have to stop these controversys that don't serve anyone around people of public confidence?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-senat-23-2.u178	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-senat-23-2.u179	I'm not a lawyer, and I don't know if there's any concordat here. Luckily, there's a problem with the vetting. I'm going to calm you down here, and it goes back to the past, because the timeline makes the number of people... Our generation... I'm 53 years old, but in the meantime I've grown up, you can say, 2 young generations that aren't being mirrored. And that's gonna be less and less of a problem. Ladies and gentlemen, let's see how emotional this was at the very beginning. There was a long-standing discussion about files, the folder institute, etc. A lot of hurtful words came to the Institute. There's no problem today. [[Senator Zientarski...]] [[And that's the first question? I asked you a specific question about Silk.]] Oh, the thing is, did they show up... Mr. Marshal, from my knowledge... I didn't take care of that problem. There are researchers, there are historians who are on this subject, and they can... I don't want to make categorical judgments here. If such documents appear, whether in the German archives or... I've heard there may be living witnesses. This problem will be investigated, but, please, let's not focus on it right now, because, as I say, this is just one of the topics that the Institute of National Remembrance deals with, a topic that is particularly sensitive and demanding special sensitivity.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-senat-23-2.u180	Senator Zientarski. I'm asking you a question. [[I have a few questions. I don't know if I can ask them in one series.]] A whole series, please. I'd like to make a note of that, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-senat-23-2.u181	Thank you very much. As a lawyer, I will return to the question of Marshal Borusewicz, who explained the matter. I'm gonna ask that question straightaway. On what basis do you base your thesis on forcing these Poles to act? I understand that this is an incident, that such behavior is disdainful and should not be glorified. It is an exception in the heroic attitude of Poles. It's clear to me. But the point is that, as president, responsible for his words, he says that we are dealing with a crime committed by Germany, because perhaps in the future... As Marshal Borusewicz said, a new discovery may change the previous assessment, but if there is no new evidence, there are previous findings. On what grounds do you argue that the Poles did it under duress? Acting under duress by law relieves the perpetrator of liability. [[What's this man saying?]] That's the first question. The second question is also partly related to this issue. Mr. President, don't you think that the unwillingness of young people to study the ethos of Solidarity, the great movement, is connected with the fact that it completely destroys itself and degrades great authority, such as Lech Walesa? I'm going back to the question. I speak in the same trend of objectivity all the time. Will publications continue as they have been recently So to put it this way, a research thesis has been established in advance and proved to be objective? Let me give you a concrete example. You can't... [[You're insulting the IPN.]] Is it possible to rely only on the Security Service documents, while in parallel the whole body should be examined, so to speak, a team of personal evidence? [[A lawyer by God's grace.]] I'm going to give you one example of my community, attorney-client. In the documents relating to a lawyer, it says that he gave the Security Service keys from his colleague's office. These documents clearly show that he cooperated. However, we lawyers know that earlier he warned that lawyer that he would do so, which is, in short, he played the Security Service on his nose. And according to the documents, he was cooperating. I'm definitely lacking in objectivity here. Does the President see this problem, and will you want to make the publications really objective, so that the research programmes do not have the thesis in advance to prove?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-senat-23-2.u182	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-senat-23-2.u183	Mr. Senator, I didn't put that up. This is what some historians put forward, and there is a dispute about it. There's a dispute, that's all. This is a discussion between historians. That's one thing. [[But is this a dispute based on evidence or not? Abstract dispute or evidence dispute? Because I don't understand.]] [[Were you born today, man?]] Sir, we're not in a position to determine exactly the minute after the minute that happened in this town. But the historian is supposed to be trying to figure it out. I'm not buying the thesis... As I say, they have different opinions. Another thing, the reluctance of young people to become solidarity, to this ethos, to destroy authority. Sir... I've already told you, Mr. Senator. This is the climate of the '90s... [[No, it's the current climate.]] But who does the senator mean? [[The latest publications.]] But what? [[Lech Wałęsa.]] [[The meeting is chaired by Deputy Marshal Bogdan Borusewicz]] [[All right, gentlemen...]] About Lech Wałęsa... If we want to discuss Lech Wałęsa... Okay, I'll tell. [[It's not about Lech Wałęsa, it's about...]] But the senator told me about Lech Wałęsa, so... [[Senator Piotr Zientarski: I gave such an example. My question is methodological. It's not about the person, it's about...)]] [[Doctor, don't argue. Mr. Senator, the question has been asked, the doctor will answer with his skills and knowledge.]] First of all, I've never... [[But I'd ask you not to argue with the O.R. 'cause it's causing confusion.]] I don't think these authorities are being destroyed. This is a bigger problem, perhaps these authorities are destroying themselves, moving away from ideals that were 36 years or 40 years earlier. That's the answer to that question. The Institute of National Remembrance has never researched a specific thesis. And there's never gonna be that kind of research. Can you give an example of some kind of study? I'm sorry, but... There hasn't been any research, and there won't be. [[I was asking about objective issues.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-senat-23-2.u184	Good. It was a rhetorical question. You're the one being asked, Doctor. [[An uneducated lawyer was a question.]] I'll ask Senator Czerwinski to ask you a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-senat-23-2.u185	Mr. Marshal! Mr. President! I have two questions about your assessment. First of all, the evaluation of creativity I'm saying it in quotes. Mr. Gross. It's about his books on the attitude of Poles. Second, do you think... But I'd like to get back to the Silk case. In your opinion, has the Silk investigation been completed correctly or just interrupted? It's mostly about the exhumation aspect. And the third question, more general. As you can see the role of IPN in erasing, I would call it dark spots when it comes to Ukrainian genocide in Volyn, Eastern Małopolska, Polish-Ukrainian relations during World War II? It was political correctness that had been bogged down for a long time.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-senat-23-2.u186	Thank you, Senator. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-senat-23-2.u187	The Ukrainian issue is a very painful issue. Research into this genocide, because this is how it was done in 1943 in Volyn and later in Eastern Małopolska, is still ongoing. There are scientific conferences going on. This is a subject of great controversy in society, but there is no escape from this subject. We will not escape difficult subjects, and the fundamental criterion should be to investigate the truth. The question of exhumation in Jedwabne. This is, ladies and gentlemen, a very sensitive subject due to Jewish sensitivity, Jewish religion. Indeed, exhumation was interrupted because of respect for the positions of the Jewish community. It was a gesture to their religion, their beliefs. Anything else? [[Gross.]] Mr. Senator, Jan Gross in the historical environment is not considered a historian, a scientist. He's a publicist. Many of them, which were placed in this first book, for example, the number of 1 000 600 victims was there, and today there was a question of 340, which was not defended in reliable scientific research.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-senat-23-2.u188	Thank you, Doctor. Senator Golba, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-senat-23-2.u189	Professor, I have a question for you, because during your speech you just said that we will not escape difficult matters, namely Volyn and Małopolska East. I would like to ask you if you have your plan, how you will simply conduct discussions with the Ukrainian party, with the authorities that are currently in charge of it, with the President of Ukraine and, above all, with your counterpart in Ukraine. Because we, the High Senate, adopted a resolution on 7 July this year relating to the tribute of victims of genocide by Ukrainian nationalists in 1939 and 1945. But what's most important about this... Because, you know, it's your opinion that we're not gonna get away with difficult things, so we need to explain as soon as possible, because I don't think we're gonna run away from the truth. There's an important issue: they've passed the bill. We have adopted a resolution and named those tragic events for Poles in the Second Republic of Poland, and they have written in the bill that in case someone denies that nationalists are heroes of the people of Ukraine... In this case, each of us may be subject to their court, i.e. being in Ukraine, we may be judged by their court. This week, probably tomorrow, the Sejm will make that decision. Therefore, I am talking about whether you will make this matter clear in your relations with your counterpart in Ukraine, or whether we will simply consider it difficult for them, and now we will be wondering how to talk to them for the sake of political correctness.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-senat-23-2.u190	Thank you. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-senat-23-2.u191	These are very difficult conversations, because at the head of the Ukrainian counterpart of the Institute of National Remembrance is a historian with very strong views, who does not see... Well, it is very difficult to discuss it with him and with many Ukrainian environments. But it doesn't bother you to look for Ukrainian historians and researchers or cultural people who are capable of discussing this subject, to take responsibility for this great crime. Because here you have to use the right words: it was genocide. I will say that many times I was in Ukraine, I ran it along and across, looking for Polish souvenirs, asking Ukrainians about it. I did not meet with the slightest manifestation of resentment from the Ukrainians, and even with kindness. They knew that I was Polish, that I was looking for Polish traces. But it's like Polish-German reconciliation. Perhaps another generation must pass so that the Ukrainians may be able to stand true in this matter. But it does not interfere with the fact that there are still exhumations in Ukraine and commemorates itself... and monuments are created in all those places where the Poles were murdered. We remember our compatriots there, commemorate... The IPN will also support such activities.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-senat-23-2.u192	Thank you. Mr. Senator... [[Mr. Chairman...]] You're welcome, Senator Golba.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-senat-23-2.u193	I have an additional question, Professor, because you said that maybe one more generation must pass. But you know that they worship Stepan Bandera, Shuchevych, all those nationalists who issued sentences to murder Poles in a cruel way, and even torture Poles before they die. And they inculcate it as if it were young generations. If we want to talk to them for another generation now, we can't fix the truth later... we can't fix the harm that was done to the Poles. So if we don't say hard and firm today in talks with the Ukrainians that they have a position, but... we have to explain it to them, show them the documents that are already collected by historians, also Ukrainians. Because the Ukrainian side is behind this... But if you say we're gonna talk another generation, I think it's gonna be too late for all of this. If the young generation is soaked with this ideology and their truth, which is this total lie, it will be too late. So it's been 70 years now, in fact, over 70 years, because it's been 73 years. And it's time to end this and I think you should do it, because it's on you... [[Mr. Senator, ask me a question.]] Thank you. Are you going to take firm action on this?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-senat-23-2.u194	Dear Sir, it was the Institute of National Remembrance that issued a collection of bilingual documents, e.g. also about these problems. We don't run away from these things. We can present our own position and Polish historians present this position at conferences. But we're not. I do not know, here is also the activity of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, able to conduct educational, educational policy in the territory of a foreign country. I don't agree with that, I disagree with what you're doing with Bandera, the Hustle heroes, but we have a limited influence on consciousness, we have a limited influence... This is the Institute of National Remembrance in Poland.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-senat-23-2.u195	Thank you. Senator Dowhan, and then Senator Frost.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-senat-23-2.u196	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Mr President, Doctor, we know that the IPN has examined many times, with different results, the former members of communist bodies, including members of the Polish United Workers' Party, their secretaries or the main ones or those downstairs. As I said, with different results. Are you in favour of a citizen today, if he has doubts about a person who has some public functions and has not been verified so far, undertaking such verification and examining the past of these people?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-senat-23-2.u197	Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-senat-23-2.u198	Does the citizen have a... Right now, this is how the legislator solves this problem... And that's never been allowed to happen. Janusz Kurtyka said he did not agree to the so-called. Neighborhood mirroring, but there are research programs, journalists can investigate these problems and they are being studied. And if you're talking about official matters, this is where the Mirror Act works, and that, I think, solves the problem.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-senat-23-2.u199	Thank you. Senator Frost.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-senat-23-2.u200	Doctor, I have a question for you. We, the Senate, initiated... were the initiators of the Act on the Prohibition of the Promotion of the Communist System. This bill was signed by the President in May. And there is an important role for the Institute of National Remembrance, because these names of streets, places, events... i.e. events, people or dates that refer to the previous system, and which are named streets in Polish cities, are many. And there's a lot of controversy, too. As you can see in practice the implementation of this law, when there are conflicts, there will be disputes on the line... well, generally in local governments. There's kind of a politics there, too. Here, the senator, my neighbor and colleague, Professor Żaryn, also gave examples of very complicated resumes. And here's the giant role of the Institute of National Remembrance. Could you bring that up, please? In practice, how would you see cooperation with local governments and, to a certain extent, with voivodships on this issue? Because if a certain period of time passes and the local government doesn't take action, the voivode will have to take...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-senat-23-2.u201	The Institute is already doing this, and the new law is giving new tools to make the Institute, as an institution that views certain names, certain concepts... We must, so to speak, educationally show, make people aware that certain people, certain symbols cannot be glorified by an independent Polish state. I'm going to give you one example, General Walter. Świerczewski. It was a man who fought in the Red Army on the Soviet side in 1920. At least that disqualifies this man. He then carried out activities in the communist party of Poland, activities for the Soviet Union. Well, I can't imagine that such characters and their kind would patronize the streets or the squares. But here it is... I think here we have to put a lot of emphasis on some activity, on awareness, on showing people... and IPN is doing that. It's even... Well, many communities and local authorities are asking for an expert opinion on the subject. And our historians pass on such expertise. And local government officials then go with these expertises to their residents and have arguments, discuss and convince. And this is the most effective way to change.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-senat-23-2.u202	Thank you. I'd like to ask Senator Józef Zając's questions.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-senat-23-2.u203	Mr Marshal, Mr President, traveling, not so long ago, across Ukraine, so far north, I was surprised by something that was visible almost everywhere. Namely, there was a doubt about the flag of this country. Because I've seen the red and black flag more often than I've seen the blue and yellow flag. And the second thing: great openness, even shocking to us when it comes to the subject of those who have now begun to glorify so much and who, in our understanding, have committed the crime of genocide. Does the Institute of National Remembrance also provide for diplomatic actions aimed at restoring a certain historical order, in relation to those lands that were once Polish? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-senat-23-2.u204	Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-senat-23-2.u205	As I say, this is a matter that... Even the new law allows the President to do this educational activity. And we can post at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs about some problems... But I assume that this problem is very difficult. Well, this is the territory of a foreign country. And we have limited influence, limited ability to interfere in their activities, so to speak, historical. Well, we're not gonna file that, let's talk. I've seen a lot of Bandera monuments, too, Shuchevych. Only in this sphere the possibilities not only of the Institute of National Remembrance, but also of the Polish state are very limited. This is a question of Ukrainian consciousness, and this awareness is also different depending on the region, in Western Ukraine these influences are stronger.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-senat-23-2.u206	You're welcome, Senator Hare.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-senat-23-2.u207	I'd just like to ask. Is there any closer, stronger cooperation with the Ministry of Foreign Affairs? Observing the functioning of our consular posts in Ukraine, I conclude that we could also use a little more decision-making here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-senat-23-2.u208	To answer this question, I will say that I think so, but this concerns even more activity of Polish diplomacy, not only in Ukraine, in the world at all. We as the Institute of National Remembrance have no such possibility. We're trying to interact with foreign countries in some way, we can prepare an exhibition, and that's what we do, language publications, but I'm gonna use a word like that here. Polish diplomatic structures, institutes of Polish culture or cultural atashatas should be the distributor of these content. Here IPN plays an auxiliary role.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-senat-23-2.u209	Senator Żaryn. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-senat-23-2.u210	Doctor, I asked you about half an hour ago about the relationship between IPN and various resorts. I'd like to clarify, I meant, among other things. about the Ministry of National Education. How do you see this in the context of the creation of the software bases that are now beginning to form, the teams are being built? Do you think the Institute of National Remembrance should actively apply to the Ministry of National Education for the opportunity to participate in the creation of these software bases? Especially when it comes to the 20th century, because, as you rightly said, The scientific potential, but also educational potential, is the largest in Poland's history. How do you see it in practice? I propose that this happen quite quickly, because these programming bases begin to appear not only in the heads but in the concrete records of ministerial documents at this stage.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-senat-23-2.u211	Thank you very much. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-senat-23-2.u212	Of course, here the role of the Institute of National Remembrance is extremely large. As the senator stressed, the institute has the potential to participate in such conversations, and can act effectively. An example of this is the success of the textbook from independence to independence, which is widely used in schools. It was written by employees of the Institute of National Remembrance and on the basis of it, one can say, in many schools there is education. This field will be used as much as possible and the activity from my side in this direction will be undertaken.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-senat-23-2.u213	Senator Frost. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-senat-23-2.u214	Doctor, maybe I can clarify my question a little bit, because I wasn't entirely satisfied with your answer because you showed a certain educational value of persuasion, of course it is very important, very important, but with the entry into force of this law. There are probably 3 months there, that was the period of vacathio legis, and then there were 12 months in ordering it by local governments They are already starting to run some deadlines and there are some kind of statutory requirements. Maybe I'll ask you another question. Your predecessor, Dr. Kaminski, suggested to us in the Senate at the committee meeting that he was being prepared and even claimed that such a list had already been prepared... [[He's prepared.]] ...events, people, institutions, dates that will be... It will be kind of forbidden to call... referring to commemoration of these things, e.g. in the names of the streets. Is that list somewhere yet? Yes? And to what extent will it be passed on to local governments? Because it's mainly during this period, this year, local governments will have to focus on verifying the names of these streets. That's one question. And the second question I'm gonna ask you is... It's like the answer your predecessor gave in the summary when he was here and there was a report on the operation of the Institute of National Remembrance. Well, in Jelenia Góra such an action was organized, the face of Jelenio Góra security, Dr. Kaminski said that it was a program that started the dead. Chairman Kurtyka, but later he was abandoned, there were other educational programs. Are you predicting that something like this will be resumed by the Institute of National Remembrance? Thank you. [[Thank you...]] Besides, these faces... There was also an exhibition in Wrocław, so it was in many cities. And I know that from different cities, there are signals that they'd want something like that too. I also know that there was a powerful support for the Institute of National Remembrance in terms of content preparation and cooperation with the municipality that provided... or probably co-financed such an exhibition. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-senat-23-2.u215	Thank you very much. There you go, Doctor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-senat-23-2.u216	First line. From my branch comes a colleague, who was the representative of the President for decommunization, and many such initiatives or rather many such opinions have been prepared. What does it look like in general right now? Is it over? Well... But this activity was carried out all the time and many such actions were successful. Besides, local governments or even schools... Because until recently there were schools where there was a monument with a sickle and a hammer. After the intervention, after the National Remembrance Institute gave its opinion, after meeting with the environment, these institutions themselves removed it. This activity will continue as much as possible. Locals often come to us, come to us and ask for help, for an opinion on these issues, and we always provide substantive support. [[Thank you. Senator Rybicki...]] [[And the second question?]] Excuse me? [[A question about the exhibition.]] Oh, the exhibition... Yes, it was a wide-ranging initiative: the faces of local security. To this extent, the Institute of National Remembrance faces a big challenge, because it will be one... We need to focus on completing some research programmes on the security camera, which is one of the main programs. But not yet many monographs have been created concerning individual departments, this is done depending on the branches, this is... These issues are examined in various ways. However, these exhibitions will continue.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-senat-23-2.u217	Thank you very much. Senator Rybicki.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-senat-23-2.u218	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Doctor, you have mentioned that the new historical policy of the IPN will be much more focused on education policy on the idea of solidarity, solidarity, the achievements of the Solidarity, and rightly so, I agree that this is a field for the high activity of the IPN. And don't you think it would also be worth stepping up the research effort, documenting the phenomenon not fully tested by the IPN? Unless I'm wrong, if I am, then please remove me from error. This means political emigration of pre-solidarity, solidarity and the emigration of martial law? And to what extent the IPN could cooperate in this respect If he hasn't taken it yet From ECS, i.e. the European Solidarity Centre in Gdansk and the Museum of Emigration in Gdynia?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-senat-23-2.u219	There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-senat-23-2.u220	The subject of political emigration continues, is being implemented by many researchers of the Institute of National Remembrance... Well, maybe I overreacted, not many. But there are very valuable publications on this subject, including emigration, even as far away as Australia. Right? And there are still researchers at the Institute of National Remembrance who deal with this subject. It's continued. Only here is the question that these tests are stretched over time. It's a long-term study. We're not gonna write this book in six months because it's often related to going away, research in archives. But I certainly see the need to examine this issue. Emigration has played a very important role, especially the solidarity one, the youngest one. Right?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-senat-23-2.u221	Mr. Marshal, I'd just like to ask you a question. I mentioned that perhaps it is worth working together more closely or simply to establish it with the European Solidarity Centre and the Museum of Immigration, which have their own programs. Perhaps it is worth closer cooperation here.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-senat-23-2.u222	I do not have full knowledge of this, but this cooperation is with the European Solidarity Centre. I don't know if it's in the field of emigration research. But this cooperation all the time, from the beginning... the Gdańsk branch continues to do so. You're the marshal who knows best. [[I will also say that it is the Museum of Emigration, which has recently functioned, which also researches modern emigration. So I just recommend you pay attention...]] Absolutely. That's what I'm talking about.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-senat-23-2.u223	Museum of Migration in Gdynia Just so we're clear. Senator Golba. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-senat-23-2.u224	Professor, once again, I'd like to go back to this difficult, painful story... As these discussions with the Ukrainian side can indeed be difficult, I would like to ask you if you will take up discussions with the President of the Ukrainian Union in Poland, who has often spoken very flatteringly about the organisation of UPA. He even claimed when someone destroyed a monument in our country, and illegally placed... He even resented the Polish Sejm. I remember because I was there at the time. That was in 2014. In fact, with resentment for us... That's not good enough. What's the worst part about all this? Would you ask not to finance the Association of Ukrainians in Poland if this is how you behave? That's not good enough. It is known that there is serious money from the state budget earmarked for this. And second question. Are you gonna ask for a flag like this... [[Senator presents ON-B and UPA flag on the tablet]] ...she wasn't on our territory in Ukrainian cars, because we often see near the border... I live in Jarosław. We see such emblems in Ukrainian cars. [[The senator presents the emblem of the Ukrainian Nationalist Congress]] Are you going to join the service, in particular the Minister of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs? The point is to order all the services The Border Guard and the Police, chasing after such emblems. Because they often begin to appear in our country. And to prove it, I'll give you an example. Ukrainian students who study in Przemyśl at the expense of Polish taxpayer They may be at other universities, but I'm going to give an example of the Przemysl region, they posed for photo in the Przemysl gallery with the flag I was showing, the flag of the Ukrainian nationalists. Thank you. [[Established by the Sejm President of the Institute of National Remembrance, the Commission for the pursuit of Crimes against the Polish National Jarosław Szarek: Dear Sir...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-senat-23-2.u225	Thank you. And I have an additional question about that. I don't want to open the discussion we had on the resolution, but do you think that we can impose a historical vision on the Ukrainians by resolutions? And isn't it going to be the way it is between Slovaks and Hungarians? Count Esterhazy is a hero in Hungary and at the same time a traitor in Slovakia, where he was convicted and died in prison for war crimes. Are we going to have to deal with this situation or not? Are we able to impose our vision and historical assessment on Ukrainians?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-senat-23-2.u226	I believe that the impact of resolutions abroad... It has to be done, but it doesn't change consciousness. It's not gonna change your mind. It's a word... You have to bear witness to the truth, don't you? But the power of such a resolution in terms of change of thought, changes in general... If for these people We may disagree and disagree. The people over there are heroes, we're the ones who will not change this issue. Well, we're not gonna report history. You said it was many years. Yeah, a lot of years. How many years did our reconciliation with the Germans take to get these wounds healed? These are not things that can be amended by resolution. I remind you of the reaction, of course supported by communists, but also in the society authentically negative, 20 years after the war to the famous letter of Polish bishops. He was not fully accepted, but as a gesture he opened the way after many years of agreement. But there was no common understanding for this letter, and communist propaganda had a much easier task. The Institute of National Remembrance is not an institution to control emblems in cars, and this is not my right for citizens of a foreign state.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-senat-23-2.u227	Thank you. Senator Bonisławski, you're welcome. [[Mr. Marshal, can I have another word? Because I had a question...]] But it's Senator Bonisławski now, and then we'll get back to your questions. [[Yeah, 'cause I have a question about... One question.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-senat-23-2.u228	Mr. Marshal! Mr. President! Once, while I was still working in the Commission for the Investigation of Hitler's Crimes in Poland, a significant part of the actions, so to speak, was directed to the committee of inquiry. Today this investigative pawn also exists, with the fact that due to the exchange of generations, the departure of these former criminals, probably fewer and fewer topics to follow. Nevertheless, I would like to ask what are the most important directions of the IPN activities in this level of investigation at the moment.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-senat-23-2.u229	Thank you. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-senat-23-2.u230	Well, here's the thing. There's a subordinate to the Attorney General, and I can't impose anything here. I can only express my opinion that, of course, the investigations that were or are being conducted, historical investigations, let's call them, which will no longer lead to the conviction of the perpetrators, because these perpetrators are no longer... These are the issues that historians can explore, and this activity that would be more effective is to prosecute those crimes that we can still judge.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-senat-23-2.u231	Thank you. Senator Żaryn.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-senat-23-2.u232	I would like to refer, Doctor, to the question of Senator Rybicki in matters relating to emigration, namely whether you, Doctor, see what tools under the responsibility of the IPN could be used to strengthen the Polish spirit and knowledge of Polish history among the widely understood emigration, also in areas inhabited by Poles in the east, and to what extent you would like to use these tools to support this task, which certainly stands before the Polish state. It is due to the fact that at least 1/3 of Poles live outside the country. And the second short question is whether you intend to set up a section, a paper, a separate section, as much as the law allows you to do, which department or section would deal with anti-defamation activities, i.e. support from the substance of possible external entities, e.g. The Ministry of Foreign Affairs, which should defend the good name of Poland.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-senat-23-2.u233	I'll start with the second question. It's in the bill. And it's kind of an obligation of the Institute of National Remembrance. As far as this first question is concerned, it is indeed a question of Polish schools. This is about education in Polish schools This also applies to the youngest migrants The aim is to ensure that these schools receive the educational materials that are being prepared for Polish young people. And it's gonna be so much easier that I want to get even more educational activity on the Internet. This is already happening because educational files are published, and there are ready-made lesson scenarios, aids and tools for learning history. At the same time, I would like, in many cases, because... Professor Pole, when he was interrogated here, gave such an example that young people do not know what two families argued in Mr. Tadeusz. So the elements of Polish language should also be present in this education. If we teach about the Warsaw Uprising, let there also be an element of Gajcy or Baczyński's poetry, so that it is cultural teaching, not just history itself. That's my view of the problem.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-senat-23-2.u234	Senator Golba.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-senat-23-2.u235	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Professor! I asked you two questions. You answered Mr. Marshal's question, and you answered my questions. No, no, no, no, Well, you said the Institute of National Remembrance wouldn't be chasing anybody when it comes to flags of other countries, etc. However, I would like to tell you that I am not referring to the Ukrainian flag, but to the flag of the nationalist OUN-B and UPA movement. So I also showed this swastika that appears... I saw her myself, and I called the police; there's a protocol that confirms it. Of course, the police pulled up to the car that drove it, the owners hid it, and they didn't show it anymore. I mean, if you know the truth... You are a historian, and in a moment you will probably also be the head of the most important historical institution in Poland. If, knowing all this and knowing the truth, you ask the head of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs to ask the border guards, the border guards and the police... Would you like to make a motion for a resolution or a bill that will punish you by promoting this swastika? A criminal fascist genocide organization? And my second question. Well, I also asked you a question about... We know how the President of the Ukrainian Union behaves in Poland. Acting for our money, for the taxpayer's money, money from the state budget, he often describes various things and praises this organization. So, if you know the truth, is there anything you can do about it? Here, in our country, since it is certainly difficult to have conversations with the Ukrainian side. Therefore, let us act here in Poland. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-senat-23-2.u236	Thank you. I understand the institute has to have its own police. All right. There you go, Doctor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-senat-23-2.u237	The Institute of National Remembrance may issue opinions, but there are no legal tools. The Institute of National Remembrance is not... The funding of national minorities' associations in Poland is based on other laws, other regulations. I can give an opinion, this issue can be monitored, but my competences are limited here.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-senat-23-2.u238	Thank you very much. Senator Rybicki.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-senat-23-2.u239	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Doctor, there is work in progress in the Sejm on a bill to radically reduce the pensions and pensions of former employees and UB and Security Service officers. I'm in, I don't have a problem with that. I've experienced it. Me and my family. A variety of times from these institutions. But there are exceptions among those former officers. One of them was Captain Hodysz, who had cooperated with the opposition before 1980, and then in the period of the Solidarity period and in the martial law he cooperated with it. He paid a huge price for this: a long prison sentence was handed down by the communist authorities. Do you not think that such persons should not be subject to such a law, and what is the IPN going to do about it? [[Established by the Sejm President of the Institute of National Remembrance, the Commission for the pursuit of Crimes against the Polish National Jarosław Szarek: Here you must...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-senat-23-2.u240	There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-senat-23-2.u241	As exceptional as possible, such problems should be solved in a completely different way. And the credit... [[But it is, it is in this bill.]] Well, the credit... [[But I'm asking the doctor.]] These merits should be taken into account and there is no discussion here. [[I understand there's a solution like the old law.]] Right.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-senat-23-2.u242	Mr. Senator Czerwinski and Mr.... Good.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-senat-23-2.u243	Mr. Marshal! Mr. President! That's what we're talking about, but some of the questions are actually more suggesting what the IPN should do. So instead of asking the question... Let's make it a question mark at the end, but I think that's a suggestion. The last amendment of the Act has shifted the scope of the IPN activities to the period since 1917, this is not only the period since World War II, but also the aftermath of World War I and what was happening in the interwar period. In Opole a few years ago the so-called explosion broke out. It's a monumental war. It was about monuments which were erected by the German authorities in Opole region. 'Cause that's where the Germans were. And which really glorified the Prussian militarism, with symbolism of the type soldiers fell, some helmets, oak leaves, swords, etc. And she blows up every once in a while. There are attempts to renovate these monuments, actually recreate them from scratch according to old designs, monuments with just this symbolism which irritates the Polish side, whatever to say, and tries to recreate them German minority. That's why my suggestion here... Mr. President, probably anyway, it's gonna come to you anyway, i.e. the question may not be so much an opinion of these monuments as simply taking a stand on this matter. As I say, some lack of sensitivity of minorities in this area causes repercussions on the part of the Polish majority.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-senat-23-2.u244	Thank you, Senator. You're welcome, Doctor, but it was more of an expression.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-senat-23-2.u245	Yeah, but it's obvious, because it's a matter of competence for the board that took over the Institute of National Remembrance.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-senat-23-2.u246	Senator Warzocha.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-senat-23-2.u247	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Doctor, I'd like to apologize in advance because I didn't participate in the part of this discussion, that question, and maybe that's the question, but I'll repeat it if it's a question. The matter concerns graves that have not yet been officially recognized or discovered, but function in memory, also function in certain oral messages of residents who have either witnessed events or know them from the accounts of their loved ones, earlier generations. I mean graves scattered practically in a large part of Poland, where most likely the remains of soldiers of the September campaign lie. On my territory, and I represent the Częstochowa region... Social organizations, history enthusiasts' associations and enthusiasts claim that there are about 100 such graves in at least three districts, which operate in the common memory of local communities, local residents, villages and towns. Tell me, do you see such an opportunity to follow the steps that Professor Szwagrzyk and a group of his collaborators and volunteers took, on some scale, and if so, in what kind of research should we undertake and carry out this kind of work? These are places deprived of the care of the state, they are nurtured by socialists, and in many localities, in many cases they are places that very closely integrate local communities around the issues of our martyrdom, identity.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-senat-23-2.u248	Thank you very much. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-senat-23-2.u249	This is where the amendment of the law was headed. There is a separate section of search and identification that will deal with such issues, because you will definitely have to carry out exhumations. [[I'll be more specific because maybe it didn't sound like my question. I'm interested in the scale of all this. How do you foresee what scale this could be, and to what extent can the IPN meet these challenges?]] At the moment, it is difficult for me to determine the scale and tell whether there are several thousand or several tens of thousands of graves in Poland. This is a research topic of a separate vertical that will conduct exhumations to determine the number of victims in such graves. Such research, along with the development of technology, including in the field of DNA, in many cases helped to identify the victims lying in such graves. And these places will be remembered as much as possible.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-senat-23-2.u250	Doctor, I have one more question. I've asked them many times, but since you're probably going to be head of the IPN, I'd like to ask them to you as well. You probably know that in 1937 11,000 400 Poles were shot in the territory of the former Soviet Union as part of the so-called Polish operation. [[Established by the Sejm President of the Institute of National Remembrance, the Commission for the Prosecution of Crimes against the Polish National Jarosław Szarek: One hundred and eleven.]] How much? [[Established by the Sejm President of the Institute of National Remembrance of the Commission for the Prosecution of Crimes against the Polish National Jarosław Szarek: 111 thousand.]] Sorry, you're right, 111,000 400 Poles. This number is so accurate because it's in the archives of the Soviet Service. A month and a half ago we were with a Senate delegation in Kamienica Podolski and Bara, and we learned that in the church complex in Bara and in the Dominican complex in Kamienica Podolski, as well as in the Podominican church, now Paulin, there were found decks of bones covered with lime. In the Bar and in the Dominican complex in Kamieniec Podolski, these bones were transported by trucks at the request of the clergy or parish priests. It hasn't been done in the Dominican complex yet. Therefore, I ask you: will the IPN take care of this and try to document these crimes? These are undoubtedly evidence of a crime. I understand, of course, that during the renovations the priests and bishops are in a hurry and this is not the most important thing for them. These bones are, of course, buried in a cemetery, but there's no investigation or documentation here. Therefore, I have a question for you: will you try to take care of this case?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-senat-23-2.u251	That's the kind of duty I have under the law. There is also a special pawn called for such actions.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-senat-23-2.u252	Thank you. I'll give you more specific information because I don't want to take time here. There are no more questions. Thank you very much, Doctor. [[The President of the Institute of National Remembrance, appointed by the Sejm, of the Commission for the pursuit of Crime against the Polish National Jarosław Szarek: Thank you.]] [[Voice from the Chamber: Voting...]] [[Voice from the room: No quorum.]] [[Everyone's here.]] We must proceed with the vote. I'm gonna have to call a break. Ladies and gentlemen, I'm announcing a 15-minute break. At 4:55 p.m., we will proceed with a secret ballot. [[Adjournment from 16 minutes 40 to 16 minutes 55]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-senat-23-2.u253	I'm reopening the session. We proceed to the secret vote on the consent of the Senate of the Republic of Poland to appoint Jarosław Szark as President of the Institute of National Remembrance, the Commission for the Investigation of Crimes against the Polish National. A secret ballot shall take place using sealed ballots. In order to hold a secret ballot, I appoint the Secretary of State: Senator Rafał Ambrozik, Senator Waldemar Sługocki and Senator Mark Pęk. In a moment, the appointed senators will be handing out secret ballots to the senators. The secret ballot shall be marked with only one mark on the ballot. A ballot card with more than one mark on it or no mark on it shall be deemed to be invalid. After completing the ballots of the secret state, the senators will put the cards in the ballot box in alphabetical order. A break will then be ordered during which the senators will calculate the votes and draw up the minutes of the secret ballot. I am now asking the senators of the Secretaries to hand out the ballots and the senators to fill out the ballots. Have all the senators received secret ballots? I take it you do. I ask Senator Mark Pak to read in alphabetical order the names of the senators, the senators, and I ask that, after reading their names, they insert in the urn filled with ballots for secret ballots. You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-senat-23-2.u254	− Jan Filip Libicki, − Rafał Ambrozik, − Anna Anders, − Mieczysław Augustyn, − Adam Bielan, − Grzegorz Bierecki, − Przemysław Błaszczyk, − Aleksander Bobko, − Ryszard Bonisławski, − Waldemar Bonkowski, − Marek Borowski, − Bogdan Borusewicz, − Barbara Boris-Damięcka, − Margareta Budner, − Jerzy Chróścikowski, − Zbigniew Silence, − Leszek Czarnobaj, − Grzegorz Czelej, − Jerzy Czerwiński, − Dorota Czudowska, − Wiesław Dobkowski, − Jan Dobrzyński, − Robert Dowhan, − Jarosław Duda, − Jerzy Fedorovich, − Peter Florek, − Robert Gaweł, − Adam Gawada, − Stanisław Gogacz, − Mieczysław Golba, − Arkadiusz Grabowski, − Thomas Grodzki, − Maciej Grubski, − Jan Hamerski, − Jan Maria Jackowski, − Andrzej Kaminski, − Stanisław Karczewski, − Wiesław Kilian, − Kazimierz Kleina, − Bogdan Klich, − Andrzej Kobiak, − Maria Sophia Blanket, − Stanisław Rogut, − Władysław Komarnicki, − Tadeusz Kopeć, − Margaret Kopiczko, − Waldemar Kraska, − Maciej Łuczak, − Józef Łyczak, − Richard Majer, − Robert Mammoths, − Marek Martynowski, − Łukasz Mikołajczyk, − Andrzej Mioduszewski, − Andrzej Bear, − Krzysztof Frost, − Grzegorz Napieralski, − Jarosław Oremski, − Bogusława Orzechowska, − Andrzej Spider, − Maria Paniczyk-Podziej, − Grzegorz Pekkis, − Marek Pęk, − Wojciech Piech, − Leszek Infantry, − Aleksander Pociej, − Marian the Messenger, − Michał Potkowiczny, − Krystian Probier, − Zdzisław Pupa, − Constantine Radziwiłł, − Marek Rocki, − Tadeusz Romanczuk, − Jadwiga Rotnicka, − Jan Rulewski, − Jarosław Rusiecki, − Sławomir Rybicki, − Czesław Ryszka, − Janina Sagatowska, − Michał Sewerynski, − Krzysztof Elephant, − Waldemar Sługocki, − Andrzej Stanisławek, − Lydia Staron, − Grażyna Sztark, − Aleksander Swed, − Antoni Szymanski, − Raphael the locksmith, − Przemysław Terminski, − Peter Wach, − Arthur Warzocha, − Jerzy Wczyła, − Kazimierz Wind, − Jacek Włosowicz, − Andrzej Wojtyla, − Alice the Hare, − Joseph the Hare, − Barbara Zdrojewska, − Piotr Zientarski, − Jan Zaryn.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-senat-23-2.u255	Have all the senators voted? Thank you very much. I am now asking the senators of the Secretaries to calculate the votes and draw up the minutes of the secret ballot. I'm ordering a break until 17-12, which is 10 minutes. [[Adjournment from 17 minutes 02 to 17 minutes 12]] I'm reopening the session. We return to the examination of item 8 of the agenda: consent to the appointment of the President of the Institute of National Remembrance. I would like to inform you that the senators of the Secretaries have completed the calculation of votes and have drawn up a secret ballot protocol. Minutes of the secret vote of 21 July 2016 on the consent of the Senate of the Republic of Poland to appoint Jarosław Szark as President of the Institute of National Remembrance of the Polish National Crime Investigation Commission. Senator Rafał Ambrozik, Senator Marek Pęk and Senator Waldemar Sługocki, state that 78 votes were cast in a secret vote regarding the Senate's consent to the appointment of Jarosław Szark as President of the Institute of National Remembrance. In favour of consent, 59 Senators voted against the 18 Senators and 1 Senator abstained. Warsaw, 21 July 2016 In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the consent to the appointment of the President of the Institute of National Remembrance, the Commission for the Investigation of Crimes against the Polish National. [[Applause]] I ask you, Mr. President of the Institute of National Remembrance, to approach the table. I'd like to give you the text of the resolution. [[Applause]] We proceed with the examination of item 9 of the agenda: the Act amending the Law on the shaping of the agricultural system and the Law on perpetual books and mortgage. The text of the Act is contained in print No 233 and the report of the Commission In print No 233 A. I would like to ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development, Senator Jerzy Chróścikowski, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-senat-23-2.u256	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour to present on behalf of the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development a report on the law adopted by the Sejm on 6 July 2016 amending the Law on the shaping of the agricultural system and the Law on perpetual books and mortgage. The Commission met on 14 July and asks the High Sejm to accept... [[Senate! Senate, sorry.]] [[Voices from the Senate!]] I'm sorry. ... For the High Senate to approve the bill without amendment. There was no discussion at our committee on this matter. Mr Jurgiel personally participated in the committee's meeting, he submitted the information, very briefly, as the law has basically 5 articles, and it is actually only about a change that we have already requested several times in committee and in the Sejm. The aim is to exclude in particular the article. 2a, which refers to mortgage and valuation records. It was realized as if at the request of the banks. And there's one more thing about adding here... especially about national parks, which also wanted to have priority here. So that actually these two specific records... Other issues are those related to the comments made. I'm filing for a bill without amendment.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-senat-23-2.u257	Thank you very much, Senator. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the rapporteur's senator. Would any of you like to ask such a question? Senator Florek, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-senat-23-2.u258	Mr Marshal, Mr President, I would like to know if the Minister justified why the bill... [[Voice from the room: Can't hear.]] [[Voice from the room: Microphone.]] ...we've been proceding... She changed that bill... You can hear it now, can't you? [[I can hear you, I can hear you.]] 'Cause I turned something on over there... No, I'm on well. Yeah, well... Recently, we have dealt with the law on stopping the sale of real estate of the Agricultural Property Resources of the State Treasury. At the time, we were talking about a decrease in the value of real estate, about the fact that there would be problems with credit. And at that time it was said that this issue would have no impact. I would like to know how the Minister has justified such an urgent need for such a rapid amendment. Thank you. [[May I?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-senat-23-2.u259	You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-senat-23-2.u260	I think the Minister will explain exactly why... It was clearly said, I remember that if there was a need and it came out after the examination of the implementation of this law, we would be willing to move on to legislative work immediately and make amendments. I had the opportunity to meet with the Minister and the bankers, and we talked, and the bankers showed that this issue was very disturbing to them. And I would like to point out that it was in the Senate that we introduced an article in which we said that up to 30 a is the possibility of firing. These are the effects of our amendment. It can be said that we, in the Senate, did not predict the consequences when we introduced the above-mentioned record that up to 30 a...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-senat-23-2.u261	Mr. Marshal Borusewicz, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-senat-23-2.u262	Senator rapporteur, I remember proceeding over that bill and discussion. We've been proceding... How much, a month ago? ... Over this very complicated bill. You're saying it was the Senate who introduced the 30 a. But were there any other amendments to this area?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-senat-23-2.u263	Thank you. There you go, Mr. Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-senat-23-2.u264	Of course, it was claimed that 1/2 ha, that 1 ha, that 2 ha... but then we didn't make a record of the mortgage charge. There was no such amendment, at least I don't remember it being mentioned. Anyway, he was there, and in the previous bill, I think the mortgage record was still, as I recall, in the previous...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-senat-23-2.u265	Thank you very much, Senator. Are there any more questions for the Senator rapporteur? No. [[Voice from the room: They're here!]] Oh, you can't be seen here, Mr. Senator, I'm so sorry. [[Voice from the hall: I covered it.]] I can see that now. Senator Czerwinski, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-senat-23-2.u266	Mr. Marshal, Mr. Senator, the question is added, or actually changed lips. Article 6 4 in the Act on the shaping of the agricultural system. In fact, companies are added to some exemptions. There's just an appeal, and there's an extension to the company... It's kind of softening the bill. Is this the result of some, I don't know, processes that have already occurred since the implementation of this law? Or do we view it as an oversight, that is, from the beginning? Because in a way, we put on a muzzle, we set up a dam, and now we're starting to soften it slowly, and we're introducing more and more exceptions into this bill.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-senat-23-2.u267	Thank you very much, Senator. You're welcome, Senator rapporteur.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-senat-23-2.u268	This was not discussed. We have not discussed this in detail, and therefore I find it difficult to relate to it. Please address this question to the Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-senat-23-2.u269	Thank you very much. Are there any more questions for the Senator rapporteur? Senator Piotr Florek. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-senat-23-2.u270	Mr. Marshal, I don't know if that's a question for the rapporteur, but I'll try. As far as the article is concerned. 1, it is there that there has been an extension of the internal roads, and there is an additional point which speaks of the acquisition of shares or parts thereof in the joint ownership of the immovable property referred to in point 1 (a). b and c. Lithium. c is precisely these internal roads, and this has been added, and lithium. b speaks of areas less than 0,3 ha. That wasn't there before. Do you supplement this provision by taking advantage of the fact that there is a question of internal roads, and you also add this acquisition of shares in parcels with an area of less than 0,3 ha? Is this a coincidence... What's the reason for this? But if that wasn't discussed, of course it would be a question for the Minister. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-senat-23-2.u271	You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-senat-23-2.u272	This was not a matter of discussion. The senators didn't ask at all, they thought everything was so clear that they accepted it without amendment.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-senat-23-2.u273	Thank you very much. Are there any more questions for the senator? No. Thank you very much, Senator. The draft law was introduced by Members. Does a government representative wish to speak on the bill under consideration? Welcome to the meeting of Minister Zbigniew Babalski. Minister, would you like to comment? No. At present, senators may submit no longer than a minute of questioning to a government representative. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? Yes, it is. You're welcome, Mr. Senator. You'll be the first to ask questions in a moment. [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development Zbigniew Babalski: From there or from there?]] Here, here, I mean from there you have to...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-senat-23-2.u274	Mr. Marshal, I have a question for you, Minister, about how the National Cooperative Council has raised the problem of purchasing land from cooperative members by the cooperative itself. The Council argues that it would be worthwhile to abolish the right to buy the real estate agency on similar terms as in the case of land inheritance. Does the Minister share this view of the solution to the question of the acquisition by the cooperative of land from its members and supports the abolition of this right of pre-emption? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-senat-23-2.u275	Thank you very much, Senator. Senator Czerwinski, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-senat-23-2.u276	Mr Marshal, Minister, the first question is to repeat the question I have asked the rapporteur. In a way, one of those added laws softens... I mean, softens... Well, he's going in the opposite direction than the entire bill. Namely I want this to be clear from the right of pre-emption which the agency has, there are certain exceptions, and the number of these exceptions is increased. This is how I treat it as going in the opposite direction than the original law. The question is, why? And two general questions, actually related to the mother's bill, but I think we're all going to want to know how this original law works. There were some pretty big concerns. But not with us, I admit, not in this group, although on the other side they were expressed The provision that churches and religious unions are excluded from the rigour of this law will be used. Is that true? It is about 2.5 months after the law was implemented. Are there really indications to the Minister that churches or religious unions abuse this law for some evil purpose? And then there's the next line. How does the law work in general? Was it really blocked... Well, the rotation of the earth isn't... in the gray area, that's how I'm gonna put it.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-senat-23-2.u277	Thank you very much. One more question, Senator Piotr Florek, and then the Minister will answer.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-senat-23-2.u278	Mr. Marshal, Minister, I'll repeat the question. I mean, it's in lithium. c internal roads, which, of course, I agree with, because it is right, these internal roads should be included here. But there is also a second point in this article, which refers to the acquisition of shares or parts thereof in the joint ownership of the properties referred to in point 1 (a). b and c. And that's the thing about shutting down... So I have a question about these plots smaller than 0.3 ha. Why here to introduce participation in companies, etc., when this area has been excluded from this law, it is not subject to this law? I don't really understand the second point that you're adding: to acquire shares or parts of them... and there's a point 1 point. b and c. What's with the lithium? B? It's lithium. I still get it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-senat-23-2.u279	You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-senat-23-2.u280	Thank you very much. Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Specific and brief questions. Cooperatives, Mr. Senator, not at this stage. This is too short a time to be tempted to change so far away, but it does not rule them out in the future. The shares and shares in this case were a question from the senator. It's not an extension, Mr. Senator, it was Okay, I'll admit it. My oversight. Because it's about loved ones... And since we've written down that property... under real estate... that this bill doesn't apply to loved ones, In order not to interfere with such a situation that fatherhood and inheritance are absolutely sacred to shares, where there is land property, the same principle is to work. So it was an oversight. Mother's bill, how does it work? The mother law actually confirms the direction we took in the Sejm and which the High Chamber of the Senate accepted. There are no objections. about those questionable issues that appeared in the Seym, and in the Senate, which means that we will block the rotation of the earth, that we will cause a drastic fall in prices... There's no such thing. Maybe it's been too short, because it's actually only been two months and seven days since this bill... Sorry, two months and... Today is July 21st, so this is May, June and July... Two months and 21 days. We don't have any signals for tonight. Except for the ones that really appeared on May 11, so it was 11 days and... I'm talking about these dates on purpose. So 11 days after the entry into force of this law there were signals about problems with lending, and really with securing these loans when it comes to agricultural property. So for today, after such a short period of time, this law confirms that the main objective that we wanted to achieve, i.e. the suppression of uncontrolled land trafficking in agricultural property resources, in the property of the State Treasury, has been absolutely achieved, this trade has been mastered and the state land is made available in the Polish countryside, farmers, through leases. And one last thing. Inner roads. This is what the notaries pointed out in this revision of the bill. For them, it's a matter of order when it comes to agricultural property, which are roads, and it's about turning it off, too. And that's it. So it's just a matter of interpretation.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-senat-23-2.u281	Thank you very much, Minister. Senator Czerwinski's asking questions.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-senat-23-2.u282	Mr. Marshal! Minister! One more thing, she may be loosely bound to this bill, but I want her to sound here on the plenar. Well, in one of my statements addressed to you, I have drawn attention to the process that is currently going on and which I have at least observed in two cases. I'm from Opole. I'm going to add this so that we're clear. It is the companies which, for their previous power, And it was quite, I would call it, liberal in this respect. In order to make it clear that, in the form of a lease, they are now seeking to extend these lease agreements for quite a long time, hoping, of course, that during this period political power will change, and when political power changes, the rigors of land trading will be relaxed, and they, in fact having this land, will be able to buy it out more easily. At the same time, there are places where individual farmers would like to lease this land leased by companies at the moment. The question is: how do you think the agency should work in this case? I ask this because in response I found this passus: it is possible to lease the land to companies for up to 8 years, up to 8 years. I understand that individual farmers can extend this lease to 15 years, to an individual farm. But why companies? Especially since they are generally foreign capital companies.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-senat-23-2.u283	You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-senat-23-2.u284	The answer is simple, Mr. Senator: because the operational programmes that enter and will last until 2020, the longest programme lasts 7 years, but we leave 1 year to settle from this programme. If you go into such a program, you have to give everyone, even the company, a chance to implement this program. And that's why it's eight years. For individual farmers, we have adopted two options: 10 years and 15 years with the possibility of extension. If the company does not enter into the programme and there is a demand for the land concerned and the lease agreement is terminated, the agency has the right not to extend the contract or disable... However, it usually extends if the company duly complied with the signed agreement, it duly complied with its provisions. We try to treat all players on this market equally. I repeat, if this is a large area of land, and there is a demand for individual farmers in this area, then the land will be excluded from the land, then the agency will immediately divide the land and display it for lease. [[The meeting is chaired by Vice-Marshal Maria Koc]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-senat-23-2.u285	Thank you very much, Minister. You're welcome, Senator Waldemar Slugocki.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-senat-23-2.u286	Thank you very much, Mrs. Marshal. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I'm gonna ask you about those programs you're talking about. They will be implemented in accordance with the principle: n+3. Plus, five years of permanence... That's eight, right. But it does not agree that they will be implemented by 2020, because they will be implemented by 2023 in accordance with this principle n+3 plus. And again, five years, permanence... That's de facto until 2028. Thank you very much. [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development Zbigniew Babalski: May I?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-senat-23-2.u287	Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-senat-23-2.u288	I share, Mr. Senator... Thank you for your very thorough calculations, but I'll stick to mine. The programme, which is described in the common agricultural policy, has a fixed working time. Those years you've added... Yeah, I'll take that. What you've told me is true, too.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-senat-23-2.u289	Thank you, Minister. Are there any more questions? I don't see any calls. Thank you very much, Minister. [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development Zbigniew Babalski: Thank you, Mrs Marshal. Thank you, High House.]] Thank you very much. I'm opening a discussion. I'll ask Senator Piotr Flork to speak. You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-senat-23-2.u290	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! The Minister said... 2 months and 21 days have passed since we tried to stop the sale of the farm property of the Treasury. I remember that we were very much discussing this law at the time. I also recall what the Minister had just said about buying back shares, including loved ones... I'm convinced, but I'm gonna check that we talked about this, too, about the fact that such exemptions should be. The Minister says he didn't, but I'm pretty sure he's on it. Yeah, we did. Minister, it's been a while, and to our offices. I don't know if it's everyone, but I'm sure it's someone who claims that the change you were talking about worked... Sure it worked, 'cause when it comes to land that's in the agency's resources... Yeah, it worked, but very wide. She stopped agricultural real estate in Poland. Why? The Act says that agricultural property can only be bought by a farmer unless they are saved for other purposes in the land development plan. Due to the fact that development plans in Poland cover, as you know, about 28% of the country's area... Well, these spatial planning plans don't have much. It was therefore known in advance that the turnover would be reduced, limited. And the farmers are complaining about it. What's the result of this? Of course, the result is a decrease in the value of real estate. Because if there's a limited turnover, there's less sales, there's no traffic on the market, which means property prices are starting to fall. And when the real estate prices start to fall... I'm sure that's hard to assess today, because it's been a while, so we're not gonna have accurate data yet. But I am convinced, Minister, that in two or three months we will meet again. There is no doubt in my mind that this will happen again. But I don't know if it's a good way to adopt a bill and then correct it every now and then. That's not what it's all about. We should, if we're gonna make a decision... You must remember that especially in the case of the new law, it is important that it function for at least a year before we judge it. I am convinced, Minister, and I will remind you in two or three months' time when we meet again, and we will say again that investment has slowed down, especially in cities, that farmers are having trouble investing in loans... Let's hope that this change that we're for, of course, will improve the situation. She's got to be backed up. But she's not gonna change much, because the whole bill is bad, bad, and she's blocking agricultural real estate. And I'm sure there'll be a time when we'll be making a bigger amendment to this bill. Today we know that after two or three weeks, which is surprising, as the Minister said, talks with banks began. You could've seen that coming. We discussed here that this would happen because banks And the creditors, and all the other creditors, require that mortgage protection be appropriate. It's probably gonna start... So far there have been no divisions of real estate, etc., and when you start talking about mortgage, division, joint mortgage, etc., there will be further problems. Now, on the other hand, the case I mentioned concerning... I don't get it. The Minister didn't answer me here either. I meant land to 0.3 ha. They've been shut down, and now we're also talking about disabling shares and shares in these lands. Since they are disabled, in my opinion, this entry is unnecessary, unnecessary in this act. Applies to point (a) of Article 2 (1) of Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013. b, if I remember, because lithium. c is the land on the roads. Yeah, but I don't want to get into it anymore, so we need to analyze it. In conclusion, I can say that what was expected is happening. Unfortunately, we can conclude that this law has had a bad impact on the real estate market, that it has had a bad impact on farmers, because if a farmer can't take credit and he can't grow... And she's kind of limiting it because we have less value for real estate. The issue of mortgages is another matter, but also important, important. So all I can say is that it's too bad, Minister, it's too bad we have to get back to this bill so quickly. I'm sure it's not the last time. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-senat-23-2.u291	Thank you very much, Senator. Senator Grzegorz Napieralski, please take the floor. Please, Mr. Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-senat-23-2.u292	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! It's not so much a voice in the discussion as it's a question. May I ask the Minister to refer to such information... If I remember correctly, on 6 July of this year, Rzeczpospolita published a very large article that really shows the very big problem of farmers. And this problem is about, just as experts show very clearly and clearly that thanks to the changes you have made today, there is a danger that a farmer may not receive a high credit. That's all that's going on with his land, it's not enough for him to get a high loan for investment, to buy this land. Could the Minister refer to this article and say if it is true? And if that's not true, what are the actual provisions of the bill? What examples can be given of the fact that the experts who prepared this document are wrong?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-senat-23-2.u293	Thank you very much, Senator. I inform you that the list of speakers has been exhausted. The discussion is closed. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development Zbigniew Babalski: May I refer to... one sentence.]] Of course, Minister, you're welcome. [[Voice from the room: If you don't mind, Mrs. Marshal...]] The time for questions was earlier, Mr. Senator didn't take advantage of it. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-senat-23-2.u294	I'll answer Senator Napieralski's question immediately. That is the obstacle, Mr. Senator, we have removed or removed in this amendment of the law. It's a matter of art. Article 68 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 2a about the books of eternity and the mortgage. We return to the state before 30 April: the borrower will determine with the bank the amount of the security that will be written on the mortgage. That's what happened so far. We wanted to protect the borrower from excessive entry. Because sometimes there was a 3-fold value, an elevated 3-fold record value in the eternal book. It wasn't until May 11th that the banks signaled that they had a problem with it. The Act entered into force on 30 April. And let me remind you that some of you, ladies and gentlemen of the Senators, adopted this entry in August 2015. We simply moved it, considering that this security will be effective primarily for farmers, so as not to unnecessarily increase the value of the mortgage. And it's a matter of... I said shares and shares, Mr. Senator. It's for Senator Flork. And that was my oversight, not the Senate, so I don't blame the Senate. It was simply my oversight at the legislative stage of the fact that we should maintain a level playing field, both in real estate and in companies, where there are shares and shares; people close to us should not have problems with it. As to, say, whether the bill is bad or good, we have here. different opinions. Thank you very much, Marshal.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-senat-23-2.u295	Thank you very much, Minister. We proceed with the examination of item 10 of the agenda: the Act amending the Law on Government Departments and some other laws. The text of the Act is contained in print No 239 and the report of the Commission In print No 239 A. I would like to ask the rapporteur, who is the Joint Committee on Territorial Government and State Administration and the Committee on Infrastructure, Senator Jacek Włosowicz, to submit a report to the committee. You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-senat-23-2.u296	Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! The amendment concerns the law on government departments. There is one major change, it concerns the construction, spatial planning and development and housing department. This change is to specify that matters relating to revitalization will be included in the area of matters falling within this section, not just the revitalization of construction, as has been the case so far. We also made amendments to this law in November last year and these amendments from November and the current amendment cause the need for formal amendments to 56 other laws, and this is also done. This submission also results in 2 changes in the determination of the authority responsible for issuing the Regulation; this is about 2 of the Regulation. The first is a regulation on the requirements that cemeteries, graves and other burial sites must meet. And the Minister of Health is identified as appropriate, he is to consult with the Minister for Construction and the Minister for Environmental Protection on the issue of this regulation. And the second change: the Minister of Home Affairs is pointed out, not, so far, the Minister of Construction as competent to issue a regulation on security issues for mass events. The Commission proposes to vote in favour of this law, 9 senators were in favour, 5 against, no one abstained.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-senat-23-2.u297	Thank you very much, Senator. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the rapporteur's senator. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? I don't see any calls. Thank you, Senator. [[Thank you, Mrs. Marshal.]] The draft law was introduced by Members. Does a government representative wish to speak on the bill under consideration? Minister Tomasz Żuchowski? [[Voice from the room: No.]] Thank you very much. Do the senators have questions for the Minister? I don't see any volunteers. Thank you very much. I'm opening a discussion. I would like to inform you that none of your senators have signed up. The discussion is closed. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. We proceed with the examination of item 11 of the agenda: the Act amending the Law on Civil Status Act. The text of the Act is contained in print No 226 and the report of the committee In print No 226 A. I ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Territorial Government and State Administration, Senator Arkadiusz Grabowski, to submit a report to the committee. You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-senat-23-2.u298	Mrs. Marshal! High Senate! Act amending the law on civil status. The purpose of the Act is to arrange the work of civil status offices This is the main objective By extending the powers to transfer to the civil status register the acts drawn up in the civil status books. This is one of the elements of the bill. What exactly is it? There is a narrow throat because under the current rules the power to transfer acts in information systems has only the managers of civil status offices. The scale of the need to make changes in databases is so large that, as I said at the outset, a narrow throat arises. Therefore, the provisions of the Act are extended by the possibility of authorising employees by the head of the civil status office to carry out technical activities in the IT system. The draft amendment of the act on civil status records extends the powers of the manager to annul civil status records declaring the same event and misregistered for technical reasons or as a result of incorrect application of the functionality of the register. Another element of the novel is the extension of the voivodeship's powers related to the annulment of the civil status act by means of an administrative decision when several acts are registered in the civil status register for reasons other than the misuse of the civil status register. In addition, as regards such more important and important changes to the Act, it should be stressed that the solutions adopted enable the Head of the Civil Status Office to issue copies of civil status records drawn up in civil status books using the data contained in applications supporting the registration of civil status. There was not a very long debate at the committee meeting. Nobody made any amendments to the bill. The bill was unanimously approved by the committee. On behalf of the members of the committee, I ask the High House to adopt a law without amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-senat-23-2.u299	Thank you very much. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the rapporteur's senator. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? I don't see any volunteers. Thank you, Senator. The bill was filed by the government. The Minister for Home Affairs and Administration has been authorised to present the government's position during parliamentary work. Minister Tomasz Zdzikot, Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Internal Affairs and Administration, is with us today. Would the Minister like to speak on the bill under consideration? You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-senat-23-2.u300	Dear Marshal! High Senate! I would first of all like to thank both your marshals and the honourable ladies and gentlemen of the senators for putting this item on the agenda. This is an extremely important and expected bill, expected by local communities and citizens throughout the country. Why? It is because it responds to the demands of both local government, civil status officials and other bodies and Poles, who repeatedly addressed the Minister of Home Affairs and Administration, indicating a significant extension of the service time in terms of obtaining, obtaining documents issued by civil status offices, in particular since 1 September 2015, when the transitional period related to the implementation of the new System of State Registers and the new Law on Civil Status Acts ended. Interventions from both local authorities, citizens, local unions and e.g. local authorities affected the Minister of Home Affairs and Administration. An ombudsman indicating that a summary copy of the death certificate, which was originally issued almost immediately, can now be expected to be 4, 6, 8 weeks. Such interventions were already in effect in November, in December 2015. One part of the solution to this problem is the current draft law, which responds to the demands in particular of the local government community from large urban centres. Why? Because the centralised System of State Registers introduced in 2014 and introduced last year since the collection of write-offs from civil status offices, i.e. the possibility that regardless of the place of residence, the check-in can be applied and obtained a copy in this office, which is closest to the citizen, can be evaluated, and are usually, with certainty, positive, but also associated with the over-normative burden on the work of all those offices located in the largest metropolitan areas where the life of the citizens is centered, the life of Poles. At the same time, there have been many shortcomings in the way and procedure for its implementation in this process, which should be assessed positively. One such flaw was, for example, the failure to carry out the so-called. migration of data, mainly from information systems supporting the work of civil status offices in the majority, in a significant part of large urban centres, where a significant number of digitised civil status acts were collected. They have not been transferred, so that is migration to a new centralised register. This obligation was examined by civil status officials, which led to the situation that, according to our estimates, the level of filling the Civil State Service Base with documents from 1946 to 2013 is currently less than 2%. And it takes another 30 years to fill it. We therefore propose a number of facilitations in the competence of the Minister of Home Affairs and Administration, which will also improve the work of the authorities and speed up the service of citizens in the assessment of the local government environment. The project was very positive both in terms of the local government environment and in terms of the Joint Committee of the Government and the Territorial Government, it was and is positively assessed. What changes are we proposing in this project? Firstly, we propose such improvements, which may seem minor, but, contrary to appearances, it is not, such a solution which allows the head of the civil status office to authorise the employees of his subordinate office to transfer the acts to the new Civil State Service Base. Why is it so important? This is because, at the moment, when a civil status act is introduced in a new register, it is necessary for the head of the civil status office or his deputy to confirm it. This requires several times the appropriate codes to be entered in the IT system, the approval of these activities. The manager or his deputy must do so, and he cannot authorize the employee to do so. If one takes into account that about 360 000 civil status records are being transferred each month, it clearly indicates how much work overload is being done by this narrow group of people. We want to make it possible for the manager to decide that he will authorise his employees, those who, in his assessment, have the necessary knowledge, competence and experience. This is the first change that will certainly speed up service. The second amendment is to allow the possibility to make sure that, in certain specific situations, copies from support applications, which so far, and thus until September 2015, support the work of the civil status office, especially in large centres, can be issued. Because, above all, they worked there, there they are largely filled with civil status records. By decision made last year, officials have not been allowed to use support applications since 1 September 2015, although they are still at the disposal of the authorities. So the clerk, having a computer on his desk where the files are collected, can't write off a copy, just needs to carry out this operation by means of migration, the current system, approval by the manager. This process is getting longer. We want to give the big centres an opportunity. All officials, but we assume that it will be used especially by large centres, large offices .................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. for a specified period of write-downs from support applications. We want this to be possible within a given period of time, within five years, in a situation where amendments, amendments, additional references are not required. The draft law sets a specific date, 1 September 2021. We want it to be possible until then. We just want to make sure that it's no longer the case that a copy of the death certificate is due for six to eight weeks. What else? We propose to introduce 2 new modes... actually extension 1 and introduce a new mode of nullification of civil status. The first is an extension of the voivodeship's powers, which will be able to invalidate acts in the event of their duplication for the same activity; this happens. The second mode concerns the possibility for the head of the civil status office to invalidate those acts in the system which have been caused by faults, technical errors, incorrect application of the application or contain such errors. What is important, we want this annulment to take place as a result of a material and technical action, not an administrative decision. It'll be a quicker, more efficient solution. Finally, while meeting the expectations of the local government environment, we want to extend the time to register those acts which were drawn up in the paper books during the transitional period from March to August 2015 to 1 September 2021, this is also a five-year period. This also aims at unlocking and prioritising the work of the civil status office when it comes to dealing with formal issues, entering data, handling citizens and accelerating them. These were the most important changes we are proposing. Complementive to our project are the works carried out primarily by the Ministry of Digitalization in cooperation with the Ministry of Foreign Affairs on the process of data migration, with the provision of a database of services of the civil status office, especially records collected in supporting applications, and probably also those collected in paper books. I hope that joint work will lead to the problem of the functional lockdown of the civil status office being resolved. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-senat-23-2.u301	Thank you, Minister. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of questioning to a government representative related to this item on the agenda. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? I don't see any volunteers. Thank you very much, Minister. [[Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Internal Affairs and Administration Tomasz Zdzikot: Thank you.]] I'm opening a discussion. [[Senator Dowhan.]] Senator Robert Dowhan will speak. You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-senat-23-2.u302	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I would like to congratulate you on your speed, because the program that was implemented in September As you yourself admitted, but above all how it was felt by workers and people who wanted to use a number of services It did not meet the requirements and was limited to the competence of at least a few people. I, at the seventh Senate meeting of the 9th term on the memorable night of December 31st, maybe not the night, but the evening when we almost spent in this room New Year's Eve, made a statement and I am very pleased that many of the issues raised in this statement Today she found her place in the bill. I wrote then that for a long time civil status offices in Poland have been using software whose operation slows down the issuing of relevant documents, beneficiaries cannot receive the issued document on the spot at the office due to numerous errors occurring in the IT system provided by the government, these arrears are growing day by day, some documents need to be waited for even a few weeks. Unfortunately, these were the facts and they were confirmed practically throughout Poland. An appropriate solution to this situation would be, first and foremost, to increase the power of local officials to issue documents. The procedure for sending documents to the central database in which they must be approved by the USC managers or their alternates shall further extend the circulation of documents. Stopping them delays the issuing of relevant legislation, etc., etc. I just want to say thank you and congratulations. I am glad that the statements made also find a response somewhere and the Ministry with such solutions, suggestions or our good advice. Thank you very much. Of course, we will vote in favour.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-senat-23-2.u303	Thank you very much, Senator. I inform you that the list of speakers has been exhausted. The discussion is closed. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. We proceed with the examination of item 12 of the agenda: the Act amending the Commercialisation and Privatization Act. The text of the Act is contained in print No 232 and the committee's report in print No 232 A. I would like to ask the rapporteur of the Committee on National Economy and Innovation and the Committee on Territorial Government and State Administration, Senator Adam Gawada, to present a report to the committee. You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-senat-23-2.u304	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I am pleased to present a report by the Committee on Territorial Government and State Administration and the Committee on National Economy and Innovation on the Act adopted by the Sejm on 6 July 2016 amending the Act on Commercialisation and Privatization. On 19 July, the joint committees examined the draft law submitted to optimise the use of the funds collected in the Reprivatisation Fund account. Following the amended law, it is from the funds collected in the fund account as the implementation of an agreement concluded by the State Treasury Minister and the local government unit that a special grant for such an entity may be granted to finance the entity's satisfaction of former owners of property taken over by the State Treasury, in particular by issuing or paying benefits resulting from final judgments and court settlements. The grant may be granted if the financial resources collected in the fund's account so permit and if the local government unit demonstrates specific circumstances justifying the grant. The draft law also indicates that the total amount of special grants granted for this purpose during the financial year will not be higher than PLN 200 million. At the same time, the legislator repeals the provision which allows the granting of m.s. Warsaw in 2016 from the funds collected in the special subsidy fund for the financing of compensation payments referred to in Article. 215 of 21 August 1997 on real estate management. In addition, in the amended law, the legislator adds a proposal which will allow the funds collected in the fund account to be used to finance the acquisition by the State Treasury of shares of public companies. It also adds a provision to protect against excessive depletion of funds collected in the fund account, which provides that the amount of such funds may not be less than twice the expenditure from the fund incurred in the previous financial year in order to satisfy claims by former owners. The law also adds a provision that will allow the funds collected in the fund account for the increase of the share capital of the Polish Television in 2016. Spółka Akcyjna, Polskiego Radia - Spółka Spółka Akcyjna i spółki radiofonii regionalnej. For this purpose, the Act provides for a total allocation of no more than PLN 30 million. The law in the opinion of the Legislative Office does not raise any substantive objections. However, the main legislator raises doubts about the article. 2th opinion of the law. With regard to the justification given by the chief legislator during the committee meeting, the government party does not see any risks in this respect. During the committee meeting, Senator Augustine, quoting the paragraphs. 4g, pointed out that the proposed changes could freeze the possibility of using the fund. He also pointed out that the intention of this law should be to recapitalisation the fund, not to raise capital, for example. the radio and television which I mentioned earlier and referred to in Article. 69g. Senator Augustyn also believes that the introduction of this law is risky and has requested that it be rejected. At least that was the result of the committee's work. Senator Frozz pointed out that both the law and the whole problem of reprivatization are very difficult and pointed out that this law is starting the process of regulating this case. The senator disagrees with this approach set out in the previous statement by Senator Augustine and does not want to combine the provisions of this law with the low, falling number of advertisements on public television, as was also mentioned in the committee meeting. Senator Augustyn also agrees with this argument, but considers that the fund should be earmarked for the purposes for which it was appointed. On the other hand, Senator Stanisławek asked to refer to the law and to the legislative remarks and then to start a broader discussion. The Deputy Minister representing the Government replied that according to Article. 2... that this article should be maintained and that here the risks associated with this would be eliminated by the new regulation. He also stressed that the amount of funds, which amounts to about PLN 4.9 billion under the Fund, is 10 times more than the expenditure incurred in previous years, which was on average, if I recall correctly, about PLN 400 million in the previous year. Therefore, in response to Senator Augustine's attention, it can be said that the Minister pointed out that raising the barrier would not freeze the possibility of using the fund. According to the Ministry, the value of the assets If this were the case, which was taken over by the State Treasury, it reached almost PLN 800 billion or about PLN 800 billion, so a separate amount of almost PLN 5 billion is needed to handle claims for this purpose. At the meeting of the committee, a representative of the Polish Districts Association stressed that the law was very good and expressed some concerns about the reduction of funds to meet the needs of the capital city of Warsaw. Senator Terminski and Senator Augustyn have tabled two amendments, minority proposals, but the rapporteur for minorities will say so. Senator Florek stressed that grants to local governments are a good direction, which is why, although some records do not agree, the law generally supports. I think that was the intention, Senator, of your speech. In conclusion, I would like to present to the High House a proposal from the committee that the High House should approve the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-senat-23-2.u305	Thank you, Senator. I would like to ask the rapporteur of the minority of the Committee on National Economy and Innovation and the Committee on Territorial Government and State Administration, Senator Mieczysław Augustyn, to present a proposal for a minority of committees.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-senat-23-2.u306	I would like to thank the President, Mr Gauge, for really presenting the committee's sitting very well, which makes it easier for me to do so, because you have done a great deal to me. Indeed, as some remember, already during the budget debate and the committee meeting, and during the plenary debate, I pointed out that payments from the Reprivatisation Fund had increased greatly. I was concerned that if they continued to grow at this rate, this fund would last for a very short time. And that we need to think about how the Polish state will respond to this growing problem. These prophecies, which we remember from the years when work was being done on the Law on reprivatization, were said that not adopting this law could bring the Polish budget to ruin. They seem to be close to fulfillment. This is a great challenge for the budget, for every government, whatever it is, because these long-lasting trials are coming to an end. And the judgments do not concern a small part of the estate, which could be the case if we accepted the reprivatization bill challenged by President Kwasniewski, only entire properties which must be spent either in nature or simply pay for them, and often also pay for the lost benefits. It was the Minister who said that the commitments for reprivatization, as it is estimated, are simply gigantic, unimaginable. If we had to pay 800 billion zlotys, we just wouldn't have anything to do with it. It's beyond budget efficiency. Today we see what these omissions, fear, and populist attitudes lead to. That's why it's important to look with such attention. even for the rest of it, among other things. because here, in the Senate of the previous term, we have already collided with the problem of reprivatization, especially in Warsaw. It was the Senate who proposed to fund the capital's budget because this is the only city that was involved in the decree of Bierut. And it's here that claims are on an extremely large scale. If we want a Polish capital to be proud of... We thought that we should simply help Warsaw, and that is why we sought the funds from this fund. Therefore, looking at it from an angle and remembering that other local governments then protested and said: we also have this problem... Well, they do, but not on that scale. ..then we have to agree on this. It's like Warsaw. From this point of view, I believe that it is necessary to do everything to ensure that every penny that is in this fund is viewed many times so that it is sufficient for as long as possible. We believe that the provisions proposed here do not meet this requirement. Ladies and gentlemen, at the committee meeting, we talked about how much the value has fallen. That's what the Senators of Law and Justice said. The key companies of the State Treasury had specific numbers. Do we want to risk our money? And this is 5% of the privatisation of our assets. Do we want to take a chance? You want me to put it on the market? Here, in one of the first regulations, it is said that this money is supposed to be revenue. And what if they are a loss, a great loss? What if we lose that money? Today, investing in the stock market is really becoming more and more like a gambling game, not a normal investment. If someone responsible said here that he knew what was gonna happen in the financial markets... And they are based today only on the principle of trust, which melts before our eyes, for example because of the political situation around us. At this point, we want to, excuse me very much, pawn in this roulette money for reprivatization. We shouldn't have agreed to that. And as a minority, we're against it. This is the first amendment. And the other one... But the motive is the same. What right, for what title, for what reason? If anyone thinks we've gotten the answer to that question, I want to get him out of the way. At the committee meeting, the answer to the question of why we should allocate $30 million to public television was not given because there is no reasonable answer. This is patching a hole in the television budget with money intended for a whole other thing. Saying that there's still a rule to this day. The budget revenue could be allocated... This is quite different than the destiny to put an end to any particular company's troubles. Probably not today, but tomorrow the report of the National Radio and Television Council will be discussed and we will probably be looking at this company, how it manages and how it looks. But from what we hear, ratings are decreasing, subscription payments are decreasing. I understand these problems. But not this way! Maybe you have to do something. Maybe there's something we need to do to get the ratings up so we can keep the advertising prices up. Not first devastate, then reach for something we should guard against in the interests of local governments and in the interests of the state budget. That's why these two amendments. The first concerns the withdrawal of investment in shares of companies of the State Treasury, and the second concerns the withdrawal of the funds of the Reprivatisation Fund for the increase of the share capital of TV Polska SA. Ladies and gentlemen, it seems to me that if not in the Committee on Economics, then perhaps in the whole House... Mrs. Marshal, if there's a big deal It's important, overdue, difficult, requiring some kind of consensus. It is here that there is room for discussion in this House. We're still at the doorstep after the government shift. This is, in my opinion, the last moment for Poland to have a serious debate on what to do next with reprivatization. It seems to me that these means, even if we do not freely host them, there is not much we can do. And we need to realise that even the best development plans can, unfortunately, be crossed because of the lack of resources that will have to be given back to private owners. They've gone all the way home and often end up on the international road. We don't discuss it, we don't take it seriously, and with every budget, this case should be considered and secured. Thank you very much. And once again, on behalf of the minorities, I ask you to understand the arguments behind these amendments.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-senat-23-2.u307	Thank you very much, Senator. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the senators of the rapporteurs. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? Senator Robert Dowhan, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-senat-23-2.u308	Thank you very much. I have a question for the rapporteur, Senator Augustine. I listen to the explanatory memorandum, and I'm really wondering what this bill is about. You mentioned that we could recapitalise the Polish Television. I thought we wanted to make amends to those who lost their assets. I would like you to elaborate on this subject and tell us where the question of funding the Polish Television came from. Where did the minister come from, when the Polish stock exchange was on its knees, and since the elections, since the government changed, the value of the entire wallet fell by several dozen percent and tens of billions of zlotys evaporated from the stock exchange... Why would you think of buying businesses? You're right to say... During the previous term, in which I also had the honour of being a senator, there was a discussion about Warsaw. Your previous speaker referred to the Warsaw issue and I did not understand it a bit. After all, Warsaw, not as a local government... [[Question, Mr. Senator. Ask me a question.]] Warsaw did not take property from Poles, it was done by the Treasury under the decree of Bierut. It can't be combined. I'd like you to elaborate on that. You criticized it, and it's worth paying attention.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-senat-23-2.u309	Thank you. Senator Nutchowska. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-senat-23-2.u310	Thank you very much, Marshal. Senator Augustine said beautifully: first devastate and then reach for something we should guard. Isn't that the answer to the question of why you have to reprivatize all this?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-senat-23-2.u311	You're welcome... [[Senator Czerwinski was still reporting.]] Please, Mr. Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-senat-23-2.u312	I have a question for the senator, too. Warsaw has been distinguished. [[By Bieruta?]] Yes. But also by the creators of the law in 2014 and 2016, when you were in charge. I'd like you to comment on the relationship... First of all, do you know how much money has actually been transferred by the Warsaw State Treasury for reprivatization purposes? And secondly, how do you comment on the existence of a sum of 200 million possible transfers and accidents that the media have been talking about recently very loudly, that is, maybe not robberies, but illegal property recovery processes in Warsaw by gangs, including the world of lawyers, lawyers, underprivileged people, who are simply not involved in reprivatization, and who are not at all entitled to all of this? Isn't this a way of pulling money out of the state budget by the profitable people working in conjunction with some city officials, the capital office?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-senat-23-2.u313	Thank you very much. Please, Mr. Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-senat-23-2.u314	I'll start answering from the end. Mr. Senator, let's wait for the court ruling before we start making judgments. For now, cases are being investigated. Criminals are and will try to involve officials in all this. So I don't really know what to comment on. I can say, and it's probably the only comment It's all been going on for a couple of years. That the justice system is working. If there's been abuse, someone who stole it will have to give it back. That's how it ends. That's always gonna happen. Reprivatisation is indeed a matter to be looked at. And as you can see, the D.A.'s office and the department are doing it. This concerns not only Warsaw. This also applies to Poznan and all major cities. Maybe not the cities that lie on the so-called. Lands Recovered, because there everything became property of the State Treasury, but of pre-war Poland. Maybe it's just a commentary. I do not remember exactly, but, I think, we planned that for 3 years it would be passed on to some 200 million zlotys. But I might be wrong here. I wasn't in the Committee on Economics or in the Committee on Budgets at the time. And it looks like this is the third year, last year. I made such a remark at the committee's meeting that if we allow it now What has been proposed since the beginning In order to separate the said 200 million PLN into many local governments, Warsaw will get less. Why didn't we decide from the beginning that this fund could be used by all local authorities? Because he's just too small for that. And we thought that yes, Warsaw was distinguished, just by Bierut. Senator Dowhan has put it very well. She was awarded on behalf of the Polish State. Private property, often in violation of the law, has been distributed. Today, the owners are begging... There's no such thing in any other city. In this sense, Warsaw was not so distinguished If it's distinguished, it's in quotes. How much has been touched. And today, the consequences of this are borne by the local government, although the state is guilty. That's why we argued it that way. Warsaw should be treated here in particular. Because Bierut treated her especially. And her situation is special. Now I answer the senator's question. Well, I think we need some special caution in the use of these modest funds. Also because the influence will be small. That, left to privatize, is worth little, is hard to privatize. These 5% of the privatised property will already be small revenues. There are some more than 100 million zlotys left on the market, with interest, etc. Well, then we can't... And when I said it was devastated, I meant, of course, the public television budget, in that sense. I am based here, Senator, on media reports, that advertising revenues could be higher, but advertising, due to the weaker ratings, especially the key programs, have become. And although there may be more of them there, the influence does not grow as expected. And I've read that in some segments it's even decreasing. I also read the data recently. We will continue to verify this in another item on the agenda That the proceeds from the subscription are also extremely low. In this sense, it can be said that the public television managers have led to the difficult situation of this company. Maybe the word devastation is excessive, but in any case they have led to serious shortcomings. And now we, from a completely different source, destined for something completely different, are going to recapitalize this company, which simply lacks money. And that's why I used those words, trying to convince you that we shouldn't mix these things. And if the owner, or State Treasury, wants to do something for the public television, then he should strengthen its credibility, thus making it attractive; thus And he should finally take care of a subscription, which the Platform hasn't done in a long time, which I've always resented. [[If you don't mind, I'd like to ask...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-senat-23-2.u315	Please, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-senat-23-2.u316	If you don't mind, I'd like to ask for a subscription. Do you not think that the fact that Mr Donald Tusk called Polish citizens to the so-called reduction in the proceeds of the subscription had an impact on the fact that he called on Polish citizens to do so. Civil disobedience and non-payment of a subscription? That's when the fashion started not to contribute to public television.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-senat-23-2.u317	I have a view on this subject, it was not happy, but it was a very long time ago and I do not think it will work until today, I do not think, all the more so, that the Polish Post Office and the tax offices are increasingly checking it out. The fact that the proceeds from the subscription are decreasing is more to do with demographic change. Let us remember that today young people very often do not have a TV or radio, they only have a computer. And they're not a handful of people anymore, they're millions. At the same time, we get more old people, older people, and they're exempt from paying their subscription. This is a system that falls apart in front of us, and you have to think about another. As far as I know, the government is thinking of another. We'll see how it's done. In any case, it seems that other structural reasons are so in my opinion. They are behind this, and we need to intervene quickly here. Are those words still working or not? It's hard for me to say right now. I remember that at that time it was argued that there was a one-off decrease in the downloadability of the subscription, so it would probably be possible to prove that this impact was then. Today, I think, it's small. There are other reasons for this. It's been a few years. Mr. Senator, I'm addressing Senator Dowhan. In answer to your questions, I will say yes. I told you when it comes to public television, we didn't get a clear answer. We can presume why. It's a matter of its own, so to speak, I think it's clear to those who know the company. After all, companies do not capitalise when things are going well and the situation does not require it. To answer both of these questions, I can say yes. It is a law to some extent rescue in segments that do not result from the main intention, from the main purpose of re-privatization money, rescue for the stock exchange, because to supply it, especially public companies, with an additional penny when the stock exchange sat down, could short-term expand it, and for the television company and radio in a situation where it desperately seeks sources of funding. Yeah, Mr. Senator seems to have gotten to the point. In fact, this submission does not really apply to what it should serve, or to a very small extent, and it is a rescue law, it is an anchor for completely different projects and matters.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-senat-23-2.u318	Thank you, Senator. Senator Krzysztof Frost.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-senat-23-2.u319	I, too, Mrs. Marshal, have a question for Senator Augustine. To be honest, I didn't want to speak because I'm a member of the committee at which the discussion was held, so it's hard for me to ask a question, but after your speech, I changed my mind and decided to ask a question because I'm amazed at the things you said. First line. You said that the payments from the Reprivatization Fund were increasing. The minister present at the committee meeting said the opposite, he said that there was a one-off increase of 200 million, but then last year there was a decrease. Can you then, Mr. Senator, quote the data that you gave to the Minister, the representative of the Ministry of the Treasury, showing how expenditures developed year after year? I think it was a little different than what you said. Let all the senators look into it. That's my first question. Second question, Mr. Senator. You presented here... well, such a dramatic situation that on the stock market we shouldn't invest anything, because it's roulette, because it's... Well, it's all bad stuff. I'm a little surprised because the party you represent, the party that represents itself as a free market, has always supported the stock market. Yes? On the other hand, this may indicate that the stock market is evil itself. [[Question, Mr. Senator.]] My question is, do you think investing money on the stock market is a bad thing? That's my second question. Third question. Do you know of situations where governments of different countries in the world invest in different kinds of funds? I know them, but maybe you don't. Do you know him? Please share that knowledge. Are some countries investing their own funds, this is one of the special purpose funds, reprivatization funds, e.g. On the stock market? And one last question. I agree with Senator Dowhan here. You're here to discuss public television, talking about all sorts of things, what the problems are on public television... [[Mr. Senator, it's been a minute.]] My question is this. Do you recall from the committee meeting that the Minister spoke about the fact that advertising revenues of the Polish Television for the last period are increasing? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-senat-23-2.u320	Thank you. Do any of you have another question for the senator? Mr. Senator... [[No, I have a question for Senator Adam.]] Good. It's Senator Augustine now, please, and then you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-senat-23-2.u321	I spoke precisely, much more precisely than at the committee meeting. I was based on budget data. At that time there were not yet those of the last year, from which it could be concluded that these influences did not grow so much. I've only seen this jump based on them. Of course, I take it that in the next year these influences for happiness did not turn out to be... that there was no more growth dynamics. And I'm here for this. I told you. I didn't say they grew, but they grew, not that they grew. They were slightly smaller, but these claims remained at a high level. I want you... No, I don't want you to be calm. If the Minister said that our reprivatisation arrears are 800 billion, they are calculated at 800 billion... It's not like we're gonna do it for 800 years. Absolutely not. This trial, anyway, maybe not linearly, because it depends on court decisions, it will accelerate. And there's no doubt about that. In this sense, concerns about what we will finance are absolutely legitimate. When it comes to advertising revenues on TV, I said that in some segments, programs, they fell, not that they fell in full. I also warned that I was based on media reports that were not verifiable. How is total revenue? I don't know, but if it were that good, there probably wouldn't be any need for this bill. Apparently, it's worse than last year, or expenses are so wasted that the TV board can't control them. Maybe it is, I don't know. In any case, I think we should be very careful. That was two questions, but you asked more questions. Could you remind me because I didn't have... [[Investing in the stock market...]] Yes... Maybe. Perhaps there are such countries and there are exchanges that are much more stable than ours. I do not know how competent I can express myself on this subject, but I believe that investing in the stock market has been very risky since at least 2008. And since this risk is also related to political risk, I have expressed my opinion here, and I maintain that it is the risk that is growing and the stock exchanges can be even more unstable. We have Brexit, we have Turkey, we have Russia, we have elections in different countries, we have very high risks, about the shape of the European Union, about its future, etc... I don't want to develop it, but we know the stock market is based on whether people have trust or not. This trust will certainly be difficult in the coming years, and it will not be easy to rebuild confidence among stock investors. It is also a headache of many, and it should be a headache of all of us, because although the financial resources in the hands of entrepreneurs are not small, just as they are afraid to invest in the stock market, so they are afraid to make material investments, even though the conditions for it actually would be. I don't want to talk about other countries. I firmly support the fact that investing in the stock market is at a very high risk and does not guarantee the proceeds and can expose the fund to very serious losses. God forbid that the stock exchange after the last positive assessments of one of the rating agencies regains the vigor, regains stability, our stock exchange in Warsaw, but, as I say, the external situation will certainly not favour this.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-senat-23-2.u322	Thank you, Senator. You're asking Senator Robert Dowhan. Question for Senator Adam Gadawa.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-senat-23-2.u323	Yes, thank you very much. Senator, tell me... I don't know. I'll say it in my speech. I have an opinion about the stock market... But if there's already a situation where there's gonna be money and somebody's gonna invest, it's gonna be one person's decision, there's gonna be a committee... First of all, somebody's gonna take responsibility for this, because it's about responsibility. It's public funds, it's property. all of us, and someone has to take responsibility, someone or a whole group of people, for that, for example. buys shares of even Polish company at such a price. That's my first question. Second question. Where did TV come from in this bill that doesn't apply to TV? Where did this come from? Why not, for example, I don't know, the Polish Mother's Health Center? I'm sure he needs funding for all kinds of activities, too. Why aren't there even medical institutions here? Today we discussed how much money it would take. All of a sudden, it's TV. Isn't that absurd? Isn't it ridiculous to proceed with this bill?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-senat-23-2.u324	Thank you. You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-senat-23-2.u325	Mrs. Marshal, High Izbo, first about company shares and whoever's responsible. Every decision... And I'll quote in my article. 4c of the Act is explicitly mentioned that the funds of the Fund referred to in paragraph 1. Point 1 (1) may be used to finance the acquisition by the State Treasury, represented by the State Treasury Minister, shares of public companies. Such a decision must be taken by a specific person, by a qualified and authorised person who will take that decision and bear the responsibility for it. It's a simple question and a simple answer. And that's the record of this bill. It's just that the High House is about making decisions. The parliamentary submission sets out the conditions in this law, and we as Senate will adopt a resolution on the adoption of this law in such a way or with amendments which have been proposed. That's one thing. The second thing is where Television came from, not medicine, or rather resources that could be destined, as you said, for medicine. Well, Polish Radio or Television Poland are share companies, companies that were incorporated into this bill and just as at the meeting of the committee... As rapporteur, I have a duty to provide full information from the committee's work, not my own feelings or my own position, and therefore, by providing information from the committee's work, I can assure you that this is simply a decision. Such a decision was proposed by the Parliamentary Law and we are obliged either to accept and maintain it or not. The Ministry's position is clear: the Ministry requests that these records be maintained. I would just like to refer very briefly to the speech made by my previous speaker, the Senator of minority proposals. However, I do, Mr. Senator... Very substantively, you have justified your minority proposals in substance, but I am firmly convinced that you have gone far beyond the framework of the report or the framework limiting the rapporteur's minority proposals. Many of the arguments put forward by the High House are the arguments of the senator With all due respect, everyone has the right to their views - which were neither the subject of the committee's work nor presented by a government party. That's why I'd ask... In addition, I said the same thing in the course of the report: on matters relating to Television and this difficult situation, we have withdrawn from the wider debate, concluding that this is not a matter for a committee meeting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-senat-23-2.u326	Thank you, Senator. Anyone else want to ask a question? I don't see any calls... [[If you don't mind...]] Well, well, well. [[I have a question...]] Which senator? [[To see the senator here...]] To Mr. Gadawady? You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-senat-23-2.u327	In Article 2, paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: Paragraph 56 Point 1 (1) is replaced by point (a) of the first subparagraph. a, the wording is that this fund is created for the payment of compensation resulting from final judgments and court agreements and final administrative decisions given in connection with the nationalisation of property. And my question: why was this limited only to the nationalisation of property, and not the wording of the State Treasury's acquisition of property, as it was used, in my opinion, more correctly, in the section on the financing of local governments for the execution of claims by former owners; where the wording of the former owners of property taken over by the State Treasury was correctly used, and only then is it written, including, for example, nationalisation? 'Cause I think it's a lit. and, where this narrows down only to nationalised property, does not seem to reflect the intention of this legislative change, which seems to have been intended to ensure that these funds were intended precisely for the execution of claims by former owners connected with the fact that their property had been taken over in different ways, not only on the basis of nationalisation. The nationalisation was in 1946 on the basis of a decree, but there were also other acquisitions, for example under the Law on the Acquisition of Goods of a Dead Hand, when the Church was taken over and there are still many different proceedings where claims are made on the basis of applicable laws and where the State Treasury or municipalities have to execute judicial judgments after it was handed down to the courts of the Property Commission.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-senat-23-2.u328	Thank you, Senator. Are any of your senators still... [[Me too.]] Senator Dowhan, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-senat-23-2.u329	I'm sorry, it slipped my mind that question... [[Senator Gawada, right?]] Yeah, yeah. How much money is currently in the account of this fund?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-senat-23-2.u330	Does anyone else have a question for the Senator of the rapporteur? No. Please, Mr. Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-senat-23-2.u331	I'm answering the senator's first question. Legislature Bureau... The main legislator did not comment on the provisions set out in Article. 56a. We didn't pay any attention at the committee meeting to the fact that the senator was kind enough to say just a moment ago. So we don't see... and the government side doesn't see the record of such a collision and such contradiction, so I find it difficult to relate to it. I'm actually reading the senator's application here. You're an excellent lawyer. At the moment, however, I find this difficult to relate to. I believe that it may have been an oversight, but I did not conclude from the meetings and the work of the committee that there was any risk of this legislation. That's the first question. Second question. About PLN 4.9 billion, if I'm not mistaken, this information was presented by the Ministry. I can only answer your question so briefly.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-senat-23-2.u332	Thank you very much. There are no more questions. Thank you, Senators rapporteurs. [[Thank you.]] The draft law was introduced by Members. Does a government representative wish to speak on the bill under consideration? We have Minister Nicholas Wild, Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of the Treasury. Minister, you're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-senat-23-2.u333	Ladies and gentlemen! Let me start with the topic that was last raised by your senator. The wording you are talking about is currently in force in the Commercialisation and Privatization Act. This sound... this narrow scope of the rule that speaks of nationalisation of property, is a property that has been taken over by the law, by a new draft law from the current wording of the Commercialisation and Privatization Act determining what the Reprivatization Fund is for. Thus, in our assessment, the clarification that it is the acquisition of property by the State Treasury restricts the possibility of reimbursement to local government units, but does not limit to any extent the scope of the payment from the Reprivatisation Fund in relation to what is currently being adopted. Since the issue of Polish Television raises, as we can see, particular doubts, it seems to me that it is important to draw your attention to a question which is clearly missing attention during the discussion. The regulation, which is adopted in the draft law, is in fact implementing the application submitted by the President of the Polish Television Juliusz Braun in July 2015, who asked the then Minister of the Treasury to provide for grants to Polish Television in connection with the organization of World Youth Days and other non-commercial events that take place in 2016. Thus, the regulation which is currently being adopted, in fact the grant which was granted to the Polish Television, was in fact granted in an amount that was not sufficient to satisfy the request of President Braun. The change which the High Senate is dealing with is in fact aimed at the implementation of the application submitted by the previous President of Polish Television. [[That explains a lot.]] So much for issues relating to grants to the Polish Television or capital increase to the Polish Television. The second point concerns investment under the Reprivatisation Fund. Here, too, there is an important element that in our view should influence the decision on the validity of the law we are proceeding. As Senator Augustine correctly noted, practically everything that could have been privatized has been privatized, as well as part of what should not be privatized. The only source of the Reprivatisation Fund was the privatisation funds. Other sources of funding need to be found. And here's the question: are the investments on the stock market the optimal way to do this? Of course, we can argue about this. But I would like to draw your attention to the fact that we are in a situation where a reduction, a radical reduction in exchange rates, on the one hand, of course opens up investment opportunities, but on the other hand, I would like to draw your attention to this. It also threatens a series of hostile acquisitions by investors. They can thus in companies in which the Treasury, due to privatisation policy, has minority packages, albeit providing control in companies... The acquisition of shares of public companies may lead to the loss of control by the State Treasury, which in turn will cut off the possibility of using these companies, even in terms of dividends. Thus, this aspect of investment and protection against hostile acquisitions of public companies also seems important and actually seems economically rational. Because it is rational for an entity that has a controlling interest in the company to pursue the maintenance of this package. Next question: what is the financial structure of the Reprivatisation Fund? As has been said, payments do not reach 10% per year funds collected in the fund, which means that 90% the funds collected in the fund are simply collected on the account and are not working. The only revenue generated by the fund today is interest. There are no proceeds from privatisations that would fund the Reprivatisation Fund. These measures demand that they start earning money for themselves. The question of the city of Warsaw, I understand, does not wake up What I'm excited about. Already so much controversy. I just want to clarify a few points. 90% payments from the Reprivatisation Fund at present go to cover compensation related to Warsaw land That's what it looks like. Half of which went through grants to the capital city... through refunds granted to the capital city of Warsaw and half was paid directly by the State Treasury. The amount of PLN 800 billion referred to is the amount corresponding to the valuation of the assets taken over by the Polish People's Republic. These are not claims we have to face. This is because not all properties acquired at the time of the Polish People's Republic were taken over contrary to Peerel's law, and only for such property can you claim compensation for today. This is therefore the value of the property taken over by the communist authorities. And, of course, in any way to count, even according to the most cost-effective criteria, setting the remuneration for the heirs of former owners at 20% We say that if we wanted to create a bill that would make up for all the owners, we would have to count on the expense of 160 billion. Thus, these amounts are completely disproportionate. If there are any questions, of course I am ready to answer, I am at your disposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-senat-23-2.u334	Thank you very much, Minister. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of questioning to a government representative related to this item on the agenda. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? Senator Robert Dowhan. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-senat-23-2.u335	Thank you very much. Minister, you said these movements are, among others. So that we can prevent hostile takeover of the company... [[Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Treasury Nicholas Wild: Enemy takeovers.]] Yes. Can you elaborate on how you can hostilely take over the company in your opinion? That's my first question. Second question. I had to leave for a while, but you said the previous president of television was also asking for a grant. Has this grant been given to television by the previous PO-PSL government? That's my two questions.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-senat-23-2.u336	Thank you very much. Please, Senator Jerzy Czerwiński will ask you a question. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-senat-23-2.u337	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! I am still interested in this issue of Warsaw reprivatization, so to speak. Some of these criminal acts described by the media are simply the recovery of tenements in nature or in nature in general, but part of this was certainly the acquisition of certain amounts of money in the form of just compensation. Don't you think that this gate was simply created, such a source, so that I would describe it, through which money directly from the state budget... maybe not from the budget, but from public funds, through the capital city of Warsaw, could flow into private pockets? And now for a specific amount... Of course, I am not saying that so much went into private pockets, but how much did Warsaw receive in 2014 and 2016 from this Reprivatization Fund?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-senat-23-2.u338	Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-senat-23-2.u339	I answer in the order of questions asked. We are talking about hostile acquisitions in a situation where, in the case of companies controlled by the State Treasury, because of the fragmentation of minority shareholding, i.e. companies where we have 30 votes, as a result of a reduction in the price of shares, the loss of control is due to the buying-in of packages by other investors from a minority shareholder. I mean, we're talking about a situation where an entity with a comparable shareholder with us, but not high enough to control the company, buys shares of the acquired company from minority fragmented shareholders. It thus acquires control over the company, also control over all financial processes which involve the exercise of corporate power. This is the purest example of hostile takeover I have in mind. The prevention of such a situation can be done by increasing the share capital of the State Treasury, which benefits, like any other investor, from low share prices. This is a cost-effective action from the State Treasury's point of view as a shareholder. As regards the request of President Braun, I would like to point out that firstly, the proposed regulation provides for the possibility of raising capital not only for the Polish Television, but also for other media companies. President Braun applied for 34 million zlotys of grants, of which, as I remember, although unfortunately I do not have documents on me, it was granted to him, I think, about 10 million. We are talking only about Television, not about support for all companies serving media events that we are witnessing this year. As for the question about Warsaw, it seems to me that the situation here is quite complicated. I am convinced that this was not the intention of the creators of the bill, who predicted the funding of the capital of 200 million a year in connection with the payments. However, the fact is that as a result of this regulation there has been a sharp increase in the amounts paid by the capital city of Warsaw and a sharp increase in the number of applications entering the capital city of Warsaw. It seems that some expected here have been very clearly awakened. [[The facts speak for themselves.]] Yes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-senat-23-2.u340	Thank you, Minister. Are there any more questions? I don't see any volunteers. Thank you, Minister. I'm opening a discussion. I'd like to speak with Senator Mieczysław Augustyn. You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-senat-23-2.u341	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! Gentlemen of the Senators! A lot has been said. When I signed up, I didn't know there'd be so many questions for me. In fact, most of my comments, which he probably rightly referred to... Mr President, most of my comments were the result of specific questions that I did not have to answer, but I answered. They were addressed to me, not to the committee meeting. I had the opportunity to answer them, and I did it. Once again, I would like to stress that the problem of reprivatisation is a huge problem and that it is a very serious threat to the state budget resulting from the former omission. It is worth remembering that most post-communist countries have adopted reprivatization laws in agreement with associations bringing together former owners. That's what kept the charges under control. It was more or less possible to estimate what their size was, to break it down. It's all in installments and some things just negotiate. Now, if we don't want to, we're being held hostage by judgments that we can't predict. Neither the number nor the amount of quotas. We can't protect ourselves from all this either. Therefore, I think we need a debate. The Minister said that, and that's exactly what we agree on. How do we want to meet this challenge in view of the drying up of existing sources of funding for the Reprivatisation Fund? The problem is constant, and I dare say he'll be following us for decades. Solutions are needed here. above divisions, because it is a matter that concerns us and will probably concern our successors. That's why it's worth thinking about. I maintain that it would be worthwhile for the Senate, as the House, to be a place of such an in-depth, unenhanced aggression of reflection and concern for the affairs of the state, a place where we would jointly seek consensus on this matter. And the controversy around her was easy to raise. President Kwasniewski bowed. It was asked why 15% They said it was too much that we couldn't afford it. There was an uproar and he gave in. And today we have what we have. Trouble moved to today's summer. It's worth talking about, because somehow we have to face this challenge. And let me just repeat, when we have very modest resources, leftovers, we should That's what I think. Their economy is extremely cost-effective, extremely meticulous. I understand, Minister, that we want to solve some other problem of capitalization in order to prevent hostile takeover... Although I am not a specialist in these matters, I know that there are other safeguards in the case of key companies of the Treasury that prevent hostile takeovers, these are legal and administrative safeguards. Moreover, even buying minority shares can be carried out to some extent, if I remember correctly, under the control of the state. So that's the problem I wouldn't be afraid of. But I understand you've been looking for the Minister's justification here. And I respect that. In any case, even if these are companies of the Treasury, which we wish the best, which we should support, I think... However, I would insist, Minister: not from this source. I'm not saying there's no problem there, I'm not saying there's no problem on TV. But I also don't know a TV president who wouldn't reach out to the Treasury. We didn't give it up even though the motion was in this case, so please don't use this case as an excuse to point out: a, it was the previous president who asked for it. Yeah, he did, but he didn't get hit. And this one's gonna get it now? Just like I would've been against it then, and I was against giving, and now I'm against it. Not to give TV, just... This is a little bit like health care and many other areas: we have doubts about whether to give public money for it until proper cleaning is done there. And that's where I'd be headed. Perhaps it would even be a good investment if this company were properly managed. But then it would not have to be distinguished, Minister, because it is a company of the Treasury. Right? And you could reach out and try to capitalize on it. Once again, Mrs. Marshal, I consider the Senate bureau as such: would we not be tempted to have such a debate on reprivatisation in Poland held right here in the Senate, with the participation of experts? There were a few of them. I think it would even be an event, a big and important event that would arouse interest and raise the profile of our House if it wanted to face such a serious issue to resolve.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-senat-23-2.u342	Thank you very much, Senator. And to speak, please, Senator Piotr Flork.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-senat-23-2.u343	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Senate! I would agree to what Senator Augustine just said, because in the claims of former owners of property, returns... Return decisions, administrative decisions, judicial decisions, all this has been going on for many, many years. And it's probably not gonna be over for a long time, even though I think things are gonna get less and less. The history of Poland is a little confusing. We would have to go back to court in these cases, which is also important, very important, otherwise these documents that are needed, necessary for the return of real estate... Well, maybe here, in the Mazowieckie voivodship, there are other documents, others are in Wielkopolska, others, for example. in Wrocław, where we dealt with Austrian, Prussian, Russian... In Russian it was not the documents of the cadastre at all. Therefore, all of this is obviously difficult and there is a legal mess involved, although for many years we have been trying to make things right when it comes to real estate casters or land and buildings records. These processes, of course, are still ongoing, of course, also associated with those claims and decisions that are being issued. The Minister spoke about about about 800 billion PLN, so roughly it was counted. PLN 4.9 billion is what's in the fund. The Minister said at the committee meeting that about PLN 118 billion is interest, which is what's important, what's important, that this fund... [[Millions.]] Sorry, 118 million zlotys. This is important because it enriches the fund. You said that, of course, with revenue in respect of the Reprivatisation Fund, it would be a little worse, because there are fewer opportunities. That's why, when you put together these millions of zlotys... As Senator Augustine said, if it were 10 or 15... everything would look different today. If this bill, which has been challenged, had entered into force, we would no longer have to deal with such claims today. Yeah, but we have to deal with all this. I think it's worth thinking about. And that's why we need this discussion. It wouldn't have to be said that someday these trials will be over, in years or so, so that we can finally close this so we don't get back to it. That's important too. Because we can't deal with these claims forever. And, of course, there are other things about... I'm not going to develop what was said anymore. The decree of Bierut in Warsaw... In other parts of Poland. It looks different. There was talk of how much of this money was spent. I, too, noted at the committee meeting that in 2013 it was PLN 283 million, in 2014, PLN 413 million; in 2015 PLN 380 million. But the Minister pointed out that it was there, in 2014 and 2015 that the said 200 million PLN was included for the city of Warsaw. And I'm not gonna be here... It has already been mentioned, it has already been mentioned here about the decree of Bierut. A slightly different situation is in other places in Poland. And that's what I'd like to pay particular attention to. In my experience, I can say... I had such conversations, it was about a building, an object of school, a fortune, practically such a nice palace in which the school was located. There were claims from ex-owners, and there was a return on this property. The facility has been co-ordinated, in favour, in this case, of the county. And so now the poor county... Turns out there's an offer from ex-owners that they can sell this facility for 5 million zlotys, maybe about 5 million zlotys. And here's the thing... The self-government of God owes the spirit because he received the object, it was communalized, and the self-government ran the school there for many, many years. And now we have to find the money. And then there's the problem of where to get it. And that's why I think that a targeted grant, which is provided for in the Local Government Act, is a very good solution. And here you can support local governments. This is just a matter of what you say, the 200 million zlotys each year. Well, as I understand it, since the fund is almost PLN 5 billion, PLN 4.9 billion, then PLN 200 million... If you count this, you will find that this money is still included in the interest rate. It's enough for some years. So the point is that it would be worth wondering what about this reprivatization, privatisation, whether all these matters should not be completed at a certain time. So that we can predict whether the money, the five billion zlotys that are at the moment, will suffice. And shouldn't it be better to support local governments. Because there are a lot of cases in Poland, as far as I know. And in case there's no way... then, of course, there's a twist. And then there's the problem with what to do. Just like the one I was talking about. For example, with a school that can be found in the Treasury or in the municipality that can be used... And that's often hard. That is why I think that with regard to the support of local authorities by means of targeted grants, this is a very good direction. In this direction, I believe that support should be stepped up. And as far as I'm concerned, I will no longer repeat what was said. - about the capital increase that... Well, there was a one-time coincidence... It happened that he was... But that's not the purpose of the reprivatization fund. This objective should be that money is used, for example, for the acquisition of companies. I understand what the Minister said, that money has to be traded somewhere to be interest, and that it has to be found somewhere... But I think that playing the stock market is the biggest risk, and we should find another way to invest so that over the next few years this money doesn't lie down, just so that they work and that they can be used. Of course, I would support this support for local governments. But, of course, I think that spending money for other purposes, which is so precisely unrelated to the Reprivatisation Fund, should not take place. And that's why I'm going to say that I partially agree, partly not, and there's a question of how to settle this. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-senat-23-2.u344	Thank you, Senator. And Mr. Senator Robert Dowhan.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-senat-23-2.u345	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Referring to this hostile takeover, I would say that I do not know if it is a good word, because today it is not so easy to take over the company of the Treasury, which has distributed capital, for several reasons, you, among others. He replaced them, too. Our KGHM, a well-known company: Treasury 31,79%. Many different companies, including our companies of the State Treasury, such as PKO BP, also own shares. But capital is so dispersed that it's hard today, really physically hard for all those who have shares, and everyone can have them, meet and decide about this company. It just can't be done physically. Secondly, maybe it would be good in some cases to privatize some companies to the end. Today's privatisation is almost over and there's nothing to privatize. It's been said here. And the money would come in handy. Because privatisation is also a commitment as if it were a duty, giving responsibility, and the debts that the Treasury later receives are virtually not reduced, because taxes have to be paid, property taxes, on wages, so the wheel closes. I don't want to talk about this bill in terms of reprivatizing and handing over this property, but I just don't like what we've been saying about television here. I don't like it for a few reasons. First of all, why television and not some hospital? Why television, not something else related to our country? Because, in fact, every president would like to get one, but I would like one of those presidents who would like to give one. Because every company has to make profits, and television is today an incredibly good tool and marketing and financial. Look at other TVs, like TVN or Polsat. They're doing great. What are they worse at than us? [[They have commercials.]] Advertising. Very well, that's one of the reasons: advertising. And why aren't the ads selling on our TV? [[I don't want commercials in...]] Why don't we have managers like that, why don't we have a president who, instead of verifying ads, verifying the ratings of the programs, would be looking for programs to download the audience? And if there's a big audience, then there's a commercial sale, and then it's gonna catch up. [[But I don't want ads on the show.]] And today I read that our lovely TV, with which a man grew up, is dropping ratings, people don't want to pay tax... sorry, subscription. Maybe it's time to think that this subscription isn't mandatory, because if something is mandatory, maybe it's not exactly willing to be paid. Why don't we follow the TV that has decoders? [[This is public television.]] Maybe those who want to watch One, Two, Polonia and other TVs... Can she sell decoders? Then it's counted, the decoder goes, the wheel closes. If there was a good manager, a good president, why not? If others have succeeded, then why should the Polish Television not succeed, which has mechanisms, a tool which has access to channels, which primarily has the privilege of being our company, a company of the Treasury, which will always receive assistance in everything and from parliamentarians, and from institutions? I'm surprised we're still talking about TV. All of a sudden it's falling... Then think about why it's falling. And why throw money that's supposed to be on something else and save TV? For what? In the name of new jobs? In the name of wages for people who do not really fulfill their hopes? If I have a company, I hire people who are developing this company or at least keep it on a level. If we're going to compare it to something, we have different TVs. Why is he doing at least Television Trwam? She's doing fine. They sell ads, too. They have decoders. You don't have to look far. Here, reaching out for charity seems inappropriate to me. Playing the stock market. Like I said, I'm not exactly an opponent. It is a lottery, but if there are funds, then why not support, especially Polish companies. We used to sell stock. I'd be wondering if I could buy those shares back in some part of it. This can allow good investment if, of course, the company is well managed and some are. An example is the Lotus I mentioned here before. I congratulate the new president, a vibrant young man who has a vision and who I think will pull this company, and you can see the first moves on the stock market because the stock market is some sort of indicator. Why not support a company that, for example, has a development plan that wants to invest in new technologies, wants to buy another company? I'm not against it, but I'm against doing it rashly. It's also about people who do this kind of thing being responsible. Responsibility is not just a position, but, above all, a consequence if something fails. It is also difficult to say that it will not work, because the stock market is dependent on many factors that my previous speaker, Senator Augustine, was talking about. On the one hand, we have politics, politics has significantly reduced the ranking of our stock exchange. After the parliamentary elections, for various reasons I don't want to judge here that our government was better, this is worse, or this is better, and I don't want to judge that the stock market reacted negatively. Billions of zlotys evaporated from the stock market and it didn't come back. It's coming from somewhere. I'm guessing that policy had an impact on it. The stock market, and let's see what the gold looks like today. The gold to the euro last year did not exceed 4 PLN, today it is 4.45 PLN, 4.50 PLN, the dollar costs more than 4 PLN, how much they cost francs, which are constantly talked about. That's an indicator, too. The stock market is also at high risk, because it is enough that somewhere in the Arab countries there will be some conflict and the price of oil immediately has a drastic impact on it, it immediately regulates the entire stock market. Today's situation is that it's hard to 100% invest, not risk it. But I wouldn't be afraid of that. As far as the financing of the Treasury companies is concerned, I am absolutely positive. In a conversation with Senator Augustine, this was the case, namely, he wondered, as the Platform, whether or not to file a motion to reject the bill. I believe that this law is needed, but I would just like you to support our amendments that have been tabled, because I would not want to combine this with the TV and other things that we have been talking about here. Somehow it doesn't stick together like that. If we want to help TV, let's do TV, let's have a proper debate, make a good bill, let's think, I don't know how to encourage people to pay a subscription or other forms or advertising. Today on this television I see it after myself and a lot of people I talk to. In fact, the only programme viewed is sports news, because this reality does not go any other way. If Poland lost to the champion of Europe in criminal, it means that it lost, and it is difficult to reverse this situation. That's what I wish you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-senat-23-2.u346	Thank you, Senator. Senator Gazweda. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-senat-23-2.u347	Mrs. Marshal, I am very brief, but I would still like, while Senator Augustine is in the Chamber, to stress very strongly that the bill we are adopting is actually an expression of responsibility, responsibility for the state. Mr Senator, that is exactly what I remember, and you also recall that, during the committee meeting, he recalled it, and all of them recalled that these measures would nevertheless be getting lower, so that there will be less and less participation from privatisation, and that is why we need to look for other instruments that will enable this fund to be kept at an appropriate level, guaranteeing the payment of compensation due. Therefore, today there is no other option than to write down instruments that enable the Ministry to make the right decisions. And what I'm trying to say is that it's an art. 4d explicitly states that if the acquired shares are disposed of, the funds from the disposal of those shares must re-enforce the fund. So it's a full guarantee. It's one thing. And the second thing I'd like to talk about briefly. Really, let's be honest: public television isn't commercial television, it's a mission, it's an information mission... [[Yeah, that's right.]] ...therefore, it is impossible to talk about the function of advertising and commerce itself, which is part of public television. We're on the eve of World Youth Day. Events with such a wide range have not been in Poland for a long time, therefore television also has a mission to fulfil. Without going into any polemics, I believe that this law, despite the differences, gives good instruments to make it work. Thank you very much, Marshal.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-21-senat-23-2.u348	Thank you very much. I inform you that the list of speakers has been exhausted. The discussion is closed. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. Ladies and gentlemen, I hereby announce a recess until 9 a.m. tomorrow. Tomorrow at 9 a.m., we will resume the meeting and start with a point on the appointment of a member of the National Radio and Television Council. I'm calling a recess until 9:00 a.m. tomorrow. Thank you very much. [[Adjournment at the meeting at 19 minutes 32]]
