ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-19-sejm-23-1.u1	I'm opening a sitting. [[Marshal hits Marshal's staff three times.]] I would like to call on Piotr Łukasz Babiarz, Piotr Olszówka, Marcin Duszek and Daniel Milewski to be the secretaries of today's proceedings. Piotr Łukasz Babiarz and Piotr Olszówka will be members in the first part of the session. The minutes and lists of speakers will be led by Piotr Olszówka and Marcin Duszek. I consider the minutes of the 22nd session of the Sejm to be adopted in the absence of objections. High Izbo! I would like to inform you that in connection with the expiry of the mandate of Mr Maks Kraczkowski on the basis of the article. I have decided to replace Mr Grzegorz Piechowiak, who has taken the oath of a Member of Parliament, to become a member of the electoral code. I ask Mr Grzegorz Piechowiak to come closer to the presidential table, and I ask your Members to stand up. [[The Gathered Rise Up]] I'll read the vows now: I solemnly vow to do my duty to the Nation, to safeguard the sovereignty and interests of the State, to do everything for the welfare of the Homeland and the welfare of citizens, to observe the Constitution and other rights of the Republic of Poland. Mr Grzegorz Piechowiak.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-19-sejm-23-1.u2	I promise. So help me God.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-19-sejm-23-1.u3	Thank you very much. [[Applause]] I state that Mr Grzegorz Piechowiak has taken a vow of marriage. At the 22nd meeting, the Sejm did not vote on the motion for rejection at first reading of the draft law amending the Act on Agricultural Chambers and certain other laws contained in print No 574. Therefore, after obtaining the uniform opinion of the Seniors Convention, I decided to supplement the agenda with a point including this vote. The Minister for Agriculture and Rural Development has asked for the following item to be added to the agenda: Information from the Minister for Agriculture and Rural Development on: - the current situation on the basic agricultural markets, - the arrangements of the Council of the European Union for Agriculture and Fisheries concerning the situation on agricultural markets and planned support measures, - the development programme of the main agricultural markets in Poland for the years 2016 The Civic Platform Parliamentary Club requested information from the President of the Council of Ministers on the outcome of the UK referendum on the further membership of the UK in the European Union. Therefore, after obtaining the uniform opinion of the Seniors Convention, I decided to supplement the agenda for this information. The Council of Ministers has submitted a draft bill on the rules of settlement in the tax on goods and services and the reimbursement of public funds for the implementation of projects financed from the budget of the European Union or from the Member States of the European Free Trade Agreement by local government units. The design is print number 709. Therefore, after obtaining the uniform opinion of the Seniors Convention, I decided to supplement the agenda by a point covering the first reading of this draft law. A group of Members submitted a draft law amending the Aviation Law Act contained in print No 710. The Council of Ministers has submitted draft laws: - on trust services and electronic identification, contained in print No 713, - on the amendment of the law on the operation of hard coal mining and certain other laws, contained in print No 722. Therefore, after obtaining the uniform opinion of the Seniors Convention, I decided to supplement the agenda with points covering the first reading of these projects. In these cases, I propose that the Sejm consent to the application of the article. Article 37 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 4 Rules of Procedure of the Sejm. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. The Committee on the Environment, Natural Resources and Forestry has submitted a report on the Government's draft law on access to and sharing the benefits of genetic resources. The report shall be published in the Official Journal of the European Union. Therefore, pursuant to Article. 95e of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm, I have decided to supplement the agenda by a point covering the examination of this report. The Commission for Energy and Treasury has submitted a report on the parliamentary draft law amending the Energy Law Act and some other laws. The report shall be published in the Official Journal of the European Union. Therefore, after obtaining the uniform opinion of the Seniors Convention, I decided to supplement the agenda by a point covering the examination of this report. In this case, I propose that the Sejm consent to the application of the article. Article 44 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 3 Rules of Procedure of the Sejm. If I do not hear opposition, I will understand that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. The Sejm Bureau proposes that the Sejm hold a joint brief debate on the committee's reports: on the report on the implementation of the State budget for the period from 1 January to 31 December 2015, together with the analysis presented by the Supreme Audit Chamber of the implementation of the state budget and monetary policy assumptions in 2015 and on the Commission's draft resolution on discharge, on the information on guarantees and guarantees given by the State Treasury in 2015, certain legal persons and Bank Gospodarstwa Krajowego, as well as on the report on the activities of the National Bank of Poland in 2015. The Sejm Bureau also proposes that the Sejm should listen to ten-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and five-minute statements on behalf of the circle in discussions on information: - President of the Institute of National Remembrance about the activities of the Institute of National Remembrance - Commission for the pursuit of Crime against the Polish Nationals in 2015, - the President of the Council of Ministers on the outcome of the UK referendum on the further membership of the United Kingdom in the European Union, - the Minister for Agriculture and Rural Development concerning the current situation on the basic agricultural markets. The Sejm Bureau proposes that the Sejm should listen to the five-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and the circles in discussions on the other items on the agenda. If I do not hear opposition, I will understand that the Sejm has accepted the proposals. I can't hear you objecting. I would like to inform you that the Seniors' Convention adopted a proposal from the Sejm Bureau to consider at its meeting the current information on the effects of the amendment of the Act amending the Act on Pensions from the Social Insurance Fund and some other laws which the Modern Poselski Club requested to present. The agenda items of this meeting will be dealt with in accordance with the order adopted by the Bureau of the Sejm and the Seniors' Convention. Information on this matter, as well as the list of laws that the Senate adopted without amendments, is available in the Sejm Information System. I ask the Secretary to read the messages. [[Formal conclusion.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-19-sejm-23-1.u4	I would like to inform you that today will be the meeting of the Commission: - Poselska etiquette - hour. 9.30 a.m., - Infrastructure - hour 9.30 a.m., - Culture and Media - hour 9.30 a.m., - Justice and Human Rights at 10 p.m. 9.30 a.m., - Public Finance - hour. 10, - National Defense at 5 p.m. 10, - Agriculture and Rural Development jointly with the Committee on Territorial Government and Regional Policy - at 3 p.m. 10, - Foreign Affairs - hour 10, - Legal notice - hour. 10.30, - to Energy and Treasury - hour. 12, - Maritime Affairs and Inland Navigation - h.m. 12, - Public Finance - hour. 13, - to the European Union, at 3 p.m. 15, - Communication with Poles abroad together with the Committee on Culture and Media - hour. 15, - Justice and Human Rights at 10 p.m. 15, - Health-- hour. 15, - Local Government and Regional Policy - h.m. 3.30 p.m., - Administration and Home Affairs together with the Committee on Public Finance - hour 16, - Social Policy and Family Policy - hour 16, - Public Finance together with the Committee on Physical Culture, Sports and Tourism - h.m. 18, - Infrastructure - hour 18, - for Petitions - at 10 p.m. 18. Communication on the meetings of the teams. The following parliamentary teams will be held today: - Parliamentary Group for: Protection of the Białowieża Forest - hour 12, - Parliamentary Air Quality Improvement Team in Poland - hour 12, - Kujawsko-Pomorskie Parliamentary Team - h.m. 16, - Parliamentary Group for: Supporting Youth Councils in the Units of the Territorial Self-Government - hour. 18, - Parliamentary Animal Friends Team - h.m. 18.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-19-sejm-23-1.u5	Thank you very much. Formal proposals have been made by the Members. Mrs Elżbieta Radziszewska, Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-19-sejm-23-1.u6	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Recalling the article. 173, I would first like to state the reasons for my formal proposal. As you know, for many years we have been talking about what model of health protection will be in force in Poland when the rule of law and justice takes over. Today it is a fact, for 8 months, and just as for 8 years we have failed to find out what the health care system and patient care model will look like, so after 8 months we still do not know. Minister Radziwiłł received a yellow card from the President of Jarosław Kaczyński on the previous weekend, and he was referred to as failing to carry out his tasks. Now it turns out that in all the interviews that suddenly fell out and which are in the media, we read various interesting things, among others. that the Minister needs 40 billion zlotys, but if he gets them, he doesn't know, because that's what the Minister of Finance needs to ask. It's like squeaking from under a broom. Two - that it is going to revolutionize the health system costlessly, that it will probably be part of the Swedish model, perhaps it will be a health model from the UK, the public, maybe it will be a citizen's model, the resident model, but we really don't know anything. Mr. Marshal, it is high time the Seym learned what the Minister of Health had planned, especially since two weeks ago Prime Minister Beata Szydło introduced them and the Prime Minister accepted them. What is the purpose of the proposed changes? What's to be changed? For the time being, the House has agreed that the liquidation of hospitals will have to be carried out by local authorities, at the request of Law and Justice, [[♪ The bell ♪]] or e.g. that medications for prostate cancer patients have gone 500%. Therefore, recalling the article. 173 point 3, however, I ask your marshal to point: The government's information on the health model to be applied in Poland took place in the Parliament hall and not in the committee. Hence my formal conclusion to your marshal. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-19-sejm-23-1.u7	This is a completely new form of formal application, not included in the Rules of Procedure. [[But the problem...]] Ladies and gentlemen, formal proposals - how they are submitted and what is a formal proposal, says Article. 184. Art. 173 is about something else. So that I thank you for this information, very interesting, but this is not a formal proposal. [[But that doesn't change... Mr. Marshal, the marshal doesn't listen to me. This is a formal conclusion.]] Mr Szczerba, Civic Platform, has the floor. I'd just like to ask you to follow... Art. 184 talks about formal applications. [[In correction mode, Mr. Marshal.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-19-sejm-23-1.u8	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! According to Art. Paragraph 184. I would like to request that the session be postponed and that the President of the Council of Ministers prepare information on the opinion and statements of the Minister of National Education, the scandalous statements of the Minister of National Education on the murder of Jedwabne and the Kielce pogrom at that time. High Izbo! The silence of the President of the Council of Ministers in this matter is the authorization and acceptance of the unacceptable words of the head of the Ministry of National Education. The mere decency requires the Prime Minister to refer to these words full of ignorance, lies, cynicism and in my opinion of civil cowardice. The murder in Jedwabne was investigated by the Institute of National Remembrance and ended in 2003. No Polish politician of the rank of minister or parliamentarian questioned these findings of the Institute of National Remembrance. This happened for the first time in the programme with the participation of the Minister of National Education, Ms Anna Zalewska. How to build, High Izbo, Polish-Jewish relations, how to build Polish-Israeli relations if they are not based on historical truth? Like the Minister of National Education who implements agreements with the Israeli Ministry of National Education on youth exchanges in respect of tolerance, truth and history, common history... Ladies and gentlemen! Minister Zalewski's statement was an example of public masturbation, questioning the findings of the Institute of National Remembrance. In this regard the Jewish Community Association in Poland also spoke, which, I quote, is astonished and shocked by these statements. Let me remind you that the Minister was invited to the Museum of History of Poland to find out what the case was. [[♪ The bell ♪]] The murder in Silk and the Kielce Pogrom. In light of the above...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-19-sejm-23-1.u9	Thank you, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-19-sejm-23-1.u10	...in conclusion, I ask you to postpone the proceedings and prepare the information on this matter for the President of the Council of Ministers. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-19-sejm-23-1.u11	Thank you, sir. We will vote on this formal proposal in the voting block. [[Mr. Marshal, the corrigendum.]] No, no, there's no correction here. [[Mr. Marshal, I've summoned an article. 173, because according to this article, we applied to your marshal.]] Madam, please don't make this difficult for me. We proceed with the examination of item 1 of the agenda: Report from the Commission on Energy and the Treasury on the draft law amending the Energy Law and certain other laws (prints Nos 653 and 694). I ask Mr Mark Suski to present a report to the committee. [[Chairman of the session includes Deputy Marshal Ryszard Terlecki of the Sejm]] You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-19-sejm-23-1.u12	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour, on behalf of the Committee on Energy and the Treasury, to present a report by the Committee on Energy and the Treasury on the draft law amending the Energy Law and certain other laws, print No 653. Ladies and gentlemen! We are dealing with an extremely important legal act which amends the Energy Law and some other laws, implementing a number of systemic objectives in terms of regulation of the fuel and natural gas market. These changes relate to different fuel and gas market institutions, but their common denominator is to organise and introduce greater transparency in the gas and liquid fuels market. First of all, these changes include: system-ordering of the liquid fuel market, increasing state control of the oil and gas intervention stock system, ordering the natural gas market, extending the obligation to maintain mandatory natural gas stocks and introducing a new legal form for the implementation of this obligation, so-called. a ticket agreement, as well as the elimination of many legislative shortcomings in the existing legislation in this area, which raises a number of interpretative doubts. In this field, unfortunately, there is a very bad situation. The characteristics of regulation of the liquid fuels sector in Poland are the dispersion of regulations in many legal acts. They are not consistent, and the consequence of such a dispersion is the lack of a uniform system. Unfortunately, such uncoordinated legislation makes it important that there is no coherent system of regulation of economic activities and control over the performance of public-law obligations related to the production, marketing and storage of fuels. The shortcomings of existing legal solutions in the field of liquid fuels in Poland, including the lack of sufficient powers to supervise them for various public administrations, in particular for the President of the URE, are a factor generating various activities by private entities operating on our market that circumvent the law. We have such a situation that, unfortunately, many start operating in the shadow economy, avoid taxation and at the same time shift costs to those who act honestly in this market. Therefore, the purpose of this law is to remove the pathologies that occur in this market in a fundamental manner. And as for existing practices, it can be said that these shortcomings in the fuel market may have resulted from the fact that there is a very strong lobbying of those who reached decision-makers, which resulted in two standards actually on the Polish fuel market: those that were valid for companies with a majority share of the State Treasury, those that were carrying the burden of securing warehouses in which they had to store fuel for difficult times, i.e. those that were cost-bearing and at the same time there were others who avoided this obligation, using legal gaps. Perhaps even these legal gaps were not a coincidence, but they were intended to play lobbyists, on whom, you can say, previous governments have been looking through their fingers for many years. Ladies and gentlemen, there was also such penetration of various fuel companies into the world of politics. One of the heads of one of the fuel chambers is one of the most famous and prominent politicians of the Civic Platform. I'm talking about Mr. Jerzy Buzek here. Perhaps this is the answer to the question of why the previous team didn't particularly want to come for the normalization of this market. But, ladies and gentlemen, during the work on this bill, we worked in a way, you can say, quite reliable, we have tabled several dozen amendments. I have these amendments here, and I'm not going to discuss them because it's quite complicated matter. Many of these amendments were clear, legislative, not fundamentally changing the intention - actually not only in principle, not actually changing the basic assumptions of the regulation of this market, sealing it and imposing equal obligations on all operators in this market. I would like to thank all the Members who have worked for hours on this bill very warmly. I particularly wanted to thank Mr Sitarski, who made an interesting contribution to this bill. This shows that the opposition can work on laws and present solutions that are needed. As rapporteur - because it is the responsibility of the rapporteur not only to present amendments, but also to say a few words, for example, about the atmosphere that existed during the drafting of the bill - I can tell you that we have actually been dealing with substantive work, with the work at which the government, the Parliament's legislators, referred to this law in a substantive manner, working on the preparation of the records, and for this I would like to thank everyone very warmly. Ladies and gentlemen, in connection with this report, I ask the High House to support this proposal. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-19-sejm-23-1.u13	Thank you, sir. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would listen to the five-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and the circle. I'm opening a discussion. Mr Maciej Małecki will be the first to speak on behalf of Parliamentary Club Law and Justice. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-19-sejm-23-1.u14	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour to present the position of the Law and Justice Club with regard to the amendments tabled during the work of the Committee on Energy and the Treasury. Law and Justice supports the amendments that have been tabled, and I will remind you that the aim of the law is to restore mechanisms of fair competition and seal the liquid fuel market system. The project we are working on will provide greater protection for competitors against dishonest operators, making the market more transparent, allowing economic operators to better verify their counterparties. The project, in short, eliminates the gray area. Marek Suski has just said that the problem of the fuel market in Poland is, on the one hand, the fragmentation of the rules and, on the other hand, a number of gaps, a number of such leakages, which were used by dishonest operators in this market. It struck those who wanted to be orderly, honest about manufacturing, marketing, storage, etc. in the fuel market. We therefore support both the draft law and the amendments tabled during the committee's work. And I, as announced, present further amendments to this project. Part of the amendments results from the amendment of the Act on VAT on goods and services adopted on 7 July, because the work on sealing the fuel market in Poland was two-track. One project was prepared by the Ministry of Finance and it concerns tax issues, while only in the basic scope of regulatory and concessional changes. And this is what we were dealing with in the case of the parliamentary project that we are talking about now, which was being examined in the Committee on Energy and the Treasury. There are, of course, editorial amendments, but also amendments made at the request of the President of the Office for Competition and Consumer Protection, as well as amendments concerning the achievement of the national indicative objective. I know that a separate amendment will be tabled by Mr Sitarski. Here I will refer to one sentence, because at first reading there was a difference of opinion between us and Mr Sitarski very reliably, very carefully prepared the argument. So that, Mr President, you were right and thank you for the support of the bill on your part. [[Applause]] Dear Members, once again as a representative of the applicants for this bill, I thank you very much for your calm, substantive work in committee, for having discussed the arguments. And I'm putting in the hands of the Marshal of the amendments tabled at second reading. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-19-sejm-23-1.u15	Thank you very much, sir. Mr Tomasz Piotr Nowak will now speak on behalf of the Parliamentary Club. [[Voice from the room: With signatures, Mr. Marshal.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-19-sejm-23-1.u16	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! We will work with concern about a competitive gas market, about the price of gas for the final consumer - so I concluded my speech at night, at midnight, and the next morning I found - and all the members of the committee found - 92 amendments to the bill. How to work honestly here, how to work constructively and substantively? It was practically impossible. But since we had a week later, we were able to look at these amendments. It is painful to note that this liberalisation of the market, which was characterised by the rule of the Civic Platform and PSL, is retreating here, we are dealing with a kind of remonopolization for PGNiG. On the rights of the symbol, let it be reminded that on 24 February we had a committee meeting during which PGNiG president Maciej Wozniak announced what they would do, what PGNiG would do, so that the market would become the PGNiG market and not the market. Small companies that bring - and this is what it was all about - gas from abroad and because they are small companies that become competitive and demonopolise this market, they did not have to carry out the obligation to hold gas stocks. This was said by PGNiG's president, after which we have the bill and we find in it the records that actually small companies will be obliged to hold gas stocks at the moment. And they lose their competitiveness. These small companies are also companies in the LPG market, these are companies which as a result of this law will have to deposit 10 million zlotys in order to be able to work on this market. This will cause, as the Polish Chamber of Liquid Gas says, that probably 90% Small businesses can disappear, and the job could lose 40 grand. persons. 40,000. persons. What about an individual client? As a result of the first action I mentioned, this obligation to hold stocks could increase the gas price by between 5% and 12% on the market. Here are the consequences of the reform, which is becoming very dangerous at this point. Limiting the grey zone must not destroy legally paying companies' taxes. All these changes are to be made within 30 days - 30 days, I ask you, for companies to change contracts, to change the terms of these contracts, to sign them with contractors or to lose them; or to lose them under the new law. We have therefore asked BAS whether the 30-day deadline for amending contracts, changing the whole legal situation, the legal environment is legal, compatible with the Constitution. And here we got information from BAS: The provisions of the draft law contained in print No.653 may violate the principle of adequate vacatio legis and the related obligation to include transitional provisions in the normative act resulting from the article. 2nd Constitution of the Republic of Poland. 30 days. Therefore, we are proposing 6 amendments, in which, first, we maintain existing exemptions for small companies - it is clear from the law of the European Union, second, that energy companies are responsible for the availability of stocks collected outside Poland, we repeal the article. 33 and 34, which waive the opening and unfinished proceedings for exemption from the obligation to store and repeal the exemption decisions, and we leave the current regulation on the establishment by the entity which has obtained a concession to trade in natural gas with foreign countries of the volume of mandatory gas stocks on the basis of the forecast volume of its imports. At the same time, it's a ticket service. Here, too, we propose to introduce a change - an order to execute the obligation to store to another entity only if it is an energy company subject to the control of the President of URE. Finally, there is an amendment restoring LPG companies to exclude liquid gas from the obligation to secure property. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The Civic Platform Club will vote in favour of the law provided that these amendments are adopted, adopted in the name of positive thinking about companies that are becoming independent and which are really diversifying the market at the moment. Diversification and limitation of the monopoly is not evil, liberalisation is good, [[♪ The bell ♪]] good for the economy. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-19-sejm-23-1.u17	Thank you. Now on behalf of the Kukiz Poselski Club15 Mr Krzysztof Sitarski. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-19-sejm-23-1.u18	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! We are after first reading at the meeting of the Sejm and after reading in the Committee on Energy and the Treasury of the draft law amending the Energy Law and some other laws. The project entered the Sejm on 20 June 2016. The aim of the applicants is to: to system the market for liquid fuels, to increase State control over the oil and fuel intervention stock system, to organise the natural gas market, to extend the obligation to maintain stocks of mandatory natural gas and to introduce a new legal form for the implementation of this obligation. Of course, at the meeting of the Energy Committee, Members also met with the Government Party, the Secretary of State of the Chancellery of the President of the Council of Ministers and the Government's representative for strategic energy infrastructure. Kukiz.15 supports the concept of ensuring security of energy supply for Poland. The priority for the Polish government is to build stocks and store them. In Kukiz,15 there is also a view on the need to diversify energy sources, while respecting the principle of using natural resources in a rational manner, with the addition of renewable energy sources to civic energy. Just a few years ago, the government of that time was creating A dream about an eldorado with shale gas. He built nuclear power plants. In general, there was mitomania, gigantomania. The charm, the charm of all these fantasy things is gone, and now you just have to approach it rationally. We are also not in favour of artificial antagonization, among others. with the Eastern Neighbor. Disputes destroy, consent builds, and here it must be taken into account. Polish conventional and unconventional deposits identified oil deposits, gas deposits. The companies that have been licensed to operate them are responsible for this exploration and extraction, e.g. Polish Petroleum Mining and Gas Industry. The government declares the implementation of an energy sovereignty strategy. I have questions for government representatives on this occasion. How is the current policy of the Polish state to the concept of the European Commission? It's about the energy union in general. Is such a law bringing Poland closer to achieving the objectives of the EU's energy strategy on energy and climate issues? Does this mean that the European Union's policy is shaky and we cannot be sure of the security of fuel supply? I would like to remind you that so far in Poland the infrastructure has been adapted to the flow of energy across national borders with the promise of constant price changes and the absence of disruption of supply. I will now begin to discuss the most important parts of the report of the Energy Committee. In general, the most important changes are in the Energy Law Act. I am submitting and handing over an amendment to the Marshal because the concept of transport equipment has not been sufficiently developed in the original form of the bill, and this is very important for intermodal transport. I mean a portable tanker and a tank container. This is also how liquid and gaseous fuels are transported and stored. The purpose of the addition of these devices is to specify the provisions in the Act and practical considerations, to define the terms of the article. 3. The amendment is technical in nature, harmonising with regard to transport possibilities. The amendment was, of course, consulted with government representatives. This is proof that we are a constructive opposition that can cooperate in the name of good law. It is also important to mention the amendment of other laws in the context of these changes, in particular with regard to the carrying out of controls on entities subject to the obligation to create and maintain stocks referred to above. Changes are among others. in the Law on State Labour Inspection, on State Control, Construction Law, on Technical Dosperity, as well as on a system for monitoring and controlling the quality of fuels in oil stocks, oil products and natural gas. Information on technical parameters, storage or related storage of transmission and transport systems and the availability of physical intervention stocks will also be monitored. We observe that the new provisions will affect the performance of the obligation to pay a back-up fee to the Material Reserve Agency by the obliged entities. It is also important to align the chances of state-owned enterprises with those of private operators in terms of fuel storage, which had not been fully realised before. The Kukiz Club15 supports changes and amends. Thank you very much. [[♪ The bell ♪]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-19-sejm-23-1.u19	Thank you very much, sir. Please, Mr Zbigniew Gryglas will speak on behalf of the Poselski Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-19-sejm-23-1.u20	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Seym! I am pleased to present the position of the Modern for the amendment of the Energy Law Act and other laws. In fact, the novel represents significant changes primarily in the Wrestling Act. The project envisages, as the previous speakers said, extending the addressees of this obligation, the obligation to hold mandatory gas stocks to small and medium-sized enterprises, which, I will remind you, have not yet had such obligations, and the introduction of a new legal formula for the implementation of this obligation, so-called. Ticket agreement. The explanatory memorandum indicates that the proposed amendment aims to remove regulatory gaps that lead to so-called "market." gas leakage outside the borders of the Republic of Poland. The reason for this is, as the applicant points out, the conclusion of transactions of gas sales to large customers before the point of entry into the Polish transmission system, excluding the jurisdiction of our country, including the provisions of the Wrestling Act. Let me remind you that the existing laws grant exemptions from the obligation to hold such stocks to those energy companies whose number of customers is not more than 100,000. and whose gas imports do not exceed 100 million m3 during the calendar year. The energy minister is currently exempt by an administrative decision. From the date of entry into force of the amendment, if the High Sejm deems it appropriate to adopt this law, the maintenance obligation will be absolute. In our view, this will affect smaller entrepreneurs, for whom holding stocks will be a very heavy burden. Moreover, these companies will have to provide financial guarantees in the concession process for the proper performance of their duties. The latter guarantees are of particular importance for the LPG market. Let me remind you that only about 15% this fuel is produced in the country, the rest comes from imports. The novel introduces an incomprehensible requirement for a security of PLN 10 million which will have to be established by these companies. There are about hundreds of such small and medium-sized Polish companies operating in the market, employing a lot of people, and there are different estimates in this area, but it is about 40,000. persons, therefore there is a risk that these companies will either significantly reduce their activities or even disappear from the market, which would be dangerous for the market, for customers, for LPG final customers, and I would remind you that transport in the country is largely based on this fuel. The draft amendment contains transitional provisions which, in our view, interfere with the powers acquired by energy companies. In accordance with the project initiated and not completed before the date of entry into force of the Law of Procedure on the granting of an exemption from the obligation to hold stocks will expire on 30 September 2017. We are presenting important amendments, especially on LPG market operators, but also some important changes in mandatory stocks, which I will no longer discuss in detail. If these changes are accepted, we will look kindly at this law, and if they are rejected, in particular those concerning the essential issue of LPG, we will have to vote against this solution. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-19-sejm-23-1.u21	Thank you very much. Now on behalf of the Polish People's Party Posel Club, Mr Mieczysław Kasprzak. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-19-sejm-23-1.u22	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I have the honour on behalf of the Polish People's Party Parliamentary Club to refer to the Act No. 653 on amending the Energy Law Act. Undoubtedly, sealing the energy system at fuel level is needed because there are many phenomena of tax avoidance and various types of corruption. Except it can't be that sealing or improving solutions will destroy competition and what has been created so far, because the fact that many companies today do not store up, there is no obligation to keep stock, it was deliberate and thoughtful, it was an opportunity, the need to create competition in the gas and liquid fuel market and this was due to thoughtful actions. It wasn't such a coincidence that someone made a mistake, that someone did it on purpose. It was simply necessary to create competition, and competition is lower prices, it is benefits, it is primarily the development of entrepreneurship. And these monopolistic actions that are being proposed at the moment are going in the wrong direction, because a number of companies that have had difficulty developing, small businesses, very often family ones, will fall. I got an e-mail yesterday from one of the entrepreneurs who trades LPG and who simply writes that he has three tanks, used a loan, took a loan and today he is asked to pay a deposit of PLN 10 million. He has 10 million PLN turnover all year round. Rotating. Where's he gonna get it on credit? And it says, "My company is going to die." And dozens, hundreds of these companies are going to die because they just can't stand to compete with a large monopolyr who has different conditions working on different terms. This shows how government policy is falling apart - on the one hand, it is said to promote entrepreneurship, to develop entrepreneurship, and on the other hand, it is doing everything to eliminate competition. The second thing is the procedure to proceed over this bill. Already here my previous speakers said that this is unacceptable, this is another example of a bad procession over the bill, because the first reading at midnight, the next day further proceding. The bill is written on the knee, once again written on the knee, because there is no doubt that if it is a draft law, and the volume of amendments tabled is five times thicker - hence may the peace on the committee, because few have even figured out what these amendments are about. It's not good. If we are to seal the law and work beyond divisions, it should be done calmly and be thought through. Today there are further amendments, I think that after the Senate - we have already had many examples - there will be dozens, or maybe hundreds of subsequent amendments, because this is what happens, the resorts report amendments because there were no inter-ministerial arrangements, parties, entrepreneurs report because they are surprised. It's bad proceding. This is a bad procession, which later gives rise to certain consequences and will have to revise this law. We too have a number of objections and we will vote depending on what final form this law will take, but this is a bad solution, because it assumes, under the pretext of sealing, the elimination of competition, and that should not be so. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-19-sejm-23-1.u23	Thank you very much. Eight ladies and gentlemen came to the questions. I'm closing the list of questions. I'm setting the question time - 1 minute. The first question is asked by Mr Tomasz Piotr Nowak, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-19-sejm-23-1.u24	Mr. Marshal! Minister! The old memories of the spell, when the committees worked on changes in the Energy Law, the social factor on each committee was - there were many companies, there were many associations, there were institutions with which we talked. Right now, you've stopped it, you've stopped this kind of dialogue with people. Therefore, please say: What is the assessment of the effects of the regulation, precisely eliminating this, actually introducing this 10-million-dollar security for LPG companies? Do you have it calculated, or do you know? Have you talked to the representatives of these companies? Did you also talk to representatives of small companies who were surprised to have to make mandatory supplies? What was the process of consulting this law with these environments and do you know what the actual effect of these will be? [[♪ The bell ♪]] regulation? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-19-sejm-23-1.u25	Thank you very much. Now the question is asked by Mr Krzysztof Gadowski, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-19-sejm-23-1.u26	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Indeed, these effects were not presented at all throughout the project. When we discussed this, this draft law, there was no Member of the applicant who could clearly talk about the consequences. We all know that these effects are among others. Gas growth in the range of 5% to 12% . We know well that such regulations also have an impact on the national economy, on the competitiveness of companies, after all we know that the chemical industry is based, among others. in the gas market, and that's not what we've been told. Today we all know that natural gas on the wholesale market in Poland is more expensive than in the West. Such regulations will probably result in growth and effects not only on customers, in companies, but also on many products that will be on the market. Minister, and second question. [[♪ The bell ♪]] I wanted to ask. What prevents the period of entry into force of this law from extending, so that it is within a reasonable period of time, in agreement with those who have contracts concluded today, to which the rules of the market are changing, the rules of the game? What prevents the date of entry into force of this law from being extended? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-19-sejm-23-1.u27	Thank you, sir. The question is asked by Mr Zbigniew Gryglas, the Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-19-sejm-23-1.u28	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! Minister! I have a question about the LPG market. I would ask you to explain the reasons why this guarantee is covered by the asset security of 10 million entities on this market as well. As I emphasized in the club speech, this can indeed lead to profound changes in the market, adverse to the Polish economy, adverse to customers. I would like to remind you that these entities already offer guarantees resulting from VAT payments, it is the import guarantees resulting from excise duty and fuel levy, and, moreover, the authorities under the Finance Minister in the LPG market have not found irregularities such as have been encountered on the conventional fuel market. So I don't see why [[♪ The bell ♪]] we would charge these companies with such guarantees. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-19-sejm-23-1.u29	Thank you. Now the question is asked by Mr Krzysztof Truskolas, the Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-19-sejm-23-1.u30	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! According to the current law, companies that have licences for the production of liquid fuels and the trading of liquid fuels with abroad, with the exception of LPG, had to provide a security of PLN 10 million. The LPG companies were exempted from this. In this project you want to delete this point - treat these small entrepreneurs like everyone else and oblige them to lodge a security of PLN 10 million. You said you wanted to support small and medium-sized business. Unfortunately, this law destroys many companies and 40 thousand. people can lose their jobs. On what basis was such a decision taken? Have the analyses been carried out? The modern amendment had been tabled to save these companies. If you do not wish to be gravediggers of LPG companies, support this amendment. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-19-sejm-23-1.u31	Thank you very much. Mr Sitarski, Kukiz Club15, is now asking the question.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-19-sejm-23-1.u32	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I have a question for the authors of the new provisions of the Energy Law: Does the importer also have to pay within 5 days VAT for the fuel imported from the European Union, the fuel that the importer will bring and which is intended for the reserves used by that importer, or does the importer have to pay in general if it is the fuel used for the reserves? The amendment allows a company which is obliged to maintain stocks of mandatory natural gas to entrust the holding of stocks by another entity with that obligation. However, is there a possibility of storage of gas outside Poland? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-19-sejm-23-1.u33	Thank you. The question is asked by Mr Jerzy Meysztowicz, the Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-19-sejm-23-1.u34	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! We are aware that all actions aimed at limiting the grey area are right actions, and as a modern one we will support these actions. But the question is: What are the costs of this? The question is to the Minister: Were there any analyses made, to what extent the solutions proposed in this law will limit the grey zone? The scale of this phenomenon is large. Is this law really going to significantly limit the activities of dishonest companies? Because the costs of this law will be high, especially for small and medium-sized enterprises, which, as has already been said here, can actually be eliminated, people can lose their jobs. It would not have been good if the introduction of this law had such negative effects on the ability of small and medium-sized enterprises to compete in this market. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-19-sejm-23-1.u35	Thank you very much. The question is asked by Mr Jan Warrzecha, the Law and Justice Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-19-sejm-23-1.u36	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! The fuel and natural gas market in Poland requires a new regulation, in particular as regards the transparency of the operations carried out. Such a strategic area of the economy should be subject to special supervision, as it directly affects the security of the state and its citizens. The proposed changes are comprehensively regulating these issues and the project should therefore be assessed positively, particularly because it will help to marginalise negative developments in the fuel and natural gas market. However, I would like to ask: will the proposed changes lead, and if so, how to eliminate the actions of the actors in the so-called. the grey zone and the black zone in the fuel and natural gas market? How is this project intended to increase control over such an important system of oil and fuel intervention stocks for the interests of the State and its citizens? Will the proposed changes strengthen the position of the President of the Energy Regulatory Office [[♪ The bell ♪]] in terms of control over the liquid fuel market and in a transparent and transparent manner define the principles of cooperation between the President and other market surveillance authorities? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-19-sejm-23-1.u37	Thank you very much. The question is asked by Mr Piotr Polak, a club called Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-19-sejm-23-1.u38	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! In particular, in the rapporteur's speech, we have heard a lot of worrying information about the large losses that occurred during the past period, about a badly functioning fuel trading system in Poland, with a large grey zone associated with this. For this reason, I would like to ask: are the estimated amounts of lost revenue to the state budget known at least because of this, because of the grey zone and the poor fuel trading system in Poland in previous years? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-19-sejm-23-1.u39	Thank you very much. The list of Members registered in the vote has been exhausted. Now please take the floor of the Secretary of State at the Chancellery of the Prime Minister of Mr Piotr Naimski. You're welcome, Minister, unless the Minister doesn't want... I've been informed that the Minister wants to perform.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-19-sejm-23-1.u40	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! This draft law amending Energy Law is a project designed to counteract the functioning of the grey zone in Poland. From this point of view, he's at least a few years late. At the same time, we are trying to ensure that competition in the gas market is fair, so that it is legally and regularly secured, that everyone who brings this product to Poland has the same obligation to store it. We met during the implementation of previous legal provisions with situations where either the recipient or the gas traders avoided the storage obligation, dividing the volumes that were ultimately or purchased or delivered. This led to the fact that there was no balance and proper behaviour in this market. That's what these records are for. The law is carried out quickly, because we want to introduce as soon as possible regulations that these pathologies we are dealing with will be able to stop. It is a parliamentary bill. I represent here a government that has not delivered an opinion on this project, but I am happy to speak when the marshal asks me to express his opinion to the representative of the government. transport infrastructure, energy infrastructure, because also from this side, from the Gas-System side, this law is important at some points. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-19-sejm-23-1.u41	Thank you very much, Minister. The rapporteur of the committee, Mr Marek Suski, will now speak. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-19-sejm-23-1.u42	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! There have been a few questions to the rapporteur, but I would say that a few questions were due to misunderstanding, perhaps because some Members are the first term of office, misunderstanding of the procedures that apply to the process of lawmaking, and in the Rules of Procedure they are slightly different for laws which are government laws and slightly different for Members' laws. This is a parliamentary project, and therefore the questions for public consultation are unjustified here, because the parliamentary projects are subject to committee work, and as you recall, practically all interested parties were invited to the committee meeting, who expressed their willingness, and were given the floor, answered, participated in the work and this is the parliamentary procedure. So, when I answer a public consultation question, I answer that it concerns government projects. Parliamentary projects are in some way consulted during the committee's work by inviting guests. With regard to market issues, market construction, competitiveness, emerging allegations that this law destroys the competitiveness of these different small and medium-sized companies, this law is precisely in order to ensure that there is equality of operators in our market, because so far there has been a clear inequality with the out-of-the-way advantage of small and medium-sized companies, which, for example. have avoided the obligation to store strategic reserves. This duty was passed on to large companies. It was said here that PGNiG has a monopolistic position. Yes, and from that monopoly position, he had more responsibilities, which meant that he had more operating costs, and that meant that there was no competition. Competitiveness was distorted because this state giant had much greater responsibilities and therefore more costs, which meant that really small companies were growing faster, and even to this extent the gaps in the legal system caused them to enter the grey zone, to avoid paying VAT. It is difficult here to talk about competitiveness in the event of such gaps and at the same time to assume that only state-owned companies have a duty to hold strategic reserves. So this bill really puts the situation back on its feet, not the other way around. So that these charges are completely unaccounted for. I understand that some of the state, especially the state representing the previous coalition, criticize, but - as I mentioned - when I was invited to a meeting of various groups of companies, I saw many famous faces there among people who, in some sense, cooperated with these companies in the construction of the so-called. The free market, and hence - simply in fact, when building the private market in opposition to the market of state-owned companies, which secured our strategic needs. So how could we talk about a certain equality? This equality was not on the market. On the other hand, there were also allegations that there are high gas prices in Poland. It's the opposition's charges again. I could answer this way: you signed different gas contracts. I might ask: Why did you sign at such high prices, the highest in Europe? There was another way to negotiate. I know we're in a difficult situation. We have one monopoly that provides us with a large part of the gas and almost all of the oil supply, and it dictates a little bit of the conditions, but the state also failed to provide the so-called. Energy solidarity over the last eight years of its governments in the European Union, only every country has been getting along behind our backs. Countries that have a longer way of delivering gas and oil from this one of our neighbours received this gas much cheaper. So it is hard to say today that it is the fault of such solutions or of those state-owned companies or of this government. This is a certain arrangement in which we are, and the attempt to get out of this system is just diversification, which is the construction of a gasport, which is now being put into service, which could have been given back a few years ago, because it was your site that led to several years of delays. So, ladies and gentlemen, once again, this law is not a law that causes some restrictions and imbalances on the market in relation to those companies that operate today. It equals chances and therefore is good, also for the Polish final customer of gas or liquid fuels. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-19-sejm-23-1.u43	Thank you very much. The discussion is closed. As a number of amendments were tabled to the draft at second reading, I propose that the Sejm re-direct this proposal to the Commission for Energy and the Treasury in order to present a report. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. We proceed with the examination of item 2 of the agenda: Report of the Committee on Culture and Media on the Government's draft law amending the Law on Copyright and Related Rights (Prints Nos 546 and 566). I will ask Mr Jack World to present a report to the committee. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-19-sejm-23-1.u44	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I present a report by the Committee on Culture and Media on the Government's draft law amending the law on copyright and related rights. You got this project in print 546. The project was sent to the committee on 20 May this year. On 9 June, its first reading took place and on 6 July a detailed examination of the project took place. Since the first reading took place in committee, a few comments are due to the High House. The aim of the project is to adapt the Copyright and Related Rights Act 1994 to Council Directive 93/83/EEC of 1993 on the coordination of certain principles concerning copyright and related rights applicable to satellite transmission and cable retransmission. The project concerns cable retransmission. The Directive generally introduces the principle of mandatory mediation of collecting societies for the management of copyright between retransmission entities, namely radio or television stations, and authors of copyright, while the Directive makes an exception to the reissue of their own radio or television programmes by cable, i.e. such retransmissions, whose reissuer owns copyright rights, including licensing rights. With us, there is no such exception to the rule. And that should be changed. It is quite urgent because the European Commission has long been pressing for the implementation of these changes to our law and has even threatened to initiate proceedings for the lack of this implementation. The project as a government has undergone a wide public consultation with radio and television broadcasters, major cable operators, as well as collecting societies for copyright management. The revision in its essential part is one-tasking, very short, and in essence there is no doubt, but it has raised considerable controversy or discussion at the level, the consultation stage, as well as the work in committee. These doubts concerned e.g. the possibility of including these exceptions, i.e. the withdrawal of intermediaries, collecting societies for the management of re-emissions via satellite or online. The interpretation of the deadline for the transfer of copyright required clarification. A lot of doubt was also raised by the interpretation of the term "translation," a term that does not exist in our legal system, rather the term "works." This argument for words, of course, has its consequences. Since the famous phrase or magazine, we know that single words can make a difference. This dispute comes mainly from the problems of interpretation of the legal terminology used in our EU law and legislation. We must ensure that our legislation correctly implements EU directives to be consistent with the Directive and with the law in force in other EU countries, as this law also has cross-border implications. During the committee's work, taking into account the amendments tabled and by the social side, and by the Legislative Office of the Sejm, a compromise proposal presented to you in print no 566 was drawn up. The Commission, without a vote of opposition, recommends that the High House adopt this proposal. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-19-sejm-23-1.u45	Thank you very much. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would listen to the five-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and the circle. I'm opening a discussion. As the first on behalf of the Parliamentary Club, the Law and Justice will take the floor of Mrs Elżbieta Raven. You're welcome, my fellow Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-19-sejm-23-1.u46	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The governmental bill amending the Copyright and Related Rights Act aims to implement the article. 10 of the Directive of 27 September 1993 on the coordination of certain principles relating to copyright and related rights applicable to satellite transmission and cable retransmission as regards rules for the conclusion of contracts for cable remission. It is therefore intended to fill the gap in the previous incomplete implementation of this directive into Polish law. This adjustment is delayed by more than 10 years. Perhaps because, as stated in the Supreme Court's opinion on this project, it concerns one of the most difficult problems encountered in the practice of dealing with copyrights, which is to regulate the way in which rights for cable re-emissions are acquired. That Directive only requires reissue of works on the basis of an agreement concluded with the competent collecting society for the management of copyright and related rights. It therefore introduces mandatory mediation of collecting societies, excluding, in principle, the possibility of direct contracting between the reissuer and the copyright holder. In Article 2, paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: 10 provides, however, for an exception to the principle of compulsory mediation of collective management organisations in respect of rights, from which the radio and television organisations benefit in respect of their own transmission, whether or not the rights in question belong to that organisation or have been transferred to it by another copyright holder and/or related rights. According to the current wording of the Article. Article 21 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 The Act on Copyright and Related Rights to Cable Network Operators may be re-issued on cable networks only on the basis of an agreement concluded with the relevant collecting society pursuant to Article 1 of the Act on Copyright and Related Rights. 92 and Article 92 OJ L 347, 20.12.2013, p. 671. 1 of this law is also applicable to artistic performances, phonograms and videograms. The government project provides for the introduction into the article. 21 of the new provision of paragraph 21 of the Act. 1, according to which compulsory mediation of collecting societies will not apply to the extent indicated in Article. 10 directives. The proposal therefore implements European Union law. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Parliamentary Club Law and Justice will support this project. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-19-sejm-23-1.u47	Thank you very much. On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, the Civic Platform by Mr Bogusław Sonik. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-19-sejm-23-1.u48	Mr. Marshal! Minister! The Directive requires re-emissions to be carried out only on the basis of an agreement concluded with the competent collecting society for the management of copyright and related rights. It introduces mandatory mediation of collecting societies, excluding, as a general rule, the possibility of direct contracting between reissuers and the copyright holder. In Polish there is almost such a duty, so this is the principle that operates in Poland. On the other hand, the Directive provides for an exception to this principle in respect of the rights which radio and television organisations enjoy in relation to their own transmission, whether or not the rights in question belong to that organisation or have been transferred to it by another copyright or related rights owner - it is Article. 10 directives. The Polish law so far did not provide for such an exception, so there was a need to amend this law. This revision is not intended, it is worth stressing, imposing a specific way of managing their rights to radio and television organisations. In this respect, they will have the freedom of procedure and either be able to grant re-emission licences themselves, or they will continue to be able to entrust their rights to the management board of the competent collecting society, as they are now. According to today's law, the cable operator is not able to contract re-emissions directly with radio and television organisations, whereas the 1993 Directive expressly requires Member States to introduce an exception to this principle, as we are doing with this amendment. This is particularly important if the rights to re-emit such works are exercised by that radio or television organisation and are exercised by it without the mediation of collecting societies, including under a licence. The essence of the proposed solution is, in accordance with the Directive, to enable the broadcaster, radio or television organisation to exercise its own right to re-emission the work and related rights in its own programmes. It is worth noting that during the committee meeting, as well as during meetings with copyright professional organisations, other issues were raised for the regulation of this law, while the legislator stated that this matter was the most urgent and that this must be changed in the first place, and therefore there is a need to continue this in the near future and to introduce further legislative changes in this matter. The Civic Platform Club will support this amendment proposal.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-19-sejm-23-1.u49	Thank you very much. Mr Piotr Liroy-March will speak on behalf of the Kukiz Club15. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-19-sejm-23-1.u50	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! When presenting the position of the Kukiz Club15 on the planned amendment, I must highlight two points. First of all, such a change in the law requires the European Union from us, so we practically have our hands tied, all of us in this Chamber are mainly concerned with the introduction of EU directives into Polish laws. Secondly, as an artist and a freelancer, I believe that the change is going in a very good direction, but it is a pity that the amendment is only limited to the implementation of a single provision of the Directive and does not solve other problems, for example concerning the lack of re-emission among the fields of exploitation, for which additional remuneration should be paid to the co-creators and performers of the audiovisual work. In support of this amendment, I also call for urgent work to be undertaken to guarantee the rights of artists. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-19-sejm-23-1.u51	Thank you very much. Now on behalf of the Modern Posel Club... Oh, because there's still time, right? No. Mr Piotr Misilo will speak. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-19-sejm-23-1.u52	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen! This is another attempt to implement the Satellite and Cable Directive in this regard, according to the information contained in the public consultation - the sixth. On the one hand, the European Commission is threatening to initiate proceedings in the absence of implementation, and on the other hand the Directive was adopted in 1993 and its provisions do not correspond to market realities. The Commission has launched a revision of the Directive and it is possible to substantially change its content in a short time. Currently there is a mandatory mediation of collecting societies in the event of re-emissions - the dissemination by another entity than the original one - by cable, radio and television operators in any situation, so even if one entity loses the right to re-emission the work to which it has copyright, the latter must pay for its re-emission of collecting societies. According to the amendment, there will be no need for collective management organisations to pay for the remission, the payment can be made directly to the holder. It should be stressed that this is currently happening in practice. The possibility of legal approval of such action is criticised by the associations of creators, which stress that this leads to the deprivation of remuneration of those creators for which the organisations are fighting. The Directive and the proposed provision concern re-emission only by cable. Voices appear, and the Modern fully supports them, that similar legislation should concern re-emissions in other forms - either via satellite or online, especially since European law does not prohibit this, it is called. technological neutrality. The advantages of the proposed law: of course, the implementation of the directive, the absence of a threat from the Commission, which is natural, including financial risks, the break-up with the monopoly of collective management organisations in situations where a contract can be concluded directly with the entitled one, less dispute over rates to collective management organisations, simplification for radio and television operators. The downsides of this project: disputes regarding the adoption of the transfer of rights, whether it contains a licence under the directive and the law, may lead to confusion in the application of the rules, lack of compliance by the legislator on other issues raised by the participants in the public consultation, e.g. concerning the use of mediation of collecting societies to non-cable technologies, the risk of losing the protection of creators' remuneration by misusing collecting societies. The Modern Posel Club will support the proposed bill, but we will ask applicants to extend the provisions of the law to the requests submitted in the consultation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-19-sejm-23-1.u53	Thank you very much. On behalf of Mrs Małgorzata Zwierzan, Mrs Małgorzata Zwierzan, the Free and Solidarnia Circle of Members. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-19-sejm-23-1.u54	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Freedom and Solidarnia Circle, I present my position on the government draft law amending the Copyright Law and Related Rights Act. The bill is implemented in the Polish legal system art. 10 of the 1993 European Union Directive on Satellite Transmission and Cable Reemission. We have been obliged to fully implement the Directive since the entry into the European Union. There is no doubt, therefore, that it is necessary to align the provisions of Polish law with EU law, and due to the twelve-year delay in this area, it is necessary to act quickly. The proposed regulations aim at introducing an exception to the principle of compulsory mediation of collective management organisations in the reissue of works into the Polish law on copyright and related rights contained in the directive. This exception refers to the rights from which the broadcasting and broadcasting organisation uses in relation to its own transmission, whether or not the rights are owned by that organisation or transferred to it by another copyright and/or related rights owner. In shaping this amendment, the drafters were guided by the wording of the Directive. However, the wording of own transmissions used in the proposed provision raises doubts. In the absence of the word "transmitting' elsewhere in the Copyright Act, it may raise reservations and lead to different interpretations. The intention of the projector is to bring Polish law into a rapid alignment with EU law and to remove the consequences of non-compliance. A faithful translation of the directive seems to be the best solution at this point. However, I hope that the work on this bill will not be abandoned and that it will soon be changed. The Free and Solidarni Circle will support the amendment of the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-19-sejm-23-1.u55	Thank you very much. Two Members joined the questions. I'm closing the list of questions. I'm setting the time to ask a question for one minute. Mr Ryszard Wilczyński from the Civic Platform Club will be the first question to be asked.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-19-sejm-23-1.u56	Mr. Marshal! Minister! In the course of the consultation, opinions have emerged which critically refer to the fact that this amendment is limited to the implementation of only one provision of the EU Directive and does not address other issues related to remission. One has already been mentioned, namely the problem of non-reemission among the fields of exploitation, for which additional remuneration is due under the Law on copyright and related rights for co-founders and performers of the audiovisual work. Another problem is the lack of appropriate mediation mechanisms for licensing contracts. Therefore, the question is whether, in view of such a shortening of the amendment, it would not be appropriate to answer the question of when the remaining issues revealed during the consultation will be addressed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-19-sejm-23-1.u57	Thank you very much. Now the question will be asked by Małgorzata Zwierzan, the Free and Solidarni Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-19-sejm-23-1.u58	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! In my speech, I referred to the doubts that the word "transmitting" may raise in this bill. Other expressions were proposed at the meeting of the Committee on Culture and Media, e.g. A work that, according to the initiators, would be more appropriate in Polish legislation. However, they could all raise identical reservations. Is the Ministry planning to continue its work on this regulation, taking into account the votes of representatives of the Polish Filmmakers Association, the ZAiKS Association of Authors and other participants in the discussions during the committee's work? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-19-sejm-23-1.u59	Thank you very much. Mr Krzysztof Czabański, Minister of State at the Ministry of Culture and National Heritage, will now speak. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-19-sejm-23-1.u60	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Here, in fact, all the substantive arguments have been raised by your Members. I would just like, first of all, to answer the question of a Member of the Civic Platform. Yes, we are aware that the entire area of copyright requires new regulations, but as you well know, this is an extremely sensitive area, like any area where there are different very conflicting interests. In this connection, we considered that we should first make an amendment which removes the danger of further proceedings against Poland by the European Commission and, in particular, proceedings before the Court of Justice, because such a prospect threatened us as a state because of these many years of negligence in the implementation of this directive. Therefore - and here I am responding to the point and question of the honourable Member - we have limited ourselves to the literal translation of the requirements in the proposed directive so that no one can accuse us of manipulating something with this directive. The agreement on a certain substantive discussion, and in the areas that you spoke about, has yet to come up in previous speeches on behalf of the club, the voices that have fallen, the agreement that all of this requires a procession. As far as other areas are concerned, apart from this directive, they are already in the process, i.e. The Ministry is having conversations with creative environments and consultations on this subject and perhaps the effects of these consultations in the form of new legislation will be in Parliament, although it is difficult to say when, because - once again I will stress - these are such sensitive matters and create such great emotions in different creative environments or in connection with the broadcasting of works, that it is difficult to find a common point, as if to middle up these interests. Everyone tries to achieve as much as possible at the expense of the other party and the role of mediator in this situation, and this role should be played by the state, is very difficult. So that such work will continue, but I must warn you in advance that this may involve a big discussion and not such an easy discussion - and not so easy to discuss - and public, and in the Parliamentary Committee or in the Senate Committee. So that, in conclusion, this implementation is intended to implement strictly what the European Commission requires of us, and to do so removes the danger of proceedings before the Court of Justice from us. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-19-sejm-23-1.u61	Thank you very much, Minister. Since the list of Members has already been exhausted, the discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-19-sejm-23-1.u62	The aim of the proposed law is to implement EU law, i.e. Council Directive 93/83/EEC of 27 September 1993 on the coordination of certain rules concerning copyright and related rights applicable to satellite transmission and cable retransmission. The Directive introduced in the EU a requirement for re-emission of works to be carried out only on the basis of an agreement concluded with an appropriate collecting society for the management of copyright and related rights. It therefore introduced the so-called. compulsory mediation of collecting societies, excluding, in principle, the possibility of direct contracting between the reissuer and the copyright holder. However, the Directive provides for an exception to this principle with regard to the rights from which the radio and television organisations benefit in respect of their own transmission, regardless of whether the rights in question belong to that organisation or have been transferred to it by another copyright and/or related rights owner. The Polish law does not provide for such an exception and it is therefore necessary to amend it accordingly. The PSL Club will not vote against the bill.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-19-sejm-23-1.u63	We will proceed to the third reading of the bill in the voting block. We proceed with the examination of item 3 of the agenda: the report of the Committee on the Environment, Natural Resources and Forestry on the Government's draft Act on Access to Genetic Resources and the sharing of benefits from their use (prints Nos 644 and 721). I ask Mrs Teresa Nolas to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-19-sejm-23-1.u64	Thank you kindly. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The Commission's report on the Government's draft law on access to and distribution of the benefits of genetic resources relates to prints Nos 644 and 721. The project concerns the introduction of regulations ensuring control of the use in Poland of genetic resources obtained from countries that have legally regulated access to these resources. According to the Nagoya Protocol, the project defines the tasks and characteristics of individual public administrations. This is a government project addressed to the Sejm on 20 June 2016. The Minister for the Environment has been authorised to present the position of the Government on this matter. The project was preceded by a broad public consultation with 123 stakeholders and was therefore widely consulted. The aim of this project is to bring the legislation into line with European Union legislation, as the proposed law concerns Regulation No 511/2014 on the Nagoya Protocol on access to genetic resources and the fair and fair sharing of the benefits of the use of these resources. The Nagoya Protocol was adopted to clarify this objective. It creates an international system to ensure benefits for countries providing genetic resources - both financial and non-financial benefits - and to prevent practices from getting rich at the expense of countries with high biodiversity. Both the project and the Convention on Biological Diversity apply to all genetic resources except those of human genetics. They therefore refer to the resources of plants, animals and micro-organisms, both terrestrial and aquatic species, and apply to both wild and domesticated species. Genetic resources play an increasingly important role in many sectors of the economy, especially in the food, forestry, pharmaceuticals, cosmetics and even in the field of biological energy sources. The restoration of degraded ecosystems and the conservation of endangered species play an important role. Genetic resources understood as a collected and stored stock of samples and related information form the so-called. collections. Collections are created primarily as material for research or scientific work. With regard to the Nagoya Protocol, these collections play an important role within the control chain of origin of the product concerned. The implementation of the Nagoya Protocol on the obligations of users of genetic resources is governed by Regulation No 511/2014 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 16 April 2014, and is called Regulation No 511/2014. This draft law sets out the tasks and characteristics of public administrations regarding the implementation of the Regulation, as well as the principles and procedures for carrying out checks on the use of genetic resources. The draft also clearly sets out the principles of liability for infringement of Regulation No 511/2014. According to the draft law, the Minister of the Environment is responsible for the implementation of the Convention on Biological Diversity and the Nagoya Protocol and will act as a national authority. The tasks related to the control of the users of genetic resources have been entrusted to the body of the Environmental Protection Inspection, and the various articles of the Act describe and exchange in detail those competences and the supervision of the authorities assigned to them. The proposed bill is rightly limited to the creation of the necessary system for controlling the use in Poland of genetic resources obtained from other countries where appropriate regulations on access to these resources are already in place. This law therefore implements the provisions of the Nagoya Protocol and allows access to genetic resources. The first reading of the project was held on 6 July. On 7 July, the draft was discussed at a joint meeting of the Commission: Health and Agriculture and Rural Development. Both committees assessed the project positively and recommended further work on the Environment and Forestry Committee. Yesterday, July 18th, a committee meeting took place in connection with this. The Commission did not comment on this project except for two minor drafting adjustments concerning Article. Article 9 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 3 and Article 4 of Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council [3] shall apply mutatis mutandis. Paragraph 24 4. The adjustments requested were accepted by the government party. The project is compatible with European Union law. The Minister for the Environment has drawn up a draft regulation for this law on the specific scope of user control, also in line with EU legislation. In conclusion, on behalf of the committee, I ask the High House to adopt this report and to adopt the act at third reading. Thank you kindly.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-19-sejm-23-1.u65	Thank you very much. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would listen to the five-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and the circle. I'm opening a discussion. Mrs Teresa Nolas will be the first on behalf of the Parliamentary Club of Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-19-sejm-23-1.u66	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I would like to present to the High House the position of the Parliamentary Club of Law and Justice in relation to the report of the committee on the Government's draft law on access to genetic resources and sharing the benefits of their use, in print Nos 644 and 721. The club's position is a positive opinion on the project. I am aware, my dear marshal, that many of these arguments would have to be repeated, so I will limit myself to certain terms. The project was sent to the Sejm on June 20th. It is a government project. The aim is to bring the law into line with EU legislation. The draft concerns Regulation No 511/2014 of the European Union on the Nagoya Protocol on the right of access to genetic resources and the fair sharing of the benefits resulting from the use of these resources. Important problems are certainly being raised here, which will apply to food production, pharmaceutical industry, cosmetics, medicine, agriculture and the protection of endangered species. The project has properly defined the tasks of public administrations. As I mentioned earlier, competence and responsibility for the infringement of Directive 511 have also been described. The first reading took place in the Seym on July 6. The Commissions: Health and Agriculture and Rural Development considered the draft on 7 July and recommended further work within the Environment Committee. The Environment Commission has given a positive opinion on the project. Therefore, without any comment, I would like to request the adoption of the contested law at third reading. Thank you kindly. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-19-sejm-23-1.u67	Thank you very much. Now, on behalf of the Parliamentary Club, the Civic Platform will address Mrs Dorota Sunday.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-19-sejm-23-1.u68	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I have the honour to present the position of the Civic Platform Club regarding the draft law on access to genetic resources and sharing the benefits of their use, print No. 644. The aim of the project is, of course, to implement EU law. One of the objectives, as already stated by the rapporteur, of the Convention on Biological Diversity, drawn up at Rio de Janeiro on 5 June 1992, to which Poland is a party, is an equal and fair sharing of the benefits of the use of genetic resources. In order to clarify this objective, the Protocol from Nagoya to the Convention on Access to Genetic Resources and the Fair and Equal Sharing of the Benefits of the Use of Those Resources, known in short as the Nagoya Protocol, was adopted in 2010. This protocol, like the Convention on Biological Diversity, applies to all genetic resources within national jurisdictions, except human genetic resources. Thus, it concerns the resources of plants, animals, micro-organisms, both terrestrial and aquatic species. It also applies to wild and domesticated animals. However, I would like to say that yesterday's meeting of the Environment Committee was quite lively, and unless we comment on the whole project, which is, of course, the implementation of the EU directive - these solutions need to be introduced into our law - our many doubts raised during the committee's work were about penalties. These are doubts that are raised not only by us, but also in the entire list that we have received in the compilation of the comments received in the consultation. Of course, most of the comments have been taken into account, but there are some that raise quite large doubts. The main charge that was not taken into account at the time of yesterday's proceedings for this bill... The proportionate adjustment of penalties and sanctions to operators and the distinction between commercial operators and typically scientific entities, i.e. institutes, has not been taken into account. The use of genetic resources for research in institutes has nothing to do with the use of genetic resources and the protection of these resources in relation to corporations, for their commercial use. We drew the attention of the applicant, we pointed out that it was necessary to separate sanctions against commercial entities from sanctions against scientific institutes, so that there is a clear difference, to which such entities as the Institute of Gardening in Skierniewice, the Polish Seed Chamber in Poznań, the Polish Academy of Sciences of the Botanical Gardens of the Centre for the Conservation of Biological Diversity, pointed out. Main ground of appeal it's a very strict approach to these institutions. Units of scientific institutions for the conservation of genetic resources and commercial units using these resources, namely pharmaceutical, cosmetic, biotechnology, food processing, fuel and plastics production, are placed on the same footing. We note that the principle of proportionality, which is very clearly raised several times in Regulation No 511, should be applied. She tells us about the flexible and very proportionate application of penalties and sanctions. We think that this provision should, however, be more clearly highlighted in your project, thus giving the possibility of quite mild treatment of research institutions which, for failure to comply with reporting obligations, receive quite high penalties, up to 50,000. Once again, I ask the Ministry to examine these records. There's time to correct them. On behalf of the Platform Club, I request further work on the project. Of course, we are still in favour of the project, and our support will depend on the amendments, on what you will change in the provisions on the clear division of institutions and the commercial use of our genetic resources. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-19-sejm-23-1.u69	Thank you very much. Now, on behalf of the Kukiz Poselski Club15, you will speak... Excuse me, Mr Mirosław Suchoń from the Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-19-sejm-23-1.u70	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I am pleased to present on behalf of the Poselski Club a modern position on the government draft law on access to genetic resources and sharing the benefits of their use, contained in print No 644, following the committee's report. Ladies and gentlemen! The draft law concerns the transposition into Polish law of Regulation No 511/2014 of the European Parliament and of the Council together with Regulation No 2015/1866. The first of these Regulations lays down rules governing the use of genetic resources or traditional knowledge related to genetic resources and the sharing of benefits from their use, which meets the requirements of the Nagoya Protocol, while the second lays down the scope of the Act and the subject-matter of the regulation. In accordance with the requirements of those Regulations, the law on which we are proceeding shall determine the tasks and characteristics of public administrations, the rules and procedures for carrying out checks on access and use of genetic resources and the rules on liability for infringements of the provisions of that Regulation. The draft law also regulates certain obligations of users and sets the maximum limit on expenditure of the State budget resulting from that law. This limit is PLN 14 732 842 which is what it will cost us in 10 years to implement the provisions of this Act. To begin with, in relation to these costs, I would like to point out that this amount has been spread almost evenly over the next 9 years. It is so worrying that operating costs are rising, new technologies are emerging, wages are raised, and therefore it is difficult to consider these calculations, which do not foresee any increase in expenditure, to be reliable. Ladies and gentlemen, in accordance with the proposed provisions, the national authority responsible for the application of the Regulation will be the Minister responsible for Environment. The tasks set out in the Act will also be carried out by the Chief Environmental Inspector and Provincial Inspectors. This applies in particular to the control functions and the functions related to the determination of penalties for non-compliance, which define the project on which we are proceeding. And so on. in accordance with the wording of the Article. The 5 project user control will be carried out by a provincial inspector. Importantly, when the Minister has important information about irregularities, he will be able to order an ad hoc check. It is in our view an important competence that will enable real supervision of matter in the regulated area of the law. I would also like to raise another important element of this regulation here. It's in the article. 5 We will find a delegation to issue a regulation setting out the detailed scope of user controls. I dare say that, to put it bluntly, this record goes against the system. I'll also say it's a good thing. The current practice of official controls has a considerable degree of discretion and this must be combated, these controls civilised. This record is such an example that it can be done. Therefore, while assessing this part of the project positively, I would like to draw the Minister's attention to the need for such solutions to a wider extent wherever possible. The draft also provides for the possibility for the user to take action or corrective measures where the inspection authority finds that the requirements of the Regulation are being infringed. Unfortunately, it is not clear from the project whether this possibility concerns only the post-control situation, or whether in any case the user will be able to correct his errors in accordance with the recommendations of the Authority before imposing the penalties referred to in Article. 11.15. This is an important question, because the penalties proposed by the government can be regarded as severe and such a procedure for the recovery of proceedings prior to the imposition of a penalty would be desirable. I think that would be such a positive effect of this regulation. The draft law, which the rapporteur also spoke about before me, was examined during the meeting of the Committee on the Environment, Natural Resources and Forestry. It was during the meeting of this committee that the level of penalties for certain users raised the greatest controversy. In particular, they were motivated by the fact that in our view there is no distinction between commercial activities and other activities. Yeah, for example. in Article 4, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 14 we are proposing that an official may impose a penalty of up to 10,000 for his failure to make a statement. zł. In our view, this is completely disproportionate: a declaration - 10,000. The severity of this punishment is too great. That is why we are presenting two amendments. Amendment 1 concerns a reduction in the scope of the penalties in the article I mentioned. 14 on the submission of a statement, while the second amendment concerns the inclusion in the calculation of penalties [[♪ The bell ♪]] other than those mentioned in the Act, factors which are directly related to the case and are in favour of the user. Please support these amendments. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-19-sejm-23-1.u71	Thank you very much. Ms Urszula Pasławska will now speak on behalf of the Polish People's Party Parliamentary Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-19-sejm-23-1.u72	Dear Marshal, Minister! High Izbo! I have the pleasure on behalf of the Parliamentary Club of the Polish People's Party to present a position on the draft law on access to and sharing the benefits of genetic resources. In my opinion, the law was widely discussed both at the first reading of the session here, in the plenary room and at the meeting of the environmental committee yesterday, and I will therefore make a rather brief statement. The proposed law is the implementation of EU Regulation No 511/2014 on the Nagoya Protocol on access to genetic resources and fair and fair sharing of the benefits of the use of these resources. That Regulation shall apply together with Implementing Regulation (EU) 2015/1866. Genetic resources are a kind of support for natural capital and the basis for food security and also play an increasingly important role in many sectors of the economy, in particular pharmaceuticals, cosmetics and biological energy sources. They are essential in restoring degraded ecosystems and protecting endangered species. As genetic resources, the law recognizes materials containing functional units of heredity. These may be samples derived directly from the environment or from so-called man-made so-called samples. collections, i.e. botanical gardens, zoos, banks and microbiological collections of cultures. The Nagoya Protocol is a new instrument of international law implementing the third objective of the Convention on Biological Diversity, adopted in 2010. It is intended to ensure that countries providing genetic resources can benefit from their use of the benefits they deserve. The bill introduces, or actually creates, a system to control the use of genetic resources acquired in Poland from countries that legally regulated access to them in accordance with the Nagoya Protocol, as well as introducing fines for non-compliance with the law. Each second article of the Act constitutes a monetary penalty. As a club, we also have doubts that the Act does not distinguish between commercial operators and scientific, research entities. Indeed, most penalties can be imposed as a result of failure to make an appropriate statement, and this adequacy seems quite questionable. The Polish People's Party will not vote against this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-19-sejm-23-1.u73	Thank you very much. Mrs Małgorzata Zwierzan will now speak on behalf of the Free and Solidarni wheels.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-19-sejm-23-1.u74	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Freedom and Solidarnia Circle, I am pleased to present our position on the governmental draft law on access to genetic resources and sharing the benefits of their use. After hearing the opinion of the Committee on the Environment, Natural Resources and Forestry, our position on this issue has not changed. We still believe that the rapid process of the bill is necessary and that this is the only way Poland will fulfil its obligations under the Convention on Biological Diversity of 5 June 1992. Our doubts are raised by the application of monetary penalties provided for in the Act in the form of quota forks to operators using genetic resources not in accordance with the Act. Large range of forks - e.g. 1 000. Up to 50,000. zł - may cause abuse in determining the amount of penalties which will only be contractual in nature. Perhaps the level of penalties - in particular with a distinction between commercial and scientific entities - should clarify the relevant regulation to the law, e.g. in the form of a taxi driver. We would like scientific institutions, unlike large commercial operators, to be treated on preferential terms and any penalties applied, to be determined in proportion to the potential benefits of non-compliant entities. The Free and Solidarni Circle will support the government project and at the same time ask for further proceedings of the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-19-sejm-23-1.u75	Thank you very much. Three Members have asked questions. I'm closing the list of questions. I'm setting the time to ask a question for one minute. The first question is asked by Mr Ryszard Wilczyński from the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-19-sejm-23-1.u76	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I would like to refer to the expenditure limit set out in Article. 24. It is said that within 8 years from 2018 it will be the same amount of 1616 thousand, which means, first, that wages will not be valued, second, that computer equipment financed in the first year, in 2017, will not be exchanged. It's pretty bad news in a situation where there's information about increases for the government at the same time. The second thing, perhaps definitely more important, concerns the so-called. an adjustment mechanism to act when the expenditure limit is to be exceeded. This is covered by the Public Finance Act in Art. The Commission shall adopt implementing acts laying down detailed rules for the implementation of this Regulation in That is, I am surprised by the absolute lack of finesse in the application of this mechanism. There's a speech, for example. on the reduction of salaries, see today's information on the salary increase for the government. After all, it is possible to write down mechanisms such as entrusting the entire task to the Chief Environmental Inspector or one of the inspectors whose tasks will be carried out most due to the existence of the largest number of bodies to be checked there. [[♪ The bell ♪]] I ask you to consider this issue and possibly correct it in the Senate, because it seems that finesse in the application of this mechanism is important.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-19-sejm-23-1.u77	Thank you very much. The question is asked by Mr Zbigniew Chmielowiec from the Law and Justice Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-19-sejm-23-1.u78	Thank you very much. Dear Marshal, Minister! High Izbo! I have one very brief question for the Minister. Has the Ministry taken full account of the comments made by the institutes and the Polish Academy of Sciences regarding the addition of definitions and new concepts resulting from Regulation No 511/2014 and the proportionality of the penalties and sanctions applied to those institutes? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-19-sejm-23-1.u79	Thank you very much. Now the question is asked by Mrs Dorota Sunday from the Civic Platform club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-19-sejm-23-1.u80	Mr. Marshal! Minister! My question will be about the expertise that is in the documentation provided to us. It is an expert study from 2013, an expert study of zoos. In conclusion and in the final conclusions, of course, it is said that the project, which was already proposed at the time, is a completion, but it is also a question of whether it would not be worth harmonising the reporting of Polish zoos in terms of number, trapping, transport, in order to be used in the field of ABS in the future. My question is: Do you foresee any comprehensive change in possibilities or reporting requirements for these collections, i.e. zoos or botanical gardens? I'm asking for a comprehensive regulation. That's one thing. And second question, briefly. Are these solutions, which are also provided by the countries, e.g. solution applied in the UK, where the authority for access to resources [[♪ The bell ♪]] there is a secretary of state for the environment, and there is such a thing as imposing sanctions, such as warning letters, voluntary agreement with the user on appropriate action, orders to withdraw the product from the market... [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-19-sejm-23-1.u81	Thank you, Member. The question is asked by Mr Grzegorz Wojciechowski, club Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-19-sejm-23-1.u82	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! My question concerns penalties which are imposed in this law, fines. As I understand it, these penalties are imposed in an administrative manner. Some of my doubts are raised here about the control of the imposition of these penalties, because administratively, judicial review is limited in a way, limited in principle, the issue of the legal basis of the imposition, not so much because there are forks here. Please explain whether there will be an excessive amount or a poor differentiation of these penalties. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-19-sejm-23-1.u83	Thank you very much. The list of Members registered in the vote has been exhausted. Mr Andrzej Szweda-Lewandowski, Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Environment, will then speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-19-sejm-23-1.u84	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! As far as questions are concerned, maybe I'll start with the one about penalties, because that's what's causing the most controversy here. The situation is that the Act designates the Regional Environmental Inspector as an institution which carries out control, control of users, which is important. The following articles state that a protocol is drawn up from the audit and that paragraph is drawn up. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. 5 provides that if there are deficiencies, the provincial inspector shall invite the user to take the action or corrective measures referred to in that provision and shall set a time limit for their implementation. After such a check, where corrective action has been carried out, no penalties shall be imposed. Art. Point 12 (2), Article 12 13, 14 and 15 speak of penalties, but they are penalties imposed in specific cases, which are the result of the regulation. This applies e.g. a situation in which the collection user or the collection owner does not keep relevant documents, a situation in which certain formalities are not fulfilled as regards the acquisition of genetic resources from another country. She also talked about the fact that many food institutes, etc. He resents that these penalties are too high. It should be stressed here that this law does not apply to food products. Food products is a completely different convention. The genetic resources that will be used for food purposes are not covered by this law at all and these regulations do not apply in this case. As far as forks are concerned, there is indeed a wide range, because shortcomings can vary. The proportionality of the imposition of penalties is mentioned in Article. 17. There were also questions and suggestions as to whether these provisions would be extended and amended over time. Of course, as the rapporteur said earlier, it is a completely new law, it is a whole new legislation, and it is known that, with the experience of the operation of this law, it will be corrected, because we want to improve the flow of genetic material, the creation of collections, etc. For today - as I say, this is a new issue, as I said earlier, at first reading - no international agreement on the use of genetic resources has yet been concluded. There have been three applications for the registration of collections from the world that have not yet met the conditions, and there is no yet registered collection of genetic resources in the world based on the recipe, so the whole world is simply learning. Our national and international regulations will certainly be developed to facilitate this. As far as financial matters that have been discussed here are concerned, as I said, we do not yet have a diagnosis of the scale of these issues in Poland as regards the whole situation. [[Records of records.]] Yeah, how many registers are there gonna be, and so on. Perhaps the situation will be that it will be possible to assign new tasks to current employees of voivodship environmental inspectors and within the framework of their posts, which they have in their inspectors, they will be able to keep records and control. We don't know that yet, we just don't know what it's gonna be like, like I say, the scale of it all. As of today, it can be assumed that the scale will be small or there will be no such cases at all, because if, as I say, no international agreement has yet been signed today, then there is no collection, no user register, etc. On the other hand, I can assure you that if there are problems or new circumstances, this law will be corrected and amended to facilitate the flow of information on genetic resources as much as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-19-sejm-23-1.u85	Thank you very much. [[May I?]] Were you mentioned? [[I'd like to ask you more.]] There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-19-sejm-23-1.u86	Mr. Marshal! Minister! I would like to ask you further, because of the doubts raised by the seed chambers, whether this law covers the genetic resources of commercial seed. Such a question arises in the conclusions and we have generally not heard such an answer. The seed chambers ask whether their commercial varieties of seeds will be subject to this law.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-19-sejm-23-1.u87	Thank you very much. Minister, you're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-19-sejm-23-1.u88	They will not be subject to these provisions in accordance with the Nagoya Protocol, which states: "Recognizing the interdependence of all countries with regard to genetic resources for food and agriculture, as well as their unique nature and importance in achieving food security worldwide and for the sustainable development of agriculture in the context of poverty reduction and climate change and recognition of the fundamental role in this respect... [[It's not there.]] ... The International Treaty on Plant Genetic Resources for Food and Agriculture of the Commission on Genetic resources for Food and Agriculture FAO (...) is a completely different convention.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-19-sejm-23-1.u89	Thank you very much. The discussion is closed. In view of the fact that, at the time of the second reading, the draft amendment was tabled, I propose that the Sejm re-direct this proposal to the Committee on the Environment, Natural Resources and Forestry in order to present a report. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. We proceed with the examination of item 4 of the agenda: Report from the Committee on Social Policy and Family Affairs on the draft law amending the Act on Occupational and Social Rehabilitation and employment of persons with disabilities and certain other laws (prints Nos 564 and 583). I ask Mr Piotr Luke Babiarz to present a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-19-sejm-23-1.u90	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I was honoured to present to the High House the report of the Committee on Social Policy and Family Affairs on the draft law amending the Act on Professional and Social Rehabilitation and the employment of persons with disabilities and certain other laws. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The bill in question entered the Sejm on 3 June this year, print No 564, and regulates the following problems. The Act of 27 August 1997 on occupational rehabilitation requires sheltered employment establishments to create a rehabilitation fund. This appropriation is intended to cover the financing of professional rehabilitation. Art. Article 33 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 4a indicates the penalties to be applied if the fund's money is used in breach of the law, and nothing about sanctions when the funds are not transferred by the work establishment to that fund at all. Hence, the proposal to introduce provisions on the equal treatment of the incompatible misallocation of funds of the Fund with total non-transfer of funds. The proposal also proposes a change in the composition, organisation and mode of action of the National Consultative Council on People with Disabilities. In addition, the amendment proposes to amend the Sign Language Act of 19 August 2011 concerning the requirements to be met by the Chairman of the Mig Language Council. In addition, it is proposed to postpone the deadline for vacathio legis rules on the issue of new disability cards. June 22nd this year The first reading took place in the Committee on Social Policy and Family Affairs. At the request of the applicants, given the high interest in this novel and the importance of matter, it was submitted to the Permanent Sub-Committee on Persons with Disabilities. A number of amendments were adopted by the congratulating subcommittee on 5 July. It is more important to clarify the provisions on the terms of office of the National Consultative Council on Disabled Persons. In this case, a limitation to two 4-year term for members of non-governmental organisations was adopted. A broad board was adopted, the principle of representativeness, i.e. five representatives of state administrations, five representatives of local self-government units, were taken into account of representatives of employers' organisations, representatives of a representative union organisation within the meaning of the Social Dialogue Council Act and 20 representatives of non-governmental organisations. A record has been deleted that candidates on the board cannot be employees or members of organisations supporting them. The provisions concerning the dismissal of members of this Council have been clarified. Importantly, provision has been made to allow for the payment of cash claims or the remission of interest due on arrears. In addition, the provisions on qualifications to be held by the chairman of the Sign Language Board have been improved. The minimum requirements in this context indicate a qualified person who knows Polish sign language and Polish language. The deadline for the entry into force of the Disabled Persons Card was also corrected and set here on 1 August 2017. The report of the subcommittee was adopted by the Social Policy Committee without amendments on 6 July 2017. The report on the bill's novel is in print No 583. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Therefore, on behalf of the committee, I request the adoption of the attached bill. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-19-sejm-23-1.u91	Thank you very much. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would listen to the five-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and the circle. I'm opening a discussion. Ms Anna Schmidt-Rodziewicz will be the first to speak on behalf of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-19-sejm-23-1.u92	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I have the honour to present the position of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice on the parliamentary draft law amending the Act on Professional and Social Rehabilitation and Employment of Persons with Disabilities. Print No 564 entered the Sejm on 3 June, and on 6 June was directed to work in the Committee on Social Policy and Family Affairs. On 6 July, the committee adopted a proposal recommending that the High House adopt a draft law. The project introduces solutions to improve the functioning of bodies representing persons with disabilities in their cases and regulates the rules on the misuse of funds from the rehabilitation fund for persons with disabilities. In view of the overly restrictive rules on penalties for employers operating sheltered work establishments who have not transferred funds to the fund, applicants have proposed to reduce the financial burden imposed on the employer by obliging him to pay 30% of his contribution to the rehabilitation fund. the amount of unallocated funds and not, as yet, 30% of the total amount of funds collected in the share fund. In addition, the amendment amends the provisions on the functioning of the National Consultative Council for the Protection of Persons with Disabilities. The powers of the Board, which will become an advisory and advisory body with the possibility to appoint experts, commission research and expertise in carrying out its tasks, are being extended in accordance with the new provisions. The project also clarifies the number and rules of membership of the Council of representatives of non-governmental organisations other than those mentioned in the Act and the procedure for notification to its composition of representatives of local self-government units. The Act guarantees membership of 20 representatives of other non-governmental organisations appointed no longer than two terms of office of the Council, with the support of at least 15 non-governmental organisations acting in favour of persons with disabilities. These solutions aim to increase the competence and transparency of the board. At the same time, the scope of the Council will be extended to which the applicant imposes an obligation to present an opinion to the representative of the Government on the performance of the tasks set out in the Act and to issue 30 days of opinion on the documents submitted to the Council by the representative within a deadline of 30 days. This provision is also intended to safeguard the proper performance of statutory obligations. According to Art. Article 43 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 Paragraph 4 of the Act will lose the membership of the Council of persons sentenced to a final sentence for a criminal offence committed intentionally, as well as those who are deviating from their duties and unable to fulfil them for health reasons. The new law shall delegate competence to the proxy for persons with disabilities to convene meetings of the Council. These changes will undoubtedly increase the efficiency of the body dealing with the issues of persons with disabilities and ensure that groups with different types of disability are properly representative. In Article 2, paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: 49f applicants shall enter provisions allowing the remission, distribution into instalments or deferral of the payment of claims relating to undue financing for the remuneration of disabled workers, together with the possibility of redemption of interest in cases justified inter alia. important public interest, social considerations or other reasons which deserve to be taken into account. The employer of disabled people also receives a guarantee of liquidity financing by the payroll fund and social security contributions during the period of arrears. This is an important solution that takes into account the well-being of disabled workers. The project also includes amendments to the Sign Language Act as regards the conditions to be met by the President of the Polish Foreign Language Council. To date, this function could be performed by a person with an education or experience at the same time in terms of knowledge of three ways of communication. The applicants prefer to relax this strict requirement and reduce the qualification of the candidate for the chairman of the board to learn Polish sign language and Polish language, which will undoubtedly enable more candidates to apply for this function prepared for it. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The proposed amendment to the Act clarifies, improves and, as a result, makes the current mode of action of the National Consultative Council for Disabled Persons more transparent, better safeguards the rights of workers entitled to use the State Fund for Rehabilitation of Persons with Disabilities, meeting the social expectations in this area, which is why the Law and Justice Club will support the adoption of the proposed bill by the High House. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-19-sejm-23-1.u93	Thank you very much. Mr Sławomir Piechot will now speak on behalf of the Civic Platform Parliamentary Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-19-sejm-23-1.u94	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Seym! I have the honour to present the position of the Civic Platform Parliamentary Club on the bill under consideration to amend the Act on Occupational and Social Rehabilitation and the Employment of Persons with Disabilities. This project was presented at first reading as an applicant by Mr Piotr Babiarz. Without regard to his involvement and role, we have no doubt that this is a government project, but only for the omission of inter-ministerial arrangements and public consultation, he has been given such a rapid and simplified run. The project was submitted by the PiS Members on 3 June and the first reading was scheduled for 7 June, the second reading was to be held on 8 June and the act was to be voted on 9 June. Ultimately, after our interventions, unfortunately, here by your marshal ignored, but fortunately in the committee included, after considering the arguments that were behind this, the first reading took place after 2 weeks, 22 June, so it enabled all the social partners to prepare for this discussion and present their positions. Following the discussion in the committee, the draft was submitted to the Permanent Sub-Committee, which on 5 July examined it and submitted a report to the Social Policy Committee, adopted on 6 July, and this is print No 583. As a result of our interventions, the amendments tabled in the National Consultative Council on People with Disabilities left representatives of local governments, employers' governments and trade unions, as well as representatives of central offices. At the same time, we support the increase in the number of representatives of NGOs and thus their proportionate participation in the Council. In addition, it is noted that representatives of non-governmental organisations, trade unions, employers, can be cancelled, but only at the request of the recommendation organisation. We have repeatedly stressed that without such a wide range of participants there would be no real debate and consultation in the Council. Secondly, a provision setting out the competence requirements for the candidate for the President of the Polish Foreign Language Council has been modified. The sound was adopted, which we agreed in consultation with representatives of the Polish Deaf Union, so that only a person who knows Polish sign language and Polish language could be president of the Council. Finally, the project postponed for a year until October next year, the introduction of a new card for a disabled person on the ground that the previous government did not provide the current government with the budget for this purpose. I will skip this argument because we have talked about this long enough in the work on this project. We proposed a new deadline on 1 January 2017, i.e. in the financial year in which the draft budget will be fully prepared by the Government of Law and Justice. Finally, we agreed on a compromise, an agreed date on 1 August 2017, and therefore it is valid, although almost two years since the elections, which is how much it takes for the new government to implement the solution fully prepared in the previous term of office. In view of our amendments, which have substantially changed the proposed proposal, we will vote in favour of the law. However, it should be borne in mind that so-called. a good change in the implementation of the PiS means for people with disabilities, firstly, the elimination of preferences in employment in public administration as a result of the amendment of the Civil Service Act. By throwing out the competitions, preference was thrown out and nothing else was introduced. Children with mild disabilities have been excluded from the 500+ programme. It's unjustifiable, unjustifiable. According to the scheme, the first child is already entitled to the benefit if the child is disabled, but only the disabled child to a significant or moderate degree. I will remind you that by the age of 16 the degree of disability is not determined, so all children are disabled without differentiation and all until this point of life are entitled to 500 PLN per month, even if it is the first or only child. The degree of disability is determined after the age of 16 and then the 500+ program deprives the disabled child of the light right to benefit, although painfully paradoxically this only slight degree is the result of severe, intense and long-term rehabilitation of the child, among others. a child with cerebral palsy or a deaf child. On the other hand, what kind of exclusion of these children for a period of 2 years saves money in a program with such a gigantic budget? [[♪ The bell ♪]] No doubt families with such children have the right to feel punished for the effort put into improving the child and deprived of the resources for further rehabilitation of this child. Our amendment was rejected. We're bringing these kids back to the 500+ program.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-19-sejm-23-1.u95	Thank you, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-19-sejm-23-1.u96	Last sentence, Marshal. Please allow me to point out this important issue. The implementation of the judgment of the Constitutional Tribunal on the supplementary benefit for the care of disabled children was postponed until the beginning of next year, justifying the lack of money in the budget. Senacki draft law on amending the Law on Family Benefits and the Law on determining and paying benefits to carers. The annual implementation of this task requires 30 million PLN, so it would require 15 million PLN to start without further delay since the second half of this year, as we have requested. However, our amendment was rejected, although at that time 26 million were transferred to Fr Tadeusz Rydzyk and 16 million to the General Medical Council. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-19-sejm-23-1.u97	Thank you very much, sir. Ms Agnieszka Chasing will now speak on behalf of the Kukiz Poselski Club15. You're welcome, my fellow Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-19-sejm-23-1.u98	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour to present the position of the Kukiz Club15 on the parliamentary draft law amending the Act on Professional and Social Rehabilitation and employment of disabled persons, print no. 583. Although the proposed amendment of such an important law for people with disabilities does not significantly improve their situation, Kukiz15 will support it. Changes in the possibility of punishing employers of disabled persons because they do not transfer funds to the rehabilitation fund, as well as those who misuse these funds, are, of course, fair - this has been confirmed by the court - but more just for the State apparatus and not for the disabled. Yes, you may think that punishing employers for not paying the legal envelope for rehabilitation of people with disabilities will improve access to this rehabilitation, but I think that often, and it is worth paying attention to it, can be the cause of their loss of work. Normally, if the employer doesn't have any money to pay the penalty, he won't pay. That's it. Unfortunately, this system has so much to do with the fact that instead of thinking about the causes, it prefers to punish for the consequences. However, the shortcut may sometimes prove to be a short-term road. Proceding this law has a very interesting course. Regardless of his rank, this is one of the few cases in this term where the Law and Justice have taken into account the path of public consultation or the voice of reason of the opposition. In view of this fact, our club will support these changes, because it rarely happens, but it is possible, as it turns out. We welcome the fact that the National Consultative Council on People with Disabilities is being extended to include an opinion-making function and that the proposed changes will result in representatives from different parties. The Council has the chance to become a real reflection of the relationship between the environment and the environment of people with disabilities. Appropriate proportions will be maintained in the proposed composition, and it is also worth emphasising, between organisations of disabled persons, employers of disabled persons, local governments or government parties. So far these proportions have not been preserved. Although this processed change does not yet contribute much to the very life and functioning of people with disabilities, such a composition, such a role of advice gives hope that, firstly, it will not be the end of the reforms, and secondly, that all subsequent reforms, all subsequent proposals will take into account the overall situation and opinion of people with disabilities, including their surroundings. This is due to the hope that we will finally get concrete action towards people with disabilities. Unfortunately, the proposed amendment postpones the time limit for issuing new ID cards for people with disabilities. This could make life a little easier for people with disabilities. We have to wait for it because we're running out of resources. We urge here that, at a time for which the issue of legitimacy is postponed, we work really hard to change the way we decide on the degree of disability in order to align it and link it with the rights and privileges of a disabled person, so that this card does not just become a card, but also becomes such a pass not to walk around the offices several times to deal with the same issue. On every occasion, the Kukiz Club will call on the Government of Law and Justice to prepare major policy changes for people with disabilities. It is about harmonising the ruling, eliminating unnecessary intermediaries who cost, distributing funds for social or occupational rehabilitation, and ensuring access to health rehabilitation. The Act on Rehabilitation of Persons with Disabilities does not require cosmetics, it requires a very thorough reconstruction. The Kukiz Club15 has tabled several draft laws aimed at improving, albeit to a minor extent, the situation of people with disabilities. The next are prepared together with the environment of people with disabilities, with non-governmental organisations. Improving the lives of people with disabilities is one of the priorities of our club. We hope that this will also become a priority of Law and Justice, and we ask that they be promptly processed and supported. We are a solidarity society and we can afford for people with disabilities to live a decent life. Let us lean on expenditure in our budget, very often really unnecessary, and we will find a lot of resources to cover the costs arising from the needs of people with disabilities. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-19-sejm-23-1.u99	Thank you very much. Now the voice on behalf of the Kukiz Parliamentary Club... [[Modern.]] ...on behalf of the Modern Club, she will take Mrs Cornelia Wróblewska. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-19-sejm-23-1.u100	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! In the justification for the proposed amendments to the Social Rehabilitation Act, we read: According to the article. 42 of the Act on Rehabilitation The National Consultative Council on the Protection of Persons with Disabilities is an advisory and advisory body of the government's representative for persons with disabilities which provides a forum for cooperation for people with disabilities, government administrations, local government and non-governmental organisations. Widely understood cooperation in the assumptions is to involve all interested parties. It seems clear, therefore, that the consultative board, which is a forum, i.e. the level of exchange of views between the various parties, must have representatives of every environment, i.e. governments and local authorities, as well as representatives of employers' organisations, representative trade union organisations and representatives of NGOs. This is in the explanatory memorandum which suggests that the applicant not only understands the idea of combining, but also respects the constitutional right to participate in the public debate, to express his views, to share knowledge and experience, and to co-form solutions that balance the needs of all parties. Therefore, I do not understand why the applicant in the proposed law left out in the first stage in the membership of the consultative board of representatives of government administrations, as well as representatives of representative trade union organisations and employers' organisations. A strong protest was needed both in the environment of disabled people and in the parliamentary opposition. At this point, I would like to thank the applicant for including the amendments tabled. We have tried hard to do this, we have talked to you, the environment of people with disabilities has been strongly involved, and thank you very much, because this is not the first time we have reported the need for cross-party cooperation for the environment of people with disabilities, but for the first time this vote has been recognised and taken into account by the governing party. However, some questions arise. What experience so far, I quote, in terms of the functioning of the Council, led the applicant in the first project to change its composition and organisation? Has the need for changes in how members are selected and how the board operates and managed come from the Council itself and the parties involved, or does this have to do with the new government proxy for people with disabilities? I would like to add that I know from the conversations with the environment of people with disabilities that the proxy does not want to work with the environment. There is a difficult contact and access to the proxy and conversations that take place are very superficial and do not take into account actual needs. I have witnessed such conversations myself, and I can honestly say that it had nothing to do with personal culture, dialogue culture, or the need to understand the other side. Consideration should also be given to the fact that representatives of different types of disability are elected to the Council to represent the whole environment of people with disabilities. The Council cannot be dominated only by one disability. I am very pleased that, even though there was no consultation with the deaf people's environment at the beginning of the proposed changes, the opposition managed to adopt a statement that the chairman of the board should be a person who knows both Polish sign language and Polish language. It's important that the chairman of the board... The chairman of the board should be a deaf or hearing person, but since it is the Polish Foreign Language Council, it must be necessary in the case of the President to know the language and at the same time to function properly it is necessary to have a good knowledge of the Polish language. Both of these criteria meet the educated, culturally conscious deaf [[♪ The bell ♪]] or weakly hearing. This record shall comply with the obligations of Article. 29 conventions. Modern will support the project. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-19-sejm-23-1.u101	Thank you. Mr Krystian Jarubas will now speak on behalf of the Parliamentary Club of the Polish People's Party. The statement was made in writing. Thank you very much. Mrs Małgorzata Zwierzan on behalf of the Free and Solidarni Circle. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-19-sejm-23-1.u102	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! On behalf of the Polish Free and Solidarnia Circle, I present my position on the Act amending the Act on Occupational and Social Rehabilitation and employment of persons with disabilities and certain other laws. To begin with, I would like to say that the work in the Permanent Sub-Committee on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities, to which the amendment has been addressed, is a model example of a constructive discussion on the provisions of the contested law. In this way, in a compromise way, we should proceed in this House over all laws. Going to the point, it must be said that many legal acts in Polish legislation require refinement, filling in existing gaps and understatements. Undoubtedly, the law on occupational and social rehabilitation and employment of people with disabilities is one of them. The drafters of the Law amending the Act in question first of all propose that the failure of workers to comply with the protected obligation to transfer the financial resources obtained from the exemptions to the rehabilitation fund should be treated as non-intended expenditure. I agree that clarification of this provision will have a significant impact in enforcing compliance with the established law. As I said earlier, this draft law contains a number of compromises. Several of them concerned changes in the composition, organisation and mode of action of the National Consultative Council for Disabled Persons. The proposed solution improves the position of non-governmental organisations in the Council by regulating the number of members of the environment concerned, while taking into account the voices of government administration and local government units. It is important to know that the proposed regulations extend the powers of this body by giving it an advisory and advisory role. With the limitation to two members' term of office, all these changes will have a positive impact on the quality of her work and will reduce or, I hope, completely eliminate objections. About what she's done so far. Applicants also request amendments to the Sign Language Act and other means of communication. They propose to reduce the strict guidelines relating to the conditions to be met by the President of the Polish Foreign Language Council. It will not ensure that candidates have sufficient competence to carry out their duties properly and effectively. Reducing these requirements will increase the choice of those who not only know the environment but also have knowledge and management experience. I also have no doubt, given the justification given for the lack of financial resources, that it is necessary to extend the date of entry into force of the rules on disability cards or disability. By way of further compromises, the new deadline was set on 1 August 2017. In view of the logical arguments put forward during the work in committee and subcommittees regarding the need to start issuing these credentials as soon as possible, I hope that the work on this project will go smoothly and that this deadline will be maintained. The Free and Solidarni Circle will support the procedated bill. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-19-sejm-23-1.u103	Thank you very much. Eight ladies and gentlemen came to the questions. I'm closing the list of questions. I'm setting a question time for one minute. Mr Paweł Bańkowski from the Civic Platform Club is the first to ask a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-19-sejm-23-1.u104	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! The vigilance and determination of Mr Sławomir Piechota's Civic Platform can be attributed to the fact that the bill we are proceeding today has not been voted as crazyly as expected by the applicant and has been addressed to committee work, so that many important amendments have been made. I have a question for the Minister: Why does the Government of Law and Justice need almost two years, because until August 1st, from winning elections to introducing a new card for a disabled person, thus hindering the lives of people with disabilities? When and by the Government of Law and Justice will preference be restored in the employment of persons with disabilities in public administration, which have been abolished as a result of the amendment of the Civil Service Act? Finally, as Mr Piechota said, whether the Government of Law and Justice provides for the inclusion of 500+ excluded children with disabilities in [[♪ The bell ♪]] A slight degree? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-19-sejm-23-1.u105	Thank you very much. Now the question is asked by Mr Tomasz Nowak from the Civic Platform Club. There's no envoy. Mr Zbigniew Chmielowiec from the Law and Justice Club. There's no... [[I'm here, I'm here.]] You're an MP.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-19-sejm-23-1.u106	Thank you very much. Dear Marshal, If this is a parliamentary project, then the questions are submitted to the Member of the applicant, by the way. And here I was going to say that whether it's a government project or a non-government project, the most important thing is that it's a project that seals the system when it comes to sanctions regarding not paying for the rehabilitation fund. Very often, employers didn't walk them away because there were no sanctions. And I would like to thank Mrs Małgorzata Zwierzan from the Free and Solidarnia circle, who just said that this consultation is a model example of a project consultation that is so important for the people waiting for it. I have this question to the Minister or to the Member of the applicant: Is it true that the amendment to the Act will improve the activities of the Consultative Council on Persons with Disabilities by introducing provisions enabling a member of the Council to be dismissed in the event of a breach of his duties? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-19-sejm-23-1.u107	Thank you very much. Now the question is asked by Mrs Joanna Borowiak from the Law and Justice Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-19-sejm-23-1.u108	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The draft amendment to the Act on Occupational and Social Rehabilitation and Employment of Persons with Disabilities originally provided for the exclusion from the membership of the consultative board of governmental authorities, trade unions and employers. There have been concerns about the environment of people with disabilities here, and I am very pleased that the work of the committee will result in all sides of the dialogue in line with the principle of representativeness. I therefore have a question: Will the solution adopted contribute to a proper and multifaceted look at the problems and solving the problems of people with disabilities and will it improve the work of the consultative board? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-19-sejm-23-1.u109	Thank you very much. Now the question is asked by Mrs Lidia Burzyńska from the Law and Justice Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-19-sejm-23-1.u110	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! The proposed law proposes that the Consultative Board be composed of at least 20 members representing non-governmental organisations, government administrations or local government units, employers or trade unions. In view of the establishment of such a broad board of consultative bodies, I have a question: Will the proposed criteria for the selection of board members ensure that it is functioning properly so that it is properly supported by people with disabilities? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-19-sejm-23-1.u111	Thank you very much. Now the question is asked by Mrs Iwona Michalek, club Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-19-sejm-23-1.u112	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The Parliamentary bill amending the Act on Professional and Social Rehabilitation and employment of persons with disabilities proposes a significant extension of the composition of the national consultative board. I am very pleased - I wanted to express my satisfaction here - that all the votes were taken into account during this legislative process and the composition of this board was greatly extended. I wanted to ask whether this change would affect the quality of the work of the national council and whether such a broad body would ensure a better quality of the opinions and recommendations on changes in the laws, the various changes concerning people with disabilities. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-19-sejm-23-1.u113	Thank you very much. Now you are asking Jerzy Paul, the Law and Justice Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-19-sejm-23-1.u114	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! There have been ambiguities and misunderstandings among people working within sign language groups and associations for some time. Therefore, I have a question: Have the new rules and criteria for the election of the chairman of the Sign Language Council been consulted with the most interested, i.e. deaf people? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-19-sejm-23-1.u115	Thank you very much. The question is asked by Mrs Zofia Czernow, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-19-sejm-23-1.u116	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! I want to get back to children with disabilities lightly. My question is: When does the government intend to remove light restrictions for children with disabilities from the 500+ programme? It's very hurtful for these kids and their parents. It is in the first years of the child's life that the disability can be completely eliminated or significantly reduced. Additional funding is needed for treatment, but above all for rehabilitation, which is very expensive. Why does the government take away this opportunity for disabled children? This is the failure of the 500+ program in this area. I'm asking for an answer. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-19-sejm-23-1.u117	Thank you very much. Thus, the list of members of the vote has been exhausted. Mr Krzysztof Michalkiewicz, Minister of State at the Ministry of Family, Labour and Social Policy, will speak. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-19-sejm-23-1.u118	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I would like to take this opportunity to thank the applicant for the fact that he has developed such a form of amendment of the law, which has received the support of all parliamentary clubs. I welcome and would also like to thank all Members that, firstly, they took a very active part in the discussions in the committee, and secondly that everyone, speaking here on behalf of his club, stressed how important this topic and people with disabilities are for his club, as well as the implementation of their rights in our country. As regards the specific questions that were addressed to the Minister, I will try to answer briefly and then give the rapporteur the floor. Is the project government or parliamentary? There is no government position on this project. It is known that some topics are at the heart of the Minister of Family, Labour and Social Policy and of the Government's Plenipotentiary. On the other hand, it is best to show how many changes were made by Members during the committee's work and their active participation in the work of this project. There were some questions going beyond the bill. This is particularly true of Mr Piechota. As far as the employment of disabled persons in public administration is concerned, this project was not involved. He also did not deal with the 500+ family programme. But I'll make two brief remarks. The first - the Council, which is meeting, deals with the Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities, the next meeting will be on digital exclusion and later on will be about employment in administration and preferences in administrative employment. It is precisely this coordination of implementation within the framework of the government administration. As far as the concern of the State for disabled children is concerned, I would like to remind you gently, because I am sure that the Member knows that in the case of children there is no ruling as to the determination of disability levels, it is said that they are disabled. In contrast, the degrees of disability concern adults. The fact is, since I was 16. Until the age of 16, only disability and related indications shall be ruled. On the other hand, as far as disability is concerned, it is certainly only for adults, since we are 16 years old, and we are starting to find it differently. So the subject is certainly interesting, but unrelated to this bill. I would also ask for more precise expression, because transmissions are often listened to by people with disabilities, so it is worth to be precise in speaking. With regard to legitimacy, because many votes concerned legitimacy, of course the basic theme is that there are no financial resources in this year's budget to prepare the draft card and to print these cards. I think if eight years, under the rule of the previous coalition, I.D. could have waited, then... [[Now eight more years can wait? Another eight?]] ...may also wait until August, Member. It is a pity that the Member did not look after when we discussed the budget so that this budget line would be included. At the moment, we are discussing what information should be included in the draft card. We are also discussing how to make this card clear to various forms of disability, so that people with disabilities not only have IDs, but also so that these IDs can contain as much information as possible about who they represent. Thank you very much for all the votes on the consultative board. Of course, the Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities obliges us to consult and discuss all things that concern persons with disabilities. I hope that now this larger and more representative advice will serve this well and that we will have another forum to debate the problems of people with disabilities. I think I have raised the most important points and I would like to express my voice to the rapporteur. Once again, I would like to thank you all for your work in committee, for today's discussion and for stressing that the subject matter of people with disabilities will be linked by this House and all clubs will be given priority. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-19-sejm-23-1.u119	Thank you very much, Minister. Now, Mr Sławomir Piechot, as corrected. Please, one minute.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-19-sejm-23-1.u120	Thank you, Marshal. I think the Minister misunderstood or misunderstood me. I clearly emphasized that by the 16th year there is no distinction of disability, so until the 16th year of age all children with disabilities get this benefit. That is why it is incomprehensible to me why, for 2 years, children with disabilities are excluded from such a gigantic budget, especially since you know very well what Mrs Czernow also said, how important this rehabilitation is and that this slight degree after 16 is often the result of the heroic work of parents and children. And you tell them, these children and those parents, that because they did the job, that they improved those children so much, they didn't deserve this benefit for two years. And yet it is these children who need to continue this rehabilitation. Minister, did you protest, or would you change that? These are questions for you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-19-sejm-23-1.u121	Thank you very much. There you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-19-sejm-23-1.u122	Shortly, of course, because of the fact that the Member did not further explain where he found these contents concerning the And the other thing. Mr President, after all, everyone present in this Chamber has heard clearly how the honourable Member said that it is important that there should be resources for rehabilitation at the beginning of the child's life. So after 16 years of age or in the first years of life? Mr President, it is up to you to decide.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-19-sejm-23-1.u123	Thank you very much. Mr Piotr Babiarz, draftsman of the committee, will now speak. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-19-sejm-23-1.u124	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I join you in the thanks you have given to the Minister when it comes to proceding this bill. On behalf of the applicants, I would also like to thank you for all the votes that have been cast in this Chamber, but also during the work of the Permanent Sub-Committee on Persons with Disabilities. I think that this process of law should be an indication for us, for all parliamentarians. High Izbo! There's been some questions here. Most of these questions concerned the national consultative board. I would like to say in this way: the proposed bill is primarily intended to extend the powers of the National Consultative Council for the Protection of Persons with Disabilities and this is a very important acquisition. Secondly, the representativeness of the national consultative board I mentioned, i.e. five representatives of government administration, five representatives of local government units, are representatives of employers, trade unions and NGOs. Our aim as applicants was to strengthen the voice of non-governmental organisations, because all other bodies, i.e. the government side, and trade unions, have their representation in the Council of Social Dialogue. On the other hand, after examining the votes that were cast during the public consultation, including the parliamentarians, we came to the conclusion that it is worth strengthening the national consultative board for those groups that I mentioned earlier. The question was also whether the deaf were consulted as regards the amendment concerning the President of the Polish Foreign Language Council. Yeah, there's been a consultation. Our intention was to increase the possible rotation or access to this position of those who are interested in it. So the Polish sign language and - which is also important and was raised during the procession in the subcommittee - is that such a person also knows the Polish language. I ask you to accept this bill. It is also very important because it seals the system, which several Members here also spoke about when it comes to the transfer of money to the rehabilitation fund. Thank you. [[Applause]] [[President of the session includes Deputy Marshal Barbara Dolniak Sejm]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-19-sejm-23-1.u125	Thank you very much. The discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-19-sejm-23-1.u126	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! We are looking very closely at the work on amending the legislation on the allocation of the share fund for rehabilitation of people with disabilities. This appropriation is intended to cover the financing of occupational, social and medical rehabilitation, including individual rehabilitation programmes for persons with disabilities, drawn up by employers' rehabilitation committees, and the insurance of persons with disabilities, which is why it is so important to spend them in accordance with the regulations. This amendment aims to clarify the rules on the spending of funds and the reimbursement of funds wrongly spent. This is very important because of the delicate nature of the case. Another of the proposed changes concerns the recasting of the functioning of the Consultative Council on Persons with Disabilities. In accordance with the initial draft, the members of the consultative board were to be appointed and dismissed by the Minister for Social Security at the request of the representative of the Government for Social Security. persons with disabilities. This rightly raised doubts, and so much so that the applicants withdrew from this record. Here it is worth noting that the main issue of doubt was the possibility of a possible criminal abuse by the Minister responsible for social security. In our opinion, instead of strictly staffing, the proposed changes should aim to improve the functioning of the consultative board. This includes the possibility of access to it by politically independent experts from various NGOs, as well as representatives of public administrations. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-19-sejm-23-1.u127	We will proceed to the third reading of the bill in the voting block. We proceed with the examination of item 5 of the agenda: First reading of the Government draft bill on the rules of settlement in the tax on goods and services and the reimbursement of public funds for projects financed by the budget of the European Union or by the Member States of the European Free Trade Agreement by local government units (print No 709). I ask the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Finance of Mr Leszek Skiba to present the justification for the project. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-19-sejm-23-1.u128	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The draft bill on the rules of settlement in the tax on goods and services and the reimbursement of public funds for the implementation of projects financed by the budget of the European Union or by the Member States of the European Free Trade Agreement by local government units is a government project. The main objective of the proposed law is to provide local government units with legal instruments supporting the centralisation process and to reduce the burden of centralising VAT settlements in local authorities in connection with the judgment of the Court of Justice of the European Union of 19 September 2015 in the case of the municipality of Wrocław. In the Court's view, the municipal budgetary units do not bear the economic risk associated with their economic activities on behalf of and on behalf of the municipality or are liable for or liable for the damage caused by those activities because they do not have their own assets, do not earn their own income or bear the costs relating to such activities. The revenue generated is paid to the budget of the municipality and the expenditure is paid directly from the budget. The consequence of the VAT ruling is the absence of a tax separation of local budget units, which means that all activities carried out by them in favour of third parties should be settled by the local government unit which created them and the activities carried out between budgetary units are internal. The Court's judgment did not concern the local units of budgetary establishments, but the Supreme Administrative Court adopted a resolution on 26 October 2015 in which it adopted, in relation to the local budgetary establishments, a similar interpretation as the Court of Justice in respect of the local budgetary units. Consequently, the resolution adopted by the court must be considered that local government budget establishments, as well as local government budgetary units, do not have a tax separation under the VAT rules, so that all their activities in favour of third parties should be accounted for by the local government unit which set them up and the activities in the local government, both between individuals and establishments, are internal. In view of the Court's judgment and the NSA's resolution, it is necessary to centralise VAT settlements in local governments as soon as possible. This centralisation must cover the organisational units set up by the local government, which are budgetary units, budgetary establishments and municipal offices, district old offices and marshal offices. The concept adopted by the proposed law assumes the compulsory centralisation of the accounts forward, i.e. from 1 January 2017, so that the execution of the Court's judgment can take place with the provision of adequate time for the local authorities to adjust the accounts. The Minister of Finance has already informed local authorities about this date in its communication. In order to support local authorities in the process of centralisation, it is envisaged that the resources allocated to their tasks should not be reimbursed to the extent that there has been a change in the eligibility of the tax in the part relating to the amount of input tax financed by the funds allocated to the implementation of the projects. The draft submitted also assumes that there is no need to centralise past accounts made prior to the Court's decision. If a local authority wishes to exercise the right to calculate the input tax in connection with this judgment, it will be able to make adjustments to the VAT return, starting from the earliest period for which the adjustment will be made, which will be decided by the local authority, until the time of centralisation, taking into account the limitation periods. However, the condition for using the calculation is that, in accordance with the Court's judgment, the complex corrections take account of the accounts of all business units and cover all settlement periods not covered by the statute in which the local government accounted as separate from its business units for the taxable person, starting from the earliest accounting period for which the adjustment was made. The provisions proposed in the draft are expected by the local government, as they will guarantee the units of local government and their organisational units, which, until the Court's judgment was given, have been treated as separate - under the VAT rules - taxable persons of this tax, the certainty of VAT settlement. To this end, the proposed law provides for the succession of rights and obligations, which will ensure the entry, as from the date on which the local government unit takes joint settlement with its organisational units, into the rights and obligations of those entities, including with regard to past accounts. This means among others. no need to issue corrective invoices, as the local government unit will also acquire the right to deduct from the invoices issued to its organisational units by entering into the rights and obligations of its units. The proposed law also provides for the possibility for organisational units to benefit from the exemption until the date of the joint clearance of the so-called exemption. where, at the date of the judgment of the Court of Justice, they have benefited from such an exemption. This will also apply to organisational units whose settlements have already been centralised with the local government unit before the date of entry into force of the draft law. The centralisation process also requires a resolution of the question of the registration of sales by the self-government unit to natural persons not engaged in business with the use of registering banks. The centralisation of accounts would imply the need to exchange all existing fiscal cash registers used by the local government and to purchase new fiscal cash registers for entities which have so far benefited from exemptions from trading records. In order to minimise these costs for local authorities, it is envisaged that trading may continue to be recorded through existing cash registers whose fiscalisation has been carried out by organisational units, but no longer than 31 December 2018. This regulation will exempt local authorities from the obligation to exchange registers or their fiscal memory and will enable trading to be recorded by existing cash registers. At the same time, the proposed law maintains until 31 December 2016 the exemption of local government units from the obligation to keep records of turnover and amounts of tax due by means of registering banks for the activities of those organisational units which benefited from such exemption on the day preceding the date of centralisation. Failure to introduce such rules would imply the need to buy new fiscal cash registers for all the organisational units that have benefited from the exemption so far. In view of the fact that centralisation may give rise to the need for a large number of registers to be purchased by the local government, it is justified to extend exceptional participation by the State budget in the cost of purchasing these registers, guaranteed in the current legislation only for the cashiers purchased at the time of the obligation to keep records, to start registration. The proposed law will also introduce adjustments to the Corporate Income Tax Act in respect of the non-calculation into the revenue of local government budget facilities received from the budget of the local government unit of financial resources resulting from the settlement of VAT relating to that undertaking and in the Public Finance Act which will allow the transfer of amounts to the budget establishment when the local government unit receives a refund resulting from the tax return of the excess tax charged over the due amount. When presenting the bill, I ask the High House to support and direct it to work in the Committee on Public Finance. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-19-sejm-23-1.u129	Thank you very much, Minister. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would listen to the five-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and the circle. I'm opening a discussion. And I will ask Mr Mark Polak to speak on behalf of the Law and Justice Club. You're welcome, sir. There's no envoy. [[I'm here, I'm here.]] Is it? Excuse me, the monitor's got you covered up. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-19-sejm-23-1.u130	Thank you very much. Dear Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, Law and Justice, it is my great honour and pleasure to present our club's opinion on the Government bill on the bill of settlement in the tax on goods and services and the reimbursement of public funds for the implementation of projects financed by the budget of the European Union or by the Member States of the European Free Trade Agreement, contained in print No 709. The bill submitted concerns all local government units, such as municipal offices, district old offices and marshal offices, as well as local authorities' organisational units and budgetary establishments. The proposed changes are designed to make compulsory centralisation of VAT settlements in local governments, whereby the local government unit will be obliged to settle VAT together with all organisational units, which will no longer be able to account separately as from 1 January 2017 at the latest. The proposed amendments result from the need to comply both with the judgment of the Court of Justice of the European Union of 29 September 2015 and with the resolution of the Supreme Administrative Court of 26 October 2015, which clearly indicated the conditions that public agencies must fulfil in order to be a VAT taxable person. In addition, the Supreme Administrative Court found that, despite the greater degree of autonomy of the budget establishment than the budgetary units, it was not sufficiently independent and did not fulfil many conditions. - it cannot be regarded as separate from the municipality of the VAT taxable person, and all activities carried out for the benefit of third parties should be settled by the local authority which created them and the operations carried out within the local government of the units and budgetary establishments are internal in nature. The arguments cited oblige the centralisation of VAT settlements in local governments, and the proposed bill responds to these needs and provides legal instruments to the local authorities both to support the centralisation process and to minimise the nuisances involved. Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Given both the case law of the Court of Justice of the European Union and the position of the Supreme Administrative Court, the Law and Justice Club recognises the need to implement the proposed regulation and will vote in favour of it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-19-sejm-23-1.u131	Thank you very much, sir. And on behalf of the Civic Platform Club, Mr Włodzimierz Nykiel. I would ask you to speak, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-19-sejm-23-1.u132	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, the Civic Platform has the honour to present an opinion on the draft bill on the rules of settlement for goods and services tax and the reimbursement of public funds for projects financed by the budget of the European Union or by the Member States of the European Free Trade Agreement by local government units. My short statement will consist of two parts. The first will include a general assessment, the second - specific comments selected. Well, this bill, this proposal, is a legislative move that is simply necessary. In view of the judgment of the Court of Justice of 29 September 2015 and the resolution of seven NSA judges of 26 October, the centralisation of VAT accounts in local government units should be carried out as soon as possible. Centralisation is, of course, a difficult undertaking requiring system solutions and a reasonable time to implement them. The interests of local authorities should be adequately secured, which were not the creators of a long-term practice that is incompatible with EU law, which we only now want to correct by law. It is a good solution for the state budget to assume the burden of reimbursement of European funds resulting from centralisation. The submitted project deserves a positive assessment, although it contains a number of disadvantages and shortcomings. First of all, it concerns the short time given to local authorities to carry out operations of centralisation for the future, since the planned entry into force, i.e. from 1 September to 31 December 2016 A positive assessment should be made of the solution whereby local authorities centralising the retroactive adjustment will be limited only by the limitation period. During the legislative work, the limitation of the right to correction was waived on 31 December 2017. So the overall assessment is positive. Now the selected specific comments. I have a lot more of these comments, but there's no time for that. Well, ladies and gentlemen, in the article. 4 legal implications have been regulated. The provision provides that the self-government unit shall enter from the date of centralisation into all the provisions relating to tax, i.e. VAT, the rights and obligations of its organisational units. It is therefore only about rights and obligations governed by VAT rules. There are therefore no implications for individual interpretations regulated by the Tax Order and not by the VAT rules. It is, of course, interpretations which are not affected by centralisation, e.g. interpretations concerning the exemption from VAT due to the nature of the services provided. The article raises very serious concerns. 7. This article. 7 is a provision to which many comments can be made. It refers to the so-called. the ratio according to which the VAT associated with both taxable and exempt activities is deducted, as opposed to the so-called. a pre-factor that allows for the separation of VAT relating to economic activities and other activities. It is difficult to understand what is the justification for calculating the coefficient separately for each business unit. Such a solution contradicts the idea of centralising settlements in local government units, denying the tax unity of the local government unit. This is justified by Article. 173 of Directive 112: the proportion of deduction shall be determined for all transactions carried out by the taxable person under paragraph 1. 2 [[♪ The bell ♪]] States may require the taxpayer to determine the proportion of deduction for each sector but not for each unit. I know that the explanatory statement is that it can be understood that way. It cannot be understood that way, especially if English and French are taken into account. There's no reason that this only applies to individuals. I'm out of time. I have a few more remarks, but I'll report them to the committee. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-19-sejm-23-1.u133	Thank you very much, sir. I would like to speak on behalf of the Kukiz club15, please, Mr Andrzej Maciejewski. I don't see your MP. Therefore, another club - the Modern Club - and Mr Witold Zembaczyński. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-19-sejm-23-1.u134	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour to present the position of the Poselski Club with regard to printing No. 709, the draft bill on the rules of settlement in the tax on goods and services and the reimbursement of public funds for the implementation of projects financed by the budget of the European Union or by the Member States of the European Free Trade Agreement. The modern position is actually based on these main assumptions. The draft law essentially duplicates the legislative solutions prepared in October 2015. It is a solution expected by local government units with clear interpretation and legal doubts regarding who, on the basis of the tax on goods and services, is a taxable person, a taxable person in the local government. In addition, it introduces uniform rules for the exercise of the right to deduct VAT. Certain detailed provisions concerning the refund of VAT to local government units carrying out investments financed by EU funds in which VAT was eligible expenditure raise doubts. Print No 709 raises the very important issue of the settlement of VAT by local authorities and the loss of budgetary revenue by these organisational units. The draft law is the result of a judgment of the Court of Justice of the European Union of September 2015 in a case in which the municipality of Wrocław acted against the Ministry of Finance. At the moment, it is apparent from the directive, that the judgment of the Court of Justice of the European Union, that local government budget units do not have a tax separation under the VAT Act, but that judgment did not apply to local government budget establishments. This issue was settled by the Supreme Administrative Court. In 2015, he stated that, under the VAT Act, the municipality was entitled to deduct input tax from purchase invoices relating to the execution of investments which were subsequently transferred to the municipal budget establishment, provided that they were used by the municipality for the sale of taxable value on goods and services. In summary, both courts have stated that both local government budget units and local government budget establishments are not sufficiently independent to be regarded as separate from the local government unit of the VAT payer, so that all their activities in favour of third parties should be accounted for by the local government unit which set them up and the activities carried out within the local government - between both budgetary units and budgetary establishments - are internal. The project shall systematize the issues of billing, clearing adjustments, reimbursement of project implementation appropriations in the event of a change in the eligibility of the tax. The conditions for exemption are relevant, Article. Article 17 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 2 and 3, the local government or its units with the need to repay the funds allocated to the implementation of the projects - these are the important points that I want to talk about here. It will be a condition that no deduction of input tax is made before the date of entry into force of the proposed law. Title, including as part of the correction of declarations under the procedure provided for in Article. Article 86 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 13 and 13a and Article 13a. Article 91 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 7 and 8 VAT Act. The local government will be required to inform the head of the tax office responsible for clearing the tax on goods and services and the entity with which the grant agreement was concluded within 2 months of the date of entry into force of the proposed law. The decision by the self-government to use before the date of entry into force of the proposed law on the right to deduct VAT implies the need to reimburse the funds allocated to the projects. Therefore, the Modern proposes that this project to read and work in committees be directed by local authorities. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-19-sejm-23-1.u135	Thank you very much, sir. I ask Mrs Genowefa Tokarska to speak on behalf of the Polish People's Party Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-19-sejm-23-1.u136	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! On behalf of the Parliamentary Club of the Polish People's Party, I will present my position on the government's draft VAT bill - I will no longer read the whole long name - from print No 709. In short, the draft law concerns the centralisation of VAT settlements in local governments. The proposed amendments result from the decisions of the Court of Justice of the European Union and the resolution of the Supreme Administrative Court. Previous VAT clearances were carried out independently by the units and budgetary establishments set up by the local government unit. These units were treated as separate taxpayers. The Court of Justice of the European Union has ruled that bodies governed by public law, such as municipal budgetary units, cannot be regarded as taxable persons for VAT because they do not meet the criterion of independence. Therefore, local government budgetary units should be accounted for by the local government unit which created them. The centralization consists of organisational units, i.e. budgetary units, budget bets, as well as municipal offices, district old offices and marshal offices. According to the draft law, the centralisation of the accounts will be carried forward. However, the local authorities will be able to decide to correct the accounts. Taking into account the centralised model, the municipality accounts for VAT as a taxable person. Self-governments themselves will decide what period to cover with a centralised billing model by making adjustments to the tax returns for all periods in which the business units settled separately the tax, counting from the earliest settlement period for which these adjustments were submitted, until the centralized model was introduced, of course taking into account the statute of limitations. It will not be possible, which is obvious, to make selective adjustments, i.e. only for the settlement periods chosen by the local authorities. According to the draft law, this mandatory centralisation of accounts will take place from 1 January 2017. By the end of this year, 2016, local authorities will not question the settlements carried out using the current billing model. In conclusion, it should be stressed that changes are necessary. They stem from the overriding law, from the judgment of the Court of Justice of the European Union of 29 September 2015 in Case C-276/14 of the Municipality of Wrocław v Minister of Finance and the resolution of the Supreme Administrative Court of 26 October 2015. However, I would like to express my concern. It is a pity that we have no opinion on these proposed specific solutions on the part of the directly concerned, i.e. local authorities, their organisations or associations. There is not even an opinion on the part of the Joint Government and Government Committee. The Minister said today that local governments are looking forward to these solutions. Indeed, there have been numerous controversy over the settlement of VAT by the municipalities, but we lacked this document here. Taking all the above into account, the Parliamentary Club of the Polish People's Party is in favour of transferring the project to the committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-19-sejm-23-1.u137	Thank you very much, Member. Let's get to the questions. Four persons entered on the list of Members wishing to ask a question in this part of the sitting. Anybody else want to get on the list? I can't see. I therefore close the list of Members to the question. For the first question, please ask Mr Włodzimierz Nykiel, the Civic Platform Club. Time - 1 minute. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-19-sejm-23-1.u138	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! In the project, we find a solution whereby, by making a partial adjustment for part of the settlement periods, the local government can declare the date by which it will make corrections for the remaining subsequent settlement periods. Against this background, the question arises because the rules do not specify the consequences of the failure to make the missing corrections to which the government has undertaken to make the adjustments already submitted effective. Will the failure to make the missing corrections retroactively deprive the previously complex correction of its effectiveness? Is there any way that the government will be forced to make the missing corrections? Will the criminal liability be the discipline of the local government to make the missing corrections? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-19-sejm-23-1.u139	Thank you very much. The next question will be asked by Marek Polak, the Law and Justice Club. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-19-sejm-23-1.u140	Thank you very much. Dear Marshal! High Izbo! The process of centralising VAT settlements in local governments seems to be complicated matter and certainly requires appropriate time. Therefore, I wanted to ask the Minister one short question: Is the time allowed for implementing the provisions of the bill in question by the end of this year fully sufficient and allowing the local authorities to introduce the proposed changes? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-19-sejm-23-1.u141	Thank you very much. The next question will be asked by Mrs Zofia Czernow, the Civic Platform Club. Please, Madame, ask me to ask you a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-19-sejm-23-1.u142	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! Minister! Without questioning the need for a procedated law, it is important to stress that the project raises a lot of doubts, contains a lot of confusion, ambiguities, lack of precision, and centralisation of settlements is very complicated. Here there must be everything clear, no doubt about it, that there should be no mistakes, because there are most problems with it. I have two specific questions. First: Why is it so short for local government units to introduce centralisation of settlements when, as I said, the rules are not clear? Second: What will be the consequences of the failure of the government to make the missing corrections that the government has committed itself to and has not done so? Isn't there too strict action to be taken in this regard, especially since, as I said, the bill raises a lot of doubts? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-19-sejm-23-1.u143	Thank you very much. And another question will be asked by Rafał Wójcikowski, Kukiz Club15. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-19-sejm-23-1.u144	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! My question concerns too short in my opinion - the predecessors also asked questions about it - time for local governments to adapt to the centralisation of settlements by local governments mentioned here. I wanted to draw attention to this and ask a question at the same time. Six months to go. If local governments are in the process of preparing their budgets for the following year, will this change complicate the budgeting process for next year, will it affect how these budgets will be created? Wouldn't it be worth considering extending this adjustment period for another six months so that it doesn't interfere with the budget creation and accounting process and, above all, the next year's budgets? Please answer me. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-19-sejm-23-1.u145	With this question, we have exhausted the list of MEPs. And please respond to the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Finance of Minister Leszek Skiba. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-19-sejm-23-1.u146	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Thank you so much for the questions. Indeed, the law is very complicated, because it concerns many aspects and also takes into account the different states that some local governments will be centralised in the sense of settlement, some have already voluntarily centralised, some are not yet centralised and are planning to do so before 1 January, autumn. So these are additional elements that make the bill complicated. In general, I'll start with the timeline. There were questions precisely why 1 January, and here I wanted to answer the question of the Member. Self-governments were involved, i.e. We are in constant contact with local governments, local authorities unions, municipalities in this regard because the operation that will be carried out is indeed very complicated. Here I answer Mr Wójcikowski's question immediately, why it cannot be a little later. The local authorities themselves pointed out that from their perspective it was optimal on 1 January due to the accounts and that the introduction of this in the middle of the year was quite difficult for them. The deadline for 1 January was therefore chosen. Of course, 1 January 2017 is from the point of view of this process a possible term, we know from local governments, because this law does not surprise them, there was a discussion with the joint committee, there were communications, information and there is also a great interest in this issue, which we see in the Ministry of Finance, because local governments also have here. additional questions. It really shows that this process is going on in some way. Of course, it is not simple, we are aware of it, and we will try as much as possible to support the work of the local government, so that this process is as simple as possible. At the same time, we see that in the case of local governments of very large cities, e.g. M.S. Warsaw, which has more than 1000 units, this centralization has succeeded. It shows that this process is to be carried out. At the same time, we are aware of the possible need for support or clarification and, if necessary, we can declare support in this respect so that this process of centralization and interpretation of the law is as accessible to local government units as possible. It's only a matter of time. So it is possible to carry out this centralization operation from 1 January 2017 and it is not so that it is a fixed date, chosen without consulting local authorities. The second point is precisely the question of the missing corrections, which appeared in probably two questions. So, yes: the missing corrections, the fact of the missing corrections - indeed the consequences, as the professor said, are logically followed, these consequences arise from k.k.s., here is also the disciplinary responsibility of treasurers or actually those responsible for preparing corrections. This is one thing, of course, a matter of punishment. And the second question about corrections - indeed the fact that no corrections were made should not affect the handling or treatment of complex corrections, that is the position which I can declare on my part. Actually, these are the most important things. There were also questions about tax interpretations, i.e. Mr Nykiel pointed this out. Here these interpretations can be passed, you can say, to a new entity on the very principle of the functioning of tax interpretations, in this sense. Consequently, no specific provision has been made in this respect. It was assumed that simply to a normal extent an entity - when the transfer of VAT rights and obligations allows it - actually works in such a way that the local government unit takes over rights and obligations, but in terms of tax interpretation, the continuity of interpretation, transfer, can be said, interpretations should also function. But, of course, we'll look into it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-19-sejm-23-1.u147	Thank you very much, Minister. The discussion is closed. The Marshal of the Sejm, after consulting the Sejm Bureau, proposes that the Sejm refer to the Government's draft bill on the rules of settlement in the tax on goods and services and reimbursement of public funds for the implementation of projects financed by the budget of the European Union or by the Member States of the European Free Trade Agreement by local government units, contained in print No 709, to the Committee on Public Finance for consideration. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. We proceed to the examination of item 6 of the agenda: First reading of the parliamentary draft law amending the Law on Aviation Law (print No 710). I would ask that the representative of the applicants, Mr Zbigniew Dolata, present the justification for the bill. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-19-sejm-23-1.u148	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Seym! On behalf of the applicants, I have the honour to present the parliamentary bill amending the Aviation Law Act in print no. 710. Firstly, the aim of the proposed amendments is to clarify the existing rules on the organisation of the State Commission for the Investigation of Aviation Accidents and to ensure that they comply with European Union law. Secondly, we want to simplify the procedures for converting airports to exclusive use at public airport and thus ensure greater and equal availability for stakeholders, which will have a positive impact on competition and can have a positive impact on airlines. It is worth noting at this point that simplification of bureaucratic procedures will not adversely affect the safety of air operations, as the new category of non-certified public use airports will not reduce safety requirements - they will be the same as for exclusive use airports. And experience shows that these are enough. To discuss the details of the proposed amendments, I would like to stress that, in accordance with the article. Article 4 (4) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013 shall apply. 1 Regulation (EU) No 996/2010 of the European Union requires each Member State to ensure that a safety investigation or investigation, i.e. accidents, incidents in civil aviation, is carried out by an independent and specialised organisation. Meanwhile, the current article. Article 17 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 2 of the Aviation Law provides that the State Commission for the Investigation of Air Accidents shall carry out its tasks on behalf of the Minister responsible for Transport. This provision in our project was removed because it raised doubts about the independence of the committee. In addition, in the draft article. Article 17 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 We have made changes to replace the current model of appointment of committee members for their appointment and dismissal. This mechanism was derived from the solutions adopted for the State Commission for Railway Accidents Investigation. We have also included provisions in our project to guarantee the independence of the members of the State Air Accident Investigation Commission and experts involved in the work of the committee. This solution gives them the right to express their views freely as part of the studies, studies, analyses, opinions and reports that have been prepared. On the other hand, amendments to the Article. 17a paragraph. They shall comply with the requirements of Directive 2003/88/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council concerning certain aspects of the organisation of working time of committee members. They were granted the same powers as the members of the State Marine Accident Investigation Commission. In Article 2, paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: 2 of the draft law contains a provision whereby the working relationship with the members of the committees designated under the existing provisions expires 30 days after the entry into force of the law if they are not appointed as members of the committee before that date. In the event of termination of their employment, they will be entitled to a payment of 3 months' salary. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! A key change in this draft law, and long-awaited by the aviation environment, is the amendment of paragraphs. Article 7 54 and the addition of paragraph 54. 7a, 7b and 7c in this article. The essence of this change is to replace the non-functioning temporary opening institution of an aerodrome of exclusive use for public use with a new practical category - non-certified public use airports. Air Law has been in force for 5 years, theoretically allowing for a temporary change in the availability of an exclusive airport to public use, but in practice it has not been applied because of the need to meet all the conditions required of an airport for public use. The procedure for permanent conversion of exclusive use aerodromes at an aerodrome with limited certification has also failed because it is very complicated and time-consuming. Its element is the change of the airport manager. The procedure takes between 6 and 10 months, and during which the new manager must demonstrate that he has similar documents as when setting up an airport. This is completely unnecessary because this procedure applies to an operating aerodrome registered in the civil airport register. In addition, the applicant is examined financially on a similar basis as in the case of large airports, while the financial situation of the local airport manager, even after changing its availability, will not affect the level of safety. Applications do not have here also issues of business protection, business activity, because there are no scheduled air services at local airports and therefore carriers who would be at risk of loss in the event of a possible insolvency of the manager. It is also unnecessary for the President of the Civil Aviation Authority to supervise the setting of airport charges in respect of airports with limited certification and uncertified. The need to comply with these bureaucratic requirements has resulted in only three public-use airports in Poland with limited certification, while in the Czech Republic there are over 40 and in Germany approx. 160. It is therefore necessary to adopt the solutions proposed in the draft law, which will allow for an efficient change of airport availability to the public according to the will and needs of the manager, who will be free to choose - to operate the airport as exclusive or as public. In Poland we have more than 40 airports of exclusive use, so the facilitations in converting them into public ones, which we propose in our project, will lead to a levelling of disparities between our communication network and other countries of the European Union. As I mentioned at the beginning of my speech, the technical and operational requirements for non-certified airports will be similar to those for exclusive use airports, which guarantees that the level of safety at the new category airports will not be reduced, while the procedure for changing the availability of the airport carried out according to our project will be simple to avoid several months of administrative proceedings, and will also remove many unnecessary bureaucratic tasks from the President of the Civil Aviation Office. Another flexible solution that our project introduces to meet the expectations of the aviation environment is the abolition of the mandatory requirement to provide airport air information service, so-called. AFIS. Its maintenance is very expensive for the airport manager. The new wording of the provision in Article. 120 will allow the managing airport to designate an AFIS or a flight manager who will be responsible for providing information to incoming and departing aircraft. In conclusion, the parliamentary draft amending of the Aviation Law will contribute to the independence of the members of the State Commission for the Investigation of Aviation Accidents and will introduce favourable regulations on the organisation of working time for them. The draft law meets the expectations of the aviation community to make airports public, ensuring equal and free access to them by all interested parties. It is an important step towards the re-bureaucratisation of aviation activities and will also have positive social and economic impacts. I therefore recommend that the High House refer the project to the Committee on Infrastructure and then adopt it. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-19-sejm-23-1.u149	Thank you very much, sir. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would listen to the five-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and the circle. I ask you to speak - opening the discussion - Mrs Anna Milczanowska from the Law and Justice Club. You're welcome, my fellow Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-19-sejm-23-1.u150	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, Law and Justice, I have the honour to present my position on the Parliamentary draft law amending the Law on Aviation Law, Parliamentary Printing No 710. The aim of this bill is to improve the functioning and strengthen the guarantee of the independence of the State Air Accident Investigation Commission and to ensure the effective opening of airports of exclusive use for public use by clarifying the rules and creating realistic conditions for changing the availability of an exclusive airport without reducing the level of safety in air traffic. New edition of the article. The 17th Act, which regulates the functioning of the State Commission for the Investigation of Aviation Accidents, is due to the need to clarify the existing rules and to ensure that they comply with European Union law, and in particular with the provisions of Regulation No 996/2010 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 20 October 2010 on the investigation of accidents and incidents in civil aviation and repealing Directive 94/56/EC, OJ No. Urz. EU L 295, 12.11.2010, p. 35, late. zm. The current Article. Article 17 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 2 of the Act, pursuant to which the committee carries out its tasks on behalf of the Minister responsible for Transport, may raise reasonable doubts as to the independence of the committee and may therefore be incompatible with the Article. Article 4 (4) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013 shall apply. 1 Regulation No 996/2010/EU. Therefore, the projector, in order to strengthen the rank and independence of the committee, calls for the removal of this provision. The proposed amendment also concerns the replacement of the existing model of appointment of committee members for their appointment and dismissal. According to the evaluation of the Commission's work so far, this model has failed. A solution to significantly affect the quality of the Commission's operation may be the introduction of provisions similar to those adopted for the State Commission for Railway Accidents Investigation in the Law of 28 March 2003 on Rail Transport. Experience shows that the regulations applied in the cited law are much better in practice. The project strengthens the role and independence of committees also by ensuring appropriate mechanisms and guaranteeing independence in the course of an aviation accident investigation, it shall ensure that its members and the experts involved are entitled to express their views freely within the framework of the expert studies, studies, opinions, analyses and reports drawn up. The second important issue concerning the matter of the draft amendment is the simplification of procedures leading to the making available to airports of exclusive use. This procedure will ensure greater availability of airports for those concerned by introducing a category of non-certified public service aerodromes that will replace an ineffective institution for the temporary opening of an aerodrome of exclusive use for public use. The increase in the number of airports that can accept aircraft on a similar basis to public airports will have a positive impact on competition in the air services market and will increase the interest of airlines. The current legal provisions require the authority issuing the authorisation to manage the public airport to analyse mainly the financial situation of the applicant. So, Art. 61a, as proposed, will not adversely affect air traffic safety in terms of simplifying the procedure for applying for a change in airport accessibility characteristics. The procedure is to be simplified and accelerated and its limitations and requirements result should only be of the necessity to maintain air safety. The amendment also aims to simplify the procedure for changing the airport manager. In the current legal situation, as a result of an unjustified reference to the rules on the change of airport manager to Article. Article 55 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 3 The law governing the setting-up of an airport requires a complex and long-term procedure to be carried out by a legally effective change of the managing entity of an airport. The applicant shall be required to submit a set of up-to-date documents to the same extent as an airman's assumption, often having to request decisions on environmental conditions and building conditions, even if they are actually issued in the same condition as the one in force at the time of the change to the manager. Given the need to improve the functioning of the State Air Accident Investigation Commission [[♪ The bell ♪]] and increasing its independence, the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice welcomes the proposed changes and declares its vote in favour of further legislative work on this project. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-19-sejm-23-1.u151	Thank you very much. I would ask Mr Cezary Grabarczyk to speak on behalf of the Civic Platform Club. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-19-sejm-23-1.u152	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! The draft Law amending the Aviation Law contains two groups of regulations. The first one that deserves support, and I can declare on behalf of the Civic Platform Club a careful work in the committee on this group of regulations, are provisions that can broaden the scope of the use of existing airport infrastructure. The aviation market in Poland is developing rapidly, some airports are exclusively used not participants in this development. In view of this part of the infrastructure, the designers, Members of the Law and Justice, have prepared this submission. I declare that we will bend over these regulations and support them. But really, the purpose of the regulation, which is being debated today, is quite different. In fact, it's about carrying out a purge in the State Air Accident Investigation Commission. And that part of the rules doesn't deserve to be supported. If we do not find a good compromise in the committee, the Civic Platform Club will not be able to support this law. Why? Because, in fact, you have tabled a bill that will eliminate today's membership of the State Air Accidents Research Commission. The applicant just said that it is about guaranteeing independence in the work of the committee, whereas the article. 2 provides that the working relationship with the members of the State Commission for the Investigation of Aviation Accidents designated on the basis of the existing provisions shall expire 30 days after the date of entry into force of this Act unless they are appointed members of the State Commission for the Investigation of Aviation Accidents under the procedure laid down in Article. 17 laws. What does that mean? It means that you want to be free to clean up the committee in one shot and then establish a new composition according to each other's known criteria. The same applies to the chairman of this committee. It is the term of office of the chairman of the committee that guarantees independence. President's term of office, I will add: Maciej Laska, started in 2012. According to current legislation, it should last 5 years. The Minister responsible for Transport in 2012 entrusted Maciej Lasko as chairman of the committee for 5 years, which means that this term will not end until next year. You guys change your legs and you want to make a change right now. The question is why, since the applicant's representative just said it was about guaranteeing independence. That's what my previous speaker said. What independence is it if you wish to revoke the independent chairman of the committee before the end of the term of office for which he was appointed? That's cynical. Therefore, we will either find a way to extend the term of office of the President who is currently in office until the date on which it expires, in accordance with the applicable rules, this term of office in 2017 or my club will not be able to support this submission. [[♪ The bell ♪]] In infrastructure matters and such a sensitive issue as the investigation of air accidents, we should seek agreement in the Sejm, and that is what I call for. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-19-sejm-23-1.u153	Thank you very much. And to speak on behalf of the Kukiz club15, I will ask Mr Sylwester Khrushch. I can't see. This, please, is Mrs Anna Maria Siakovska. She's absent, too. So we move on to the Modern Club. Mr Mirosław Suchoń will speak on behalf of this club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-19-sejm-23-1.u154	Thank you very much. Dear Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I am pleased to present on behalf of the Poselski Club a modern position towards the parliamentary draft law amending the Act on Aviation Law, print no. 710. Ladies and gentlemen, the draft law submitted, as justified by the applicants, amends two areas. The first area concerns the organisation of the State Air Accident Investigation Commission. In particular, this project creates a legal framework for the group dismissal of the current members of this committee and the appointment of persons whose qualifications we do not know for the time being, but they will certainly be trusted officers of Law and Justice. The second area concerns the possibility of opening airports of exclusive use for public use. In line with the view put forward by the applicants, the proposed rules, and in particular the simplification of procedures leading to the making available of exclusive use airports, create realistic conditions for changing the availability of an aerodrome for exclusive use while maintaining an adequate level of safety. In general view of this law, it can be said that she has two faces: the good one and the bad one. First of all, I want to say a few words about this good face, because this is how we evaluate any deregulation action that adapts to changing conditions, which allows for faster and more dynamic development. There is no doubt that the possibility of operating more airports is pro-development and usually has a positive impact on the local economy. Of course, these changes, like everyone else, must be carried out with their heads and in such a way as not to affect the balance of the market across the country, but, as a rule, deregulation on opening new opportunities for our country's development is a key task for the current parliament - from a modern point of view. That is why we are very positive about this part of the draft which contains the provisions that I was just talking about. Of course, the fact raised by the Sejm Analysis Office in one of the two opinions drawn up that part of the legislation is incompatible with European Union law remains to be clarified. Here I would like to quote a passage from this opinion: The change in airport status from internal use airport to non-certified public service airport does not mean that this airport will not fall within the scope of Regulation 216/2008. In particular, a public airport not certified will be a public service airport serving commercial air transport, where approach or departure operations are carried out using instrumental procedures and which has a paved runway of at least 800 m. Such an airport falls within the scope of the Regulation and should comply with its requirements, in particular as regards the obligation to obtain a certificate. Consequently, it should be considered that this draft as regards the requirements laid down in Regulation 216/2008 does not comply with Article. Article 8a (1) (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013 is replaced by the following: 1 in conjunction with Article. Article 4 (4) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013 shall apply. 3a Regulation 216/2008. And I would very much ask the applicant to clarify these doubts, because I know that there is a second opinion. How are you looking at this now? I'm on my way to the end. Unfortunately, the bill also has the other face, the bad face, which I also want to say a few words about. I am referring here to legislation, as my previous speakers have said, which is difficult to describe differently than the continuation of such specific staff legislation. Let me remind you that in the current term of office of the High Chamber we are dealing with relatively often: there was a law on civil service, on the Academy of War Art, about companies of the State Treasury. There were other laws, a number of laws, which implemented only human resources policy. This project is so different from previous ones that on the one hand it is difficult to miss the rules that can be considered as good, that is to say, pro-development, and we appreciate that, but on the other hand, we find it difficult to support a law which also aims to implement the staff policy of the governing camp, and in such a delicate matter as is certainly an area related to the investigation of aviation accidents, where competence, cold assessment and objectivity should characterize the work being carried out. There are many different words that could be said about this here, but this is generally the way we view this part of the bill very negatively. We believe that the Sejm should not deal with the HR policies of the governing majority, this should be continued. And to conclude on behalf of the Posen Club I ask that the project be directed to further work in the committee, where we would like to remove this one from the project. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Bad part of the bill. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-19-sejm-23-1.u155	Thank you very much. I would ask Mr Kazimierz Kotowski to speak on behalf of the Polish People's Party Club. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-19-sejm-23-1.u156	(PL) Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, High Izbo! Minister! We are proceeding today over a draft law on amending the Aviation Law Act. After introducing the rapporteur, we know that we are dealing with a parliamentary project. It raises some doubts, although I have never doubted the expertise, knowledge, commitment and skills of our parliamentarians, colleagues and colleagues, but it is not a government project. It concerns specific matter, especially that it contains two parts, two components. As a club, we believe that the proposals for these changes, which are in this part of the infrastructure related to the implementation of this area, with the extension of the number of airports, with the possibility to exploit this potential and integrate it into the implementation of the assumptions in our even country strategy or regional strategies, whether by 2020, 2030 or 2050... I mean, the record of communicating inside and outside our country, and here we are in agreement. Yes, you need to look for such forms of writing so that you can, on the one hand, meet the opportunities and opportunities that we have, in the direction of enriching this infrastructure and airports, expanding, completing, creating a base that will be competitive, and this sector of the economy will be able to significantly influence the development of the entire picture of the country's economy. On the other hand, we have some doubts as to the way, nature and course of the mechanism of action, which concerns the formulation, formation, formation of a committee for the investigation of aviation accidents. We are talking about creating a team, a group of people who, on the basis of their knowledge, experience, will carry out specific tasks. Our doubts are raised by the change in the appointment of the President or the appointment of the President, the conversion to the present character, here the question of 4 or 5 years. Let us assume that the term of office will remain on the issue of the rulers that they see it that way, but will it change how it will shape the way in which this newly appointed composition is independent of the ruling option? I think and I am convinced that we will be able to discuss this further during the work in committee and at the meetings of the Committee on Infrastructure. Nevertheless, as a club, we will vote in favour of passing this draft law to the Committee on Infrastructure. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-19-sejm-23-1.u157	Thank you very much, sir. On behalf of Mrs Małgorzata Zwierzan's Free and Solidarni Circle, and the Kukiz Club15 - I see that you have arrived at the end.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-19-sejm-23-1.u158	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Members' Circle of Free and Solidarni, I present my position on the matter of the parliamentary draft law amending the Aviation Law Act. These regulations concern amendments to the Aviation Law Act in two areas. One of them is the organisation of the State Air Accident Investigation Commission. I consider it appropriate to emphasise the independence of the committee which the projectors want to obtain by deleting the record of its operation on behalf of the Minister responsible for Transport and by clearly establishing the safety investigation authority referred to in Article. Article 4 (4) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013 shall apply. 1 Union Regulation No 996/2010/EU. Nor do the proposed amendments to the appointment and dismissal of committee members, the duration of their term of office, working time and the criteria of experience and education to be met by committee members and experts raise reservations. It is necessary to emphasise the fact that the members of the State Commission for the Investigation of Aviation Accidents and their experts are granted the right to express their views freely in their studies, studies and opinions. The second area of the proposed amendment concerns the abolition of the requirement to have an airport management permit and ground handling at a public airport with limited certification and a public airport not subject to certification. The proposed regulations aim at simplifying the availability of airports with regard to their opening. Despite the existence in the current Act of the relevant provisions allowing airport managers to open, their strict nature makes these rules not in practice used. In the absence of significant differences in the rules on the use of exclusive use aerodromes and public use aerodromes at present, I consider it justified to clarify the rules in this area. I have doubts arising from the opinion of the contested bill submitted by the Sejm Analysis Office. It raises reservations about the contradiction between the proposed solutions and those contained in the EU Regulation on 216/2008. I think that further work on this project will explain the ambiguities identified. The Free and Solidarni Circle will vote in favour of further proceedings of the law. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-19-sejm-23-1.u159	Thank you very much. And now I ask Mr Sylvester Khrushch, Kukiz15, to speak on behalf of this club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-19-sejm-23-1.u160	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The draft submitted introduces changes to the organisation of the State Air Accident Investigation Commission, which has been entrusted with the obligation to conduct or supervise civil aviation incident investigations. And what is the scope of the work, let us see the statistics for the current year. Between the beginning of this year and the end of June to GDPWL, 1521 events were reported, including 71 accidents, 17 major incidents and 1029 incidents. On the other hand, 728 incidents, including 47 accidents, 2 major incidents and 514 incidents were reported to the State Air Accident Investigation Commission at the beginning of the aviation season. We are all aware that this is only the beginning of a wave rising in accidents, incidents, serious incidents, because air traffic will increase, which is why it is very important to put the action of the state commission in the reality of our heaven. As part of the work on amending the Act, we will ask questions as to whether an appropriate and realistic budget for the operation of the State Aviation Accident Investigation Commission will be included. We are all aware that the number of new aircraft in our sky will increase significantly, so we agree with the idea - safety above all else, safety for professionals, passengers, as well as all of us who live around airports. It has to do with the safety of our heavens. Therefore, the current changes must not have negative effects in those places where today's state committee works well. The proposed amendments also concern the refinement adopted in the Law of 3 July 2002. The aviation law of an institution allowing the conversion of an airport of exclusive use into an airport of public use. They aim to ensure that airports are able to open exclusively for public use by clarifying and creating realistic conditions for changing the availability of an exclusive airport while maintaining an adequate level of safety. Today it turns out that, in practice, the conversion of an airport of exclusive use into an airport of limited public use with limited certification is difficult and time-consuming. This includes, among others, certification, management authorisation and registration of the aerodrome in the relevant register. It causes long-term and complex procedures for obtaining decisions about building conditions, difficult to obtain environmental decisions, whether the right to dispose of property for airport construction purposes, and, most importantly, absorbs and engages many airlines. I'm a designer myself, I'm an architect, and I know how difficult procedures are with such large investments. This is the highest degree of insight for designers, architects and builders. Surely these procedures must be simplified, they must be clear and quick. Thus, the purpose of this amendment to the Aviation Law is to simplify procedures leading to the making available to airports of exclusive use and therefore to ensure that they are more accessible to an increasing number of interested parties. What needs to be stressed is that this simplification will not adversely affect the safety of future air operations, as safety requirements will not be reduced, as well as safety rules for airports with limited certification will remain unchanged. As a club, we will be in favour of passing on the submitted project for further processing. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-19-sejm-23-1.u161	Thank you very much. Six persons entered on the list of Members wishing to ask a question in this part of the sitting. Does anyone else want to ask a question? I can't see. So I'm closing the list. And I would like to ask Mrs Joanna Borowiak, the Law and Justice Club, to ask her first question. You're welcome, my fellow Member. Time - 1 minute.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-19-sejm-23-1.u162	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! The draft amendment to the Aviation Law Act as a deregulation project is extremely necessary and even very urgent. I therefore thank the Members very much for bringing it in. The assumptions contained in the existing provisions of the Aviation Law regarding the temporary opening of airports of exclusive use for public use have in fact proved inadequate. Therefore, these provisions were practically not applied during the period of validity. The draft amendment of the law proposes simplifying procedures leading to the making available to airports of exclusive use. And I have a question: Will the proposed changes ensure the effective opening of airports? Do they create real conditions for changing the availability of exclusive use at the same time as maintaining an appropriate level of safety? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-19-sejm-23-1.u163	Thank you very much. Another question, Mrs Iwona Michalek, club Law and Justice. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-19-sejm-23-1.u164	Thank you, Marshal. High Izbo! Applicable Article Article 17 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 2 Aviation Law, according to which the State Commission for the Investigation of Air Accidents performs tasks on behalf of the Minister responsible for Transport, raises doubts as to the independence of that committee. Is there any chance that the proposed amendment, consisting of the introduction of similar provisions in relation to the State Commission for the Investigation of Railway Accidents, will improve the quality of work and the independence of the State Commission for the Investigation of Air Accidents? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-19-sejm-23-1.u165	Thank you very much. Another question, Anna Milczanowska, also the Law and Justice Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-19-sejm-23-1.u166	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! During these five-minute speeches by individual representatives of the clubs, we heard that the bill was evil, and especially part of the project. Ladies and gentlemen, let's hope Mr. Lask's propaganda team is finally called off, and very well. Why don't you believe that law and justice have professionals and experts and that they will sit on this committee? [[We can see that.]] And a question. Does the bill provide that members, experts of the State Air Accident Investigation Commission, due to their cadency, will not be able to perform these functions for more than 4 years? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-19-sejm-23-1.u167	Thank you very much. Mr Sylvester Khrushch, another question, Kukiz club15. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-19-sejm-23-1.u168	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Using the fact that you are a minister, I would like to ask about the central airport for Poland, also in the context of all the amendments that are related to aviation. Is there gonna be any further adjustments to this location that's planned, or are we gonna confirm that location we've been working on for so many years? And when will the work on this airport be restored when it will begin? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-19-sejm-23-1.u169	Thank you very much. Mr Cezary Grabarczyk, Civic Platform Club, another question. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-19-sejm-23-1.u170	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! There is a great deal of evidence that the parliamentary presentation has actually been prepared in the Ministry, which is why I am asking the Minister questions. The current law provides that medical professionals should also be included in the committee. It often happens that one of the causes of accidents is medical issues, while in the bill you eliminate these specialists from the warehouse. And the second big question. Will you find political strength, Minister, to stop the cleaning in the State Air Accident Investigation Commission? Thank you. [[Yes.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-19-sejm-23-1.u171	Thank you very much. And the last question according to the list. Mr Czesław Mroczek, also, as I said, the Civic Platform Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-19-sejm-23-1.u172	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! The essence of this law is, in fact, the dissolution of the existing State Aviation Accident Investigation Commission. The PiS Member has just expressed this very clearly. It's about the new PiS experts. Just like you broke the National Defence Academy to get your people in there, you change the way you do, you break the cardinal rules about cadency and objectivity. For revenge against the chairman of this committee, you are hitting on safety, an extremely important area of aviation safety. You have to say clearly: you do things that are reprehensible, you introduce guys, partying into the area of aviation safety. Shame, just shame. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-19-sejm-23-1.u173	This speech was closed by a list of MEPs. Please take the floor to reply to the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Infrastructure and Construction of Minister Jerzy Szmit. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-19-sejm-23-1.u174	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I would like to thank all the Members who have tabled this bill very warmly. It is extremely important and it is part of a larger programme, a larger package, which I am about to inform the High House about. I would also like to thank Mr Zbigniew Dolata very warmly for his very substantive, full of competence to present the project which was submitted by the group of Members. [[Applause]] These applause really do belong. Ladies and gentlemen! High Izbo! I would also like to thank all of you... In fact, I think all the clubs supported the part of the project that refers to the change in the classification of airports. This is really very necessary, this case was reported by the environment, by the market, by users who want to have easier access to airports that operate in Poland, but today for bureaucratic reasons, absolutely bureaucratic barriers, this access is simply difficult. Maybe it's not some dramatic obstacle that makes it impossible to operate and fly, to use these airports, but any restriction that appears should be removed. And this is, ladies and gentlemen, one of the elements that we want as a government of law and justice to introduce into Polish aviation. The second amendment that I have presented to the High House, we are finishing it at the moment, is the amendment of the Act on the Polish Air Navigation Agency. This institution is extremely important for Polish sky, for Polish aviation and it is also time for change. That's for a few votes. There always comes a time when some institutions simply require changes, including staff changes. It's like the Seym, ladies and gentlemen, election comes and changes are coming. [[But there's a cadence.]] Sometimes terms are shortened, history knows such cases, also in this House. [[And that's breaking democracy.]] Not always, but today we are not going to argue ideologically and, I think, legally, we would rather discuss in substance what we can do today. Ladies and gentlemen! The next change we want to introduce and which will be important for Polish aviation are far-reaching facilities for ultralight aviation. It's about the possibility of using small planes. Today we are designing that they will be aircraft weighing up to 600 kg, which operate in Polish aviation, but with considerable difficulties. The information we receive from representatives of Polish aviation is: Several hundred ultralight Polish aircraft flying in Poland are registered in the Czech Republic, the French Republic. In fact, there is no justification for this. This is due only to the rules that are in force in Poland today, and come from some distant past and remain. It's time to remove them. The next amendment we are proposing was discussed today during the Committee on Infrastructure. Namely, it is about the specialty which facilitated - and we want it to continue to work this way - the construction, modernisation and renovation of Polish airports. This is also an extremely important bill. The implementation of huge investments is still foreseen in Polish aviation at all regional airports, as well as the State Air Navigation Agency intends to make very serious investments. Ladies and gentlemen! In addition to the airport case, this law, which we are currently investigating, also affects the State Commission for the Investigation of Aviation Accidents. Ladies and gentlemen, I understand the controversy that has been expressed by some of the High House, some of the representatives of clubs or during questions. Ladies and gentlemen, as in life, every institution has a time for change, a time for new people. [[Applause]] The thing isn't to deprive someone of the right to extort someone. But you have to admit, and I think if you approach what I'm saying, without emotion, you'll admit that Mr. Chairman of the State Commission has recently ceased to be independent, because independence is two-way. [[Applause]] It is also a lack of commitment to political conflict. Unfortunately, the current President is constantly involved in such a conflict and there is no justification for it. There's really no legal basis for that. Ladies and gentlemen! High Izbo! We will be very happy to discuss the day-to-day functioning of the state committee during the committee's deliberations. I hope this print goes to committee. What we want to propose when it comes to Polish aviation is another step to enable us to use the Polish sky so that we can feel safe and that Polish aviation is not involved in the political conflict. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-19-sejm-23-1.u175	Thank you very much. I would also ask the rapporteur of the committee, Mr Zbigniew Dolata, to speak. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-19-sejm-23-1.u176	The applicant's representative, your marshal. Not the rapporteur yet.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-19-sejm-23-1.u177	The applicant. But I'm sure you'll be the rapporteur, too. It's just for the best. Today you're the applicant. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-19-sejm-23-1.u178	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! A few questions have been asked to me as well. Mrs Iwona Michalek asked about the consequences of the deletion of her mouth. Article 2 17. I can only confirm that this will actually increase the independence of committee members. They have so far represented the minister responsible for transport, acted on his behalf. The deletion of this record clearly increases the scope of their independence, as well as the addition of paragraph. 17 and 21, which directly guarantee the independence of committee members and experts in taking action. It's written down. Therefore, there is no danger here. Mr Grabarczyk speaks of the fact that the statement itself, that it is possible to revoke the President, or that the record of the term of office implies that it may happen, as has been said here, purge, the resolution of the committee. Such harsh expressions have been used. It's obviously not true. [[What do you mean, it's not true?]] In many laws concerning many institutions and bodies leading them, there are provisions on the possibility of appealing the presidents, directors, as well as the appeal of the government - after all there is a vote of distrust - which does not mean that these possibilities are used. If we have imported these provisions from the regulations concerning the State Commission for Railway Accidents, then I ask a government representative who has finally exercised authority for the last eight years, whether you were worried about the independence of an important committee investigating accidents in railroads as well. We haven't heard anything about it. There is therefore one thing to say: These fears, the allegations are not admissible. I will not refer to those words that have been said here about the PiS experts. I mean, experts don't have political colors. [[That is what the PiS Member said.]] The experts and members of the committee shall have appropriate competence. I assure you that whether it is the newly appointed or perhaps some of those who are members of the committee today will be appointed for the next term of office, they will be experts in the investigation of aviation accidents. There is no danger in this regard. As regards the question by Mrs Joanna Borowiak, who asked about this part of the regulation, which caused much less controversy, in fact none, because in fact all clubs declared in a stronger or weaker way, firstly, the need to make this change, and secondly, its relevance, it must be said that indeed those regulations which have been in force in the Air Law for 5 years, concerning the temporary conversion of an airport to an exclusive public airport, were not actually used at all, because all the criteria of public use had to be met, and as for those which could have been converted into a public airport with limited certification, this process was extremely complicated and used only three airports. Surely this new category of airports, i.e. public use airports not subject to certification, is the category that many aeroclubs expect above all - let's say about them here, because nobody has actually said anything about it so far. It was the demand of the aviation environment and we responded to this demand. I think that regardless of these controversys and some misunderstandings, which are related to issues relating to the State Commission for the Investigation of Aviation Accidents, I am convinced that the High House, after some minor changes that probably need to be made - the Minister has already said about the opinion of the Sejm Analysis Office, because this opinion is indeed based on a certain misunderstanding and I think that at the meeting of the Infrastructure Committee there is a misunderstanding that we will clarify, we already have a draft to complete paragraph. Article 7 54, which all these doubts will explain - I hope that the entire High Chamber will accept the bill of aviation law contained in print no. 710. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-19-sejm-23-1.u179	Thank you very much to the applicant's representative. On the correction of Mr Cezary Grabarczyk, the Civic Platform Club. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-19-sejm-23-1.u180	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Mr President, I have really been misunderstood - I am talking about the total cleansing you have sewn up in the article. Two of the presentations you presented. I will once again quote it: The working relationship with the members of the State Air Accident Investigation Commission designated under the existing provisions expires 30 days after the date of entry into force of this Act. That means you want to wipe out everyone, that means you want to completely change the composition of this committee, which is to guarantee an independent investigation of aviation accidents and incidents. [[But she's not independent.]] And that's the problem, you're just trying to assassinate the State Air Accident Investigation Commission. And you misunderstood, or you tried to mislead the House. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-19-sejm-23-1.u181	Thank you very much. Does the applicant's representative still want to speak? You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-19-sejm-23-1.u182	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister, Mr Marshal, you have only read part of the article. 2. I will read to you and all present Members the following: if they are not appointed members of the State Commission for the Investigation of Aviation Accidents in the manner specified by this new wording of the Act before the expiry of this period. Therefore, there is no obstacle for those who are appointed members today to be called. There's no such connection. [[But first, they're fired.]] There's no such connection, so they can be called. [[There's no such connection.]] There's no, there's no conjunction that they can't be called. They can be called. And this is a record that we can read, and anyone who reads with understanding understands what's going on. [[Applause]] [[Everyone understands.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-19-sejm-23-1.u183	Thank you very much. The discussion is closed. The Marshal of the Sejm, after consulting the Bureau of the Sejm, proposes that the Sejm refer the draft law amending the Act - Aviation Law, contained in print No 710, to the Committee on Infrastructure for consideration. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. That concludes point 6 of today's meeting. Let's move on to the next one. The Legislative Commission has submitted a report on the draft parliamentary resolution on the establishment of the Committee of Investigation to examine the correctness and legality of the activities of public bodies and bodies vis-à-vis entities included in the The report shall be published in the Official Journal of the European Union. Therefore, after obtaining the uniform opinion of the Senior Convention, the Marshal of the Sejm decided to supplement the agenda with a point including the examination of this report. In this case, I propose that the Sejm consent to the application of the article. 51 (3) of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm and in the discussion on this item, he listened to the five-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and the circle. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the proposals. I can't hear you objecting. We proceed with the examination of item 7 of the agenda: Report from the Legislative Commission on the draft resolution on the establishment of the Committee of Investigation to examine the correctness and legality of the activities of public bodies and bodies vis-à-vis entities included in the Amber Gold Group (prints Nos 685 and 735). And now, Mr Szarama, I am addressing Mr Szarama, you have the opportunity to speak because I have seen that you are very eager to speak at an earlier stage. Please submit a report.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-19-sejm-23-1.u184	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The Legislative Commission at today's meeting considered a draft resolution on the establishment of a Committee of Investigation to examine the regularity and legality of the activities of public authorities and institutions vis-à-vis entities included in the The drafters of this resolution stressed the great social importance of setting up this committee and explaining the matter, which affected several thousand Poles who entrusted their savings to an unreliable institution. People probably lost that money in an irretrievable way. We need to clarify clearly and as clearly as possible what was the role of this bank in the operation of state institutions. This committee will be set up to do so to clarify the role of government members, individual ministers, the Financial Supervision Commission and other bodies in this matter, their inaction, sometimes acting, but acting with a question mark, whether this action was legal. Amendments were tabled during the committee meeting. On the one hand, the two main amendments concerned the subject matter of the committee. There has been an attempt to extend the subject matter of this committee, but as a result of the basic opinion of the Sejm Analysis Office, stating clearly and unambiguously that in the case of the Commission, we must deal with one specific issue, the vast majority of committee members rejected this proposal. The second proposal concerned the personal composition of the committee, namely the proposal that the committee should not count 9 but 11 members. In accordance with the law on the committee of inquiry, the Sejm decides in its resolution what the number of members of the committee is. In this case, it is also the will of the vast majority of committee members to maintain this provision in this form. Representatives of all parliamentary clubs will be provided for in the work of this committee. The Commission asks the High Sejm to adopt a resolution on the establishment of the Committee of Investigation. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-19-sejm-23-1.u185	Thank you for presenting the report. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would listen to the five-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and the circle. I'm opening a discussion. I ask you to speak on behalf of the law and justice club of Mr Mark Ast.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-19-sejm-23-1.u186	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, Law and Justice, I have the honour to present a report on the draft parliamentary resolution on the establishment of the Committee of Investigation to examine the correctness and legality of the activities of public bodies and bodies vis-à-vis entities included in the The very purpose of this committee does not raise any doubts. We all agree that the Amber Gold scandal must be explained that the issue of this giant financial pyramid, on which thousands of Poles lost their lives, must be explained, among others. because the Polish State did not work in this case, that if it worked, it acted theoretically. Yes, the nominal owners of Amber Gold have heard the allegations and are staying in a penitentiary, but the extent to which they will be responsible certainly does not exhaust the scale of this crime or, as far as the subject matter is concerned, these two people are certainly not responsible for this affair alone. During the committee's work, the Civic Platform discussed whether to extend the committee's work to another matter - the SKOK case. There's a fundamental difference, ladies and gentlemen. The law and justice for this extension will never agree. It will not agree, firstly, for this basic reason, that such an extension would simply be unconstitutional, that we cannot deal with two such broad cases within one committee. There is a wealth of literature on this subject and the Members of the Civic Platform I refer to this literature, but also, with regard to the Civic Platform, about the Members of the Civic Platform, in this matter they really behave a little bit like the carp that demands the acceleration of Christmas, because you had all the legal instruments to explain irregularities in the Volomin JCC. You didn't do it. She did not do this, among others. The Financial Supervision Commission, which was notified by the SKOK National Bank. But in this resolution we also extend the scope of the bodies that will be covered by the work of the committee. We are expanding the Financial Supervision Commission, whose action or rather lack of action in the Amber Gold case could be crucial, because as regards the earlier response of this institution, which is actually responsible for the proper functioning of banks and parabanking institutions, here on the part of KNF this action was lacking. Hence the amendment to the resolution that we tabled at the committee meeting, which extends to KNF the circle of actors that will be of interest to the Committee of Investigation. Of course, in addition to the KNF there will be very numerous bodies, and government bodies and bodies that are subject to government. The question actually arises: Why, and how was it possible in a democratic rule of law, under the rule of the Civic Platform, unfortunately, in a state acting theoretically, how could there be fraud on such a gigantic scale that, as I said, thousands of Poles lost their lives? Of course, the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice is in favour of the proposed resolution. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-19-sejm-23-1.u187	Thank you very much for speaking on behalf of the Law and Justice Club. I would first ask Mr Zbigniew Konwinski and then Mr Krzysztof Brejza to speak on behalf of the Civic Platform Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-19-sejm-23-1.u188	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! It is clear that when it is convenient, it is worth referring to the Constitutional Tribunal and the Constitution. [[How's that?]] How convenient, huh? But if it's uncomfortable, I understand that the constitution is no longer valid. [[Applause]] [[No, it's okay.]] We are not afraid of this committee and will support it at the end, even if you do not agree at this stage, also at the next stage, to support our amendments extending the scope of this committee to cover the work of what was happening around the SKOK system. Because if we've said this many times, but it's worth repeating it, those responsible for Amber Gold are in prison, those responsible for the SKOKs, for what happened... [[Sir, don't you have any shame?]] ...the SKOKs are sitting, but here, in the piS parliamentary benches. They're in charge of the SKOK system. [[This is a conspiracy, sir.]] One is even in the Presidential Palace. What you did a few years ago, and he did your sleep. President Lech Kaczyński, with the help of the current President, delaying the supervision of KNF SKOKs by 3 years, among others. has led to the situation that today is that billions have to be paid out of the Banking Guarantee Fund. [[You really don't have any shame? Something amazing.]] Thanks to the Civic Platform and PSL, these clients, SKOK clients, did not stay on ice like Amber Gold customers. If we're talking about scale, if we look at the billions paid out of the Banking Guarantee Fund and what we're going to have to pay out, it's SKOK-i. This is Amber Gold times six, or maybe eight. If you don't have anything to hide, if you're not afraid of what's going on with the SKOKs, then you should agree to extend the scope of this committee, but I understand you have a problem with it. The purpose of the committee is one - it is about the hearing of Donald Tusk, you do not hide it too much, you want to treat your complexes towards the former Prime Minister Donald Tusk. You've proposed a nine-member committee, you're talking about representativeness. It's supposed to be representativeness: five members from the PiS, a 230-person club, and one from the Platform, from the 130-person club. That's representativeness? [[Do you have honor?]] This is your democratic package? You can't count, but you can count your own money. [[Applause]] As I see it, because there's a salary increase bill, here you can count very well. [[Mr...]] I am submitting these amendments, which I mentioned, which we tabled during the committee's work. We add another amendment to this, to increase the membership of the committee to 11 people. [[Please state your reasons.]] We're still giving you a chance to show that you have nothing to hide about the SKOKs. The decision of the President of the Republic to challenge the Act to the Constitutional Tribunal on the supervision of the SKOKs delayed the entry into force of the Act by 3 years. At the time when the law was awaiting review by the tribunal, persons associated with the Foundation for Polish Credit Unions controlling in 2010 75% participations in national SKOKs, were extremely rapid in numerous organisational changes, including various financial transfers, reported this to the media. This is a case on the committee of inquiry, this is a real mess. [[Applause]] As I said, we will support this committee of inquiry, we are hoping, maybe a little naive, for a rematch on your part, that you will support the extension of its scope. If you do not agree to the extension of the scope, we will, of course, submit our own proposal after the end of this legislative phase, to set up a committee of inquiry on the SKOKs. [[And Breez won't have time, sir.]] This is a real mess, and you just want to interrogate Donald Tusk and treat your complexes. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-19-sejm-23-1.u189	Mr Krzysztof Brejza, also, as I said, the Civic Platform Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-19-sejm-23-1.u190	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! In the case of Amber Gold, the Platform has nothing to hide, and we urge you to support it and not be afraid to investigate the SKOK system, the SKOK scandal. [[Mr President, where is the money?]] You are inventing obstacles, Mr President, you are inventing an obstacle, because you know very well that there was a pressure committee that investigated the years 2005-2007, the prosecution's activities, the investigation of the ground case, the arrest of Mr July, and the investigation of the leak and several others. [[Unbelievable.]] It is absolutely possible for one investigating committee to examine both Amber Gold and Amber Platinium, because the scale of the irregularities, the scale of the measures which the SKOKs have traded, is many times higher than in the case of Amber Gold. In both cases, of course, the way and reliability of the bodies must be examined and whether the same good was being protected is one good which is the financial security of citizens. Amber Gold has the final in court, Amber Platinium has the final, but a little more political, in key positions including the highest positions in this country. According to Art. 2 the committee of inquiry should count to 11 members, and its composition, i.e. the law on the Parliamentary committee of inquiry, should be appropriate to the number. How is it that you cut out the Platform's representation - three, two, one? [[♪ The bell ♪]] What are you afraid of? Maybe the more we talk about the SKOK case, the more it takes to screw the screw on your part, this democratic package, the 230-person PiS club has to have five MPs, the 135-person Civic Platform club has to have one now. When this committee goes, maybe we'll have to reduce the representation to zero, then you'll be safest. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-19-sejm-23-1.u191	Thank you very much. I would ask Mr Paweł Grabowski to speak on behalf of the Kukiz club15. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-19-sejm-23-1.u192	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! ♪ Sad day ♪ Today is the day when the committee of inquiry will be set up to explain the Amber Gold case, sad because it will soon be the fourth anniversary of the moment this incident broke out, four years later. The Polish state at that time will not say that it has done much, but it certainly has not done enough to explain this matter. It is also a sad day because, listening to the statements of my honourable speakers, especially Mr Konwiński, I have such concerns and the impression that, however, in this committee, there will be Members who will want to make a political hump out of it and who will want to fight there. Mr Konwiński, I will only refer to this very emotional speech about calling Prime Minister Tusk before the committee of inquiry. Ladies and gentlemen, people, even on the parliamentary duty, ask me what this evil PiS wants to do, that he will be the Prime Minister of Tusk here, right, to Poland, will bring him to the committee. Ladies and gentlemen, Prime Minister Tusk was at the head of the government at the time of the Amber Gold scandal, moreover, Prime Minister Tusk had an institutional state under him. President of the UOKiK and other supervisory authorities who should control the entire capital group called Amber Gold. So there's absolutely nothing wrong or unusual about this, that the prime minister of the government, who was in charge when the Amber Gold scandal happened, should be summoned, interrogated. Like I'm saying, there's nothing to get excited about here, and you've got to jump to conclusions that are too far-reaching right now. So that I appeal for a little peace of mind. On the other hand, as regards the committee itself, the Poselski Kukiz Club15 has supported, supported and will support the appointment of this committee, as well as its process mainly because Poles need to explain why there have been omissions, such omissions, resulting in multi-hundred million losses on the part of citizens. As regards the arguments concerning the SKOKs, ladies and gentlemen and gentlemen of the Platform, I would also ask you not to mix the SKOKs with the Amber Gold issue. I have said many times, speaking in various media, that these are unfortunately circus games, not funny, because the committee of inquiry is called to explain one scandal, not all the scandals that have happened in Poland. As far as I know, Mr Zembaczyński, present here in the Chamber, collected signatures under the request to set up a committee to clarify the scandal of the SCCs, these signatures are collected, the proposal is made, so it is up to the good will of the Members on this side of the Chamber where the PiS sits, whether such a committee is set up or not. In conclusion, I also wanted to express the club's position regarding the procedure itself in this committee. We as a club that really has many backgrounds, different backgrounds, have decided that we will, of course, designate one candidate as a member of this committee, while in Kukiz15 a team has been set up - a team of those Members who are interested in financial matters or directly related to the Amber Gold case. It so happens that citizens also come to our parliamentary offices, who feel that the state has forgotten about them somewhere in the meantime, simply forgot, come with a sense of injustice, come with a sense of harm, ask us, Members, for help. I know that's why some of the members of our club are interested in this issue. As I said, we have an internal team which, as far as it can, will also support the resolution of this scandal, because the world is simply the solution and telling the truth about how it was, Poles should just be. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Very nice.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-19-sejm-23-1.u193	Mr Witold Zembaczyński will speak on behalf of the Modern Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-19-sejm-23-1.u194	Thank you kindly. Dear Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Poselski Club I am pleased to present my position on the draft resolution on the establishment of the Amber Gold investigation committee. After today's Legislative Commission, at the outset, there is such reflection that in the ranks of the Platform there is real fear. It is clear that not only Prime Minister Donald Tusk himself is afraid of this committee, but also of a number of Members. Ladies and gentlemen, if you want to explain the SKOK issue effectively, please support the proposal made to the Marshal's staff for the establishment of a committee of inquiry. There is no way to mix these two cases in the work of one committee, because this will only serve to clarify the case of Amber Gold. Such a request was made by the Modern, with the support of the signatures of the PSL Members, and nothing prevents you from supporting it, because unfortunately you cannot count on your signatures. So I'm surprised you guys were tearing up your clothes on the committee today, telling me how important it is for you to explain the SKOKs, and in all this, you're completely forgetting about Amber Gold. And it was in this affair that thousands of Poles lost their lives. And they expect us, from the political class, to explain this matter, why the institutions of the state were so inefficient, why it was possible to do a business that seemed completely irrational to the naked eye - 16 percent of the profits should be of interest not only to the financial supervisory authorities themselves, but also to the services that have failed here as well. These questions and doubts can be created a lot, but everything should be made first of all into one key conclusion - what to do to ensure that in the future these types of situations, in which financial pyramids dribble the pockets of ordinary citizens, have not repeated again. And the purpose of our, as modern, work in this committee will not be to put political blows on one another, as between the Platform and the PiS, because we enter the committee with a clean card, we are not responsible for how the state worked in the times of the Civic Platform. We expect an explanation of the SKOK case by setting up a separate committee and, above all, we will seek to ensure that the final report of the committee includes proposals to protect citizens' savings, to protect them from loss in the financial pyramids and from state failure. We believe that the State can be organised in such a way that the rules that should be applied in the course of the operation of commercial companies, etc., are effective and not merely enshrined in codes and completely not applied in life. As far as personal composition is concerned, we are leaving the Legislative Commission for the second reading of this project with relative optimism, because there is room for the Modern in the personal composition of the committee, the 9-person composition assumes the participation of all clubs. We believe that all clubs have the right to work within the committee to clarify this issue. This is what voters expect of us and all those who have lost their lives. We also hope that the work of the Committee of Investigation itself will be conducted in an atmosphere of respect for those who have lost their lives and would not be merely a pretext for bringing someone's political careers back or possibly a source for a row between two parties - one has ruled and the other is in charge. And, ladies and gentlemen, not only is the Platform responsible for what happened at the time of Amber Gold's expansion. You, Members of the Law and Justice, too, because you were in Parliament at the time, had access to much more information than ordinary citizens and certainly there were various disturbing signals coming to you as well. You could do it, you could write it. I know you wanted to set up an investigation committee. It didn't work. Today, I hope that you will not vote against the committee of inquiry for the SCCs either. In keeping with the subject of Amber Gold, please bear in mind that this committee should be set up and the matter should be clarified from A to Z, and this will then be a responsible and honest approach towards all Poles. Because if this loss at Amber Gold wasn't covered at all, and in the SKOKs, the coverage comes from the Banking Guarantee Fund, it's a great difference, but it all crashes into taxpayers' pockets anyway. I thank you very much, of course, for your work in committee and I hope that the atmosphere of this kind of money will not translate into the work of the committee itself, and will also allow you to examine this extensive evidence in peace, because the conclusions in the final report may be crucial for the victims themselves. Any word written in the final report of this committee may have an impact on what claims may still arise against the Polish state of those who have lost their money, but above all it must prompt you to organize the state in order to protect Poles from such mechanisms, and there are a lot of them, because today such problems are just moments. So I hope that the reflection will not run out. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-19-sejm-23-1.u195	Thank you very much. I speak on behalf of the Polish People's Party Club, Mrs Andżelik Możjanowska. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-19-sejm-23-1.u196	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the National Parliamentary Club of the Polish People's Party, presenting its position on the draft resolution on the appointment of the Committee of Investigation to examine the correctness and legality of the activities of public bodies and institutions vis-à-vis entities included in the 2009 Amber Gold Group, when the then Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Economy Waldemar Pawlak stated in his interview with TVP Info that in the Amber Gold case some institutions had acted Okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, I quote: At the Ministry of Economy we dealt with this company at the level of the department director and there the case was cut. A report has been filed against the prosecution, which, however, has not been found to be illegal. The facts are undisputed. In the whole Amber Gold case, the shocking thing is that Marcin P., president of the company, has been convicted several times for crimes of an economic nature and each time they were suspended. It is necessary to set up and thoroughly investigate the entire activity related to the loss of assets and savings, often saving your life, 18 thousand. Poles for the amount of PLN 850 million. This amount shocks, requires clarification and settlement of responsible persons, but also the development of procedures to avoid further such situations in the future. The nine-member membership of the committee - it is good that representatives of all parliamentary clubs, as announced and provided by the representative of the applicants, will have their representatives in the substantive work of the Committee of Investigation. Requests are made to extend the subject of the Commission of Investigation's work to clarify the activities of the SKOKs. We do not share this opinion because of the extensive evidence and the constitutional doubts raised. On the other hand, we believe that a particular explanation requires a mismanagement and questionable transfer of PLN 4 billion, for which all Poles paid from the Bank Guarantee Fund. The scale is terrifying. That is why we are calling for an appropriate committee to be set up to clarify the case and the fraud of the SKOKs. The project is submitted to the Sejm, signed by parliamentarians of the Polish People's Party - and is waiting for a resolution. The history of the committee of inquiry in the Polish parliament is not a proud card. In addition to the first Commission for the Rywin affair, the achievements of the other committees of inquiry were far from comprehensively explaining and drawing conclusions. On behalf of the Parliamentary Club of the Polish People's Party, in support of the establishment of the Committee of Investigation to examine the correctness and legality of the activities of public bodies and institutions vis-à-vis entities included in the Amber Gold Group, I call for substantive work, without media performances. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-19-sejm-23-1.u197	Thank you very much, Madam President. And on behalf of Mrs Margaret Zwierzan's Free and Solidary Circle. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-19-sejm-23-1.u198	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The appointment of the Committee of Investigation to examine the regularity and legality of the activities of public authorities and bodies vis-à-vis the bodies of the , Amber Gold Group is a decision that meets the social expectations and, above all, the State's commitment to 18 000. Poles cheated by cheaters operating under a protective umbrella of the state institution. We need to answer the question of how it was possible that the operation which led to the extortion of over PLN 850 million from Poles, continued despite the knowledge of the symptoms of Amber Gold's criminal activities that some institutions of the state had. By the end of 2012, the Amber Gold case was to be thoroughly clarified. That is what Prime Minister Donald Tusk said. It's as good as it used to be. While the trial is pending in court, the amount of material and the failure of our judicial system allows us to believe that this matter will never be resolved. In the face of such failure in the Amber Gold case, only the Committee of Investigation can answer the questions: Who was able to protect Marcin P. the state - and the institutions, and the people of power? Why did the state institutions, despite their knowledge, not stop the criminal extortion of money from Poles? Who provided a protective umbrella for this initiative? Could this have been about OLT taking over the lottery? Why were the citizens of the Civic Platform so eager to promote the initiatives of a pair of fraudsters? Was Michael Tusk's involvement, the Prime Minister's son, supposed to be a form of security? Why didn't the special forces warn the Poles or the Prime Minister? Or did they warn you? Why was the Amber Gold project so widely advertised in the media? What exactly did Donald Tusk know and do? Did he just warn his son? About Free and Solidarnia there will be no representative, so I would like to mention the most important issues that we consider necessary to clarify. To this day, we do not know what mechanisms and interests have enabled the development of criminal activity on such a large scale and to what extent it was a mafia agreement covered by state institutions and what the involvement of politicians who held the highest offices was. The Amber Gold case is not just a case of a couple of crooks who have taken advantage of the naivety of people, but it is a exemplary manifestation of a state crisis that has not been able to protect its own citizens from a criminal initiative. What was the prime minister's son's role in this? Was his employment in this company a guarantee for the operation of the umbrella over Amber Gold? Why did the tax authorities fail to take appropriate action when the entities of the Amber Gold Group did not make the declarations provided for by law and did not fulfil their obligations towards those authorities? Why didn't the prosecutor's office pursue any proceedings concerning the occurrence of applications or those proceedings have ceased to exist? Why were the authorities involved in criminal prosecutions not interested in the activities carried out by the Amber Gold group, even though there were indications that they could carry out the offences? The questions raised cannot be left unanswered, and the only way to find them is by the committee of inquiry. At the meeting of the Legislative Commission, proposals were made to join the subject matter of the JCC investigation committee. We are opposed to extending the scope of this committee because the Amber Gold case is a matter of allowing state authorities to commit criminal activities of a particular group. Expanding the scope of research into another matter can only aim at reducing the scale of criminal activity and deliberately directing public attention to other routes. The Circle of the Free and Solidarni Members is in favour of setting up a committee of inquiry as soon as possible. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-19-sejm-23-1.u199	Ms Małgorzata Zwierzan concluded her speech. I must say to you that I have also listened to the speech and I have wondered why you believe that the courts do not give judgments. They do. Maybe it goes on sometimes, but eventually they do. Believe me. 12 people have entered the list of Members wishing to ask questions. Questioning time is 1 minute. You start with Andrzej Gawron, the Law and Justice Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-19-sejm-23-1.u200	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The Amber Gold scandal is not just a crime, it's a flagship, you can say, a clinical example of the theoretical state, a country that doesn't work, which is not working, which is just any one. I would like to ask from this stand a question on behalf of entrepreneurs, hundreds, thousands of entrepreneurs, small, medium and micro-enterprises who work honestly, make monthly declarations, on a deadline of course, paying taxes. How is it possible that Amber Gold, which has operated on a national scale, has not made a declaration for two and a half years, has not paid taxes? How is that possible? How is it possible that a criminal founded this company and acted legally? How is that possible? Because it was, it was, a theoretical state. I think this committee is gonna help with that to bring about full official responsibility. And I don't care if it was Donald Tusk or the warden. [[♪ The bell ♪]] the tax office - to bear the responsibility. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-19-sejm-23-1.u201	Thank you for this speech. Ladies and gentlemen, please bear in mind that this is the time to ask questions, and the committee will be working. Therefore, we cannot ask her about the things he wanted to know so far. The matter concerns the appointment of a committee to clarify something, not to answer the question today whether there were reasons or not. There'll be time for answers. [[I hope he'll explain.]] You'll have time, I'll give you the floor, sir. Mr Grzegorz Furgo, Modern Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-19-sejm-23-1.u202	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen! Indeed, the Amber Gold scandal is a matter that needs to be examined thoroughly and thoroughly, for it calls for revenge on such a large scale. However, I would like to ask you a question: Will the real purpose of this committee's investigation be to clarify the giant fraud that has been built so long without any obstacles? Or is the primary objective of judging only one person who has nothing directly to do with this case? I'm sure you know whose name I'm deliberately skipping right now. It is also surprising that the owner of Amber Gold could have built his empire, his pyramid for so long, in addition to investing huge funds in the aviation market, and no one did anything, even preventively. Yes, ladies and gentlemen, the PiS hasn't done anything either. And the truth is, someone must have pulled a brick from under that huge pyramid when it fell apart. [[The staff.]] Who destroyed this quasi-emperium? [[♪ The bell ♪]] Mr. and Mrs. P.? I hope that instead of hunting witches, you will first of all find the answer to this question. Fingers crossed for that. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-19-sejm-23-1.u203	Mrs Małgorzata Płępek, the Civic Platform Club, another question. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-19-sejm-23-1.u204	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The Amber Gold Commission won't do what the victims are most interested in. It's about repairing the damage. There is no doubt that the work of the committee will be aimed at Prime Minister Donald Tusk. The main objective of the committee will be to find evidence of the responsibility of the civil platform politicians for the uprising of the Amber Gold scandal. I wanted to ask you if the matter of the SKOKs, which cost Poles huge money, is a matter of similar interest to the politicians of Law and Justice. Because the facts and logic of PiS are: in Amber Gold about 1 billion PLN disappears, so there is a committee of inquiry. In SKOKs almost PLN 6 billion disappears... [[Ten.]] ...then why would there be a committee of inquiry on this matter? The deceiving Poles are waiting to explain both matters [[♪ The bell ♪]] And compensation, not political lynching. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-19-sejm-23-1.u205	Mrs Joanna Borowiak, the Law and Justice Club, will ask another question. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-19-sejm-23-1.u206	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! Amber Gold is one of the biggest scandals in recent years, and it's been unexplained for the last four years. It's hard to resist the impression that she's been swept under the rug for four years. The Civic Platform is in favour and even against the establishment of a committee of inquiry, inventing various reasons to block it. Meanwhile, society craves justice. The establishment of a committee of inquiry is a fulfillment of expectations of many Poles. Let's remind you, there are 18,000 victims. citizens over 850 million. I therefore have a question: Does the setting up of a committee of inquiry finally give a real opportunity to finally explain the gross negligence of many people and to point out the guilty? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-19-sejm-23-1.u207	Thank you very much. Mr Marcin Horała, please, the Law and Justice Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-19-sejm-23-1.u208	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Maybe not with growing surprise, because there's no surprise here, but I'm observing the attempts of the Civic Platform to block the work of this committee. In the previous term, when the Civic Platform had a parliamentary majority and could do so effectively, the Amber Gold commission was blocked. Now that you know that this committee is going to stand up, you pretend to support its calling, while multiplying your attempts to dissolve, even to make a resolution about setting up an unconstitutional committee. All attempts are about avoiding liability. And that's the basic question. I'm putting them here again. Why do you presume that this committee is targeted at the Civic Platform? No one's saying that on our side. Why do you presume that Donald Tusk will be questioned about this? Of course, if he was involved in this case, then - I apologize for the sacrilegiousness - even Donald Tusk himself is not above the law and should be responsible for his actions, and should also provide explanations to the Parliament's committee of inquiry, but it is only during the committee's work that he will decide whether it will be necessary. [[♪ The bell ♪]] In short, hit the table and the scissors will speak. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-19-sejm-23-1.u209	I didn't hear the question, but well. Mr Mieczysław Miazga will ask another question on behalf of the Law and Justice Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-19-sejm-23-1.u210	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! It is very good that a committee of inquiry will be set up to examine the correctness and legality of Amber Gold's activities. The Amber Gold case is the tip of the iceberg, concerns fraud on Poles and abuses and various attempts at extortion from the state budget. We hear practically every day from various media about our country's issues. Recently, information about the international CO2-related mafia has emerged, i.e. with the trade in carbon dioxide, which has extorted billions. Losses are estimated at around EUR 5 billion. Unfortunately, a Polish businessman is the main and infamous businessman for us and the country accused, according to the press, connected with the Civic Platform. For many years, there have been many unsolved cases, and there are many unsolved perpetrators of these scandals. The question is, is there a chance and there are technical conditions for speeding up the explanation of these giant scandals, because so far it is going very slowly. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-19-sejm-23-1.u211	Thank you very much. Mr Marek Ast will ask another question on behalf of the Law and Justice Club. You're welcome. [[What questions can he have?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-19-sejm-23-1.u212	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I would like to ask if, during these eight years of government of the Civic Platform, the authorities of the State were to act properly in the case of Amber Gold, if they had taken appropriate action by the tax office, if the Minister of Finance had taken appropriate action, if the Prime Minister had finally taken appropriate action, then there would have been a need to appoint a committee of inquiry on this matter, because I have the impression that the committee of inquiry is not simply from explaining this fraud, because this has already been explained, fraud was. It's obvious. The D.A. filed charges against P's marriage. On the other hand, the purpose of the committee is to examine the involvement of state authorities in this operation. Did the State in this case put a protective umbrella over the company or not? [[♪ The bell ♪]] Did the state, or authorities, have any interest in this company's operation or not? What actions have been taken and what actions have been abandoned? [[This is the Attorney General speaking.]] Looks like the D.A.'s office didn't do very well in this case. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[We have to address these questions to the Gowina.]] [[Voice from the courtroom: But he wasn't a prosecutor at the time.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-19-sejm-23-1.u213	Thank you very much. Another question, Maria Zuba, also the Law and Justice Club. You're welcome. [[Game in the O.R.]] [[Member, let us also not disturb each other.]] [[It's gonna take Minister Gowin to answer that question.]] [[♪ The bell ♪]] I rarely use that bell, but, uh, ladies and gentlemen... You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-19-sejm-23-1.u214	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I have a question for the rapporteur. Do you know why KNF did not react in 2011 to the information it received from the National SKOK Casa about the situation that took place in Wołomin's SKOK? Why did KNF allow, during this period, from 2011 until 2014, to allow Wołomin managed by people, as we have concluded, with the services to carry out measures? Where these measures were taken at the expense of individuals, [[♪ The bell ♪]] who made their savings at the Volomin SKOK? Today, Members of the Civic Platform mark the equality between the situation at Amber Gold and the situation at Wołomin. They've erased from their memory what they've allowed in the Volomin Squad. 'Cause Volome isn't a symbol...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-19-sejm-23-1.u215	Member, we're done here.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-19-sejm-23-1.u216	...all the skoks. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-19-sejm-23-1.u217	Mr Jerzy Meysztowicz, please, the Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-19-sejm-23-1.u218	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Let me put it this way: we don't have very good experience with committees of inquiry, because only the one that was supposed to explain the Rywin affair was a very substantive committee, and then these committees were more political. I have a question. I hope that Madam President, Mrs Wassermann, as a lawyer, will be on the watch that this committee really explains all the irregularities in this affair, so that those who have put Poles at risk for such losses are pointed out. But I am counting on this committee to be more substantive than political. We have, in addition, made a request for a committee of inquiry on the SKOKs, because we felt that combining these two topics in one committee might not be the most appropriate. We hope that the Law and Justice will support our request for this committee. If not, perhaps an explanation of Amber Gold's case will allow [[♪ The bell ♪]] to clarify certain irregularities which arose in the supervision of financial institutions, with the SKOKs. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-19-sejm-23-1.u219	Thank you very much. Mr Mirosław Suchoń will ask another question on behalf of the Modern Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-19-sejm-23-1.u220	Thank you very much. Dear Marshal! High Izbo! I'm gonna go back to the SKOK theme. I understand why this committee has to work separately, and I do not understand the proposal to bring together the topics. Let me just remind you that Amber Gold gave us about 19,000. The victims of 800 million PLN, while in the case of the SKOKs there are almost 38 million PLN victims for the amount of more than 5 billion PLN. So combining these two cases would absolutely harm the correct explanation both in one case and in the other case. But I would like to ask the Members of the applicant whether they have considered extending this proposal also to other actors who have been harmed by the activities of citizens. It is precisely those who have created similar mechanisms for extortion of money from citizens. People who have been injured by other companies, by others, come to my parliamentary office. [[♪ The bell ♪]] the pyramids and the question whether it should not be taken into account in part the work of these other companies, given the very similar nature of the case. This could show what elements of the state have failed in such a broader sense. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-19-sejm-23-1.u221	Thank you very much. Mrs Danuta Pietraszewska, Civic Platform Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-19-sejm-23-1.u222	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The investigating committee on Amber Gold will be a political farce because the perpetrators of fraud will be behind bars any minute, because the investigation is coming to an end, and the responsible for five times more fraud in the JCCs are sitting on parliamentary benches. The Commission is due to start work in September. How are the members of this committee to read 16 000 within a month. volumes of files, which means over 3,200 thousand. Cards? These are members who do not have a certificate of access to classified information for today. Procedures last for weeks, as was the case with others [[♪ The bell ♪]] the committee. With an organization like this, what chance does this committee have for a substantive job? Unless she's gonna be working on her final thesis. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-19-sejm-23-1.u223	Anna Milczanowska will ask the last question, the club Law and Justice. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-19-sejm-23-1.u224	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I am very pleased that representatives of all clubs, all clubs support that a parliamentary team will be set up to investigate the Amber Gold scandal. Ladies and gentlemen, after all, let us not be fooled, we know that politicians, i.e. the Civic Platform and the Polish People's Party, were behind this affair. This is not a problem of law and justice is Donald Tusk, this is your problem, the beloved Civic Platform. You're talking about SKOKs here. There's a SKOK Wołomin case, ma'am, not a SKOK case, and you know perfectly well that two prosecutors are already investigating this case. What is the goal and the Law and Justice, and this team? Honesty, decency, indication of the guilty and the fact that the Polish state was in contact [[♪ The bell ♪]] society, business and politics. And that's how it's been for eight years. [[Applause]] [[It's just like the S.O.C.S.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-19-sejm-23-1.u225	Thank you, Member. The discussion is closed... No, because I see that you, Małgorzata Wassermann, have yet to speak, and I assume that the rapporteur of the committee will also want to speak, right? Good.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-19-sejm-23-1.u226	Thank you very much. Dear Marshal! Dear Members, Well, I have to say, I'm amazed at you guys in an amazing way. Mr Brejza, I call you by your name, you will have A chance to answer me. Mr Konwiński, you will also have a chance to answer. Why? Because I don't think you mean at all to ask a question. I have to say, I'm... [[On behalf of the club, we didn't ask questions.]] You asked this question today at the Legislative Commission. I answered. You ask that question today, you asked the same questions at first reading, and you'll probably ask them tonight. That's why I'm calling you by name, because I understand that this is all you want to do is get on the stand and take the floor. Then you'll have a chance. [[We're not friends. Why are you insulting us? What a right. Who are you?]] I don't insult you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-19-sejm-23-1.u227	Member, please refer to the question of the draft resolution...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-19-sejm-23-1.u228	I'll be right back.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-19-sejm-23-1.u229	...not for a few minutes to refer to specific Members.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-19-sejm-23-1.u230	I have unlimited time, Your Marshal, so I would very much ask...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-19-sejm-23-1.u231	The fact that you have time is one thing, and whether the Marshal will speak on the issue of correction is the role of the Marshal, not you. [[What kind of pretentious way of conducting a discussion?]] [[A little humility.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-19-sejm-23-1.u232	I'm an applicant, so far I'm not making things right.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-19-sejm-23-1.u233	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-19-sejm-23-1.u234	Ladies and gentlemen! So I'm gonna answer you again, but I don't think that's gonna satisfy you. There is no possibility of combining two cases, and whether it is a question of tape, which you also have in mind, and whether it is a question of overturning many Polish companies related to public procurement, because it is also worth explaining. [[Applause]] Whatever case we would not have combined it with, it is simply prohibited by the Constitution, by the law on the committee of inquiry, by the broad case law of the Constitutional Tribunal and by a number of opinions of lawyers, including a number of opinions presented by the Office for Sejm Analysis. I know you can't remember it because we talked about it a few hours ago. That's line one. The second point is that the Member asked the same question that she asked three hours. That's it. I expect this question again around the hour. 19... [[Part of the question.]] ...so, once again, I say to you that by law, as Members, we are entitled to know the secret. This does not apply to the secrecy of the Classified and Classified Clauses. What I'm trying to tell you is that there's so much public evidence that I think we could be quiet for the rest of the year or even work on the very... [[And you want it in a month.]] [[What month?]] Ma'am, I don't want anything in a month. The job has to start. She'll probably last a long time. Can you imagine hearing and reviewing all the institutions in one session? There's a huge scale here. In view of the above, I reply to the honourable Member that I imagine we will start work in September. We will begin, which means that they will continue for the next weeks, months, perhaps years, so that all members of the committee may have the opportunity to read the very broad evidence so that they can read it calmly. I assure you that I will not do what Mr Sekuła did, and I remember very well how he did it. I don't know if you remember that. Not only did he speak to empty chairs, but do you also remember that he had appointed meetings in such a way, from morning to evening, that there would be no possibility to prepare for these meetings in substance, even though there were also lawyers with considerable experience in this committee. That's another line. [[That's slander!]] And I would like to say to him that I also hope that the work will only be substantive. I assure you every time from this speaker, at the meetings of the Parliamentary Committee, each time asked by journalists that I do not intend that there will be such a situation that one of the first or the first person called is Donald Tusk. There's no need for that. That would be illogical at all. We will examine all institutions and individuals within these institutions one by one. directing and issuing decisions. I'm counting on a substantial job, too. I would like to say one thing, and I will also refer here by name, Mr President, to you. You left the Legislative Committee where the name of Prime Minister Donald Tusk was not mentioned at all. I never said she'd be one of the first people. On the contrary, I assure you every time it doesn't. And you left, did a press conference and said that the president said that one of the first people called would be Donald Tusk. [[I didn't say today.]] Sir, honor. Do you know that word? And truthfulness. [[You don't know that word. Don't use that word. The honor of your fee was wrong.]] [[The voice from the room: Liar!]] In view of the above, ladies and gentlemen, I also count on the substantive work. I am very pleased that there is such a broad understanding, including from the opposition Members, that not only for legal reasons, but also for fact, there is no way to simply combine the work of this committee with any other matter, because not only with the Wołomin SKOK case, but with any other matter. I am ready at 7:30 for the fourth time to answer the same questions from you. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-19-sejm-23-1.u235	I ask Mr Wojciech Sharama to speak. [[In corrigendum mode.]] Have a seat. [[Can't I correct it?]] Have a seat. You'll be able to, like... [[But what's the point of making it straighter?]] Since you have already spoken as a representative of the applicants, you will have time. [[So am I, Marshal.]] Have a seat. I'll keep that in mind, the two of you have submitted a corrigendum. You're welcome, sir. [[May I?]] Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah,
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-19-sejm-23-1.u236	Mrs. Marshal... [[Game in the O.R.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-19-sejm-23-1.u237	Gentlemen, I ask you to calm down... [[Game in the O.R., bell ringing.]] I ask you, Members, to calm down, because I believe that the issue of correction has been exhausted in the form of such short statements. [[Applause]] I would ask you to speak, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-19-sejm-23-1.u238	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! First of all, when it comes to the technique of the committee's work. Of course it is possible to interrogate former Prime Minister Donald Tusk, and this as the first person, it is quite clear. If Mr Konwiński makes such a request at the committee meeting and the committee votes on it by a majority, that will happen. [[Applause]] So I think that this statement of yours is a prediction of the Platform's actions. This is an announcement that the committee will operate very widely. It is a completely different matter whether the majority will accept it, because, as far as I am concerned, Madam President, Counselor Wassermann would like this committee to work in an efficient and substantive manner and to clarify its participation in the cover-up of the case, in facilitating actions which may be judged by the court as criminal acts, high officials of the state. As for the question of Mrs Danuta Pietraszewska, there have already been some actions by the justice system. Those who are accused of being embezzled by the money they have been entrusted with are temporarily arrested and this temporary arrest is systematically extended by the court. So the question, colloquially speaking, whether they should be behind bars, can be answered, that the prosecution and the court have already made a choice, which is partly socially satisfactory. I'm saying part of it, because it's crucial for these people to get their money back. The Commission will try to answer the questions of the involvement of government officials in this matter, but I believe that there are people associated with the group that has ruled for 8 years, and they should consider how to give this money back to these people, where the money is. These measures have also been taken. I also wanted to say that the concern about whether committee members will be familiar with documents is important because there is a lot of work in front of committee members. This is where the question arises... It is a pity that other Members cannot answer this, because, Madam, if it is very difficult to read the documents in this case, then if we theoretically added the SKOKs to this, it would, I think, be even more difficult to get to know them, it would take even longer. [[That's the point.]] [[It's just that I want you to say yes...]] Here is the question: What is the purpose of this initiative? [[It's about consent.]] Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I would like to emphasise once again very clearly that the extension of the scope of the committee's activities to the proposal made on behalf of the Civic Platform is directly incompatible with the Constitution, Art. 111 of the Constitution is very clear about this. You place a great deal of emphasis on the case law of the Constitutional Court. It is perfectly clear in this matter. The subject matter of the committee of inquiry is to be as specific as possible and the tribunal considers that the legislator deliberately used a singular number, speaking of the case, so that the committee's activities are indeed subject to one issue. So this solution is simply unacceptable. [[If you're gonna set up a separate committee for the SKOKs, that's okay.]] I am not going to respond to these elements related to your suggestions regarding the SKOKs, I am just talking about some formal information. There was a question from Mrs Law and Justice about the role of the Financial Supervision Commission... Excuse me, Marshal, may I?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-19-sejm-23-1.u239	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-19-sejm-23-1.u240	I wouldn't want to prolong...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-19-sejm-23-1.u241	Have a drink, sir, as you wish. We have a lot of time, so no problem.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-19-sejm-23-1.u242	...and at the same time I would like to be well understood and heard. As far as I know, the prosecution is currently investigating the role of the Financial Supervision Commission in the Wołomin SKOK case, it is a lack of this activity. This case is being investigated. Indeed, there are very important and difficult questions here as to why certain financial institutions have not responded properly and on time to this matter, but this was not the subject of a committee meeting and this should not be the subject of the Sejm's deliberations, because the title of the resolution and the scope of the committee's work are very clearly defined. And if at this point, Mrs. Marshal, we're talking about SKOK Volomin, then we're just not talking about it. As far as the other questions are concerned, they included a certain assessment of what happened in the Amber Gold case, a definite negative assessment. Judging by the statements of the representatives of all the clubs, I see that the work of this committee has a chance to end relatively quickly and with some success. Both Mrs Andzelika Możjanowska's speech and Mr Furga's speech were simply concerned to clarify this matter clearly. The State stressed very strongly the need for this committee, the need for its good action and the need for a clear explanation of the matter. Finally, I should like to thank the Modern Member, who trusted Mrs Małgorzata Wassermann. I, too, believe that if the committee has the will to elect such a chairman, it will be a good forecast for the work of this committee. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-19-sejm-23-1.u243	Thank you very much. Please, Mr Zbigniew Konwiński, Civic Platform Club, corrigendum. And on the same issue - the point of correction - will be said by Mr Krzysztof Brejza.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-19-sejm-23-1.u244	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I wanted to correct my misunderstood statement. I was called incredibly elegantly by the future chairman of the committee. You can see how this committee's gonna work. So that I thank you very much for these extremely elegant words and this elegant behaviour, especially since the Member has just left the Chamber. [[Applause]] You asked me if I knew the meaning of the word "honor." I have the impression that this act on salaries for, among others, has been passed. Parliamentarians and ministers, that you have been given the word 'honor' to the word 'honorarium' recently mistaken. That's how I feel. [[Applause]] [[And that's a corrigendum, Marshal?]] Mrs Wassermann did not understand what I said. I have clearly quoted the Member who has said many times that the committee will question former Prime Minister Donald Tusk. So that these are the true words of Mrs Wassermann. The rapporteur of the committee spoke about the fact that the committee would work extensively. How wide? You're trying to prove to us that wide... [[Your Marshal, this is not a correction. It wasn't supposed to be a comment, it was a corrigendum, sir, you should learn.]] ...that's five members of the PiS and one Civic Platform? What are you all afraid of? What are you afraid of? [[Applause]] If you really want this committee to explain anything, it will be the least of the speeches that Mrs Wassermann made today. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-19-sejm-23-1.u245	Mr Krzysztof Brejza, Civic Platform Club. And a corrigendum.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-19-sejm-23-1.u246	Mrs. Marshal! It is a pity that Mrs Wassermann is not here because she accused me of leaving the Legislative Commission. I did leave when the president announced a break, so I left what I could do about it. As for the fact that the committee of inquiry is supposedly unable to deal with the Amber Gold and the SKOKs, I'm saying it absolutely can. One committee is investigating the activities of the same authorities, the authorities of the prosecutor's office, the tax authorities. It can study, because it concerns only one legitimate good, the constitutional good, which is the financial security of citizens. Both the SKOKs and Amber Gold are facing a violation of this good. And as far as Donald Tusk is concerned, I do not fully understand this personal cut by the president, it is indeed bad for this committee, for such a personal attack and for me, and for Mr Konwiński, that was noticeable at today's meeting of the Legislative Commission. We personally do not address Members of the Law and Justice, we speak the truth about the SKOK system. And I really don't know what hurts you so much, because we can develop the issues of business relationships, the political links between the SKOKs, the PiS senators, the PiS councillors, we can elaborate on the SKOK Volomin we can discuss in detail, not just about one photo... [[And Mr. Jakub?]] [[About President Komorowski.]] ...which is presented on the SKOK portal as evidence of the links between the Civic Platform and the SKOKs, with the SKOK Wołomin. Great joke, ladies and gentlemen. We can develop issues of pressure of the SKOK system on journalists, because there is a journalist who dealt with the SKOKs and had twenty cases founded by the so-called. SKOK system, cases almost all of which she won, civil cases, but it was all about dragging her to court. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Why don't we talk about the members of the Platform that the SKOKs are dragging around the courts for the same purpose?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-19-sejm-23-1.u247	You're very...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-19-sejm-23-1.u248	This is the SKOK state and this is the SKOK system. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-19-sejm-23-1.u249	...thank you to the Members. I'm closing... No, no, and this is the second time I've tried to finish this sentence. You're welcome, sir. Rapporteur of the committee Wojciech Szarama.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-19-sejm-23-1.u250	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! We're discussing a draft resolution on the establishment of an investigation committee on Amber Gold. It's completely clear and obvious. I apologise for the fact that ad personam was not concerned at all with this subject. [[And what were Mrs. Wassermann's attacks on us?]] Mr President, I believe that the introduction of further issues to be considered by this committee would lead to the extension of the work of this committee rather than to the achievement of the objectives that are intended. Thank you. [[Applause]] [[Now we need savings in the administration.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-19-sejm-23-1.u251	Thank you very much. The discussion is closed. As amendments to the draft resolution submitted were tabled at second reading, I propose that the Sejm proceed to the vote on this proposal after serving the Members of the table of amendments. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. We have concluded this item. We proceed with the examination of item 8 of the agenda: Information from the President of the Institute of National Remembrance about the activities of the Institute of National Remembrance - Commission for the pursuit of Crime against the Polish Nationals in the period 1 January 2015 - 31 December 2015 (print No 497) together with the position of the Committee on Justice and Human Rights (print No 695). I would like to ask you, President of the Institute of National Remembrance - to prosecute Crimes against the Polish National Lukasz Kaminski, to present information. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-19-sejm-23-1.u252	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Last year it was 15 years since the Institute of National Remembrance was established. This time was an opportunity for us to get acquainted with many opinions about our work, including those which flowed from representatives of both chambers of the Polish Parliament and representatives of other authorities of the state. Above all, however, it was a time of normal hard work of the Institute of National Remembrance. This is the work which carries out the mission of the Institute, expressed and defined in the preamble to the Act on the Institute of National Remembrance, which states that Parliament created an institute with a view to preserving the memory of the great amount of victims, losses and damages suffered by the Polish people during and after the Second World War, the patriotic traditions of the struggles of the Polish people with the invaders, Nazism and communism, the actions of citizens in favour of the independent existence of the Polish state and in defence of freedom and human dignity, the obligation to prosecute crimes against peace, humanity and war crimes, and the duty of redressing by our country to all those who have been wronged by the state violating human rights. At the same time, it was believed that no unlawful action by the State against citizens could be protected by secrecy or forgotten. And for 16 years now, on this mission, we carry out the tasks put forward by the Institute of National Remembrance. The forms of these tasks have changed many times, the mission remains the same. One of the most important tasks placed before the Institute is to restore justice in a literal sense by investigating crimes from the period of World War II and from the time of the communist dictatorship. As we know, this scope has now been extended since the entry into force of the amendment. 1078 investigations were completed in 2015, of which more than 60% related to communist crimes, the others - in most of the German crimes from the period of World War II. It is worth noting that in recent years the number of prosecutors working vertically in IPN has decreased by about 1/5, but the number of proceedings remains similar. Last year, 14 indictments against 16 people were sent to the courts. And it is worth noting that this is another year in which we come out of a certain breakdown in the number of indictments brought to the courts following the May 2010 Supreme Court resolution introducing a new way of defining the limitation period for communist crimes, which resulted in the remission of hundreds of cases, many of which had the chance to go to the courts together with the prosecutions. However, it is also worth noting that it is not only the acts of prosecution that define the meaning of the investigations conducted by the Institute of National Remembrance. It should be recalled that our prosecutors are also obliged to investigate when there are coded conditions for redemption, such as the death of the perpetrator. And even this legal act, which is the decision to terminate the investigation, contains a legal definition, an indication of the legal qualification of the crime, where possible, an indication of its perpetrators, and, most importantly, an indication of the victims. It is in the case of very many crimes from the past the only legal act, an act of the Polish State which refers to them. And I am convinced that not only today, but also in the future it will be of great importance. There are investigations that are of particular public interest. I'll just mention one thing. Last year, the Institute of National Remembrance was involved in many forms in commemorating the 70th anniversary of the Augustów manhunt, the biggest post-war crime committed on the Polish nation. The investigation also plays an important role here. And although we have no longer had a chance for legal aid from Russia for many years, we are still experiencing progress in knowledge. Last year, prosecutors obtained an expert opinion based on historical aerial photographs and modern satellite photos to identify places where the victims of the Augustow raid are most likely buried. Unfortunately, the most important of them are already outside Poland and this verification will require the approval of the Belarusian party. I would also like to mention that the actions of prosecutors constitute and will continue to form the basis for scientific work for many years. The minutes of witness hearings alone, of which there are several tens of thousands - last year it was over 4,000. Interrogated witnesses - create a huge material for further research. And last year, an important publication was published based on an investigation into the assassination of the Holy Father John Paul II entitled "Agca was not alone." Prosecutors of the Institute of National Remembrance are also involved in the search for victims of communist terror, which, unfortunately, I see should be recalled, started in 2011 with the cooperation of other institutions and, above all, the Council for the Protection of Remembrance and Martyrdom and the Ministry of Justice. And in 2012, we started a project to identify the found remains. Last year most of the victims were found in Bialystok. And it can be said that the prison garden in Bialystok is such a symbol of Polish history, because looking for victims of communist terror, we also found hundreds of victims of German terror from World War II. In total, 385 bodies have already been found there. Search work also lasted in Opole, at the Brodnowski Cemetery in Warsaw, in Płock, in Gdańsk, in Rzeszów, in Tarnów and elsewhere. In many of them, they led to the discovery of the remains of the victims. Last year, a law entered into force that allowed the later graves to be moved from such places. First of all, we are talking about the Warsaw Link. On the first day that this law entered into force, the Institute submitted applications for the transfer of all graves from Ł1 and Ł2. These applications have already been completed. The process of moving these graves begins, which will end exhumations and later also identify the victims. In total, after 5 years we can talk about finding more than 800 victims and identifying 66 of them. This is another task of the Institute of National Remembrance. Last year, the process of judging was dominated by local elections, including those from 2014 and last year's, parliamentary and presidential elections. In total, 68 thousand were made available to the Mirror Bureau as a result of these elections. new illustrative statements, which once again increased the gap between claims that are already verified and those that are awaiting verification. Last year, 9460 claims were verified, i.e. Approximately twice as many as 5 years earlier, 133 requests for the initiation of a mirror procedure were addressed to the courts, as well as 6 posts in the so-called. self-image cases. In 168 cases, final judgments were brought, including 124 declaring that the contested illustrative statements were incorrect. It is worth remembering that the Bureau of Mirrors are not only prosecutors and not only repercussions of illustrative statements, but also the creation of four powerful online catalogs, which serve the transparency of Polish public life: the catalog of the oppressed, the catalog of the officers of the communist security apparatus, the catalog of the so-called. a party-state apparatus from before 1989 and finally a catalogue of people currently performing the most important public functions. Last year, 12,500 people appeared in these catalogues. new entries. The largest part of the Institute of National Remembrance is the archive. The archive resource of the IPN already counts over 91 km.b. the act. Last year it increased by 450 m.b. Here the question may arise as to how it happened that 15 years after the institute was established, our archives are still growing. Well, still in a lot of institutions, at the moment this concerns mainly police, prisons, partly courts, prosecutors' offices, and voivodeship offices, we discover documents that are being transferred to the Institute of National Remembrance. Also in the Seym Archive last year, such documents were found or rather we managed to obtain them after long efforts. They relate to so-called. the committee of Darkniewski and the Committee on Constitutional Responsibility investigating the matter of martial law. We also take over private collections, including important emigration collections. I will mention that last year we took over, which in fact equals saving from destruction, the collection of Prof. Stanisław Bóbr-Tylingi and Prof. Anna Maria Cienciły. Our archive also collects, in the form of electronic copies, materials from foreign archives, documents that relate to the history of Poland and Poles in the 20th century. Last year we received such copies from Estonian, Georgian, American, Ukrainian and Hungarian archives. In total, over the last five years, we've been able to raise 650,000. That kind of copy of documents. The law, which has entered into force, abolishes the so-called. but the Institute did not wait for this moment of liquidation and in 2015 this collection was reduced by 6819 archival units, which is the best result of its reduction in the entire history of the Institute of National Remembrance. It is worth mentioning that we managed, with cooperation, among others. with Internal Security Agency, read 263 tapes that have been stored in this collection so far and the contents of which we did not know. 2015 was another period of development of the digital archive system, which we started to create in 2012. It is currently the most modern archival information system in Poland and at the same time the archive management system. At the moment, we are already technologically prepared to make documents available remotely to authorized persons. Of course, there is still a planned digitisation of the resource, which is carried out in two basic directions, i.e. saving documents particularly damaged, as well as making digital copies of these documents, which are of the utmost interest to users, so that more people can benefit from them at the same time. For example, the scale of our archive's activities gives information that 65 thousand were realized last year. different types of applications for access to documents. It is worth remembering that the Archive of the Institute of National Remembrance has received new statutory tasks in recent years. These include the drafting of applications for the award of the Cross of Freedom and Solidarity. The IPN is the only institution of the Polish state that can ask the President of the Republic to award this award, which exists only five years, but it already enjoys a huge reputation and an estimate among former anti-communist opposition activists. Last year, we made 882 requests for broadcasting, and we also organised 30 celebrations during which I had the honour of giving these decorations on behalf of the President. Last year, another new task was to implement the Act on opposition activists and repressed persons. Here 735 administrative decisions were issued during the first months of its validity. The archive serves the entire Institute of National Remembrance, but in a special way its contents are used by employees of the Institute of National Remembrance, who of course also use other archives. The Institute's research work is carried out within 11 central research projects and 14 branch projects. We also carry out two major documentary projects in cooperation with NGOs. It is an index of Poles repressed for helping Jews and a project on personal losses and victims of the German occupation. In addition to the witness statements I mentioned earlier, our educational section also carries out the activity of recording in-depth notations with witnesses of history. Last year, 173 of them were carried out. The effects of scientific research are presented during the conference. Last year we implemented more than 50 scientific conferences and more than 20 popularization conferences. Educational activities are probably the form of the implementation of the IPN mission, which is most widely observed, but this is also due to its extremely wide range. It is enough to mention that 35 thousand participated in only one project, the lessons from the latest history in 2015. students. From the new forms we are introducing, I would like to mention the Oxford debates. A few weeks ago, the final of the next tournament of historical debates in Oxford took place in the building of the Polish Sejm, for which I thank you again. Further forms of our educational activity are, for example, a project called "History in Colors" aimed at the youngest. For many years, because of the importance and seriousness of the topics we are dealing with, the Institute has not had its offer for the youngest. We've had her for a few years. Last year, a special educational package was issued within the framework of the project "Colored History," which ordered 14,000. schools and kindergartens, which shows the popularity of our offer and, on the other hand, the great demand for historical education Or at the same time patriotic education at this most basic level. I would like to mention educational projects such as the memory stones, and this cannot be forgotten... - meetings with women who have been through the hell of camps and camps, I will tell you about free Poland. Several hundred project groups, each composed of several students, participate in these projects each year. I pay particular attention to this project or these projects because they allow us to read history in an unusual way. It can be said that, as part of these projects, students, of course with substantive support, discover the past themselves. They meet, talk to witnesses of history, seek documents and often even discover stories that have been unknown to researchers so far. But the most important thing is that it affects that they have a completely different relationship with the past, a completely different, deeper understanding of the importance of the past for our present and for our future. Of course, we also perform various types of competitions, including nationwide ones such as.Equipments and buttons with rust eagle. For many years the institute has also been a patron, sorry, partner of the historical Olympics. The Institute, as you know, has been seeking for many years to change the patrons of streets, squares, bridges that are connected to the communist system. Thanks to the law passed this year, this process will be completed within the next year. For some time now we have added this element: we are showing which people should be patrons of the streets. And that's the name of the project where we published 30 brochures that hit, among others. to the inhabitants of specific streets. Because this is also a dimension of education, this time also aimed at adults, to build this connection with history by knowing who was a patron or who is a patron of some street. We constantly develop our web portals. Last year, four new portals were created, including the portal dedicated to Danuta Sidzikównie and Fr. Kazimierz Jancarz. We are expanding our Truth portal about camps dedicated to German concentration camps and German extermination camps in Poland. Two new language versions of this portal were created last year. Exhibitions prepared by the Institute of National Remembrance continue to be a great success. Last year we prepared 20 new exhibitions, but we also presented 186 exhibitions that were prepared in previous years. In order to show the scale of this project, I will mention that in the years 2011 and 2016, in 5 years, the number of presentations of our exhibitions reached 3.5 thousand, i.e. every year there are 700 presentations of the National Remembrance Institute in various places in Poland, and since these are never one-day events, one can say that every day, for example today. at least a dozen places in Poland, you can get acquainted with our exhibitions. The Institute, given the popularity of cross-country events, is also involved in those races that are related to history. Let me just mention that in the previous year we were once again a partner in the wolf course, in which more than 20 thousand took part in more than 80 villages. persons who, among others, are receive educational material from the IPN. Last year we created a network of History Stops. For many years in Warsaw, our Education Centre History Stop has been working dynamically. We decided to use this brand to meet the need for meetings with history in many places in Poland. These are, of course, not such fixed points, because we cannot guarantee their service, but on selected days of the month there are always initiatives of the Institute of National Remembrance in specific places. It is worth saying that such a wide educational activity of the IPN is also possible thanks to the fact that we can count on the support of many social partners. I will mention only one organization: the World Union of National Army Soldiers, with whom we have been running a network of more than 20 historical clubs for years. Gen. Roweckiego, Grota. But these partners, social organizations, museums, schools are hundreds all over the country. And that's a great support for our business. Education is used to know the past and thus to understand the present. It is used to build memory, especially the memory of those we owe it to, about the heroes of Polish history. But it is worth noting that through knowledge and memory this education also serves to build attitudes. This education also brings important values from the past to our modern life. Let me say that this is not only true for young people. I think we should all, especially those of us who perform public service, look at the memory of the past as a commitment in our service today. The Institute of National Remembrance last year published 195 publications in a traditional, or paper version. In addition, in our digital library we placed 40 publications in an electronic version. Of course, I can't replace them. Let me just mention that when it comes to educational publications, it appeared, among others. Antek Silver's war odyssey, which is very successful, popular history of Boy Scouts and the posture of the presidents of the Republic of Poland on exile, published on the 25th anniversary of the transmission of presidential insignia by President Kaczorowski. As far as scientific publications are concerned, I will mention the collective work devoted to the Fighting Youth Federation and the so-called. the communist elite in Poland, I will mention here the biography of Kazimierz Bartl and Michał Żymierski. With regard to the source work, it is worth noting that last year we published the first volume of the second extended edition of the National Army in documents (...) that is, a fundamental work for the history of the Home Army. It is more extensive than the original London edition of 30%, and bearing a scientific apparatus, will serve historians for the next decades. I would also like to mention that last year we signed a consortium agreement for the release of another important multi-volume source, which is the writings of Cardinal Stefan Wyszyński, the Primate of Poland. Last year we opened two new bookstores of the Institute of National Remembrance in Warsaw and Gdańsk, which is related to the crisis of distribution of books in Poland, especially scientific books, but last year - although in 2011 we started practically from scratch, because for various reasons this distribution network was destroyed - more than 20 thousand were sold. copies more than in previous years. The international activity of the Institute of National Remembrance covers several areas. The first is the dissemination of knowledge about Polish history outside the country. Here one of the most important tools are exhibitions, of course prepared in appropriate language versions. Last year, we presented exhibitions of the Institute of National Remembrance more than 70 times outside the country, especially important ones such as: from war to victory 1939-1989 and Poland Fighting, i.e. reminding us of the key elements of our history. The form of this mission is also the active participation of historians working in IPN in scientific conferences outside the country and the organisation of international conferences in Poland, which last year was more than 20. The second very important area of our activity outside the country is, of course, Polonia, Poles living outside Poland. This is primarily educational activity, including especially supporting Polish schools and Polish teachers working outside the country. We provide educational materials to these schools, organize trainings for teachers, including stationary, multi-day trainings in Poland, Polish meetings with the latest history. The third element of international activity of the IPN is the sharing of Polish experience in settlements with the past. Poland is seen as a country that has developed a model solution on this issue, and last year we shared this experience, among others. with representatives of Albania, Tunisia and Ukraine. Each year, together with the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, we organize the Warsaw Dialogue for Democracy conference, which is also an important element of the reference to Polish experience. The fourth element is multilateral cooperation. The Institute of National Remembrance was a co-founder and is an active member of two international organizations: the European Network of Archive Institutions, dealing with secret services files, and the Platform of European Remembrance and Conscience. We actively cooperate in joint efforts to show above all our experience, the experience of Central and Eastern Europe in the 20th century, i.e. the experience of two totalitarianisms. The last element is bilateral cooperation. Last year, cooperation with the Hungarian National Remembrance Committee, which was recently established, was particularly active. The result of this cooperation is numerous activities this year related to the 60th anniversary of the Poznań June and the Hungarian Revolution. I hope that at least some of your fellow Members had the opportunity to see an exhibition that was presented a few weeks ago before the main entrance to Parliament. It is also worth mentioning that the Institute of National Remembrance also participates in a difficult and heated debate related to Polish-Ukrainian relations in relation to the past. Last year, Ukrainian and Polish institutes of national memory established forms of historical dialogue. This is not an easy dialogue, but it is going on and I am convinced that it will bear fruit in time. In order to serve this mutual understanding, we also published the history of Poland in Ukrainian. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The work of the Institute of National Remembrance can be described - as I did just now - through numbers, individual events, but it can also be done differently, you can refer to the values with which this institution is connected, such as: truth, because why do scientific research serve, if not discovering the truth, what education serves, if not spreading the truth; justice which we can see both through the prism of the investigations being conducted and through the illustrative procedures, but also as symbolic justice, which can be expressed by the good memory of the people who deserved it; the dignity of man, which we can somehow restore after years. I am convinced that, speaking of time of captivity, we are strengthening Polish freedom by building an identity based on the past, we are contributing to building a common good. And it's not just the passwords, it's not the values that we want to give someone else, it's the values that accompany us every day in our work, which is really service. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! In recent days, the employees of the Institute of National Remembrance in addition to many expressions of appreciation could also hear many hurtful opinions about their work. Allow me today, on this presentation of information about our activities in 2015, to the hundreds of employees of the Institute of National Remembrance who work hard - they work hard in the name of the values that I was just talking about - he could thank. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Chairman of the proceedings includes Deputy Marshal Stanisław Tyszka of the Sejm]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-19-sejm-23-1.u253	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to inform you that our discussions are being listened to by young people from the Junior High School. Fr. Jerzy Popieluszko in Majdan Lętowski. Welcome. [[Applause]] I ask Mr Andrzej Matusiewicz to present the position of the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-19-sejm-23-1.u254	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Mr. President! I present the report of the Committee on Justice and Human Rights held on 6 July 2016, which was the subject of a report on the activities of the Institute of National Remembrance in 2015. I would like to stress that the work of the Institute of National Remembrance is very comprehensive. The works concern archival activities, concerning historical documentation, this latest history of ours, concerning research and science, publishing, investigative activities, illustrious matters or finally, as also mentioned by the President, the broadly understood international activity. My report will cover only the most important aspects of this activity and will deal with what was at the committee meeting. As the President presented the work of the Institute of National Remembrance in 2015 very comprehensively in his speech today, it is impossible to avoid certain repetitions here. First of all, the President at the beginning of the speech and at the committee meeting pointed out that it was the year of the 15th anniversary of the Institute of National Remembrance. As far as archival resources are concerned, these resources continue to increase each year as further institutions provide documents that should be in the resources of the Institute of National Remembrance. Recently, documents from private resources have also been adopted. These were mostly documents relating to immigration activities. Currently, the liquidation phase is so-called. It's a restricted collection. It reduced by nearly 7,000. units. Importantly, the Institute of National Remembrance has been able to read the content of parts of magnetic tapes that have been stored in a proprietary collection so far. It will then be possible to make them available to the public. The activities of the former anti-communist opposition activists are linked to the entry into force of the relevant law, which was still pending in the previous parliamentary term. The Institute of National Remembrance is the only legal institution authorised to conduct proceedings concerning the award of the Cross of Freedom and Solidarity, and is the only institution empowered to submit applications to the President of the Republic for this award. The IPN also granted in 2015 the status of anti-communist opposition activist, issued 735 administrative decisions in this area, recognized 613 requests for evidence of opposition activity. This is also necessary for the granting of various powers, which are the responsibility of the President of the Office for Combatants and Repressed Persons. On average, more than 1 000 prosecutors of the Institute of National Remembrance lead every year as far as criminal prosecutions against the Polish nation are concerned. investigations, although the number of prosecutors in recent years, as the President also mentioned, has been reduced by 20%. In 2015 14 indictments were sent to the courts, prosecutors of the Institute of National Remembrance last year questioned more than 4,000. Witnesses. The number of indictments decreased following the resolution of the Supreme Court of May 2011, when the Supreme Court redefined the limitation periods for certain categories of communist crimes. This resulted in the remission of most of the investigations due to the fact that there were also such cases that the perpetrators died. However, it is important that the circumstances of death have been established, especially for those close to their victims. The IPN prosecutors also participated in the process of searching for victims of communist terror. The remains of 385 people were found not only in the post-war period but also by the German occupier. IPN also applies for the transfer of graves, among others. on the Warsaw Link. This year's amendment to the Act on the Institute of National Remembrance introduced new provisions concerning this type of procedure. As far as educational activities are concerned, they took very different forms. I will mention educational projects such as the Polish free Poland - these are meetings with people who have passed the hell of camps and victims, educational project - Lessons from recent history - 35 thousand participated in such lessons with the employees of the Institute of National Remembrance. students, these are meetings often attended by direct witnesses of events and their relations. Each year there is also an exhibition activity - 186 exhibitions from previous years were exhibited, and in 2015 there were 20 new exhibitions. There was also a special activity due to anniversaries - the 75th anniversary of the Katyn crime and the 35th anniversary of the establishment of the Solidarity. All of this also involves the activity of IPN on the Internet and cooperation with TV. As far as research projects were concerned, it was 11 nationwide and 14 smaller, you can say local ones, which were created in different branches of the Institute of National Remembrance, there were 53 scientific conferences, 23 popularization conferences, 195 publications and this is one fundamental masterpiece of the National Army in documents. The sample activity in 2015 covered more than 70,000. illustrative statements, this year of 2015 verified 9460 statements, most of which concerned issues related to parliamentary elections and earlier municipal elections, including in particular cases concerning the vetting of newly elected councillors in local governments of all levels. Activities outside the country - here too IPN is very active. These are educational tasks aimed at Poles living abroad, Polish meetings with the latest history, cooperation with the Institute of Józef Piłsudski in New York - even if this brief review can lead to an important conclusion, how comprehensive the work of the Institute of National Remembrance is and how much it is needed. During the discussion of the report at the committee meeting, Members discussed the need for further functioning at the Institute of National Remembrance, which plays a very important complementary role in documenting historical truth. Members also asked about the huge archives of the Polish People's Republic dignitaries located in private resources, which should be taken over by the Institute of National Remembrance already at the time of its creation, recalling the great danger arising from the storage of these documents - this is an act prohibited under the threat of imprisonment from 6 months to 8 years for the storage of documents forming the resource of the National Remembrance Institute, and this resource is precisely defined in the article. 25 Act on IPN. However, often the search decisions could not be issued because there were no grounds for probabilities, and in this respect the procedure resulting from criminal proceedings must be followed. They were also asked about the case of the physical chemistry expert on the reliability of the documents in the Bolk case. The case of the magistrates was also of interest to the Members, since the previous judicial practice of the Supreme Court was such that it was not necessary to waive the immunity of the judge to be held liable for the deception of the magistrate. The Constitutional Tribunal stated in its ruling a year ago, considering the legal question of one of the district courts, that it is necessary for a judge to be held liable for a illustrious lie to waive immunity by a disciplinary court. And this judgment has caused a lot of dismissal of proceedings against judges - the illustrious liars. Another issue that was of interest to Members is the question about the fifth investigation of Stanisław Pyjas conducted by prosecutors from the IPN Division in Krakow. One of the prosecutors went to another job, and the progress in this investigation was again strongly slowed down because the new prosecutor had to look into this very multi-volume case. The questions also concerned IPN investigations into Soviet and Ukrainian crimes in the Second Republic of Poland. One thing is, you can file charges against the perpetrator who lives in the United States, and there's a request for extradition. It is difficult to cooperate on matters relating to the acquisition of materials in such investigations by the Russian and Belarusian parties, but also by the Ukrainian side. This cooperation, which you also acknowledged in your speech with the Ukrainian Institute of National Remembrance, is very difficult and we do not receive documents from the Security Service of Ukraine. The Commission adopted information from the National Remembrance Institute in 2015 unanimously. The chairman of the committee thanked Mr Łukasz Kaminski for his many years as president of the Institute of National Remembrance on behalf of all members of the committee and his words of appreciation and thanks to all employees of the Institute of National Remembrance in all branches in Poland. These words especially belong to documenting the latest history of Poland. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-19-sejm-23-1.u255	Thank you, sir. The Sejm agreed that in its discussion on this item it would hear ten-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and a five-minute statement on behalf of the circle. I'm opening a discussion. Mr Daniel Milewski, Law and Justice have the floor. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-19-sejm-23-1.u256	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! Mr. President! High Izbo! On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, Law and Justice, I would like to present our position on information on the activities of the Institute of National Remembrance - the Committee on the Investigation of Crimes against the Polish Nationals in the period of 1 January 2015 - 31 December 2015. Memory - it would seem that this concept does not require any explanation. Eventually, each of us remembers something, especially what is happening in our lives. Memory, however, does not only refer to a simple process of recording and re-evoking sensual impressions, associations or information. Memory is also consciousness. Knowing that what is here and now is not shaped only by our personal experiences. It is the knowledge that through memory the past is here and now still present. Next to individual memory is the collective memory, shaped by the nation, memory, which consists of people, dates, places and related events, whose interpretations are passed down from generation to generation. All important events in the history of our country should be nurtured in the consciousness of Poles. For many years we have tried to break the propaganda lie and organized oblivion. Many still do not believe that those who fought for the freedom of the Polish people did so without entering into any agreements with the occupiers. We owe them a memory that's been battered for years. You can't cut it off from history. Information on the activities of the Institute of National Remembrance for 2015 was presented at the meeting of the Committee on Justice and Human Rights on 6 July this year. It addresses mainly issues concerning the transfer of documents to the institute, the liquidation of restricted collections, the activity of criminal prosecution against the Polish nation and the educational activity of the IPN. The archive of the Institute of National Remembrance last year was enriched by about 450 m of act. These documents are transmitted not only by institutions obliged to do so, as has already been mentioned, but also by individuals. The archive also obtains documents concerning Poland and Poles from outside the borders of the Republic of Poland. The collection reserved in the IPN archive is currently in liquidation and has decreased by nearly 7 thousand thanks to cooperation with the services. units. The IPN archive was also active in favour of former anti-communist opposition activists. The IPN has been pursuing procedures for the award of the Cross of Freedom and Solidarity for several years. Last year 735 administrative decisions were issued and 613 applications for proof of opposition activity were completed. The number of investigations conducted by the criminal prosecutions against the Polish nation has been around 1 000 for several years. The IPN ensures that in the course of investigations, facts relevant to the families of victims, which concern, for example, the circumstances of the deaths of their loved ones, are also disclosed. About 4 000 were interviewed in the course of the proceedings. Witnesses. The victims of communist terror are also actively sought. In dozens of cities in Poland, search work was carried out, thanks to which we managed to find the remains. Thanks to the amended act facilitating the exhumation of many graves built at the site of the burial of victims of communist terror, we managed to move - as an example we can give Warsaw's Link - which allows us to carry out exhumation works. The most recognizable area of IPN's activity is educational activity, which takes various forms. The Institute of National Remembrance carried out projects we mentioned, e.g. You can't forget that... - meetings with women who have been through the hell of camps and camps, or I will tell you about free Poland. 35 thousand took part in the project from the newest history. students who were assured of learning about history linked to witness relations or by discovering documents. The IPN also presents numerous exhibitions. Last year there were 20 new ones. IPN activities are also visible on the Internet, social media or educational portals. On YouTube you can watch videos with witness relations. The results of the Institute's research projects are presented at numerous conferences, including international conferences. Their effects are presented in publications published by the Institute. The Institute of National Remembrance also deals with illustrative activities. In 2015, almost 10,000 were verified. illustrative statements, which led to 133 requests for the initiation of the procedure before the courts. The Mirror Office also publishes catalogues on persons being worked out, state apparatus officers and security cameras. The Institute also conducts activities that are mainly educational outside the country. In the information submitted by your President about the Institute's activities, we read that the mission of the Institute of National Remembrance can be expressed by the values on which the work of the National Remembrance Institute is embedded. It serves primarily to discover the truth and restore justice, to build memory that is the foundation of identity. After examining the information contained in the President's information, the Institute should be considered to carry out its tasks properly, competently and fully. Therefore, as a parliamentary club of the information submitted, we acknowledge and evaluate positively. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-19-sejm-23-1.u257	Thank you very much. Mr Wojciech Wilk, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-19-sejm-23-1.u258	Mr. Marshal! Mr. President! High Izbo! On behalf of the Civic Platform Parliamentary Club, I would like to present our position on information about the activities of the Institute of National Remembrance - the Commission for the Investigation of Crimes against the Polish Nationals in the period from 1 January to 31 December 2015. Discovering the truth about the times of World War II and the post-war years, the times of communist dictatorship, restoring justice by prosecuting crimes against peace, humanity and war crimes, building and preserving the memory of those who fought for freedom and independence of their homeland, often paying the highest price, as well as human rights and human dignity, are, in short, the goals that lead to the activities of the Institute of National Remembrance - the Commission for the pursuit of Crime against the Polish National. The information presented on the activities of IPN for 2015 shows how many activities involve their implementation. One of the basic tasks of the mission that has been put before the Institute is the collection of archival materials. Only last year the archive resource of IPN increased by another 450 m.b. the file, and in total it's already over 91 km. As highlighted in the information presented to the Sejm, recently the activities undertaken by the IPN resulted in a significant increase in the amount of material transferred. Importantly, the Institute collects not only documents obtained from government offices and institutions, but also collections from private donors. They are undertaken, among others. efforts to obtain the legacy of outstanding Poles who died outside the country. For example, in 2015 the archives of Prof. Stanisław Bóbr-Tylingi, a Polish emigration historian who died in 2001 in Canada, participated in the Warsaw Uprising, then a soldier of the Świętokrzyskie NSZ Brigade, and Prof. Anna Maria Cienciła, an outstanding American historian of Polish origin, specialist among others. in the field of foreign policy of the Second Republic of Poland, extremely well-deserved for the Polish and Polish affairs. With regard to the materials collected, the so-called continuous reduction was so called. The reserved collection, and hence the publicly available part of the IPN archives, was expanding, which should be considered as a step in the right direction. The availability of documents collected by the Institute is also increasing. thanks to the implementation of the Digital Archive project for several years. As I mentioned at the outset, one of the objectives of the IPN is to build and preserve the memory of those who fought for the freedom and independence of their homeland and human rights and human dignity. It serves this purpose, among others. preparing proposals for the President of the Republic to give the Cross of Freedom and Solidarity to deserved activists of the anti-communist opposition. The Institute is doing well in this task. 882 applications were made last year. Importantly, there are also celebrations where the Crosses of Freedom and Solidarity are presented. It's a symbolic but extremely important way to honor the heroes of our latest history. Next to the archiving of documents and testimonies from the times of World War II and the years of the communist dictatorship, another extremely important element of the Institute's activities is the investigative activity. Last year, IPN prosecutors completed over 1,000. investigations. The majority concerned communist crimes, and nearly 400 German crimes from World War II. In 2015, 14 indictments against 16 persons were sent to proceedings. While the number of cases under consideration is a small, small fraction, it must be accepted that this is partly due to the fact that the proceedings relate to crimes committed many years ago, and partly to the fact that the investigators are also undertaking an explanation of cases where it is known in advance that there will be no possibility to formulate an indictment, it is necessary to agree that it is extremely important not only to prosecute the perpetrators but also to clarify the circumstances of the crime and to establish a list of victims. As far as specific proceedings are concerned, we have an important finding, which was mentioned by the President, among others. in one of the cases of high public interest. It's about the victims of the Augustan manhunt of July 1945. The search for burial sites and remains of victims of communist terror is another element of the work of the Institute of National Remembrance, to which I would like to draw attention. This is because it is not only about reaching the historical truth and establishing the place of the graves of the murdered, but also about taking care of proper burials of the victims of communist crimes and symbolic honoring them. As an example, such works were carried out last year in Bialystok, where the remains of 386 murdered and dead during the German occupation and later were found in the area of the local detention in the last few years. Finding the remains is one thing, but another issue, often extremely difficult, is to identify them. He helps with this, among other things. Polish genetic base created four years ago by the Institute of National Remembrance and the Pomeranian Medical University. Last year she identified five victims of communist terror and two victims of the German occupation. Education is another extremely important activity of the Institute of National Remembrance. As a plus one should consider that it is very wide, taking very different forms. I will tell you about the free Poland, the memory stones or the competition with the rust eagle are some of the many initiatives taken in this area. A valuable project to reach a wide range of audiences is also the creation of a network of stops History, modelled on the existing IPN Education Center in Warsaw since 2006. Janusz Kurtyki. It is worth constantly expanding this network, with particular attention to creating further points of the History Stop in smaller towns. One of the elements of the educational activity is the exhibition offer of the IPN. The fact that these are often exhibitions prepared by specialists from the Institute and that they also reach smaller towns outside Warsaw, especially as these exhibitions are accompanied by lectures and lectures of historians of the Institute of National Remembrance. It also welcomes the fact that the Institute attaches great importance to making more and more use of the Internet in its educational activities. Another huge area of activity of the Institute is scientific activity. Numerous conferences, seminars, popular science sessions, publications draw attention. That's good. It is important that these publications are not only books, but also educational games. Illustrative activities also play an important role in the activities of the Institute. I would also like to point out that the activities of the IPN are not only researching the past, but also responding to current events relating to the subject matter that the Institute is dealing with. An example of such reactions is the case of the Warsaw monument of the Polish-Soviet Brotherhood of Arms, which echoed widely throughout the country. Importantly, the Institute also responds to lying or manipulated publications relating to what happened in Poland during World War II and in post-war times, which occasionally appear in various foreign publications or are presented by foreign institutions. Mr. Marshal! Mr. President! High Izbo! Of course, it is impossible to discuss all aspects of the activities of the Institute of National Remembrance - the Commission for the Investigation of Crimes against the Polish Nationals. It is always so, of course, that some elements of the work could be implemented better, more effectively, but in my opinion the work of the institute should be regarded as very good. It is only a pity that the Law and Justice, through recent actions rather than improving the work of the Institute of National Remembrance, decided to spoil this efficient mechanism with their decisions. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! In conclusion, today's debate must at the same time be a kind of summary of the existing 15 years of activity of the Institute of National Remembrance, because the amendments to the IPN Act recently introduced by the Parliamentary majority, by Law and Justice, will radically change the face of the institutions and the objectives of its action. I think it is also appropriate to thank and respect for the activities of the next presidents of the Institute of National Remembrance, including Dr. Łukasz Kaminski, present here. During their leadership, IPN developed into a good institution dealing with the latest history of Poland. It plays perfectly, I talked about it, its scientific role, it performs a proper illustrative function. The Institute played a great role in the education of Poles, because it cultivates and cultivates, for example, the memory of the cursed soldiers. Lessons in schools, rediscovering local history devoted to resistance to Nazi Germany or communist violence - it was all due, among others. The Institute of National Remembrance. It seems that changes to the IPN Act [[♪ The bell ♪]] This is the end of the Institute in its current form. I hope that both the historians and the employees of the IPN will continue to have reliable rules for their tasks...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-19-sejm-23-1.u259	Thank you very much, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-19-sejm-23-1.u260	Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-19-sejm-23-1.u261	Mr Józef Brynkus, Kukiz,15 has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-19-sejm-23-1.u262	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen! It is known that the successor sleeps. President Janusz Kurtyki had a very difficult task, set a very high bar for him. However, many actions have continued, and new ones have emerged. However, at the turn of 2015 and 2016 there was some reduction in the positive assessment of IPN's work. The question arises as to whether this is the result a new political situation or weakened the work of the Institute of National Remembrance. In my opinion, the affirmative answer to this question - in the sense that it is the result of a new political situation - is only partially true. The fact is that this new situation allowed negative opinions to be expressed with regard to the Institute of National Remembrance, but it also allowed a fairer assessment of its functioning. The report by President Łukasz Kaminski clearly shows that the activities of the Institute of National Remembrance last year, but also earlier, have re-evaluated priorities: from archival, illustrative, scientific, investigative to widely understood educational and popularization. In this case, the achievements of the Institute of National Remembrance are indeed impressive, at least on a quantitative scale, and probably, with few exceptions, on a qualitative scale. I myself have very good experience of cooperating with the Institute of National Remembrance in the field of education, workshops and science, even through the implementation of the grant of the "Soldiers of the Incorruptible Olkuska Land" within the framework of the so-called. The University of Young Inventors. This grant was implemented with great and substantively correct cooperation with the Institute of National Remembrance - a branch in Krakow. I also positively evaluate the activities of the so-called. I'm sending my students or PhD students to the history schools of the IPN. Undoubtedly, the Institute's offer for the youngest generations - games, good comic books, etc. is also getting better. But, as I pointed out, there are also some irregularities in educational and popularization activities. The first issue is the ill-famous exhibition of Majdan, which was realized in 2014, but is also visible in the report of the President of the IPN for 2015. According to the official IPN website, the exhibition was created with its support, and the poster advertising the exhibition promoted the flagship symbolism. In addition, it was added that she was consulted in substance by Dr. Hab. Igor Halagida from the Gdansk branch of the Institute of National Remembrance. After criticism of the border environments of the IPN public education office in Warsaw and Katowice, they separated from this exhibition. The head of the Katowice branch of IPN was fired for this, although there was no official explanation for his resignation, which would be a pity, because it would increase the value of the IPN headquarters as a decision-making centre and at the same time show firm opposition to such a substantive location of the exhibition. The paradox is that the consultant of the exhibition Majdan-Majdan-Igor Halagida received in 2015 the Golden Cross of Merit for commemorating the history of Poland. I understand that there were other justifications for this award than consulting the exhibition Majdan. Equally scandalous, or perhaps even more, was the promotion of the book published in 2015 by Dr. Mariusz Zajączkowski, the Ukrainian underground in Lublin during the German occupation 1939-1944. One of the original meetings took place in Tomaszów Lubelski. What Zajączkowski presented on it was not a novelty in his views, and we know nothing about the Lublin IPN reacting to them. Zajączkowski in an impeccable way, provoking a discussion, thought that the soldiers of the Home Army were the same criminals as the bandits. Later, not provocatively, but quite seriously added that UPA should be placed in the underworld of independence atlas and treated as victims of Stalinism. It is worth asking whether this approach to the issue of flagship and Ukrainian genocide entitles Zajączkowski to sit in the Polish-Ukrainian Historical Forum. Besides, the book and public speeches by Zajączkowski make him doubt his historical workshop, which undermines the good name of other historians of the institute. Zajączkowski doesn't understand because even the circumstances of the reaction of Polish branches of border self-defense to Ukrainian genocide. However, IPN should be assessed not only by reporting but also by other activities and opinions issued in other areas. The report does not show the political dependence of the IPN. This is shown by the seemingly positive opinions of the president of the Institute Łukasz Kaminski, that he managed to save the Institute from marginalization, or even from complete liquidation. The question is at what price - for lack of clarity, clarity in many cases, even in terms of scientific and illustrative activities. This can also be seen indirectly in the report when the President writes that it depends on the judgment of the Constitutional Tribunal. But it was also the result of the evident caution of the IPN arising from the application of this judgment. The state of the Institute of National Remembrance and its activities in 2015 are also the result of the influences of the board of the Institute, which designates its preferred research directions. In many cases IPN and its authorities could not defend their activities, such as the activities of Prof. Krzysztof Szwagrzyk. They only did so when the subject became public-friendly and attractive. The IPN should be the most important institution of historical policy, primarily Polish, not politically correct or limited by ad hoc policy considerations. However, in many cases it can be pushed to the defensive. There's gotta be an example. Completed investigation into the murder in Silken. In this case, full exhumation is necessary, which is sought by many scientific communities, not by relying only on Gross's enunciations. There should be a fair investigation into the so-called. Kielce pogrom. A dynamic international information campaign, as well as an information campaign on German death camps, should be implemented around these problems, but also on others. In Polish historical policy there are many threads that require fair and not politically correct evaluation and relations, e.g. elements of the dispute in Polish-Lithuanian relations: Vilnius case and so-called. Central Lithuania, the attitude of Lithuanians towards the National Army, or e.g. Polish-Slovak: the participation of Slovaks in Nazi aggression against Poland in 1939, the issuing of Poles to Germans entering the Polish Army in the West, cooperation in fighting against the National Army. The fact that this is necessary is witnessed by the recent performance of the late Juraj Bernat.ák, mayor of Trstena in Orava, during the 450th anniversary of the location of the Jabłonka. At that time he found that due to the fact that the apple tree got under Slovak occupation, it was developing. In all these ranges the most important should be the right state of Polish history, and only later the current policy and correctness. An undoubted weakness in IPN's activities is its impact on the academic scientific community. Many historians from the so-called. The historical order uses the archives of the IPN, bases its works on them, but ignores the historians of the IPN themselves. It's just an IPN sticking around in its own sauce. The productivity of his scientific staff is quite limited. However, given the magnitude of IPN's activities on many other issues, knowing that IPN should simply in some cases pursue a more intense and dynamic historical policy, Kukiz15 will accept this information. Here I will add - it is not known whether just under the new IPN Act this institute will work better. The problem is that the parliamentary majority has not decided to adopt solutions that would increase the organisational efficiency of the Institute of National Remembrance. For example, the amendment maintains a flawed form of making available the files collected in the archives of the IPN, which gives greater ease to the officials of the communist authorities of repression than to relatives of persons worked out. In conclusion, once again, Kukiz15 will accept the information contained in the report of the President of the IPN. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-19-sejm-23-1.u263	Thank you very much. Mr Grzegorz Furgo, Modern.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-19-sejm-23-1.u264	Mr. Marshal! Dear Members, Mr Fellowships, Presented to the Marshal of the Sejm on 28 April this year. information already approved by the IPN Council should be considered to be one of the most important in the last few years. It represents the state of the IPN in the last year prior to the entry into force of the new Law on the Institute of Memory. We should also remember the changes announced in the so-called. an act of illustration, as well as a draft amendment of the so-called. a debubbishing bill. First of all, thanks to Dr. Łukasz Kaminski, President of the Institute of National Remembrance, but he did not submit his candidacy in the current competition for this position. Its successor is faced with difficult tasks, mainly the reorganisation of the Institute of National Remembrance in accordance with the Act on IPN adopted despite legitimate opposition comments. There are still many elements that raise our doubts. In 2015, the Council The IPN continued the action launched in 2014 and you have the right to provide legal assistance to the victims of the repression of the Polish People's Republic. New criminal and explanatory proceedings have been launched under this action. However, we do not know at what stage these proceedings are at. It is therefore difficult to judge her progress. As in the case of the action, the last witness. The information shows that 70 proceedings have been initiated. However, we know nothing more about them: neither how long the investigations lasted nor how they ended. This is not the result of the information provided. The fourth part describes the so-called IPN. central research projects. The level of their implementation was positively assessed by the IPN Council on the basis of, inter alia. Reviews commissioned by former IPN employees. This means that we do not have access to objective information about how often similar situations may have occurred in the past year. However, we know, for example, that the reviewer of the book "Rzeczpospolita free people." Janusz Kurtyka in the media was a publisher - Dr. Wojciech Frazik, chief specialist in the Research Paper of the Departmental Office of Public Education IPN. Reviews are widely criticised in the scientific community as not entirely reliable and objective. The head of the institute as an academic should know and anticipate this. ♪ And raise it ♪ ♪ And raise it ♪ Among the numerous publications that result from the implementation of the CPB, there are no articles published in scientific journals highly scored by the Ministry. At another point it was claimed that the performers of one of the CPBs are editors of the "Polish American Studies" magazine. This journal is currently not scored at all by the Ministry. Despite work on the Digital IPN Archive in 2009, it has not yet been connected to the SEZAM database. The tasks of digitization are carried out by the IPN archives, but are underfunded. As a result, IPN boasts of digitization in 2015 of 37 thousand. archive units and 43,000. photographs which are not available, but are not available, please, on-line. In this situation, another organisational cell of the Institute should be established: the digitalization office of the collections, which the new Act on the Institute of National Remembrance does not provide for. In the future, it is also recommended to transfer more resources to IPN for translation into the Polish language of the documents necessary to conduct investigations in law enforcement committees. These measures are currently insufficient and many documents have not yet been translated. It should be appreciated that compared to 2014 IPN published more scientific and popular works, but it should be noted that the number of publications in the Public Education Office, including publications devoted to the structures of the PRL security bodies, has decreased since 2014. However, without such studies, it will not be possible to develop a scientifically sound calculation of the state security authorities, both civilian and military, in the future. The calculation and definition of these bodies so far in the IPN laws makes it much more difficult to prosecute illustrious liars or reduce pension salaries. The result is the practice of the judiciary and law enforcement agencies of the Third Republic of Poland, i.e. the courts and prosecutors, which, when interpreting the illustrative laws of 1997 and 2006, and the IPN laws of 1998 and 2010, had to do so solely on the basis of the provisions of the lower order and even on the basis of historical analyses. An example of such an unfavourable interpretation adopted by the court under the IPN Act is the judgment of the Regional Court in Rzeszów in the case brought against the Institute by an action by a former member of the Ministry of Education and Policy. The result was a request by the first President of the Supreme Court to issue a decision on whether or not to belong to the security authorities of the State of the Board of Communications of the MMA and the communication departments of the voivodship internal affairs offices. The President of the Supreme Court stated that the catalogue of State Security Authorities provided for in the Illustration and IPN laws uses collective terms, creates interpretational difficulties, and therefore many doubts about belonging to the State Security Authorities should be dealt with by the courts in favour of those concerned. Our biggest doubts are raised by a significant part of the information devoted to the activities of prosecutors of the Chief Crimes Commission against the Polish Nationals and Branch Commissions in 2015. There are over 80 prosecutors working in law enforcement committees. In 2015, they handled a total of 1898 cases. This means that on average, one prosecutor handled just over two cases a month. This is not a satisfactory result, especially in comparison with the burden and efficiency of the Mirror Office prosecutors. The prosecutors of the IPN investigation did not have a pre-arranged deadline for the termination of the proceedings. Unfortunately, the section on the employment of prosecutors in law enforcement committees does not explain why the effectiveness of their work in 2015 compared to the previous year has decreased, while at the same time having little burden on prosecutors on their cases. Without a diagnosis of this situation and its causes, established on the basis of quarterly reports submitted by the prosecutors to the Supreme Investigation Division of the law enforcement commission and reports on branch visits of law enforcement committees, it will not be possible to improve it. It is also worrying that the information ignores the issue of financial importance - the tenders announced by the IPN, only in two places laconically mentioning the tender which was won by the company Tref SA. However, there is no information in the tender details for other services than those offered by the company of clubs, such as translation, purchase and repair services for business cars and others. In addition, the information contains a number of minor editorial errors, such as the use of the phrase "doctor's and "habilitation' titles, although these are not titles, but degrees of science. However, ladies and gentlemen, we are in favour of accepting this report, and we still stress that the Institute of National Remembrance is a very important institution. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-19-sejm-23-1.u265	Thank you very much. Mr Krzysztof Paszyk, Polish People's Party, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-19-sejm-23-1.u266	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Mr. President! I have the honour to present on behalf of the Parliamentary Club of the Polish People's Party our position on information about the activities of the Institute of National Remembrance - the Commission for the Investigation of Crimes against the Polish Nationals in the period between 1 January 2015 and 31 December of that year. In our opinion, the Institute of National Remembrance is one of the pillars of the state's historical policy and also plays the role of the wizard of our historical consciousness. The Institute of National Remembrance remains an invaluable center spreading knowledge about the latest history. In this context, it is important to appreciate the scope and momentum of IPN's activities over the past year, but also, what is important, in connection with the 15th anniversary of the initiation of IPN's activities - also during this period. Permanent expansion of archives, reduction of so-called. The collection of the reserved, the development of the Digital Archive, the recognition of well-deserved opponents, the number and weight of investigations conducted, as well as the search for remains of victims of post-war terror and many other actions deserve the words of recognition and highest approval. The educational and publishing activities of the institute, especially those addressed to schoolchildren, are also commendable. This is, in our opinion, a very important activity, aimed at educating the next generations. It makes good use of all modern technology, including media. An important field of activity of the Institute of National Remembrance remains the commemoration of important anniversaries for our country. In 2015, it focused on the anniversaries of the Katyn murder, the 16th trial or the Augustan manhunt. As a representative of the Parliamentary Club of the Polish People's Party, I would like to draw attention to the equally important anniversaries of the current and the next year, because the years 2016 and 2017 are the anniversaries of the post-war referendum and elections to the Sejm. Both were forged, destroying the terror and persecutions of the then opposition, which was then the Polish People's Party. Taking advantage of this opportunity, I would like to ask: Is the Institute of National Remembrance intended to commemorate and bring to the Poles both these dramatic events, as well as, what is important, uneven fight against communist terror, which Mikołajczyk's folk movement caused after the war? In the year in which there is also a round 90th anniversary of the May bombing, it cannot be asked whether the Institute of National Remembrance intends to remind Poles of the circumstances of the bombing, as well as, perhaps even more importantly, the consequences of this event. Projects undertaken in May this year they appear to be far from sufficient in this respect. The May bombing and the ensuing lurking state into authoritarianism have a particular dimension today, in the context of the constitutional crisis. In our opinion, it is the duty of the Institute of National Remembrance to remind Poles of what ends with moving away from democratic principles for the sake of a strong hand and what far-reaching consequences this can cause. Nevertheless, despite these reflections, which I have allowed myself to mention, the Parliamentary Club of the Polish People's Party is in favour of accepting information about the activities of the Institute of National Remembrance. On this occasion, we would like to thank the President for the work he has done with his colleagues for the past term of office. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-19-sejm-23-1.u267	Thank you very much. Mr Kornel Morawiecki, Mr Free and Mr Solidarni have the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-19-sejm-23-1.u268	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! This change of tone, which we are seeing here, is already very promising and very happy, because this term of office of the Institute of National Remembrance passed under the hidden and open threat of even the existence of this institute, such voices spread from parts of the Polish Parliament, government, legal circles. And a great credit to the current management, your President, is that he saved this vital role of the Institute of Memory, carried this ship through these turbulent years after the death of the President of Kurtyka, even though he had less powers as President, even though he had advice not exactly favorable and unfavorable political environment, Polish environment governing Poland. Now we all thank him. I would like to join this thank you warmly, because it is a great credit, and I would also like to ask future management to take such painful and terribly politically important matters for Poles, symbolic, such as the death of Fr. Jerzy Popieluszko, murdering him because the situation in which 40 million Polish people cannot know the truth about one of the most symbolic events in their history is very grim. The whole environment and government, and us, Members, also the new leadership of the Institute of National Remembrance, I ask you to help me explain such serious and sinister mysteries. Thank you again on behalf of the wheel for a five-year term. Of course, we accept the report and thank you for the 15-year work of the Institute, because it brought the truth about Poland closer. The values that the President was talking about are now more expensive and more obvious to us than it was before the beginning of this term. Thank you so much for this. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-19-sejm-23-1.u269	Thank you very much. Let's get to the questions. If any of your fellow Members would like to speak, please. I'll close the list after the first question. Time - one and a half minutes. Mr Józef Brynkus, Kukiz,15 has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-19-sejm-23-1.u270	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Mr. President! Me asking questions, but also earlier, I was in a bit of a difficult role, because for me, the Institute of National Remembrance is just an agenda that should be a priority. I often use archives and therefore simply think that the Institute of National Remembrance should be exemplary. Besides, I often encounter criticism at the university level and defend the Institute of National Remembrance. Therefore, I suffer from some shortcomings in the work of this institute or organizational disabilities. That's why I wanted to ask you two questions. One question, very detailed, concerns the calendar which was produced by the Institute of National Remembrance Branch in Szczecin and which was destroyed for various reasons. I have a question: Why did this happen? And if so, who was responsible? The second question is, I would say, more organizational, about enabling easier use of the harvest, but also leading, for example. The Commission shall adopt implementing acts laying down detailed rules for the implementation of this Regulation, in accordance with Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council concerning the implementation of Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council laying down the rules and general principles concerning mechanisms for control by Member States of the Why, Mr President, didn't you take action to change the procedure, to establish a civil procedure, to relieve you of the costs, as well as the investigative post of the Institute of National Remembrance? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-19-sejm-23-1.u271	Thank you very much. Mr Paweł Szramka, Kukiz.15.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-19-sejm-23-1.u272	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! In general, the illustrative directories are being supplemented too slowly. This applies both to persons performing public functions and to persons being worked out. Most of them are still not placed in directories that are supposed to lead the illustrative pawn. With regard to persons being worked out, maybe you should entrust the archive pawn and hand over the personnel who do not perform these tasks in the mirror section? Especially since the documentation is still in the resources of the IPN archive. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-19-sejm-23-1.u273	Thank you very much. Mr Zbigniew Chmielowiec, Law and Justice have the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-19-sejm-23-1.u274	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! I have one brief question for the rapporteur. The mirroring in Poland has been in progress since 1999 and also includes justice workers. Has the Mirror Division of the Institute of National Remembrance carried out a magnification of common court judges? Were there such cases in 2015, during the reporting period? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-19-sejm-23-1.u275	Thank you very much. Mr Marek Rząsa, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-19-sejm-23-1.u276	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! Mr. President! High Izbo! Two short questions. Is the IPN prepared to implement new laws on the protection of national memory sites? I wanted to ask you what would happen to the Committees for the protection of places of memory and martyrdom. By the end of July, they operate at the voivodeships, while from August they are to operate at the IPN branches. But what about the committees operating in cities where there are no divisions of IPN, such as Bydgoszcz, Gorzów, Olsztyn and Kielce? As a teacher, I would like to thank the President very warmly for his educational activities, especially those aimed at children and young people. And, by the way, I would very much ask you, President, that one of the last decisions be to give a quick tutoring to Ms Annie Zalewska, Minister of National Ignorance, on Silk, events in Jedwabne, Kielce and the meaning of the word "failed." The Minister recently said that she would encourage teachers to be courageous, not political correctness and manipulation. Perhaps the compensatory activities carried out by an experienced research worker of the IPN will cause him to start with himself. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-19-sejm-23-1.u277	Thank you. Mrs Iwona Michalek, Law and Justice have the floor. There is no Member. Mrs Ewa Tomaszewska, Law and Justice have the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-19-sejm-23-1.u278	Mr. Marshal! Mr. President! High Izbo! The creation of the Institute of National Remembrance was not easy. It has too many opponents rooted in the previous system. But its functioning is invaluable. I would like to ask whether there will be published material from investigations into cases that have been statute-barred, and whether there are files from the martial law period that are randomly missing? For example, the file on the internment and arrest of a particular person is, and the file on interrogation and surveillance and detention in the village of residence is not available. And additional question: Will the museum created in Warsaw near Rakowiecka be part of the IPN, or will it be a separate entity? Will the performances prepared by young people in the context of the History Stop continue? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-19-sejm-23-1.u279	Thank you very much. Mr Maciej Masłowski, Kukiz.15.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-19-sejm-23-1.u280	Mr. Marshal! Mr. President! In the information presented, President Kaminski praises the established international cooperation, an activity consisting of among others. on numerous foreign trips. I do not want to be malicious, but in the context of cooperation with the Ukrainian IPN it is difficult not to doubt the deeper meaning of this cooperation. Please answer: Did employees of the Institute of National Remembrance also travel to non-European countries, such as: Australia, New Zealand, or other continents? If so, what was the purpose of these trips, and what was the cost? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-19-sejm-23-1.u281	Thank you very much. Mr Jarosław Porwich, Kukiz,15 has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-19-sejm-23-1.u282	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The reading of the IPN President's report, but also the generally available data, naturally provokes the question: Why is it more important in investigations into communist crimes to get someone indicted, and - I have the impression - a more in-depth explanation of cases or cases is less important? Why is it that, when it is said that there are no living guilty crimes who should be on the bench of the defendants, investigations often become in a sense unproductive, because they are remitted? After all, we know that the whole mass of communist crimes, like many Nazi crimes, still needs to be clarified. Why is there no further investigation, full investigation of these cases? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-19-sejm-23-1.u283	Thank you very much. Mr Jerzy Meysztowicz, Modern.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-19-sejm-23-1.u284	Mr. Marshal! Mr. President! High Izbo! The Modern Club announced that it would be in favour of the report. We have the opportunity to meet with the President for the last time, because he is finishing his term as President of the IPN, and therefore I will allow myself to ask a question about the issue at the beginning of this year, because the President will no longer have the opportunity to answer that question later. I mean, of course, the February case, when the documents were found in General Kiszczak's villa, all the documents concerning the act Bolka, which have not yet been fully verified, have been presented to the public. I have a question: Did the IPN act a little selectively, or all the materials found in the villa in February were already made available on the same basis What are the documents of TW Bolka? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-19-sejm-23-1.u285	Thank you. Mr Stefan Romecki, Kukiz.15.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-19-sejm-23-1.u286	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I'd like to ask you a quick question. In the information about the activities of IPN - let me remind you: in point 3 (1) - the Polish-Ukrainian Forum of Historics is mentioned, which was decided in May. r. In addition to the laconic information, I did not see any concrete details there. Please say: What is the effectiveness of this forum, in particular in view of what is happening in Ukraine? I mean building the cult of the murderer Bandera and Ukrainian nationalists, as well as signals of total denial of the participation of Bandera in genocide carried out in Volhynia by the OUN and UPA? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-19-sejm-23-1.u287	Thank you very much. Mrs Iwona Michalek, Law and Justice have the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-19-sejm-23-1.u288	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! In connection with the information of the President of the Institute of National Remembrance, I would like to receive information of another type, namely the study of genocide in Volyn. I happen to go to Ukraine every year with a motorcycle association. I have the impression that when it comes to what's going on there, those places that are commemorated, they do it from the needs of the heart, those who want to commemorate these places because of their families, but not only. I wanted to find out: What was the scope of the IPN research in this area exactly, how many people carried out this research, what was the financial scope of this research, what conclusion did you possibly come up with? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-19-sejm-23-1.u289	Thank you very much. The list of Members registered in the vote has been exhausted. I would ask you to take the floor of the President of the Institute of National Remembrance - the Commission for the Investigation of Crimes against the Polish National Mr Łukasz Kaminski.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-19-sejm-23-1.u290	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Thank you so much for all your questions. The first one was asked by Mr Brynus, which concerned the 2013 calendar issued in 2012. It doesn't concern the information I've had the honour of presenting, but of course I'll answer. There has indeed been a mistake, the calendar has been printed again, corrected. It was prepared in cooperation with one of the NGOs in a very short period of time, which obviously does not justify it, but actually there was such a mistake. This was also due to the omission of the review procedure. The responsible have been instructed not to do so. If there was a normal review procedure, that wouldn't have happened. I will immediately refer to one of the earlier statements. The Institute of National Remembrance has strict review procedures for both scientific and educational publications. As far as scientific publications are concerned, these are always reviews, one of which is the review of an institute employee and the other - the review of a university employee or a science academy. I believe that this demonstrates a high standard of scientific publications. With regard to the revision of the illustrative procedure and why we did not initiate it, the Institute of National Remembrance unfortunately does not have a legislative initiative. The illusory procedure depends on the shape of the illusory law, so its change is possible by the High Chamber, but not by the Institute of National Remembrance. I will refer here to the comments relating to our archive. The Digital Archive cannot be connected to the SEZAM database, because the functioning of state archives and the archives of the Institute of National Remembrance are governed by completely different legal acts. So the institute can do a lot, but in terms of changing the law. Of course, we can participate in the debate, in the discussion, but we do not have a legislative initiative. Mr Szramka's question concerning two catalogues of persons performing public functions. This directory is updated on an ongoing basis. Within a few days after the change, e.g. as Minister, President of the City, Member, if this happens, he is immediately supplemented, so there is no delay. On the other hand, when it comes to the catalogue of persons being processed, it is indeed extended relatively slower than others, but it must be borne in mind that the placement of the data in this catalogue requires the consent of the person concerned, so first we must reach this person, make a written request, this person must answer in writing, and not everyone answers. On the other hand, we cannot transfer this task to the archives because it is regulated by the law. Therefore, if it were the will of the High House to set up these catalogues for the archive, the law should be amended. There was a question addressed to the rapporteur, but maybe I can help him. As regards the judging processes concerning judges, such processes took place also last year. Of course, at the moment, I am unable to provide full statistical information, but we will give it in writing. Mr Rozsa's question about the National Memory Committees. In general, as the High House knows, we are at the moment, I would say, transitional, there will be a new president in a moment. I have, of course, prepared with my colleagues a concept of the work of these committees, which should start on 1 August, but whether or not this concept is accepted will be the result of the decision of the new management. In relation to the current state of affairs, the Act expressly states that there can be only one committee with one division, i.e. all the on-the-spot committees, which, for example, In Warsaw they were operating in the districts - not only was there a city committee, but there were also committees in the districts - they would cease to exist and nothing would replace them. This will certainly be from the perspective of people involved in some complication, in addition, it is worth recalling, these committees will be 11, i.e. there will be even less of them, than there are voivodships in Poland, because our branches under the law are just 11. Ms Eve Tomaszewska's question on the publication of closed investigation material. Of course, it's possible, and it's happening. I gave an example of an investigation into the assassination of the Holy Father, and there are other examples. Surely more could be done here, this is a field of activity that could be developed, although it also has its own legal regulations, because even the investigation decommissioned is subject to certain rigor, it is not the same archival material as other documents in our archive. As far as the file on martial law is concerned, do they find themselves in any way, it is those types of documents that you spoke about, namely documents concerning interrogation, surveillance, unfortunately not. What we're discovering is, for example, what we're discovering. in the penitentiary units, certain materials concerning persons arrested and their stay in a place of isolation, but unfortunately, apart from exceptional situations such as those just took place in February this year, we are not dealing with the discovery of new materials, let's say, of an operational nature. Will the museum on Rakowiecka be part of the institute? It will not be, because it is part of the Ministry of Justice, specifically the Prison Service, but I am glad - and this also in a sense shows the rank of the Institute - that the director of this museum was just an employee of the Warsaw branch, so I am convinced that the cooperation between our institutions will be very close at the time of the creation of such a museum, because I cannot imagine it being possible to establish such a museum without even reaching into documents, iconographic materials from our resources. When it comes to performances prepared by young people in our educational center they. Janusz Kurtyki, it is of course this educational activity that is being conducted and will continue. There was a question about going to non-European countries. Everything is described here in the information, but of course I will gladly give this information. There have been trips, for example. to Canada and the United States related to the opening of our exhibition, because I assume that if we have an exhibition at the leading American or Canadian university, it is worth combining it, for example. with a lecture by a historian at the Institute of National Remembrance. Our educators participated in the Polish schooling convention in the United States, conducting workshops for teachers. So it's this kind of trip. As I say, they're all listed in the information. On the other hand, I do not recall that any departures took place last year in the particular countries which Mr said would be mentioned. Question about the investigation. Absolutely not that an investigation where there's no way to prosecute someone is less important. I also tried to talk about it during my speech. On the contrary, we have the statutory obligation of the prosecutor of the Institute of National Remembrance to make a full explanation of the circumstances of the crime and, what is important, to determine the victims of this crime, so that here absolutely it is not so, these investigations take place in the same way as those in which there is a chance to bring the persons responsible before the court. Mr Meysztowicz's question was about the files found in Czesław Kiszczak's villa, whether only these were made available. No, all files that were transferred to the archives of the Institute of National Remembrance are available, as is the case with documents occupied at Wojciech Jaruzelski's house - those which by law were transferred to the Institute are transferred to our archive and are available on general terms. Polish-Ukrainian Historical Forum, question about efficiency. One year after its creation, it is difficult to measure the effectiveness of this type of activity. So far there have been two meetings, another one is planned. We took a cycle of two meetings a year. This is a difficult dialogue, but he also has a chance, in this context, which Mr Bandera referred to, in the context of this disturbing Polish cult in Ukraine, to bear fruit, in my opinion, and it is not that these fruits will be within a few months or a year. Mrs Michalek asked about commemorating the victims of Ukrainian nationalists, the places where these people are buried. I would like to mention two points here. First of all, for a few years now, we've been running a project to establish a number, I'm sorry, not a number, but a list of victims, it's about establishing a list of victims by name. This is a project that is run by two employees of the Rzeszow branch, but also external associates. There are already publications that show victims, for example. on the scale of the commune, on both sides, they are also Polish victims, and Ukrainian victims. To date, however, the Institute has not had formal competence to engage outside the country in such activities as cemeteries or the construction of cemeteries. Although it is worth mentioning that Dr. Leon Popek, probably a well-known figure, an employee of the institute, who devoted a large part of his work as part of his work at the institute of this type of activities, will now certainly be able - I am convinced - to develop this activity. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-19-sejm-23-1.u291	Thank you very much. Please take the floor of the representative of the committee of Mr Andrzej Matusiewicz.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-19-sejm-23-1.u292	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! First of all, I would like to refer to the speech by Wojciech Wilk, a representative of the Civic Platform Club, who raised the fact that this year's amendment of the Act has changed the scope of the IPN, which is completely wrong. The core tasks of the IPN continue to be tasks in the field of archival, investigative, illustratoring, research, educational and exhibition activities, including international activities. Only the problem was something else, because it is necessary to remember how in previous terms the IPN was treated by the then government majority, as it was reduced every year budget. When in the Senate of the previous term we tabled amendments to increase this budget, all of these amendments were always rejected, so the IPN worked under the conditions that allowed it to have budgetary resources. After all, the number of prosecutors has been reduced rather than increased, because it is known that all these witnesses are so 70 years old plus, those who remember anything else from those periods under investigation, whereas the number of prosecutors has been reduced by 1/5 in all branches of the Institute of National Remembrance investigators. On the other hand, when referring to Mr Zbigniew Chmielowiec's question concerning the vetting of judges, we must return to history. We remember the beginning of the 1990s when one of the presidents of the Supreme Court came out with such a thesis that judging judges was completely unnecessary, that judges would purify themselves. Unfortunately, this was not the case, and after 1999, many judges committed a illustrative lie, i.e. They've made non-truthful illustrative statements. The illustrious lie is a crime and there was a case-law of the Supreme Court that IPN prosecutors in these cases could direct the indictments of the illusory act and individual judges could be responsible for the offence of the illustrious lie without having previously waived the immunity of the judge by the disciplinary courts. However, more than a year ago, the Constitutional Tribunal issued such a ruling that it should first be the waiver of the immunity of the judge. Many proceedings have therefore been terminated. Of course, it doesn't close the way for this procedure to lead again, but disciplinary proceedings are very long-term, there is the first and second instance. These are disciplinary courts that make up the judges themselves. We know that these procedures often take a very long time for various reasons. Some of these judges continue to rule, even though they are illustrative liars. That's the case. I will also refer to Mrs Iwona Michalek's question. Although you asked about the survey of genocide in Volyn, this genocide also took place in the territory of today's Podkarpackie or Lublin Voivodeship. There's actually a lot of investigations going on there. There is such a situation that these investigations have great historical value, because not everything that historians can investigate can also be investigated by prosecutors, interrogating hundreds of witnesses who directly saw these genocides in the villages of Podkarpacie and Lublin. Unfortunately, most of the proceedings are already taking place in such a way that the waiver provisions are in place. As far as I know - and I think that the President of the IPN will confirm this - there is one such procedure where the perpetrator may be accused of being extradited. He is a citizen of the United States, and of course he is already very old. This is the case, but the role of these prosecutorial investigations is very important because they complement this historical documentation. These proceedings should continue. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-19-sejm-23-1.u293	Thank you very much. The discussion is closed. The Committee on Justice and Human Rights requests that the information contained in print No 497 be accepted. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. I'm ordering a three-minute recess. [[Adjournment from 10 a.m. 16 min 47 hrs 16 min 53]] I'm reopening the session. We proceed with the examination of item 9 of the agenda: First reading of the government draft law on trust services and electronic identification (print No 713). I ask the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Development of Mr Tadeusz Kościński to present the justification for the bill.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-19-sejm-23-1.u294	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I present a draft law on trust services and electronic identification aimed at ensuring the conditions for implementing eIDAS, Regulation No 910/2014 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 23 July 2014 on electronic identification and trust services for electronic transactions in the internal market, by: point 1 - adapting the national legal order to comply with the eIDAS Regulation by amending the laws inconsistent with the EU Regulation, including the repeal of the existing e-signatation law; point 2 - regulating the areas identified in the eIDAS Regulation, specifying at national level, and in particular the regulation of supervision of trust services; point 3 - introducing changes to the entire legal system in connection with the harmonisation of terminology at European level, including. by replacing the concept of secure electronic signature verified by an important certificate qualified by a qualified electronic signature. This law will have the following significant effects: supervision of trust services, including e-signatures, will be transferred from the Ministry of Development to the Ministry of Digitalisation. The national procedure necessary for the notification of electronic identification means shall be introduced. Administrative and criminal sanctions for qualified trust service providers will be regulated. Work on adapting the national legal order to the eIDAS regulation is being carried out in stages due to a narrow delegation to the adoption of this law, as well as the duration of the eIDAS Regulation. The eIDAS Regulation sets out definitions, safety levels and legal implications for a number of trust services in the field of Community law. The major changes taking advantage of the new opportunities provided by eIDAS in public administration will be prepared this year in the framework of another legislative act aimed at developing and seizing trust services in public services. Many issues, such as: Regulation of electronic service, including administrative, civil, judicial and fiscal procedures, requires in-depth consultation with both potential suppliers and public operators and service users. The coordinator of this area will be the Minister of Digitization. The eIDAS Regulation is directly applicable in the national legal order from 1 July this year. It should be borne in mind that EU legislative and standardisation work on delegated and implementing acts in connection with eIDAS continues. Technical and organisational changes related to the alignment with the eIDAS Regulation are currently being implemented in all Member States. The most important is the implementation of recognised qualified signatures, stamps and time stamps from other Member States. The eIDAS Regulation and the draft law ensure the unification of trust services in the European Union. By submitting this bill, I am counting on the support of the High House. Thank you kindly.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-19-sejm-23-1.u295	Thank you very much, Minister. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would listen to the five-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and the circle. I'm opening a discussion. Mr Witold Czarnecki, Law and Justice have the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-19-sejm-23-1.u296	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour on behalf of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice to present to the High House the position of my club on the government draft law on trust services and electronic identification along with draft implementing acts, Parliamentary printing No 713. 3 April 2014 The European Parliament has adopted Regulation No 910/2014 of the European Parliament and of the Council on electronic identification and public trust services in relation to e-commerce in the internal market. This regulation operates under the short name eIDAS regulation, from electronic identification and trust services. At the outset, I would like to stress that the regulation is an act which directly and uniformly regulates a particular problem across the European Union, unlike a directive, which is only a Community legal framework for a particular problem. The eIDAS Regulation repealed Directive 1999/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council as from 1 July 2016. 93/EC of 13 December 1999 The aim of the eIDAS Regulation is to increase confidence in electronic activities between citizens, businesses and public authorities, thereby contributing to the development of online services, e-business or e-commerce in the economic area of the European Union. Today, citizens of EU countries cannot make full use of these services because electronic identification systems are not recognised in other Member States. The eIDAS Regulation lays down the principles of mutual recognition of electronic identification means and the principles of cooperation, including in the regulated area, between Member States of the Union. The current legal solutions in Poland do not agree with the regulation mentioned above and therefore it is necessary not only to repeal the Act on electronic signature, but also to refrain from seeking national solutions, except for the issues identified in the Regulation as being within the competence of the Member States. The issue of safe electronic signature and time marking has been regulated in Polish law so far. The government bill introduces into the Polish legal system a whole range of new concepts and necessary changes in ordering such a state, such as to ensure the consistency of the Polish legal system. The Trust Services and Electronic Identification Act follows the eIDAS Regulation by introducing a closed catalogue of trust services such as electronic seal, electronic time stamp, e-service service or authentication of websites, although some of these services are partly regulated but providing the legal basis for issuing the necessary implementing acts. Finally, I would stress that the Act assumes that the supervisory authority for trust services will be the Minister responsible for IT, although the existing structure based on the National Certification Centre remains within the national trust infrastructure. [[NCC]] operating within the National Bank of Poland. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Parliamentary Club Law and Justice supports the government draft law on trust services and electronic identification. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-19-sejm-23-1.u297	Thank you very much. Mr Andrzej Halicki, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-19-sejm-23-1.u298	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! As my previous speakers said, this is a document, print 713, actually related to the legal order, a document which entered the national legal order on 1 July, because, of course, this project is intended to implement the law of the European Union and serves this, mainly in the final space. That's what the government's focused on today. It is important to mention this, because when we talk about the whole task that we are facing, it is, of course, much wider and much richer in terms of both normative issues and tools and their application. It is clear that the essence of progress is the legal alignment of classical paper documents with those electronic documents, i.e. the issue not only of electronic signature and profile that can serve this purpose, but also of electronic seal. It is worth noting that printing 713 does not make use of these possibilities, namely, in short, today we are clearly focusing on the implementation of this part, which concerns facilitation for citizens. We are not expanding, and I hope that this will be a stage of very fast, further work, these actions to balance the documents issued by the administration, i.e., in short, electronic seals, services and forms that offices can make for us or companies as legal entities. I pay attention to this because it is extremely important and this is a milestone in terms of needs. Today we have such a legal situation that we can receive some documents in electronic form, e.g. a copy of the civil act, the birth certificate. These are documents that we can already receive in this version today, this is our choice whether we want a paper version with a stamp or in electronic form, but it is not common and in this direction the activities of both ministries should be directed, because I understand that the supervision of the Ministry of Digitalization, today appropriate and intentional, will also increase the work in this direction. On this issue there was, and last year, and this year also, a broad consultation with the Chambers, a broad public consultation. This is also pointed out by the actors, because this limitation causes costs or barriers. If we are talking about cross-border and equal use of these tools, today Polish legal entities will not have this possibility and other Member States of the Union will have it. Therefore, it is clear that printing 713 should have our support, has our support - I say this on behalf of the Civic Platform Club, but at the same time we stress that this is not the full task that we face. I consider the proper supervision of the Ministry of Digitality appropriate because, in fact, and in substance, and technically, there must be one body that has this important and very binding role here. It seems that this is one of the major challenges, because it is not just a matter of supervision, it is a matter of also maintenance, knowledge, everything that concerns the technical aspect of this task, it must also be safe and reliable, and in this respect we certainly have a large area to work with, to work with. I understand that the printing will be sent to the committee and to the committee for further work, but I would like to say that in view of the fact that 1 July has passed - the only question I have is why we are talking not in June or not earlier, but in July - this justifies the fact that this printing will probably be analysed as the first stage of a larger whole. To this extent, the Civic Platform Club will support and support these solutions. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-19-sejm-23-1.u299	Thank you. Mr Maciej Masłowski, Kukiz.15.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-19-sejm-23-1.u300	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! In 2014 the Council The European Parliament has adopted a regulation on electronic identification, called eIDAS. The main objective of this Regulation was to increase confidence in the electronic way of dealing with matters between citizens and public authorities and businesses. This proposal is therefore intended to implement European Union law - Council Regulation 910/2014 - and will replace the Electronic Signature Act, which seems to be insufficient today. The changes that have been made seem appropriate. They significantly extend the catalogue of electronic services, in addition to electronic signatures and marking, sometimes it will also include e-stamping, e-service, preservation of seals and signatures and validation services. Supervision of qualified and unqualified services will also be established. The issue of electronic identification is crucial when we are talking about building a modern e-state in which electronic services will be subject to low risk, hence the need for reliable verification of both broadcasters and applicants. This is not just a technical problem, the law in this area must protect citizens from the risk of abuse, without creating too many barriers. In line with the objectives of the project, the regulations introduced can contribute to increasing the participation of citizens in public life. Let us remember that the legislative initiative has a group of at least 100,000. citizens. The detailed procedure is laid down in the Act of 24 June 1999 on the implementation of the legislative initiative by citizens. The right to petition for many years has not been regulated in detail in the law. The petition law was not adopted until 11 July 2014 and entered into force on 6 September 2015. The proposed amendments were intended to cover, inter alia, the mandatory electronic signature of the petition submitted, but the consultation decided to leave this option as an option. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-19-sejm-23-1.u301	Thank you very much. Mr Paweł Pudłowski, Modern.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-19-sejm-23-1.u302	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! The Council of Ministers adopted a draft law on trust services and electronic identification submitted by the Minister for Development. This is not the first time that we get a piece of legislation after a while that should be implemented, and under the pressure of time we will act, but as representatives of the Committee on Digitisation, Innovation and Modern Technology, we commit that the quality of work on this document will above all be important for us. The project is the first stage of the work related to the preparation of Poland for the application of the EU eID and trust services regulation for electronic transactions in the internal market, so-called. the eIDAS Regulation. As we have heard in previous statements, the regulation will help to harmonise trust services and supervisory rules and allow mutual recognition of electronic identification measures, especially by public sector institutions. Currently, some trust services, including electronic signature and time marking, governed by the 2001 Electronic Signature Act, will have to be amended and a new law enters into this. It should be stressed that this is only the first stage - like Minister Halicki I hope - of working on a much wider range of e-services that we will regulate. The EU regulation significantly extends the catalogue of trust services, i.e. in addition to electronic signature and marking, it sometimes introduces the e-seal, e-service, seal and signature maintenance and validation services as a definition. The draft law defines that it will be the Minister of Digitization who will supervise compliance with trust services regulations. Supervision will involve both qualified and unqualified trust services, and we consider this to be the right course. We signal at all that the Minister of Digitization should play a greater role in our public life, for example. in the area of IT procurement and purchases. It should be there that the competences of those who should be involved in these matters, or at least have the right of veto, should these tenders be organised by other institutions, other ministries. The eIDAS Regulation introduces new concepts on the legal market, but they will come out of use such as a qualified electronic signature or a qualified electronic time stamp. The regulation also introduces an electronic notification and identification mechanism for the provision of online services, and this is of particular importance because, being inside the European Union, we will honor each other with such trusted profiles. The law regulates the competence of the Member States - which is important - of the supervision and certification of trust service providers, the liability for compensation for such services and the insurance against the civil liability of the providers of those services. The Modern Posel Club is in favour of referring the bill to the committee and joining the work immediately. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-19-sejm-23-1.u303	Thank you. Mr Mieczysław Kasprzak, Polish People's Party, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-19-sejm-23-1.u304	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! On behalf of the Polish People's Party Parliamentary Club, I would like to state that we will support further work on the 713 print project on trust services and electronic identification. This is a very important act because of solutions that go with the spirit of time. We remember exactly how the electronic signature was introduced, what an innovative solution it was. Today we say it's not enough to move on. It is also an important law because it is making life easier for people, citizens because they will have free, secure access to many services. It is also important for entrepreneurs to make the possibility of using the latest technologies, with progress, with access to databases available in a situation where bureaucracy must be fought. It is also important because there are new threats, new dangers in the world of electronics, in the world of digitalization, and it is important to use here safe, accepted by all solutions, such as that will protect us from what is happening also in the world of business, electronics and access to our personal data. Therefore, the Polish People's Party accepts these actions, which bring progress, innovation and modernity, while we will always be opposed if they are solutions that will reverse us in progress, and many such examples we have recently, because this is the way to nowhere, the way that puts Poland in a worse position. The solutions proposed in the Regulation of the European Parliament are right and should be continued. And I think that again -- because progress in this area is very big -- we're going to have to change it and run forward, apply it. newer solutions. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-19-sejm-23-1.u305	Thank you very much. Let's get to the questions. If any of your fellow Members would like to speak, please. I'll close the list after the first question. Time - one and a half minutes. Mrs Marta Golbik, Modern.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-19-sejm-23-1.u306	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! It is undoubtedly important to approve the introduction of new regulations that create innovative services that improve economic turnover and the functioning of public administrations. The digitalisation of services is extremely important for the development of entrepreneurship, among others. by allowing traders to participate freely in tenders throughout the European Union, to sign trade agreements or to enter into financial commitments. I have three questions about the proposed bill. First: What entities will ultimately be able to verify signatures, stamps or seals? What existing rules would require the validation of newly introduced services and the adaptation of software to the standards resulting from the regulation or the proposed law? As you know - what my second question concerns - every Polish citizen, organization or entrepreneur has the right to handle the matter electronically. So what is the idea of applying new regulations also so-called. people excluded digitally? What kind of solutions does the Ministry have to avoid discriminatory practices in this respect? Question three: Is public administration prepared to apply new solutions? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-19-sejm-23-1.u307	Thank you very much. Mr Paweł Arndt, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-19-sejm-23-1.u308	Mr. Marshal! Mr Fellowships and Mr Fellow Members, The law on trust services and electronic identification is indeed a necessary and important law. In fact, at the moment the regulations on electronic services must be described in detail and this law contains such solutions. But this is also a pretty difficult bill, it changes at least a few dozen other laws, and we will have to lean on it during the committee work. It's a pity we had so little time to get to know this bill, because it's only a few days, and it's pretty extensive. When I examined this law, I was actually intrigued by one point, namely the issue of monetary penalties, which may be subject to a trust service provider. These fines are always emotional, certain doubts, and I would like to ask the Minister where these penalties come from, because it can be up to 100,000 depending on the scope. zł. The monetary penalty will be imposed by the Minister responsible for computerization, but in fact the case will be dealt with by officials. Are we sure here that really these penalties will be in the right dimension and that the level of penalties is not at the moment [[♪ The bell ♪]] Too big? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-19-sejm-23-1.u309	Thank you very much. Mr Mirosław Suchoń, Modern.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-19-sejm-23-1.u310	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! As my previous speakers have said, of course this is a very important regulation, it introduces a number of new definitions and significantly extends this area to the current ones in our country, but it is always so important and important for the economy, for citizens' contacts with offices, as long as these mechanisms are used in practice. That is why I wanted to ask such questions: What are your next steps? Which elements of these rules will facilitate contacts with offices? Which elements will you put first? Perhaps some legislative initiatives are ready. I would very much ask that you be a little more practically polite to highlight what for ordinary Kowalski and where it will mean a better quality than what we have today. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-19-sejm-23-1.u311	Thank you. Mr Rafał Wójcikowski, Kukiz, 15 has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-19-sejm-23-1.u312	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Ministers! I wanted to ask a question related to this law concerning the possible costs that Polish entrepreneurs might have to bear in order to adapt their activities to those extended requirements relating to the services referred to in this law. Is that what the State expects? Will it be another barrier for Polish entrepreneurs to enter the market, another barrier to functioning on the market, further costs related to meeting administrative standards, compliance with the rules related to compliance with the adopted provisions of the Act? I wanted to ask, on behalf of entrepreneurs, if they want to operate in accordance with this law, whether they expect to increase the cost of doing their business. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-19-sejm-23-1.u313	Thank you very much. The list of Members registered in the vote has been exhausted. Please take the floor of the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Development of Mr Tadeusz Kościński.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-19-sejm-23-1.u314	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Thank you so much for asking. The penalties are based on the electronic signature law in force today. The rest of the questions will be answered in writing. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-19-sejm-23-1.u315	Thank you very much. The discussion is closed. The Marshal of the Sejm, after consulting the Bureau of the Sejm, proposes that the Sejm refer the government draft law on trust services and electronic identification, contained in print No 713, to the Committee on Digitisation, Innovation and Modern Technologies for consideration. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. At the same time, the Marshal of the Sejm pursuant to Article. 95b of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm shall set a time limit for the submission of the report by the committee by 5 September 2016. We proceed with the examination of item 10 of the agenda: First reading of the government draft law amending the law on the operation of hard coal mining and some other laws (print No 722). I ask the Secretary of State at the Ministry of Energy of Mr Grzegorz Tobiszowski to present the justification for the bill.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-19-sejm-23-1.u316	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, The law that I have the opportunity to present introduces ordering provisions to the law on the restructuring of hard coal mining. The first amendment is linked to the appointment of the Ministry of Energy and the decision by the Minister of Finance, by means of a regulation, to introduce budgetary parts of 48 and 47, one of which is attributed to the Ministry of Energy and to matters of the Ministry of Energy, and part 48 is assigned to the Ministry of Energy as part of the supervision of matters relating to deposits and minerals. Given that we have these two budgetary parts, which raises doubts as to the mobilisation of funds by the Minister of Energy, the Minister responsible for mineral deposits, we are introducing this clarification here so that we can benefit from the resources that were previously in the Ministry of Economy. There was no distinction between these two parts of the budget, and these are expenditures related inter alia. with the decommissioning of mines by the Company of Restructuring of Mines. These are also related measures, inter alia. with checks, leave for employees of coal processing plants and covering the current production losses of the company, which were transferred to the Company for Restructuring of Mines. We are also introducing a definition covering the Coal Company. In the current situation, when the Polish Górnicza Group and the Polish Górnicza Group were established, there was also a question that the Coal Company, which, from earlier periods before 2007, had certain obligations related to the financing of mining damages, not being the entity that has been assigned concessions today, had difficulties in mobilising funds. Hence, we launch a record that specifies the definition of the Coal Company as a single-member company of the State Treasury, which performs tasks to repair the damage caused by the mining plant's movement after its liquidation, including the damage caused by the reactivation of old works, necessary to determine the correct scope of the subject matter and the bill in question. This record makes it possible for the Coal Company to perform the tasks previously assigned to the Coal Company in this new construction, which is today, after the establishment of the Polish Mining Group. We are also introducing the possibility of financing mining damages in mines during liquidation in SRK. This is also a clarification, a clarification, because we have a situation today that there are mines that are somehow liquidated, but are still active, in the SRK. These winding-up operations are also responsible for mining damage, and the SRK, without a proper record and with the means at its disposal, could not mobilise these funds to eliminate mining damage. We also have a pool of funds that is intended for the decommissioning of mining plants, such as the Centre and Kazimierz-Juliusz plants, which are no longer productive, but are transferred to SRK by 2018. As part of this liquidation of the closed mine we also have emerging mining damage and here we also introduce a clarification of terminology in the law so that within this limit we can also use the assigned SRK measures procedurally to eliminate these mining damage. As for the new records not directly related to mining damage or to the records on fossils, these are two, actually three issues. The first concerns the Bochnia Salt Mine, as well as the former Mine of Machów Sulfury, the company in liquidation, in the Piaseczna region. As far as the Bochnia Salt Mine is concerned, we propose to extend or introduce the possibility of funding from the budget subsidy of works related to excavations, to liquidate parts of this mine under the urbanized urban area, so that the Bochnia Salt Mine, which is an historic mine, where analyses now show that certain works are required to secure the possibility of using, among others, the mine. from the prepared sanatorial offers of this mine... Also, what is very important, this mine has so far benefited from a contract with the national environmental fund, using large resources, we are talking about a number of over 60 million, for work related to the restructuring and security of the relevant excavations of the Bochnia Salt Mine. This agreement ends in 2016 and there is a demand that - like Guido Mine, other similar mines, Wieliczka Mine - by that date, by 2020, include state support, subsidies to secure this historic mine, including the Bochnia Salt Mine. A new topic, actually not a new subject, but the proposal in this law is to assume financial and remedial responsibility over the part of the former Mach sulfur mine, today the company in liquidation. As far as this area is concerned, it's a big spill with some tourist advantages. It is a huge burden of maintaining this area and before us still some process of remediation, proper maintenance of the water reservoir by pumping over the surplus water that appears there into the Vistula. We can define this also so far that over 700 million PLN has been spent on rehabilitation, on securing this area and at the moment when actually huge works have already been done and we are moving to the final stage when it comes to the rehabilitation of this former salt mine, together with local governments and at the request of parliamentarians, also from previous periods, because this initiative to secure and rehabilitate the Mach Salt Mine in Piaseczno took over the State Treasury, is not new... Hence, we propose that as of 1 January 2018, the responsibility for remediation, as well as the financing of this water reservoir after the former Mach Machinery Mine, be taken over by the Ministry of Energy, it is about funding from the state budget, i.e. between 4 million and 5 million a year. As from 1 July - and this is the 7th amendment, the 7th regulation, which is included in this Act - the Ministry of Energy has been assigned supervision of fuel operators... Today this supervision is performed only with supervision as regards shares, supervision of shares, while in many entities that passed on July 1 under ownership supervision - I mean the Lotos Group, PKN Orlen, PGNiG SA or Naftoport sp. z o.o. - we have all kinds of objects so called. critical, important for the security of the State and in order to supervise these facilities, take ownership decisions, not only from the collection of shares but also related to decisions taken by the board of directors, for example by correction, it is necessary to provide that the Ministry of Energy will have full supervision of the fuel companies which have been subject to supervision since 1 July. This is the seven important regulations that we are proposing to this House by asking them to be adopted and, at the same time, to express our will that these regulations allow us to introduce possibilities for the remediation, restructuring of the hard coal sector, as well as to regulate the issues of Machov, Bochnia and the ownership of energy companies. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Chairman of the proceedings includes Deputy Marshal Małgorzata Kidawa-Błońska Sejm]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-19-sejm-23-1.u317	Thank you very much, Minister. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would listen to the five-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and the circle. I'm opening a discussion. Ms Beata Mateusiak-Pielucha, Club Law and Justice, will be the first to speak. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-19-sejm-23-1.u318	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, Law and Justice, I have the honour to present an opinion on the government draft law amending the law on the operation of hard coal mining and certain other laws. The main objective of the project is to amend the provisions of the Law of 7 September 2007 on the functioning of coal mining, the Law of 30 August 2013 on the grant for certain entities resulting from the creation of the heading: the Economics of fossil deposits and the creation of the budget section 48: the Economics of fossil deposits. Accordingly, in both amended laws, the words "the Minister responsible for Energy' used in various cases are replaced by the words "the Minister responsible for the management of fossil deposits' used where appropriate. In addition, the proposed amendments aim to remove discrepancies preventing the mobilisation of funds from the special reserve for the financing of tasks carried out in the course of the decommissioning of mines, cover services in the form of mining leave and leave for employees of the coal processing plant and to cover the current production losses of the company; an extension of the financing period by 2020 from the budget grant of the tasks carried out by the Salt Bochnia Sp. z o.o. because of the limited financial resources provided for in the budget laws in relation to the amounts included in the approved decommissioning programme and the need to eliminate additional bottom-up works; to allow financing from 2017 onwards from the budget subsidy of the operations carried out after the completion of the decommissioning work in Piaseczno mining works carried out by Miań Sierka Machów S.A. in liquidation; to transfer specific powers to companies operating in the electricity, oil and gas fuels sector from the Minister responsible for State Treasury to the Minister responsible for Energy. Detailed matters have already been discussed here very thoroughly by the Minister, which is why I recommend the adoption of this law on behalf of the Law and Justice Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-19-sejm-23-1.u319	Thank you very much, Member. Please, Mr Krzysztof Gadowski, Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-19-sejm-23-1.u320	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I have the pleasure and honour on behalf of the Civic Platform Parliamentary Club to present a position towards the government's draft law amending the law on the operation of hard coal mining and some other laws, print No. 722. As we have just heard in the report or during your presentation of the project by the Minister, it could be said that this project concerns a number of changes related to mining and not only. But maybe I'll start with these smaller and more specific or simple changes, which are mainly related to the ordering of the powers of the Minister of Energy. It is here that these powers are balanced with those of the State Treasury Minister, the division of specific competences under the Law of 18 March 2010 on the special powers of the State Treasury Minister and the exercise of them in certain capital companies operating in the electricity, oil and gas sectors. It seems to be a subject - maybe not a problem, but its context - introduced into the bill's draft simple, clear and non-essential commentary. On the other hand, we have here. also the so-called Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law She touched the companies that were mentioned here before, so the three basic ones. This is, among other things. Salt mine in Bochnia, salt mine in Wieliczka. The speech was also about the Central Pump Bolko in Bytom. The Civic Platform and the PSL in 2013 adopted, specifically constructed this law to help these entities carry out their task, defined the objective, scope of grants and funding, established the thematic scope of these actions and the period of application of this grant. Today we actually have another element added to this bill. We're talking about the Mine of Mach sulphur in liquidation. The introduction of this law was also prepared by the Civic Platform. There was a parliamentary project that we didn't have time to process, even though the seym was printed. In view of the end of our term of office, we have not taken up this subject. We are pleased that this topic is sort of being organized, Minister, and that it is included in the scope of funding, the functioning of this grant law for certain entities. Of course, the issue of the salt mine in Bochnia is clear and clear. There were some things that weren't realized, there was no money in the budget. This issue will be postponed, as clearly indicated in this proposal, by 2020. And in this way all the entities that are included in this draft law, as if they had the same funding period. There is a specific question here as to whether we must, Minister, apply for the consent of the European Union, notify this in connection with the introduction of a sulphur mine in Machov to the bill or not, but this is a separate matter. And I hope that the Minister will speak on this, because the entities mentioned by me, at least two, also had to receive notification. On the other hand, I wanted to return to this fundamental and fundamental subject, which was what the Minister started. Minister said: We need to clarify some elements related to the law on the operation of hard coal mining, related to aid, clearance or funding of the Company for the Restructuring of Mines. Indeed, if necessary, we should do so, but let us remember that in the second element we begin to introduce into the structure of this Coal Company Act, which we have heard so many times about, that we begin to eliminate it. We remember that since 2015 the process of liquidation of the Coal Company was started, the PGG group, which had these powers, was taken over from the Coal Company, among others, to Węglokoks, was also taken over to Tauron and suddenly it turns out that the Coal Company will continue to function - to a limited extent, i.e. without production, only to ensure the elimination of mining damage which today has, Minister, the Company for Restructuring of Mine. Can we afford to maintain a specific institution, a specific structure, or actually a cap that will eliminate mining damage and other derivatives after the liquidation or after the transfer of these mines? Can't we afford to pass this on as well? [[♪ The bell ♪]] to the Company for Restructuring of Mine? Minister, maybe it would be clearer if you could tell us how many people actually work at the Coal Company today and what you're going to do. If you were to present your restructuring plan for coal mining, we would know where we are headed. Will this company ultimately be unproductive...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-19-sejm-23-1.u321	Go to the punch line, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-19-sejm-23-1.u322	Is it going to work, or is it going to be terminated sometime soon? The Civic Platform requests that this draft committee be referred to and will debate specific provisions relating to the operation of the project presented. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-19-sejm-23-1.u323	Thank you very much, sir. Please, Mr Sitarski, Kukiz Club15.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-19-sejm-23-1.u324	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I have the honour to present the position of the Kukiz parliamentary club15 on the draft amendment to the law on the functioning of hard coal mining and certain other laws submitted by the Minister of Energy. The amendments referred to above were adopted earlier by the Council of Ministers. July 15th this year The project entered the Sejm of the Republic of Poland. The project description refers to the possibility of allocating funds from the special-purpose reserve for funding, inter alia. tasks related to mine decommissioning. The adoption of the bill is also aimed at repairing mining damage from the grant of the budget. In presenting the position of the club, it is important to recall the amendment of the law signed by the President at the end of December 2015. At that time, the validity of the law was over and it was necessary to extend the time limit allowing the use of social protection for miners who decided to leave work voluntarily. The draft amendment also concerned payments for employees of mining plants. The possibility to sell parts or all mining companies to the Company for Restructuring of Mines was also introduced. The SRK is transferred to parts of mining plants that no longer carry out mining or which end their work. In practice, it is a matter of limiting the activities of certain entities related to individual mines. Turning to the major changes in the proposed amendment to the Act on the Functioning of Coal Mining and some other laws, it is necessary to raise the question of extending the definition of a mining company to a single-member company of the State Treasury carrying out tasks to eliminate mining damage. In short, at this point It's still the Coal Company. This is due to the fact that the Coal Company has been transformed into active mining plants in the Polish Mining Group. But the structure of the Coal Company is not only an active plant, it is also a matter of events that result from the need to take care of mining areas, the recovery areas, where hydrogeology is disturbed, where there are mining damage, where people have to get help to repair damage, where municipalities also need support. For all this, however, there must be an institution that will make sure that this money is spent in a reasonable way. And here, at this point, is the minister's role to make the most of it. A framework for funding from the budget grant is established. tasks. We are also talking about works in the Bochnia Salt Mine, in the Mine of Machów Sulfur Machów in Tarnobrzeg. The work that the law sets out relates to activities in the field of hydrogeology, as I said earlier, because every mine involves the fact that you have to... Even after the mine has been decommissioned, the influences of this mine are long-term - long-term problems of the mountaineer, which result in surface distortion due to empty mountaineers according to the settlement coefficient. This also causes damage to buildings, even though the mine or mining plant does not exist for a long time. The Act is generally about the operations carried out after completion of decommissioning works in mining works, the execution of works to protect mining works and the environment. The maximum limit for expenditure from the State budget for the implementation of the above mentioned is also set. benefits and tasks. The bill will allow the Minister of Finance to mobilise funds from the special reserve to finance tasks carried out during the liquidation of mines, cover services in the form of mining holidays and leave for employees of the coal processing plant and to cover the current production losses of the non-production company. There is support in the Kukiz Club15 for passing the bill on to the committee. It is known that this is about taking care of the mining areas, this is a very important thing. It is about regulating watercourses, about ensuring that operating revenues are not harmful to citizens. But here too, it is very important how the funds will be spent, how the control will be exercised from the Company for Restructuring of Mines, from the Coal Company, from the Ministry, so that the entire financial effort will not go down. I hope this is how it's gonna be done. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-19-sejm-23-1.u325	Thank you very much, sir. I invite Mr Mirosław Suchon, the Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-19-sejm-23-1.u326	Dear Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I have the pleasure of presenting on behalf of the Poselski Club the first part of the position on the Act amending the Act on the Functioning of Coal Mining and some other laws from print No. 722. Ladies and gentlemen! We will talk about detailed solutions in the second part of the club's performance, in the second part, because while dealing with projects in the broad sense of mining, we must not forget the situation of the whole industry, the problems that we all know are. We must not forget the low efficiency of mining, extensive bonus and social systems, which in the current situation are difficult to treat differently than privileges, or expenditure pathologies present in mining companies, as even the newspapers have recently written about. We must also not forget the low price of coal on world markets, which causes the problems that are being swept under the carpet, unfortunately, to come back with even more power. We must not forget that sticking to the idea that Poland stands and stands, causes a number of losses for our country and citizens. These are among others. early mortality due to contaminated air, an increased number of diseases associated with the presence of harmful substances in the air, generating significant expenditure from the health fund, a lack of a pro-development impulse that would make local governments based on their mining strategies so far would have to look for their municipalities other than mining sectors to develop. We can see how it works in some cities in Silesia, which still stubbornly base their development strategies on mining and are still in stagnation. Finally, we must not forget that it is irrational to waste public funds on maintaining unprofitable mining companies because they do not promote, and often they waste money on irrational expenditure. That is why I would like once again to call on the government to return to the idea of distributed energy with a significant share of civic energy, with wind and other renewables, to close non-profitable mines, to optimise organisational and cost-effective non-production activities, to carry out a real restructuring of mines that are well-growing, and to prepare them for privatisation, and to modernise working systems and pay in mines, and to link pay systems with efficiency. High Izbo, the good of mining, but also the entire region, the entire Silesian province and our country requires difficult and courageous decisions. These decisions need to be made today, right now, before it's too late. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-19-sejm-23-1.u327	Thank you very much, sir. I invite Mr Zbigniew Gryglas, the Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-19-sejm-23-1.u328	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Seym! In fact, the Act is an act that regulates issues relating to the restructuring of mining. Indeed, the changes that took place at the end of the year led to such a situation that, after 30 June, it would be difficult to make a fair use of these grants to cover the various costs of post-commissioning operations, damage caused by the operation of mining plants or, finally, issues related to employee benefits. This amendment will also allow the financing of the decommissioning works of two mining plants: Machów Sulphur Mine and Bochnia Salt Mine. By the way, as I remember, the Bochnia Salt Mine is being liquidated or the budget funds are being invested there for a long time, for many years. I remember that in the '90s, this trial took place. I must say that, like the previous speakers, I am very concerned about the question of a decision which is incomprehensible to me, the decision to maintain the Coal Company. It seems that this structure should disappear after the transfer of companies or organised parts of enterprises to other entities. I believe that there is no justification for maintaining this structure and additionally bear any costs associated with it. I hope the Minister will address this. I hope that the period of operation of the Coal Company is strictly limited and the budgetary resources that will be earmarked for this purpose are also very limited, because we must be guided by the need for a cost-effective, reliable spending of every zloty from the state budget. [[♪ The bell ♪]] We will be in favour of referring this project to a committee where I hope to hear sound arguments for the adoption of this ordering law. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-19-sejm-23-1.u329	Thank you very much, sir. I invite Mr Mieczysław Kasprzak, PSL Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-19-sejm-23-1.u330	Dear Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I will no longer quote these elements of the justification of the draft law from printing 722, because they have been presented here several times. The Polish People's Party is in favour of further proceding, because it is impossible to avoid certain things, especially that these are old cases, old commitments, old solutions that already existed. One thing I'm going to say is that a few things could be avoided and dealt with earlier if we included this in the law on cannons, because that could be taken into account. I said that we were going to revise this bill again, because she was so fast, written on her knee, without consulting, and then during the consultation it turned out that there was money, there was no one to spend it, the competences changed. It's not revealing. These are old tasks, carried out by the predecessors. That's the need. These are social costs, economic costs. And such a discussion as today points to the costs of functioning - as my previous speaker said - coal-based energy. We very often, talking about the price of energy, refer to the price of coal and say that it is cheaper than renewable energy, what the sun, some photovoltaics. But if we look at all the costs that are somewhere along the way, all the costs, like here... How many years do we have to finance this, or do we include it in the price of energy, Minister? We don't count it because we don't notice it, we forget it. The same is true of the costs of miners' treatment, pensions and pensions. You have to approach it comprehensively, you can't look at it at random. We have to bear these costs, each of us understands that. But this shows how high the price of buying time, as some people say, in the miners, not making decisions that could mitigate the difficult consequences, the effects of difficult decisions, because it could be spread out over time, while we are somewhere squeezed and later we will stand against the wall - we will run out of electricity, electricity will be expensive, and next to us electricity will be plenty, only Poland will not have it. We'll get to a wall like this someday. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-19-sejm-23-1.u331	Thank you very much, sir. Several Members signed up for the questions. Would any of you like to sign up for any more questions? If not, I'm closing the list. The first question is asked by Mr Paweł Bańkowski, the Civic Platform. Question time - 2 minutes.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-19-sejm-23-1.u332	Dear Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! The proposal presented to the High House to amend the law on the functioning of hard coal mining is of a sequencing nature, among others. financing rules for the decommissioning of mines and the payment of mining damage. However, the mining industry, Minister, has been waiting for several months for a document about which Prime Minister Szydło, then the candidate for the Prime Minister, spoke in September 2015 in Jastrzębie-Zdrój: "We have a plan to save Polish mining." On 5 October 2015, at the Brzeszcze mine rally, Prime Minister Beata Szydło said: "If we sit together at the table after 25 October, we will be able to solve problems together, we will be able to make Polish mining competitive and will develop and jobs will not only be maintained but new jobs will be created. On 29 January 2016, the Prime Minister visiting Chęciny, asking about the progress of the programme to solve the problems of hard coal mining, said: "We need time and cooperation, I call for patience. Finally, on 22 February 2016 in Jaworzno, at the construction site of the power block, the Prime Minister announced that the plan for mining would enter into force shortly. Minister, it has already been nine months since the parliamentary elections, and the Government of Law and Justice has still not presented any plan for mining, which was supposedly ready before the elections. When will we see this document, Minister? How many new jobs will be created in mining companies based on the document prepared? What government plans to stop coal imports? I would like to remind you that according to the Katowice branch of the Industrial Development Agency, for 4 months this year, 300,000 have been received in Poland. t coal more. What's the government's plan? [[♪ The bell ♪]] What about the use of coal in coal mines? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-19-sejm-23-1.u333	Thank you very much, sir. The question is asked by Mr Krzysztof Gadowski, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-19-sejm-23-1.u334	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Minister, we are also talking today about the Coal Company, about allowing it to be co-financed. Your practically comprehensive justification does not say anything about this entity, how it looks today, how many people are employed, how long it is to function, what funds are needed to finance this entity, the functioning of the administration itself, the functioning of the associated operation, as you said, with damage, with the administration of this property, which today is in the hands of the Coal Company. How many of these measures are generally needed, at what time and for what? Next question. Why didn't we transfer all of the assets and competences that were behind it to the Company for Restructuring of Mine? We support companies from the 1990s. - the fish company, the Vistula company, the Russian company - the fact that this property was transferred there. Yeah, he was transferred to the Coal Company. Today, Polish mining and state budget cannot afford to keep another administration in another building. Today we have for the provision of these services and tasks, which have been clearly defined, the Company of Restructuring of Mines. And another question related to the funding of another entity, which is covered by the law, in terms of restructuring and revitalization tasks. Isn't it that we really need a notification? Does the Minister know that you need such a document? Have you already asked the European Union to provide such public aid to this entity? And one last question. The State indicates in the draft law a timetable or maximum expenditure limit for the years 2017, 2018, 2019 and 2020 [[♪ The bell ♪]] for this public aid, but you do not indicate anywhere directly, even in the explanatory memorandum, which will be specifically, how much this aid will be for each of those entities which are covered by the Act. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-19-sejm-23-1.u335	Thank you very much. I invite Mr Zbigniew Gryglas, the Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-19-sejm-23-1.u336	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! Minister! My question concerns the restructuring of hard coal mining. I have the impression that we are carrying out these restructuring operations in a slightly chaotic way - please forgive this wording - in a poorly organized way. Indeed, we should come from the general principles, we should come from the point of view of the objective we want to achieve in this case. In my opinion, however, this starting point should be Poland's energy policy by 2030 or even 2050. This document we have from a few years ago needs to be updated, and we all agree on that. Once we have identified the needs that exist in this area, how much of this coal, in colloquial terms, will be needed in the coming years, as we will determine the possibilities for reducing imports, because you have also announced this, then it will be clear how many of these mines should ultimately be detained. However, today we are trying to save these mines in such a way, passing them to energy plants, to energy companies or to the Company for Restructuring of Mines with an unclear final goal. So the question is, when will such a document arise, whether we have this present situation diagnosed and we have a plan for the future, so that our actions actually serve something - if we are already spending public funds, so that they are spent rationally and that we can achieve the goal that we all want. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-19-sejm-23-1.u337	Thank you very much, sir. I invite Mr Zbigniew Chmielowiec, Club Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-19-sejm-23-1.u338	Dear Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I have two short questions. What will be the process of notifying the European Commission of new tasks for the Salt Mine Bochnia sp. z o.o. And the Mine of Mach Sulfur in liquidation? Second question. What may be the consequences of the failure to implement the solutions proposed in the Law on the financing of the maintenance of the water drainage system from the Piaseczno reservoir? At this point, my dear Minister, I would like to thank you on your hands for all the staff of the Ministry for preparing this bill, which is so long awaited by the inhabitants who have so far been suffering from the destruction of the sulphur mine in Machów, the inhabitants of northern Podkarpacie, the inhabitants of the district of Tarnobrzeg. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-19-sejm-23-1.u339	Thank you very much, sir. The question will now be asked by Mr Andrzej Kryj, the Law and Justice Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-19-sejm-23-1.u340	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I would like to join these thanks, Minister, because this bill is expected not only by the inhabitants of the Podkarpackie Voivodeship, but also by the inhabitants of the Świętokrzyskie Voivodeship, because it concerns three municipalities of this voivodeship: Łoniowa, Koprzywnica and Samborc. In total, there are more than 1200 farms in the area adjacent to the Piaseczno excavation site. I would like to ask the Minister: What impact will these changes have on the state budget? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-19-sejm-23-1.u341	Thank you very much, sir. As the last question, Mr Leszek Galemba, club of Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-19-sejm-23-1.u342	Dear Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I have a question for the Minister: What will be the effect of introducing an additional definition of the name of the mining company into the Mining Act? Will the name change itself contribute to the better operation of mines? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-19-sejm-23-1.u343	Thank you very much, sir. The questions will be answered by the Secretary of State at the Ministry of Energy, Minister Grzegorz Tobiszowski. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-19-sejm-23-1.u344	Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Thank you for these questions. As regards Mr Paweł Bańkowski's question, it concerned two issues. One: When will the regulation on external coal be? I confirm that we are actually working on this decision. We have considered the possibility of introducing simple regulations, such as excise duty. Because most of the coal from the outside, as we all know, comes from the Russian Federation... the Russian Federation is in international trade associations. This makes it difficult for us to agree on this kind of fiscal instrument. Therefore, with the Ministry of the Environment, we are now almost in the finals, believe me, we are really close to the inter-ministerial arrangements, to introduce appropriate regulations that take into account the effect of the climate package, which is possible to introduce, allowing to level the price odds of coal from outside, outside the Union, and Polish coal, because, as we know, Polish coal is burdened with paratax resulting from the climate package, from these charges when it comes to emissions. What's with the coal in the bumps? Indeed, there is a question that is overdue, and I thank you for this question and I must remind you, Members, of what we have found in every coal company - earlier in the Coal Company, then in Katowice Coal Holding especially, less in the Jastrzębska company, because there is coke coal which has a buyer, but there is a question of a difficult price or a very bad price, although energy also did not go well. And we have, ladies and gentlemen, a phenomenon where we have paromilon carbon already bought in prepayments. This means that in the Katowice holding company and in PGG coal, which has been mined since last year and this year, is already de facto established, in the sense: energy has prepaid, bought it out and supported it in previous years, the corresponding mines. So it's a phenomenon, ladies and gentlemen, we're here. This is indeed a challenge, which is why we have taken action on the market to provide some space. However, if you would like to draw your attention, I would like to say that... I do not want to anticipate the answer to my colleague Gryglas, but I would not agree that the restructuring operation is chaotic, because it is very important to emphasize that the construction of the Polish Mining Group was based on the fact that we built a business structure. We could not raise funds from entities, whether energy or other from the market, which are listed entities, because it is not possible for listed entities to join a business plan that does not spin. Of course, we have created some possibilities for shifting these liabilities in the Polish Mining Group, especially with regard to payments from capital, but note, please, that the commitments of the Polish Mining Group are 8 billion. Actually, all the assets are pawned. So that we don't take off from the position that we're on the surface, we're deep below the surface. And you will see that today this law only signals the possibility of using the fact that there is a pool of funds to eliminate mining damage. One parliamentarians noted that mining damage remains for many years. Notice that it is not so easy to close the mine. It's not a matter of maintaining or closing, otherwise. It also costs a lot to close the mine. So it is necessary to prepare mines and manage them accordingly, so that we can lead to the exhaustion of the deposit and to the least possible costs of closing mines or coming down from the mining market of the relevant mines. It's all art to take such action. On the other hand, as far as these issues are concerned, we have actually taken action in a few mines that inhibit overproduction, thanks to the fact that we can benefit from the transfer of some workers through the transfer of individual mining units, such as Anna's plant, which has passed or passed properly, because it is not formally transferred to the SRK. This also causes us to collect costs related to employees. It allows us to make effective use of those workers we have in the mines. At the same time, we have prepared a completely new quality in PGG in terms of investment. We're using this work front and those coal walls that give us that coal that we can sell. We want to get off this coal, which is unsellable, which is why we've developed an analysis of every mine. Today we have - and in the holding company, and in the Polish Mining Group, and in Jastrzębska Węglowa - analyses concerning each mine. And that's what I'm saying, among other things. by reducing in some mines the extraction of this sort or this kind of coal, which is not sold, inter alia. We're trying to adjust this surplus. Of course, this bill or this regulation you mentioned, which is related to blocking the influx of carbon from the outside, must help us do so, and that is what it does. However, I would also like to say that we are doing our best, among others. by analysing the external markets in Węglokox, so that we can transfer more of our coal outside, because it turns out that 200 million tons of coal, including our 75 million, are coming to Europe to be acquired in Europe. And we should be there. As far as Mr Gadowski is concerned, I would like to say that we do not finance the Coal Company. We're a little confused here, gentlemen. I would like to stress very strongly that once the Coal Company was 11 mines, but it was also 16 related companies, whether they are daughter companies or companies directly managed by the Coal Company. Ladies and gentlemen, we have an example. an entity called the Property Management Facility. 170 people work in this plant. These people are directly pulled up under the Coal Company. Someone will say, "Lord, this is 170 people." Yeah, that's the only place we have all the mine archives, and that's where we have all the pension issues. It can't be eliminated. [[But the board can be decommissioned.]] The board is two-man, sir. I would ask you very much to take note of this in detail, because it is important to be well informed, asking the thesis and questions. We took over from the Coal Company - and we said this, there is no secret here, after all it was obvious - 11 mines, while all 16 companies, including daughter companies, among others. Haldex, REMASZ, TRAKT, GZUG, NAT, or tourist company, so I can mention, remained in the Coal Company. This is a certain historical event. Today we are preparing, alongside the restructuring of these 11 mines, which are in the Polish Mining Group, also the whole process for those companies which are in the Coal Company. They're non-productive, non-profit actors, but they're, they're working there. Most of these companies are profitable, profitable, but it must be considered whether it is possible to combine some, or whether the effectiveness of these companies really should not be improved. Here we have no problem with funding, there is no problem with support. There's the only administration that's, and she has to be, without question, we need it, it's a bet. Development of Property, where 170 people work. On the other hand, what measures are we talking about, ladies and gentlemen? We are talking about measures, and that is what I want to emphasize very strongly, which are assigned among others. The Coal Company. Previously, they were assigned there as a company that had eliminated mining damage before 2007. These aren't the lines from the last few years. This concerns among others. KWK Dębiensko, this concerns KWK Jaworzno, this concerns KWK Siersz. These are the entities which appeared together with Nadwiślańska Spółka Węglowa, Rybnicka Spółka Węglowa, Rudzka Spółka Węglowa, Bytomska Spółka Węglowa and Gliwice Spółka Węglowa, because this is how the Coal Company was established, with the whole surroundings. And today we want to mobilise the 8 million that we have at our disposal to eliminate this damage before 2007, because these damage is still in a few places, especially as far as Dębiensko, Jaworzno and Sierza are concerned, and there is no funding here. It is good that these questions have been asked, thank you for them, but please note that it is different that it is not the intention of the Ministry to maintain certain entities in the hard coal sector and to make additional payments to those that do not mine. It is true that in a few years we will have to consider, and we will also come to this conclusion, on the shape of the Coal Company, this non-production part, because it may turn out that some entities will sell, some will join. What are we going to do with her? Then it will be necessary to consider where to transfer responsibility, if any, for the elimination of mining damages associated with, among others. with these mines. But thank you for that question, because it's somehow It also shows us that there's no subtext here. On the issue of notification, there were two questions from Members: Mr Gadowski, as well as Mr... [[Hopper.]] ... Hopper, if I remember correctly. I would like to tell you that we are currently having a dialogue with the Competition Office and we have information that the Bochnia Salt Mine has an aid scheme notified to the Commission by 2017. He's notified. After the adoption by the High House of the Law, we will probably have to ask for this notification to be extended, because this concerns the same entity and the nature of the funds that we spend on the operation of the Bochnia Salt Mine by 2020, so here we will rather need the notification. We are currently having a dialogue with the Commission, we are preparing the relevant documents, hence we are not talking about this explicitly, because the document will be after the adoption of the law. As for the Mine of Machów in liquidation - I wanted to apologize to my fellow Members, because, as the director mentioned to me, I mistakenly talked about salt in the case of Machów, and this concerns the sulphur mine, so that I apologize for this redeployment in a few places - it is during the work on the programme and consolidation of resources. Here, too, there is a real need to obtain a positive decision from the European Commission before we start financing these tasks. On the other hand, the adoption of the law will be an element allowing us to speak. From January 1st we will run the program, so here we are sort of in a logical cycle of events. The adoption by the High House of this law will make it possible to present - I hope - effectively to the European Commission. As regards Mr Gryglas' question about a small order, restructuring or the price we would like to achieve, I would like to thank you, Mr Gryglas, for bringing up the subject, because it is important, and I would also like to reassure you. In three companies, because today in the Polish Mining Group... It has already been established, operates and is measured on the one hand with a new organizational structure. Here I would ask you to follow this, because we are conducting a social dialogue and from 11 mines through the creation of complex mines 5. This is a big challenge, but it also allows to effectively extract coal, make more effective use of the employed people's work, from experience, and to make appropriate use of access to deposits in those areas where we have created complex mines. I would like to stress very strongly that we are now in the final stage of the restructuring process in terms of Jastrzębska Spółka Węglowa. We have a business plan prepared, we have already started talks with the social side, among others. this week we were - Mr Tchórzewski and my person - at a meeting where the management presented a restructuring programme showing what we would invest in, what mines, what walls, what deposits, that the accent is moving on to coking coal, because its price is higher, and when we extract the coking coal, we bear the same costs. So going in such a direction that ultimately the Jastrzębska company will have 80% Coking coal in the context of all extraction, allows you to look positively at the business plan. As far as prices are concerned, they will be as they are today. These prices are not good, but we know that if next year, because we plan to do so, we will achieve the effectiveness of the Jastrzębska company, then at the moment when they will appear, and they must appear at some point, higher prices, because we have already achieved, when it comes to the price of coke coal de facto down, we will be able to watch as the Jastrzębska company pays its debt. We have now also started talks with financial institutions to move financial liabilities, especially the redemption of bonds, for later years, because today actually Jastrzębska company cannot afford it, and the funds that we have obtained from the sale of assets - entities such as PGNiG Termika, the Financial Society Silesia, the Industrial Development Agency and the Fund for Restructuring of Enterprises have strengthened Jastrzębska Spółka Węglowa for over PLN 1 million - we will invest in the Budryk mine, in the Knurów-Szczygłowice mine, and I could exchange a few more investments. Believe me, this is a very precise analytical programme, where we already have the purchase of over PLN 1 billion of bonds today. If there was no real plan, financial institutions wouldn't have sat down to talk. As far as Katowice Holding Węglowy is concerned, this is the third company that prepared its restructuring plan with its assumptions. Next week we start a conversation with the social side, as well as an entire business plan. Believe me: investment is planned in individual coal deposits and creation in 2019 with those price assumptions that we have today in terms of the ability to sell coal... That's what we make, because they allow us to look to the future, so that we can really pay back the debt later. Here, too, we have billions of debt when it comes to Katowice Coal Holding, and we could also say that all assets are pawned, there is not even anything to work with. The fact that there is the authority of the Ministry, that we are building a new sales system, allows us to maintain the real possibility that mines or at least companies that will manage mines, in the perspective of 2019, because that is how we count, will achieve a positive result in their mining activities. Thank you for the question, because it is, I think, very important to talk about this important sector of the economy as well. I just want to point out one thing: Today it is a great effort that is being made when it comes to business constructions, business plans and investment assumptions so that it is no longer so that we will have assets in our companies that depress entities. So far, such phenomena have been tolerated that we have mines - and that is the question of how to invest in them, how to construct them - which for 10 years have brought over 1 billion losses. And that's a challenge too. Does the crisis have to cause us to look at them differently? I believe that certain processes should have been started earlier. Today, I think, we talk quite well and effectively to the social side. At least I can see that it's not easy, because markets aren't easy when we have a sale of coal on prepayments. That doesn't fit in with what we're mining today. That's also a big problem we have to deal with. It is true that the energy balance, the energy mix, should be made - here I am of the same opinion. However, see that reality pushes us very hard today. We are not able to work in parallel on the energy programme that is being prepared, and I think that we are about to start working on the energy programme, where we are balancing, we are analyzing energy companies, but I must also say that at the moment when we received this under ownership supervision and carried out the first analyses, it turned out that the situation is more difficult than we thought. This makes it necessary to balance their potential and investment opportunities first and, on the basis of this, build programme structures in terms of energy issues in Poland. On the other hand, I would like to inform you that in July, that is, in the coming weeks, actually next week, we are beginning to create a programme related to hard coal and brown coal, at the so-called meeting. The tripartite team is starting to build a programme on these two very important raw materials in the Polish economy and the ambition of the Ministry of Energy is for us to make time with the social side, with experts to prepare a programme for hard coal, for brown coal by the end of this year, given, of course, the assumptions that need to be updated when it comes to energy policy. Next, I would like to say that today, when it comes to public funds, we involve them, please countries, we must also say, in securing mining damages, as well as in checks, in vacations, in the technical security of those parts of mines that we pass to the Company for Restructuring of Mines. This is also the cost of a certain restructuring process. Ladies and gentlemen, we must be aware that if... We have this on the example of the Mach Sulfur Mine. After all, this mine hasn't worked for years, and the cost of maintaining the rehabilitated area is. So it's very important that we're aware that closing the mine is not a snap, turning out the light, that it costs too. As for Mr Chmielowiec's question, which was related to the Piaseczno reservoir, I would like to say that the lack of resources for this task and the maintenance of the water drainage system created in the Piaseczno excavation site, if we had not made these decisions, could have contributed to some uncontrolled reconstruction of the water mirror in the areas adjacent to this excavation site on an area of about 1.3 km2. Hence, one of the parliamentarians, with Members, rightly pointed out that this area associated with the excavation covers many municipalities, because it is quite a large area, and from hydrological documentation and expertise it is clear that the target water flooring to the level of 146 m above sea level. there is a danger of drowning the areas within the existing funnel, which means that the villages around this floodplain, which on the one hand is attractive for tourism, can actually be, when it is not rehabilitated, maintained in an appropriate way, threatened. As regards Mr Andrzej Kryj's question, what are the implications for the state budget, what the consequences will be if we introduce them, the appropriate regulations in the relevant years, I must say that in the years 2017 to 2020, because we are talking about these years, because the law will include Bochnia and Machów since 2017, in the case of Bochnia over the years it will be 49.5 million. It's a question of hugging rocks, it's a question of urban areas that need to be... And secondly, there is above all a tourist attraction, which this historic mine He's offering us. Hence, it seems reasonable to make these investments. On the other hand, as far as the Machas are concerned, here we are talking about a maximum of PLN 18 million over the four years, and of course we are wondering how to organize the management of this tank. As regards Mr Galemby's question, what will be the effect of introducing an additional definition of a mining company into the Mining Act, I have mentioned this a little earlier. Let me just remind you that the Coal Company has lost its status as a mining company within the meaning of the Act and thus the possibility of receiving subsidies from the state budget for repairing the mining damage of liquidated mining plants. Like I said, it's about the ones before 2007, so mostly Dębiensko, Jaworzno, Siersza. Coal Company, as I mentioned, was created from these six companies, hence its large assets, but also a great responsibility for these earlier mining works. Thank you, Marshal. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-19-sejm-23-1.u345	Thank you very much. The discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-19-sejm-23-1.u346	The adoption of the project will result in positive changes resulting, among others. by harmonising the use in various cases of the terms of the Minister responsible for Energy, but also the law will remove discrepancies preventing the mobilisation of funds from the special reserve for the financing of tasks carried out in the course of the decommissioning of mines. This regulation should be assessed as reasonable and appropriate. I have questions for the Minister: 1. What solutions are envisaged to secure the surrounding areas of the Piaseczno excavation? Will they not cause environmental risks? 2. Why is it necessary to introduce a solution in the form of the application of the retroactive effect of the provisions introduced in the law on the operation of hard coal mining and in the grant law for certain entities? 3. What financial implications for the State budget will the proposed amendments to the Law of 30 August 2013 on a grant for certain entities have?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-19-sejm-23-1.u347	The draft law amending the Law on the Functioning of Coal Mining and certain other laws aims to amend the provisions of the Act of 7 September 2007 on the Functioning of Coal Mining and the Act of 30 August 2013 on the grant of certain entities. The proposed changes should be assessed as positively as possible. They deserve full approval in view of the harmonisation and guaranteeing financing possibilities within the limit of repairing the damage caused by the operation of liquidated mining plants. In view of the above, I would ask the Minister to clarify: 1. Will the amendments to the Grant Act for some entities allow for the continuation of the operations carried out after completion of decommissioning work in Piaseczno mine, carried out by Miań Sierka Machów SA in liquidation? 2. Is the only way to protect the areas adjacent to the Piaseczno excavation from damage is by way of a budget subsidy to the Mine of Sulfur Machów SA? 3. Is there a need to extend the date of liquidation of the Salt Mine Bochnia sp. z o.o. By the end of 2020? What is the meaning of this term?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-19-sejm-23-1.u348	The Marshal of the Sejm, after consulting the Sejm Bureau, proposes that the Sejm refer to the Government's draft law on the amendment of the law on the operation of hard coal mining and certain other laws contained in print No 722, to the Committee on Energy and the Treasury for consideration. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. I'm declaring a time-out. 7:30. Thank you. [[Adjournment from 10 a.m. 18 min. 28 hrs. 19 min 32]] I'm reopening the session. The Bureau of the Sejm has submitted a proposal for amendments to the personal compositions of the Sejm committees. The application is 740. Therefore, after obtaining the uniform opinion of the Seniors Convention, I decided to supplement the agenda by a point covering the examination of this proposal. The Committee on Justice and Human Rights has submitted an opinion on the application for the appointment of the President of the Institute of National Remembrance - the Commission for the Investigation of Crimes against the Polish National. The opinion is in print No 731. Therefore, after obtaining the uniform opinion of the Seniors Convention, I decided to supplement the agenda with a point on the matter. The competent committees have submitted a report on the draft resolutions of Members on: - establishing on 11 July the Day of Remembrance of Poles - victims of genocide by the OUN-UPA on the Eastern Ends of the Second Republic, - pay tribute to victims of genocide by Ukrainian nationalists on the citizens of the Second Republic of Poland in 1939 and 1945. The report shall be published in the Official Journal of the European Union. Therefore, after obtaining the uniform opinion of the Seniors Convention, I decided to supplement the agenda by a point covering the examination of this report. In this case, I propose that the Sejm consent to the application of the article. Article 44 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 3 of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm and in the discussion on this item listened to the five-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and the circle. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the proposals. I can't hear you objecting. The group of Members has submitted a draft law amending the Law on the remuneration of public office managers and amending certain other laws contained in print No 742. At the meeting of the Seniors Convention, objections were raised to the completion of the agenda for the first reading of the project. This is, according to art. The Commission shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the I will put this item to the vote on the proposal to complete the agenda. Let me remind you that according to the article. The Commission shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 108 (3) of The adoption of the proposal to supplement the agenda will mean that the Sejm has agreed to the application of the Article. 51 (1) of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm. [[Game in the O.R., bell ringing.]] Ladies and gentlemen, please take your seats. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of supplementing the agenda with the following point: First reading of the Parliamentary draft law on amending the Law on the remuneration of managers of state positions and amending certain other laws (Print No 742), will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 434 Members voted. 230 Members voted against - 197, 7 Members abstained. I find the Sejm has accepted the offer. We will consider this point immediately after the vote. I propose that in the discussion on this item, the Sejm should listen to the five-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and the circle. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. Mr Szczerba made a formal request today to postpone the sitting. I will put this motion to the vote. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adjourning the sitting will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 437 Members voted. 158 voted against - 275, 4 Members abstained. The Sejm rejected the offer. The formal application shall be submitted by Mr Andrzej Maciejewski, the Kukiz Club15.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-19-sejm-23-1.u349	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! In accordance with the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm, Article. Paragraph 184. 3 point 6, I submit a formal application for the referral of a government draft law, printing No 709, on the rules of settlement in the tax on goods and services and for the reimbursement of public funds for projects financed by the budget of the European Union or by the Member States of the European Free Trade Agreement by local government units to work in the Parliamentary Committee on Territorial Government and Regional Policy. Ladies and gentlemen, this is a law that has only been addressed to the finance committee. I'm asking her to be on the committee as well. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-19-sejm-23-1.u350	I would like to inform the High House that the debate on this point was today. At the end of the discussion, the Marshal of the Sejm proposed a referral to the committee responsible. There was no objection, and the Sejm made a decision on this matter, so that I could not accept the Member's proposal. We are returning to the examination of item 1 of the agenda: Report from the Commission on Energy and the Treasury on the draft law amending the Energy Law and some other laws. The additional committee report shall be in print No 694-A. We proceed to the third reading. I ask Mr Maciej Małecki to present an additional report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-19-sejm-23-1.u351	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Today, the Commission for Energy and Treasury worked on amendments tabled at second reading to the Act amending the Energy Law Act and some other laws. 50 amendments were tabled at second reading. The Commission recommends adopting parts of the amendments, with the exception of amendments 7, 10, 11, 26 and 47, 27, 28, 29, 34 and 40. These amendments are proposed by the committee to reject. Two more sentences on the bill, which the committee, of course, recommends to the High House. The aim of the Act is to seal the fuel market system in Poland, improve energy security and eliminate or at least reduce the grey zone to a large extent. For this reason, this law is very important and will have positive effects on both the functioning of the competitive fuel market and the energy security of Poland and, of course, will result in more revenue to the state budget. Only one example: in 2012 and 2013, only in the diesel segment, the State Treasury lost PLN 3 and PLN 4 billion, because the grey zone was 13 and 15% in this area. . The bill we're adopting is clogging up those leaks that were used by dishonest traders, and honest entrepreneurs didn't stand a chance against gray-zone players. For this reason, the committee recommends that the High House adopt a bill. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-19-sejm-23-1.u352	There you go. We will vote first on the amendments mentioned by the Member and on all amendments concerning printing No 694 in general. Amendments 1 to 15 were tabled in Article. 1 draft amending law containing amendments to the Energy Law Act. Amendments 1, 4, 14, 16 to 21, 23 to 25, 31, 32, 39, 41 to 43, 45 and 49 propose changes of an editorial and precise nature. We will vote on these amendments together. The Commission proposes that they be adopted. The adoption of these amendments will render amendment 28 irrelevant. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of this. fixes, he wants to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 444 Members voted. Four hundred and forty Members voted against four. No one abstained. The Sejm accepted the amendments. In Amendment 2. to Article. 3 points 10g and 10j of the applicant propose an extension of the definitions contained in that provision. Amendment 3 is combined with this amendment. We will vote on these amendments together. The Commission proposes that they be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of Amendments 2 and 3 will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 440 Members voted. 277 Members voted against - 133, 30 Members abstained. The Sejm accepted the amendments. In Amendment 5. to Article. 23r. 3 applicants propose, inter alia, that this provision should also apply to the Trade Inspection. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 5th amendment would like to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 445 Members voted. 270 Members voted against - 134, 41 Members abstained. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In amendments 6, 8, 9, 12, 13 and 33 the applicants propose, among others. editorial changes. We will vote on these amendments together. The Commission proposes that they be adopted. Their adoption will result in the futility of Amendment 7. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of this. fixes, he wants to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 444 Members voted. There were 268 Members voted against - 133, with 43 abstentions. The Sejm accepted the amendments. 7. the amendment is without object. In Amendment 10. to Article. 38a applicants propose to add paragraph. 1a-1d. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. The question is raised by Mr Zbigniew Gryglas, the Modern Club. Is 1 minute enough to ask a question? [[Yes, Mr. Marshal.]] [[Too much.]] Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-19-sejm-23-1.u353	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Seym! This amendment concerns the LPG market. Until now, companies operating on this market were not obliged, unlike other segments of the market, to establish property safeguards. The novel introduces such a security of up to PLN 10 million. This is a very high amount, the establishment of such a security will not be allowed by small and medium-sized Polish enterprises, which are about 100 and which employ almost 40 thousand. persons. This is a very serious threat to this market. Let me remind you that the tax authorities have so far not found irregularities in this segment of the market, unlike other areas that even the applicant's representative has spoken about, and therefore there is no reason, in my view, to adopt such regulations. Let us protect Polish companies, because they create income, create jobs. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-19-sejm-23-1.u354	There was no question. Actually, there's no need for Minister Naimski to answer when there was no question. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 10th amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 437 Members voted. 187 Members voted against - 237, 13 abstentions. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In Amendment 11. to Article. Article 38a (1) (a) (ii) (ii) (ii) (ii) (iii) (ii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii)) (ii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii)) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) In the introduction to the calculation. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. The question is raised by Members. Member Mieczysław Kasprzak, club of the Polish People's Party.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-19-sejm-23-1.u355	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Then I'll ask you a question in the context of what my predecessor said. The introduction of the record referred to at the moment will lead to the collapse of about 100 companies involved in the marketing of LPG. This will lead to the monopolization of the LPG market in Poland, as the whole act is moving towards monopolization of the gas and liquid fuels market. My question then, Minister: If the price of LPG increases, the price of gas at the fuel stations, because it will undoubtedly lead to this? Did the government run some kind of simulation, or does it have any knowledge, or did it consult with those involved in marketing? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-19-sejm-23-1.u356	Please. The question is asked by Mr Tomasz Piotr Nowak, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-19-sejm-23-1.u357	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! 90% companies could fall, 40,000. people can lose their jobs - a small amendment, and how significant. The Civic Platform Government and PSL introduced a release for LPG companies of 10 million, they do not need to use safeguards. As a government, you are eliminating this exemption by placing small companies that are building a competitive market in front of large, powerful Lotos or Orlen companies. Is it for the competitiveness of the gas market, or is it for small businesses, or is it for Lotus, or is it for Orlen, or is it for large foreign companies, for which 10 million security is not a problem? [[It serves the consumer.]] 40,000. people can lose their jobs. [[Applause]] [[We demand an answer.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-19-sejm-23-1.u358	Thank you. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is adopting the 11th amendment would like to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 438 Members voted. 211 voted against - 222, 5 Members abstained. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In Amendment 15 to Article. 57g applicants propose a new wording of paragraph. 4. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 15th amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 443 Members voted. The vote was 265, against 149, with 29 abstentions. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In Amendment 22, applicants propose a new wording of Article. 12 and 16 of the Act on the Fuel Quality Monitoring and Control System. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 22nd amendment would like to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 444 Members voted. There were 270 votes against, 134 abstentions. The Sejm accepted the amendment. Amendments 26 to 30 were tabled in Article. 10 draft law amending amendments to the Law on oil stocks, petroleum products and natural gas and the rules for dealing with situations of threat to the fuel safety of the state and disturbances on the oil market. In Amendment 26, applicants propose a new wording of paragraph. Article 5 and Article 6 24. Amendment 47 is combined with this amendment. We will vote on them together. The Commission requests that they be rejected. The question is raised by Mr Tomasz Piotr Nowak, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-19-sejm-23-1.u359	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! The Government of the Civic Platform and PSL liberalised the gas market through a stock market obligation, because it was possible to buy gas at a price lower than that required by the URE. It was also an element of diversification that small companies trading with foreign countries could import gas without using their gas stocks, which made them very competitive, making the market competitive and diversified. Right now, you're going to back it up, and small businesses are going to have to store this gas. Does the exemption of small companies from the obligation of large companies stem directly from European Union law, Directive 2004/67 and Regulation 994/2010 aimed at making the market more flexible, facilitating the entry of small companies into the market? How much will the price of gas increase after this change? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-19-sejm-23-1.u360	There you go. We'll proceed with the vote. [[Answer the question!]] Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the amendments 26th and 47th would like to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 442 Members voted. 185 voted against - 236, 21 abstained. The Sejm rejected the amendments. In Amendment 27 to Article. 24a applicants shall propose a new wording of paragraph. 2 and the addition of paragraph 2. 3. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 27th amendment would like to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 445 Members voted. 178 voted against - 244, with 23 abstentions. The Sejm rejected the amendment. Amendment 28 is pointless. In Amendment 29 to Article. 25 applicants shall propose not to repeal paragraph. 2a and give a new wording to paragraph. 6. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 29th amendment would like to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 443 Members voted. 176 Members voted against - 246, with 21. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In Amendment 30, applicants propose a new wording of Article. 29d and the addition of Article. 29e-29g. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 30th amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 438 Members voted. The vote was 239, against 169, with 30 abstentions. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In Amendment 34. to Article. 14 applicants propose to amend the transitional provision. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 34th amendment would like to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 443 Members voted. 177 voted against - 247, with 19. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In Amendment 35, applicants propose a new wording of Article. 15. Amendments 36 and 38 are linked to it. We will vote on them together. The Commission proposes that they be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the amendments from 35. to 38. will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 444 Members voted. 259 voted against - 140, with 45 abstentions. The Sejm accepted the amendments. In Amendment 40, the applicant proposes to delete Article. 21. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 40th amendment would like to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 435 Members voted. 169 voted against - 244, 22 Members abstained. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In Amendment 44. to Article. 27 applicants shall propose that the time limit referred to in that provision be 2 months. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 44th amendment would like to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 441 Members voted. 267 voted against - 133, 41 Members abstained. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In Amendment 46 to Article. 31 The applicants propose to clarify the time limit for submitting the application referred to in that provision. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 46th amendment would like to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 443 Members voted. 263 voted against - 139, 41 Members abstained. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In Amendment 48. to Article. 41 applicants propose a new wording of this provision. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 48th amendment would like to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 445 Members voted. 270 votes against - 134, 41 abstentions. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In Amendment 50 to Article. 43 by adding new points, applicants propose to amend the date of entry into force of certain provisions of the Act. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 50th amendment would like to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 446 Members voted. 270 voted against - 134, 42 abstained. The Sejm accepted the amendment. We proceed with the vote on the entire bill. You have come to the questions... Members. Member Mieczysław Kasprzak, Polish People's Party.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-19-sejm-23-1.u361	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! The Polish People's Party will vote against this law, because it is a bad law, it eliminates completely competition, leads to monopolization of fuel trading in Poland. On the other hand, I have a question for the Minister, because many of the companies that were created have taken up credit, had a development perspective and today, under the conditions that will be introduced, and especially in the case of LPG, where certain guarantees have to be provided, these companies will fall. Have you predicted the budgetary implications or will people receive any compensation because it will not be possible to operate under such conditions for these small family businesses? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-19-sejm-23-1.u362	There you go. Mr Zbigniew Gryglas, the Modern Club, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-19-sejm-23-1.u363	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Seym! Although the Act contains some important and necessary solutions, unfortunately we cannot support it because of the three fundamental disadvantages that disqualify this solution. The first is the issue concerning the LPG market, which I have already mentioned, the issue of introducing high asset protections for small and medium-sized Polish companies, which we cannot accept. The second is a question of limiting real competitiveness in the gas market. A certain solution that we proposed and which was acceptable was a gradual investigation to level up the obligation to build stocks between large companies, state capital companies, foreign companies and Polish private small or medium-sized enterprises. Unfortunately, this solution did not gain acceptance. And a third issue equally important [[♪ The bell ♪]] It's a matter of verification of concessions. This raises serious doubts about the constitutionality of this law. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-19-sejm-23-1.u364	Please. Member Tomasz Piotr Nowak, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-19-sejm-23-1.u365	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! The rapporteur has said many times: but Members, this law is a parliamentary proposal and there is no need for any impact assessments. How can there be no impact assessments? Technically, yes, but we don't really hear from the government about what's going to happen as a result of this bill, what the consequences will be. The questions we asked about LPG remain unanswered. The competitiveness we are talking about remains unanswered. We also took the liberty of asking BAS about the constitutionality of this law in the context of insufficient, because 14-day vacathio legis, because in fact companies that have concluded long-term contracts, with these contracts and the legal consequences of changes in value, gas prices will have to struggle, destroy the competition of these companies. Therefore, [[♪ The bell ♪]] I ask the Prime Minister to answer if you are concerned that competition will be limited or whether you are not concerned about the unconstitutionality of this law and the responsibility of the government for changes that may be incalculable. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[He can't hear the government because he's talking.]] [[It's called a dialogue with the opposition.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-19-sejm-23-1.u366	Please. We therefore proceed to the vote on the whole draft law. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting in full the draft law in print No. 694, along with the amendments adopted, will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 445 Members voted. Six Members abstained in voting 260 against 179. The Sejm passed a law amending the Energy Law Act and some other laws. We return to the consideration of item 2 of the agenda: Report from the Committee on Culture and Media on the Government's draft law amending the law on copyright and related rights. We proceed to the third reading. The Commission calls for the adoption of the draft Print Act No 566. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting the bill as a whole in print No 566 will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 442 Members voted. Everyone voted in favour. The Sejm unanimously passed a law amending the law on copyright and related rights. We are returning to the consideration of item 3 of the agenda: the report of the Committee on the Environment, Natural Resources and Forestry on the Government's draft law on access to and sharing the benefits of genetic resources. The additional committee report shall be in print No 721-A. We proceed to the third reading. I ask Mrs Teresa Nolas to present this report.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-19-sejm-23-1.u367	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! During today's process on the committee's report on the government draft law on access to and sharing the benefits of genetic resources - in the case of prints No. 642 and 721 - two amendments were tabled by the Modern Posel Club. The Sejm therefore referred the project to the Committee on the Environment, Natural Resources and Forestry. The Commission has not taken into account the amendments tabled and recommends that the High House reject both amendments. At the same time, on behalf of the committee, I would also ask that the High House decide to adopt the bill. Thank you kindly. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-19-sejm-23-1.u368	Thank you. We will vote first on the amendments presented by the committee. In the first amendment to Article. 14 applicants propose that the words "from PLN 1000 to PLN 10,000' be replaced by "from PLN 500 to PLN 2000'. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the first amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 446 Members voted. The vote was 180, against 266, and no one held back. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In Amendment 2. to Article. 17 applicants in the added paragraph. 2 propose that other factors which have a direct bearing on the case and are in the interest of the user may be taken into account when determining the level of penalties. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the second amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 445 Members voted. 178 voted against - 267, no one abstained. The Sejm rejected the amendment. We proceed with the vote on the entire bill. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting in full the draft law in print no.721, will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 444 Members voted. 427 voted against - 2, 15 Members abstained. The Sejm has passed a law on access to and sharing the benefits of genetic resources. We are returning to the examination of item 4 of the agenda: Report from the Committee on Social Policy and Family Affairs on the draft law amending the Act on Occupational and Social Rehabilitation and employment of persons with disabilities and certain other laws. We proceed to the third reading. The Commission calls for the adoption of the draft Law No 583. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting in full the draft law in print No. 583, would like to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 446 Members voted. Everyone voted in favour. The Sejm unanimously passed a law amending the Act on Professional and Social Rehabilitation and employment of persons with disabilities and certain other laws. We return to the examination of item 7 of the agenda: Report from the Legislative Commission on the draft resolution on the establishment of the Committee of Investigation to examine the correctness and legality of the activities of public authorities and institutions vis-à-vis entities included in the Amber Gold Group. The Commission requests the adoption of a draft resolution from print No 735. At the second reading of the draft resolution, amendments were tabled, on which the Sejm would vote first. A summary of the amendments was given to you in print No 735. In amendments 1 to 3, applicants propose to extend the scope of the draft resolution to the SKOK system. We will vote on these amendments together. Members raise questions. Member of Marcin Święcicki, Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-19-sejm-23-1.u369	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! I have a question for the applicants for a resolution setting up an investigation committee on Amber Gold. Why do you not want to agree to extend the scope of this committee's operation to the SKOK case? Isn't it really necessary to examine how it is that within a few years it is necessary to pay PLN 4 billion to SKOKs and depositaries due to misguided SKOKs, that 40 SKOKs are covered by repair programs, and at the same time, within 6 years, the person who supervised the SKOKs earns over PLN 50 million at the SKOKs, while her brother makes another tens of millions of PLN? How is it possible that the foundation which was set up in 1990 to assist the SKOKs and whose initial fund was 70,000. dollars received from U.S. donors, in 2010, when she made her money at SKOKs, [[♪ The bell ♪]] By earning 65 million PLN for the SKOKs, he goes into private hands, into the hands of two brothers and their partners? How is that possible...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-19-sejm-23-1.u370	Thank you, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-19-sejm-23-1.u371	...that companies are formed in Luxembourg that provide income to one senator...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-19-sejm-23-1.u372	Thank you very much, sir. [[This is a resolution on Amber Gold.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-19-sejm-23-1.u373	...and are managed from Poland and operate only to circumvent the tax system in Poland and the Financial Supervision Commission? Mr. Marshal, one thing.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-19-sejm-23-1.u374	Thank you very much, thank you very much. Mr Witold Zembaczyński has the floor. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-19-sejm-23-1.u375	We're not afraid of Amber Gold and the Amber Gold investigation committee. If the SKOK case is clean...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-19-sejm-23-1.u376	Mr. President, can you hear me?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-19-sejm-23-1.u377	...don't be afraid of the S.O.C. committee. [[Applause]] [[Down with the commune.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-19-sejm-23-1.u378	Thank you, sir. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-19-sejm-23-1.u379	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Well, there's a committee of inquiry for Amber Gold. The Golden Age of the Civic Platform has ended irresistibly, but the exit has yet to be settled... [[Applause]] [[Very funny, really.]] Don't water down the Amber Gold commission. The submission of an amendment concerning the merger of the work of the Amber Gold Commission, the extension of it to the SKOK-i is non-constitutional. The rules don't cover the possibility at all. [[The light of peace.]] [[The campaign is settled.]] Hence the modern proposal to set up a separate committee of inquiry for the SKOKs. This case needs to be investigated, and that's why we applied to the Sejm bureau without your signatures... [[Kiss the president's hand.]] ...because it was your club that forbade Members from signing this application. [[Applause]] [[Sign up for the PiS.]] I hope you will support the Modern proposal to set up a separate committee of inquiry. Meanwhile, don't water down your responsibility for Amber Gold's case, just take it on your chest. Thank you. [[Applause]] [[Don't do this anymore.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-19-sejm-23-1.u380	Thank you, sir. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the amendments from 1 to 3 will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 444 Members voted. The vote was 133, against - 290, with 21. I state that the Sejm has rejected the amendments. In the 4th amendment to the article. The draft resolution of the applicant proposes that the committee should consist of 11 members. The question is raised by Mr Krzysztof Brejza, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-19-sejm-23-1.u381	Prime Minister! High Izbo! You propose to reduce the representation of the largest opposition club first from three to two, now from two to one Member. I will remind you that the law, because the functioning of the committee of inquiry is governed by the law, provides that the committee is composed of up to 11 members, and its composition should reflect representation according to size. This was the case at the time of the Civic Platform when the investigative committees, the Blida death commission, the pressure committee and the others were set up. Law and Justice had two, and now, as part of the democratic package, you are cutting down the Civic Platform. I have a question for the applicant. How does this apply to the principle that the Sejm will shape the personal composition of the committee in accordance with the principle of parity? How is it that, according to a comment on this law, the Bureau must make mathematical calculations in order to respect the principle of parity? I know you guys have different patterns lately, you swap data, some things come out, but right here. [[♪ The bell ♪]] You're lowering the Platform's membership and it's an unconstitutional action. The committee thus appointed will act with the charge of defectiveness, its findings will also be burdened with statutory defects and constitutional defects, because the resolution in this regard...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-19-sejm-23-1.u382	Thank you, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-19-sejm-23-1.u383	...has a normative value. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-19-sejm-23-1.u384	Thank you. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 4th amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 446 Members voted. 148 votes against - 268, 30 Members abstained. The Sejm rejected the amendment. We proceed with the vote on the entire bill. Of course, it's a resolution. The questions were raised by Mr Zbigniew Konwiński, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-19-sejm-23-1.u385	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! You did not agree to accept our amendments, which extended the scope of the committee's work to investigate the SKOK case. Nevertheless, we will support the draft resolution. [[Oh!]] We're not afraid of anything, we have nothing to hide. Apparently you do, and you're still sitting in Senator Bierecki's pocket, [[Applause]] Because your vote shows you're in Senator Bierecki's pocket. You're talking about the representativeness of the committee of inquiry. Five of the PiS, who has 230 MPs, one of the Platforms that... [[Talk about your pockets.]] ...has 130 Members - counting your money, as the last hours have shown, you're doing a little bit better. than counting what representativeness is. [[Applause]] We would like to explain in this committee of inquiry how it happened that the KNF took over three years later than it needs to be supervised by the SKOKs, the participation of law and justice politicians in this case, as it happened that, as a result of the actions of the then president and President Andrzej Duda, the supervision of the KNF was delayed. Thanks to the Civic Platform and PSL, among others. Thanks to the fact that this surveillance has been [[♪ The bell ♪]] Included, as well as the bank guarantees of the Guarantee Fund, SKOK clients are not in the situation where Amber Gold customers were. And you're still in Senator Bierecki's pocket. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-19-sejm-23-1.u386	Thank you, sir. Mr Grzegorz Furgo, the Modern Club, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-19-sejm-23-1.u387	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! Ladies and gentlemen! This committee is very important, all the more so as it arises in a very hot political period. This is a committee that will have to answer some very important questions, such as: How.: How was it possible that for such a long time the company acted outside any suspicion of both the ruling team and the largest opposition party, PiS? [[Why don't you ask Komorowski?]] Why did the D.A.'s office ignore KNF's conclusions? But, most importantly, how is it possible that the company invested significant amounts in the domestic aviation market and did not draw attention to anyone? Who, then, made sure that the company could continue its business beyond suspicion? Did the same person remove the brick from the foundation of the pyramid, resulting in it collapsing? I wish Mrs. Wassermann to lead this committee professionally... [[He'll drive.]] ...rejecting all political animosities, because Poles will... [[You got it.]] ...to be expected from you. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-19-sejm-23-1.u388	There you go. The rapporteur of the committee, Mr Wojciech Sharama, asks for the floor. [[Flowers where?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-19-sejm-23-1.u389	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The Legislative Commission dealt with this problem and dealt with the amendments tabled by the Civic Platform. These amendments are identical to those made in writing by the club president. They were rejected not because it was the political will of one party or another. Although I would like to remind you here that these amendments have been rejected by the votes of all Members, i.e. not only by the votes of the Members of Law and Justice, but also by the Modern One, Kukiz.15 and the Polish People's Party. This is because the lawyers of the Legislative Office and the Sejm Analysis Office clearly... [[I don't think that's all of them.]] ...they said these amendments were against the constitution. Art. 111 of the Constitution clearly states that the Sejm may set up a committee of inquiry to investigate a particular case. So this is about one thing. You are very attached to the Constitutional Tribunal's judgments, to what he says... [[Here we are.]] ...president of this tribunal. Well, in 2006, the subject matter of the so-called operation was resolved. the banking commission. Then the tribunal clearly stated that too many threads could not be discussed, because then the resolution was contrary to the constitution. So one more reminder. The whole Sejm believes that the Amber Gold case needs to be clarified, but you stubbornly want to lead to a situation in which even if this committee were founded, it could then be caught that it is illegal, incompatible with the constitution. And that's action. against this huge crowd of Poles who demand an explanation... [[That's not true.]] ...this case. And then... [[Yes, sir.]] ...one more note, one more piece of information, although I think it's a thing... [[The whole of Europe is waiting for this. Not just Poland.]] ...commonly known, because of what my predecessor from the Civic Platform has touched. It is widely known that the SKOK committee, Wołomin SKOK, was not established in the previous term, although you had a majority then and you were able to set up such a committee. It wasn't created to keep Bronisław Komorowski out of trouble... [[Lie!]] ...in the election campaign. [[Applause]] [[Yes, sir.]] [[Voice from the room: In use mode...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-19-sejm-23-1.u390	I don't see the need to use correction... [[Voice from the room: There isn't.]] I don't see why... [[Mr. Marshal...]] ...to use correction mode. If you want to make a statement, at the end of each meeting [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] The Seym is for this... [[Yes, sir.]] ...time. [[Applause]] We'll proceed to the vote... [[Sit down!]] ...over the entire draft resolution. [[Scandal, Mr. Marshal.]] Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting the draft resolution as a whole in print no. 735, will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 445 Members voted. The absolute majority is 223. The 444 votes against - no one, one Member abstained. [[Applause]] I state that the Sejm has adopted a resolution on the establishment of a Committee of Investigation to examine the regularity and legality of the activities of public bodies and institutions vis-à-vis entities forming part of the Amber Gold Group. Mrs Elżbieta Radziszewska with a formal application, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-19-sejm-23-1.u391	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! We have a four-day session of the Sejm, and you will be holding the Seniors Convention in a moment and in accordance with the Rule. However, paragraph 184 (2) of the Rules of Procedure would like to ask you once again to put on the agenda a point in which the Minister for Health would present to the House plans for the solutions he wishes to propose to the Law and Justice in health care. Mr Radziwillov has already shown the president a yellow card. And the information from the many interviews the Minister of Health gave to the press shows that there will be only one great chaos, confusion, costless revolution, and that patients will be the victims. All you have to do is say one thing. The Minister, because not yet the State, proposes that the National Health Fund, while it is, should not conclude contracts with nurses already contracted palliative care, long-term, in connection with which the patient's environment is actually entered into and nursed at home. The end is that only doctors will be able to contract, and patients most affected by their illness, but cared for by nurses who sometimes have the entire county under their care, these contracts will not be able to sign. Who's gonna get hurt the most? The poorest, the hardest, the sickest patients. So I'm offering you the right choice. [[Yes? Yes? Eight years.]] Let's talk about this in the parliament hall, not only before the president gives Mr. Radziwill a red card, but also before the patients give you a red card. I ask, Mr. Marshal, that we discuss in the courtroom what Prime Minister Szydło has agreed to, [[♪ The bell ♪]] When Minister Radziwiłł presented her with a proposal to change health care. Very much so, Marshal, please. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-19-sejm-23-1.u392	Thank you. I have waited for a formal request from you for 2 minutes and almost 10 seconds, and I have not waited. [[But I did, Marshal.]] [[I can't believe you're embarrassed! You have to listen with understanding.]] [[Request to extend the agenda.]] Let me remind you that art. Paragraph 184. 2. The reference to which you refer is as follows: "The formal proposals may relate only to matters on the agenda and the proceedings of the sitting. [[That's what I want it to be extended.]] This case was discussed at the Senior Convention and was addressed to the Health Committee in the morning, and has been on the Health Committee since this morning. [[October? November? December? Mr. Marshal...]] So that, Commissioner, do not abuse the rules of procedure, so to speak. We proceed with the examination of item 34 of the agenda: Changes in the personal compositions of the Sejm committees (print No 740). Bureau of the Sejm on the basis of the Rule. Article 20 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm, after consulting the Seniors Convention, submitted a proposal for amendments to the personal compositions of the Sejm committees. Would any of you and your fellow Members like to speak on the proposals put forward? No one's checking in. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting the proposal in print No. 740 will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 443 Members voted. Four Members abstained in favour of the 438 votes against - 1. The Sejm adopted a resolution on changes in the personal compositions of the Sejm committees. I'm ordering a three-minute recess. [[Adjournment from 10 a.m. 20 mins 23 hours 20 min 27]] I'm reopening the session. We proceed with the examination of item 35 of the agenda: First reading of the parliamentary draft law on the amendment of the act on the remuneration of managers of state positions and on the amendment of certain other laws (print No 742). [[Game in the O.R., bell ringing.]] I would ask the representative of Mr Łukasz Schreiber's applicants to present the reasons for the bill and, ladies and gentlemen, who are taking part in the discussions, please transfer these talks to the cockroaches. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-19-sejm-23-1.u393	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Group of Members, I have the honour to present a draft act on the remuneration of the managers of state positions and on the amendment of certain other laws. Maybe I'll start with how it is today. [[Game in the O.R., bell ringing.]] And today, we have a basic salary in the form of twice the average salary in Poland plus a minimum salary in a given year, plus a function supplement. Today is the fact that we have frozen for many years valorizations. Today's the day we have no incentive system. High Izbo! This is not a law on salary increases for members of government administration, this is not a law on increases for parliamentarians, this is not a law on increases for ministers. In this act we propose some innovative solution to make wages dependent on the degree of wealth of Poles. We propose that four factors be taken into account: firstly, GDP growth, secondly, Gini's ratio, thirdly, average wages in Poland and fourthly, minimum wages. As a result, if this were to be introduced, the principle of linking remuneration with efficiency and economic growth will apply. In the event of a crisis or incompetent governments, these wages may even be lower than they currently are. A decrease in GDP growth of less than 2% is sufficient. I will remind you that this was the case in Poland, that in 2012 it was barely around 2%, in 2009, 1.6% , between 1.2 and 1.4% between 2001 and 2002. I want to talk about this law as much as possible in substance, without the unnecessary publicist discussion that sometimes takes place here, so let me talk about the most important assumptions and briefly discuss the whole act. Ladies and gentlemen! If we decide to do so with the current rates, of course there is nothing to hide, it will result in some kind of wage increase. However, in order to achieve this, first in the companies of the State Treasury 60 million PLN managed to reduce, first. Secondly, any increase in this area for government administration has been frozen since 2008. Today, the Deputy Minister receives 7,000 as a result. net zlotys, and sometimes manage, as you know, even a dozen-milli-billion-dollar budgets. So we have a situation that this salary, to put it mildly, often causes the best professionals in the market to be very difficult to persuade to work in government. But we have an even more interesting situation. Here are department directors who earn more than the ministers supervising their work. At the moment, as many as 19 of the 20 CEOs earn more than the Minister, as many as 13 more than the Prime Minister, and one more than the President. The bill will also introduce an allowance for the President's spouse. Today we are talking about the first lady, but of course it is possible that in the future the president will be a woman. It will be 55% The President's salary. The first lady is completely off the system today. On the one hand, he can't take the job, the president pays his contributions for it, on the other hand, he does his job sometimes after 100 hours a week, representational work, but not only. It therefore appears that the regulation of this case, which has also been raised frequently, is also appropriate. Finally, this is not a law, contrary to what is said, for the politicians of Law and Justice and the ruling camp. If that were the case, we would also not have proposed specific retirement allowances for former presidents and former first ladies, and this is also in this bill. Ladies and gentlemen! In addition, of the most important issues we have proposed increased differentiation depending on the degree of responsibility involved, and therefore the multiplier will vary between 0.1 and 1. The issue of prizes has also been regulated. High Izbo! I will move on to a brief discussion of the various articles. In Article 2, paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: 1 in the amendment of the first one we have amended the title of the Act by adding words and some other persons. The second amendment refers to the remuneration of the President's wife. The third amendment refers to the calculation of the basic salary and the functional allowance, and the vocabulary is presented. It is to be calculated by the President of the CSO each year and published in the form of a notice by 20 March. The fourth amendment calculates the salary of the President's spouse and proposes 55% His salary. The fifth amendment regulates the amount of prizes for prime minister and ministers. The sixth and seventh amendments concern the President's wife and these are technical changes. The eighth amendment regulates the reimbursement of travel costs, as previously raised by the Supreme Audit Chamber. In Article 2, paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: 2, Article 3, Article 11, Art. 12, Art. 14, Art. 16, Art. 17 and Article 17 of Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 16 February 2011 laying down the rules and general principles concerning mechanisms for control by Member States of the Commission's exercise of implementing powers pursuant to Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council and repealing Council Regulation (EC, Euratom) No 1605/2002 (OJ L 298, 26.10.2012, p. 1). 19 there are technical changes concerning all the social groups covered by these principles resulting from the amendment of the title of the Act, which I mentioned, in the article. Art. 4, 9 and 10 relate to the amount of the aldermen's allowances - municipal, district and voivodeship councillors. This amount will now be determined as a maximum of one-and-a-half times the basic amount for members of the civil service corps, instead of the existing rates for managers. In Article 2, paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: 5 the multiplier for Members and Senators is regulated. In Article 2, paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: 6 rules on the remuneration of the former President and his spouse are laid down - 75% Preferences to the President and the President's spouse. In Article 2, paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: 7, 15, 18, 20, 21 and 22 are proposed replacement, i.e. instead of taking into account the amounts and coefficients relating to managers of public positions, reference is made to the basic amounts for members of the civil service corps. These include: remuneration for witnesses, court costs, local staff or members of the State Election Commission. In Article 2, paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: 8 is talking about restricting the conduct of business, which will therefore also be covered by the President's spouse. In Article 2, paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: 13 we have a technical change regarding the President's spouse again. In Article 2, paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: 23 The powers for spouses of former presidents elected since 1989 in the general election are discussed. Art. 24 regulates the calculation by 20 September 2016 by the President of the CSO for the purposes of this law, the remuneration of the managers of state positions and the spouse of the President. Art. 25 imposes a certain obligation on the President's spouse to make a declaration of property. And finally, art. 26 sets out the date of entry into force of the Act - the initial proposal is 1 September 2016. Finally, the proposed Act provides for the use of a new model for determining the remuneration of public office managers for the period from 1 October 2016 to 31 March 2017. For this period, the President's spouse would also be paid for the first time. In addition, it is proposed that the spouses should be entitled to the salary of former presidents who have completed their duties before the entry into force of the law. The date of submission of the first statement of property by the President's spouse was also fixed. The subject matter of the proposed regulation is not covered by European Union law. The draft shall not be notified in accordance with the provisions on the functioning of the national system of notification of standards and acts. Let me just say that these changes should not result in an increase in expenditure in the various parts of the budget. High Izbo! I appeal to all the ladies and gentlemen of the House for a joint substantive work on this bill. Please refer him to further work. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-19-sejm-23-1.u394	Thank you very much, sir. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would listen to the five-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and the circle. I'm opening a discussion. On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, the Rule of Law and Justice will be spoken by Mr Artur Soboń. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-19-sejm-23-1.u395	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I am extremely pleased to present the position of the Law and Justice Club regarding the parliamentary draft law amending the act on the remuneration of persons holding government positions and on the amendment of certain other laws. With these kinds of projects, there's a danger of becoming populist, and that's what I'd like to avoid today. I would like us to avoid this populism so as not to talk about which Polish politicians wanted to separate themselves from this mess in Poland, which believed that 6 thousand. zł salary is just a thief and idiot, about how much they earn today, how much they earn by bank presidents or stock companies, because these are salaries comparable daily to the monthly salary of the President or the President of the Council of Ministers. I'm not gonna talk about the payroll, I'm not gonna talk about what to compare. We are diagnosing the situation, and the situation is indeed what the applicant has put forward. The current system of remuneration for top-level employees of the state administration makes a negative selection, i.e. people who could take these positions often look for their fate in the market, in business, without taking remuneration in the state administration, where very often high-level specialists need to be. There is also no incentive system in these positions. This change, which we are proposing, is a wise solution that will make us dependent on the economy's salary of the most important people in the country. They will be linked to the growth of gross domestic product, to the indicator of Gini's social inequality, to the average wage in the economy and to the minimum wage. The wages and condition of the economy go down - the wages of the people running the country go down. The salaries and condition of the Polish economy go up - also these salaries go up. This is a fair and motivating system for work. Of course, these salaries will vary, and so there are very different rates of indicator, function multipliers, from 0.1 to the highest, once for the President of the Republic. This project also regulates the issue of prizes by setting out the award procedure for both ministers, the President of the Council of Ministers and the Secretaries and Undersecretaries of State. It introduces regulations that have been long-awaited concerning the spouse of the head of state, introducing a remuneration of 55% for the spouse of the President of the Republic. the remuneration of the President. It also introduces restrictions on the conduct of business activities by the President's spouse, which, I believe, is also expected when it comes to transparency of public life in Poland. The Act also regulates the situation of spouses of former presidents - all presidents elected in general elections after 1989. It regulates the issue of reimbursement of travel expenses, so that the public functions that are performed in the Polish government are functions not only for people living in Warsaw, but also for specialists from all over the country. These things are also regulated. Of course, this also applies to Members and Senators for whom the function allowance is to be 0.05%. Mode of entry into force of the Act - this is what the applicant has already said. [[♪ The bell ♪]] According to the club Law and Justice, this project should be addressed to the Committee on Public Finance, through public consultation, to discuss the best solutions and introduce them. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-19-sejm-23-1.u396	Thank you, sir. And please take the floor of Mrs Monica Wielichowska, the Civic Platform Club. You're welcome, my fellow Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-19-sejm-23-1.u397	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Within the framework of a good change, you have come - and I am asking the parliamentarians from the Law and Justice - to reform the salaries of the most important people in the country. This is a gigantic increase for Prime Minister Beata Szydło, a gigantic increase because the Prime Minister's salary is expected to rise by almost 50%. Increases for presidents, deputy prime ministers, ministers, deputy ministers and voivodships will be between 4 and 5,000. zł. The salaries of parliamentarians will also increase. You refer to too little earnings and to the fact that they have been frozen since 2008, but at this time you are introducing for Poles banking tax, trade tax, increase in electricity prices, increase in water prices, increase in insurance prices, and that seems to be the beginning. And the new taxes, and the salary increases of high officials were in vain in your election program, in a blue file, supposedly full of laws, and ultimately empty. I appeal to you, to the parliamentarians of Law and Justice: respect Poles. The government and parliament, the Platform and PSL coalition over the last 8 years have borne the cost of the crisis and has actually frozen the increases in the administration, including the government. I will also remind you that it was at the request of the Civic Platform that 13. salary for parliamentarians. Thanks to these actions, you have found public finances in good condition - in such a condition that you allow yourself to be distributed, but now you have gone too far. You forget that limitations, savings must always start with each other. If you have any savings made by the previous government, give them to the nurses, give them to the pensioners - not yourself. [[Applause]] First, honesty, understood in the simplest, most material way. You don't go to power for money," said President Kaczyński in October 2015. Polish policy must be different. Humility, labor, moderation, discretion in action and responsibility. No more arrogance of power and no more pride," said Prime Minister Beata Szydło in November 2015. As some people laugh today: the homeland of the country is coming back to us, Lord, these people are telling us," said President Duda in March 2016. [[Applause]] You're saying there's no money to raise nurses. It's the middle of the summer, and you guys are throwing up a raise project. 5 PLN for pensioners, 500 PLN for selected, because not each, child, 5 thousand. for all ministers, 7.5 thousands. For Prime Minister Beata Szydło. You throw a project in the middle of your vacation and you want to give it to the Sejm at just one meeting. This is not - because we have already seen it many times during this term - a good way of making law. The project is parliamentary and therefore does not require consultation. We don't know what the government's position is, and we don't know any calculations of what it's going to look like since September, which is after the raises. Ladies and gentlemen! Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The Civic Platform Club requests that the project be rejected at first reading. And I'm gonna say it again, because I have time, and for once, no one interrupts me, that I'm gonna... In fact, I think all the opposition parliamentarians learned this morning from the media that such a project is going to be proceded today - I was just a little earlier, because when I woke up this morning, I had this text on my phone: Congratulations on the raise. Of course, I quickly looked up what this raise meant because I didn't know. I've written back what Minister Ziobro can tell us because our texts are probably being intercepted... [[Oh, come on.]] ...after all the laws you've made, it's unworthy, unfair and unfair. How can this be with such a poor budget, with such a small, lowest national average? And that's not hypocrisy, because the Himalayas of hypocrisy are practicing the state. This is unworthy and dishonest towards Poles. Thank you. [[Applause]] [[Oh, Jesus.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-19-sejm-23-1.u398	Thank you very much, Member. Please take the floor of Mr Jakub Kulesza, the Kukiz Club15.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-19-sejm-23-1.u399	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! As a matter of fact, this project was only submitted yesterday. Today he appeared on the Parliament's website, and today we were only acquainted with him as Members. Suddenly, the agenda was changed. The project went to first reading, and we are debating it right now. There's an express pace. It would seem that this is one of the most important projects of this parliamentary term. Express pace without a wider public debate. I think that this is a priority for you that does not require a broader public opinion with the changes that have been proposed. And what was proposed? Increases for officials, for parliamentarians, for ourselves. We're gonna decide what we're gonna make, and it's not a small amount. It so happens that the equalisation of the tax-free amount for Members and the rest of the citizens has proved to be too much of a challenge for the honourable House, but the granting of increases from the taxpayer's money to Members has proved to be just in time that this is not a problem. Let me be clear, I believe that Members should not receive a raise of any kind until the tax-free amount for citizens has been raised by the amount requested here for the increase for Members. That's the minimum decency. If we have not been able to raise the tax-free amount for the citizens since 2008, if that is the main argument in the presidential campaign, in the parliamentary campaign, that finally the tax-free amount will be raised by more than 5 000. zł, and here in the Sejm it turns out that it is impossible, but it is possible to raise salaries for parliamentarians from the taxpayer's pocket by 2,700 zł, that is really unfair. Let's start with tax cuts, then let's do our own pockets. We had a 500+ program, a living+. I see that another project is being carried out: trough+. There is also a second element of this project related to salaries for officials. I understand it's good to have some great government professionals. I understand that it's hard to find good professionals for the amount of 6,7,000. On your arm. In order to function efficiently, it would be good to raise these salaries. I could even agree with this project, but on one condition - let's reduce the number of officials. If we were to reduce the composition of the government, the largest number of 118 ministers, vice-ministers and secretaries in Europe, e.g. By 50%, to 59 people, we could raise their wages by up to 50%. I'm not even against raising salaries for other officials, not just government officials. If we had limited the number of officials to the number from 10 years ago, so recently, i.e. from the current level approx. 470 thousand. To the level of 380 thousand. in 2006, we could raise salaries for officials by as much as 25%. I think that's the right way to go, which doesn't require the taxpayers' money to be drawn out of their pockets. Let us set a good example, let us put this project aside, freeze it for a moment and first raise the tax-free amount for Polish citizens, because they expect it, it was promised to them and we owe it to them. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-19-sejm-23-1.u400	Thank you, sir. I would like to ask the floor of Katarzyna Lubnauer, the Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-19-sejm-23-1.u401	Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Marshal! You have already managed to get us used to a certain pace of work, to the fact that projects are suddenly, surprisingly quickly and surprisingly quickly processed. After all, I don't think I remember a project that was supposed to be adopted from start to finish as fast as that project you proposed. We're here now. Yesterday, this project wasn't on the website, there was his announcement. We've already learned from the media that there's a raise project, but it wasn't there in spite of appearances. Although there was information about the printing, it could not be downloaded from the site. He showed up this morning. In general, you may have doubts whether it was in regular mode, because probably up to hours. 21 should be on the eve of this project, but we've already lowered the veil of silence. I have the impression that this is a fast pace, and this way of proceding results from some kind of embarrassment that you have towards this project. Note what this project is about. This project deals with one thing: granting yourself more money. We have situations where we can actually assume that specialists should be well paid, but first of all, we have a government where it is difficult to find specialists. If we look at the fact that the vice minister is a man of 31 years of age, even without proper education, if we look at that the main task of the vice ministers, if we observe it, is to be in the media, I have great doubts whether they should be paid so well. In addition, we have an extremely large government, many ministers and deputy ministers - 118, record. Great Britain, which is a country bigger than Poland, has 44, we have 118. I feel that if we could do even more, there might be room for everyone sitting here in the Chamber of Members, but I understand that you have already broken the record, but they would not want to beat it so much. Therefore, first of all, there is something immoral about admitting to each other increases at a time when we have a record-breaking large government - 118 ministers, vice-ministers, including the Prime Minister. Secondly, the earnings of Polish politicians do not differ from those of other politicians in other countries if we count against the national average. Perhaps if you count it into the euro and compare it to other wealthy countries, it will turn out that we are earning relatively little. But if we compare it to the national average, i.e. the wages of Poles, it doesn't work so poorly anymore, it turns out that we earn exactly the same amount of money as politicians from other European countries. That's another line. We're on credit. Mr Moravian Deputy Prime Minister even admitted that we are living on credit, that the 500+ programme is nothing but a deficit loan, in the form of bond sales, all these are forms of credit. And at the same time, we give ourselves raises. [[Moravian!]] Moravian. Again it turns out that we have something that is immoral in relation to the possibilities of this country. That's another line. There's one record that could be supported. It was possible to create a law that deals with this one: salary for the first lady, or for the wife - or, if it were a woman, for the husband - the head of state. Yes, I believe that given that it must perform representational functions for Poland, and given that it cannot work at that time, it should probably receive a salary and in the future it should result from some pension. Also the former first ladies can receive an allowance. This solution seems to be consistent with the principles of social justice. On the other hand, the fact that they are also to receive a raise from Members at a time when our salaries are actually quite decent, and when we really have a situation in which we actually live on credit, it is again indecent. Especially since I have this impression, the motivation is one, but rather serious - the main motivation is that you feel that your Members are slowly fleeing to companies of the Treasury. I understand that as one, the other, the third escaped, as it turned out, in the finance committee we already had to catch a man, you came to the conclusion that it was high time to raise the Members' salaries... [[That's not true.]] ...because they're all running away. All I see is this one motive. Ladies and gentlemen, as Modern, we are strongly opposed to this project, because we are opposed to the fact that, in a situation where our actions as politicians are not socially acceptable, we still have to raise our powers. Let's do something good first, especially the country. Do something good for the country, stop spoiling it. At this point, perhaps even the public will come to the conclusion that you should make more money.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-19-sejm-23-1.u402	Please take the floor of Mrs Andzelika Możdjanówska, the Polish People's Party. You're welcome, my fellow Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-19-sejm-23-1.u403	Thank you very much. Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Neither is my consent nor the consent of the Polish People's Party to raise their salaries - to raise their salaries, not to the people, not to the nurses, to increase their pensions. Because it took only a few months for those who protested so much against any increase in both civil service and government administration to raise their salaries today. Do you remember when the voters It was the Law and Justice that said that it goes to power with a sense of mission, with a sense of service to the nation. And now we really know that for our own money and raises. This government is highly valued - 24 constitutional ministers, 118 deputy ministers. You guys value each other very much. We read in the argument: to stop the process of migration of professional managers from the public sector to the private sector. Ladies and gentlemen, how much more hypocrisy And hypocrisy? After all, it was you who threw away the incentive system, eliminating competitions for executive positions on the board, e.g. public service, in the media council, in a lot of other institutions that were just human resources, and now they're just a bankroll. What's the finale? Well, ladies and gentlemen, 5 zlotys for pensioners, 500% In terms of prostate medications, 500 PLN was taken from the first child and children in the home - but 5,000 PLN. Evil for the governing apparatus. How are you, ladies and gentlemen, not ashamed? It's a shame you should feel in front of hundreds of thousands of Poles who, for the national average, have to support the entire family. You gave 500 PLN per child and 500 PLN should be enough for you, too, if you want a raise. I am ashamed today that such ideas and voices appear in this House. Ladies and gentlemen, dear parliamentarians of the Law and Justice, think about it because none of the previous presidents or prime ministers have ever asked for such increases. [[Applause]] [[Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-19-sejm-23-1.u404	Mr Janusz Sanocki, non-attached Member, will speak. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-19-sejm-23-1.u405	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I am aware that such a movement as increases for the government, for the Prime Minister, for the President, it is very easy for the President to set in such a perspective that the rulers are giving themselves increases, and here this, this case is not settled, officials too much, the issue of tax-free, etc. True, there are many problems in Poland that have not been solved. The tax-free amount should be raised significantly, in my opinion the number of officials should be reduced significantly. But also, ladies and gentlemen, since I've been here and I've been a Member for nine months, I see a thing like this, if we really want to be honest, I see a thing that just makes us think. If the prime minister of the government makes money on an old-fashioned level just any old-fashioned thing, with all the respect for old-fashionedness... Well, that's because it was. Starosta earns 14,000, prime minister - 16. Ladies and gentlemen, if the Minister is making money... There is a legend about how MEPs make money. I haven't saved a penny yet, because I spend it all on my parliamentary activities. The amounts for the parliamentary offices should not be raised by 2 000, should be raised three times. The Member should have a back office, as should ministers, the government. I'm not talking about how many ministers there are anymore, but let's face it. After all, it is insulting that the Prime Minister is making so much money that the president, the highest official of the state, is making so much money. And don't, please, demagoguey, folks, because if we treat the high officials of the state, the politicians who rule the state, like the waiters who're supposed to be doing their rounds, then we'll have all these situations that we don't want to come to today: and corruption, and everything. In my opinion, it's a glory that somebody's finally getting it done, that they're finally getting it sorted out. And please, let's not do this cheap demagoguey, because right now I want to see what members of opposition clubs who criticize it so much here will do with this raise. I'm asking you to tax yourselves and give yourselves to some charity, since you have the courage to practice this demagogy here. On the other hand, I believe that there should be a law, which was before the war in Poland, on the remuneration of state and local workers. This should be a coherent hierarchy throughout Poland and should be comparable. It shouldn't be that local governments are practically doing what they want to do when it comes to wages, and to central administration... [[No, they have a chimney.]] ...the government and the MPs look through the prism of how much they have, that they earn so much. I think that all these problems I sometimes find difficult to disagree with, such as. But the tax-free amount should have been raised a long time ago... These are different things, however, and it is good that someone finally has the courage to get on with the subject and get it straightened out. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-19-sejm-23-1.u406	Thank you, sir. Six parliamentarians, ladies and gentlemen of the House have joined the questions. If there are no more volunteers, I'm closing the list. Question time - 1 minute. Please, Mr Jan Mosiński, Law and Justice. There's no envoy? In that case, Mr Tomasz Szymański.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-19-sejm-23-1.u407	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Something little here, a little turnout of the House of Law and Justice. [[Here we are.]] [[Here we are.]] I say little, not at all. I know today's news was going to be a reduction in the retirement age. Unfortunately, media reports have made it the key and nail of today's money heist. As you can see, a good change costs. But I have a question for you: Do you know who said it? 25 October 2015 The Poles were in favour of changing the current policy and form of government. This enormous need is the result of recent years when the expectations of citizens with the rulership have been completely ignored. And that is what we must say in this House today: Polish policy must be different. Humility, work, moderation, discretion in action and responsibility, and above all listening to citizens, are the principles that we will follow. No more arrogance of power and no more pride. These are the words of Prime Minister Beata Szydło. [[Bravo!]] Ladies and gentlemen! You started off with the fact that in the civil service [[♪ The bell ♪]] You've raised the salaries of your men, managers from 13 to 20,000, agents of the Central Anti-corruption Bureau, you've raised...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-19-sejm-23-1.u408	Mr... Thank you, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-19-sejm-23-1.u409	...paid $3,000. zł. My question is this: Have the applicants calculated the budget of this type of action? 'Cause to be honest, the retirees I talked to on the street today...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-19-sejm-23-1.u410	Okay, sir, thank you kindly.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-19-sejm-23-1.u411	...they are appalled by this fact. They got 5 zlotys raise, and you're offering several thousand zlotys. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-19-sejm-23-1.u412	Thank you, sir. I ask all Members of all the clubs to watch their time, to make such a question in order to fit in within the prescribed time. Please take the floor of Mr Marcin Święcicki. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-19-sejm-23-1.u413	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have a question for the applicants. If you think there's enough money in the budget to raise the salary of the highest government authorities, including the Sejm, etc., then I ask if there's also money for increases for normal government employees. They haven't been even since 2008. It is a large crowd of people. Shouldn't we start with them and then raise our wages if there's even money for these purposes? We raised teachers, health care, modestly, because modestly, as much as you could afford when there was a crisis. If you have now come to the conclusion that it is necessary to raise the administration, then it would be necessary to raise the whole administration, not just your vigor. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-19-sejm-23-1.u414	Thank you, sir. Please take the floor of Mr Blaze Parda.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-19-sejm-23-1.u415	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Your assumption is that as the economy is developing today, you want to make your wages dependent on GDP. And now is the second point, because what we're sure that if the economy slows down and actually gets much worse, you're gonna use this bill, and you're not gonna introduce it in a few hours, just like today, a new law that's gonna erase this bill, and what's really going to be so promoted here today, that if it's bad, We're gonna lower our pay, and then it won't matter at all? So we will only believe you if such a pattern appears in the constitution, because then you would have a problem to undo it. Unfortunately, for today, you're very unbelievable. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-19-sejm-23-1.u416	Please take the floor of Mr Maciej Masłowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-19-sejm-23-1.u417	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! It's gonna be short for me. The increases are given, it's true, but for the success, for the results, unless 500+, Living+ are the results for which you raise your salary, only that when it comes to the 500+ money you give away, you will of course take more in taxes. Another record that Law and Justice have broken is the number of ministers. The previous coalition government Platform and PSL had 117 ministers, the current government - 118. So first we increase the number of ministers, and now we give them increases. Finally, one more question to the Member of the applicant. Namely Mr Soboń, who presented the position of the Law and Justice Club, spoke about the fact that they would be among others. It's also a public consultation. I'd really like to see what it's gonna look like. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-19-sejm-23-1.u418	Thank you, sir. And please take the floor of Mr Tomasz Cimoszewicz.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-19-sejm-23-1.u419	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I already told the citizens in the campaign that you are lying in your election campaign, speaking of humility, about the fact that politics is not going for money. Well, ladies and gentlemen, let me give you my example - my current salary is 1/5 of what I used to earn in my previous profession. I didn't expect any profits except to serve the citizens, and that's why I'm here. I have a question. Is it true that Mrs Pavłowicz wrote in one of her entries: "I have noticed that most of the older people are so free-riders that say they have a low pension, etc.? Is that moral to you? [[Applause]] [[And what does Mr Pavłowicz have to do with the bill?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-19-sejm-23-1.u420	The list of persons enrolled in the questions has been exhausted. Would the applicant like to speak?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-19-sejm-23-1.u421	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I asked for as much substantive discussion as possible, and we received the most frivolous and full of empty clichés of discussion from the opposition Members, the majority of the opposition Members. I'm so sorry. It is true, as Mrs Wielichowska said, that first of all, honesty. You might ask, "Who says that? We never, contrary to what was said, said that 500 PLN should be for every child. This case in the election campaign was thoroughly discussed. That's one thing. Secondly, no one has ever taken a bribe to be the head of the Public Finance Commission. I ask that you no longer depreciate the work of the committee or this House in this way. In fact, on the part of the representatives of the Platform, Kukiz I think that this is a very good topic, it is important to talk about it, but you are aware of this - as I understand it, because I hope you have read the law - that there is a solution for these changes, too, for Members. Members have so far been aligned with the Undersecretaries of State. So if we left this record unchanged, we'd find out we're getting a lot more. Therefore, our idea as a group of Members was to propose a different, more rational model of action in this case. However, we are looking forward to your proposals in this respect. [[Since this morning.]] Legislative work will just start. I hope that we will talk at the committee's substantive meetings. Other things. It is said that nothing - which also sounded - has been done for citizens. However, I would like to remind you of the 500-plus family programme, the residence+, the introduction of an hourly rate, the introduction of a minimum wage of 2 000. zł, we also have raises in the budget, we have grants for seniors. That doesn't mean we're happy with all of this, and that doesn't mean we've fallen into self-loving now. On the contrary, more work is needed. There were also questions, few of them happened. On the side of Mr Szymanski, in addition to the press, the question was whether we had converted the budget. Yeah, we counted it. As I said here, costs are approx. 20 to 25 million PLN, if you take into account the current economic indicators, if they do not get worse. That's what they are for now. But, as I said, we also provided security, because by PLN 60 million the remuneration in the companies of the Treasury is falling, and thus what one of you proposed. So it's not taken, I don't know, nurses or teachers. Moreover, there was a question from Mr Święcicki about increases in administration. I would like to remind you that this was discussed in March and that regulations are being introduced. These increases for employees can reach up to 25% - different sectoral ones. And finally there was a consultation question. Yes, we are planning such consultations and I hope that they will be held at the meeting of the Committee on Public Finance. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[But you didn't answer if the retirees were freeloaders.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-19-sejm-23-1.u422	Thank you very much, sir. The discussion is closed. A request was made in the discussion to reject the draft law at first reading. We will proceed to the vote on this proposal in the voting block. This concludes the agenda items scheduled for 19 July this year. I would like to inform you that Members have come forward to make their statements. Would any of you and your fellow Members like to make a statement? No one's checking in. I therefore consider the list of Members made to be closed. Please take the floor of Mr Simon Giżyński. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-19-sejm-23-1.u423	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! Mice and everything. Paweł Kukiz, calling the message Kamila Gasiuk-Pihowicz a mouse aggressor, launched a new direction in Polish political reflection and became its forerunner. Paweł Kukiz saw and creatively connected two phenomena at once. Firstly, according to Göran Hansson of the 2007 Nobel Committee, it is difficult to imagine modern medical research without the use of model organisms modified by genetic engineering. The ability to create predictable, planned mutations of mouse genes led to new discoveries in the field of development, immunology, neurology, physiology and metabolism, diagnosed Kukiz with a permanent medical condition of a particular political formation in Poland, while proving its continuous and mutated character: from ROAD, Democratic Union, Freedom Union, Civic Platform and Palikot Movement to Modern and CODE. Secondly, Paweł Kukiz based his research method on the latest achievements of modern genetics, to which mice are commonly known to contribute. The successes of modern genetics, based on genetic engineering, include such forms of mice, for example.: Fearless Mouse, Mighty Mouse or Frantic Mouse. [[Joy in the Chamber]] [[Mother, where am I?]] All it takes is so-called. normal mouse mute the myostatin gene and appear a powerful mouse (Mighty Mouse), holding an unnaturally large muscle. Another mouse, deprived of laboratory appropriate gene, becomes Fearless Mouse, a fearless mouse that throws itself at cats (not on CODE because it likes them). The Kukiz method - anthropomorphization of mice in Polish political life, therefore seems equally valuable, both as case studies and in application to genealogical research, where figures of different forms of mice can serve as a constitutional factor for the entire political formation, continuity and development: from the ROAD and the Democratic Union, through the Freedom Union and the Civic Platform, to the Movement of Palikot, Modern and CODE. Thank you kindly. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-19-sejm-23-1.u424	Please take the floor of Mr Jack Kurzepa.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-19-sejm-23-1.u425	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Last week the NATO summit took place in Warsaw. The event by its very nature is prestigious, with a promotional character for both the host state and obviously the host city, in this case Warsaw. Allow me a few words of comment in connection with this. I have a great sense of gratitude to all those who have been responsible for the organisation of this summit and have done so in a reliable and highly organizational manner. It is worth to start with all those who, in volunteer service, constituted staff and carried out various tasks - these spectacular, visible to all eyes of the media, as well as discreet, hidden in the deep back. Let us thank together, therefore, mainly young, engaged, competent and fluent in language, that they have strengthened the ranks of those who contributed to the success of this event. Separate thanks to all types of uniformed services, formations which were effective, yet unchasable, discreet enough when needed for demonstration, gave evidence of efficiency, high competence and certainty. For nothing worse than the guardian of order, who does not know why he is at the precinct. Casus Nice clearly shows how important it is and that it can have and has both a preventive and reactive dimension to threats. The attitude of every senior officer is the emancipation of the normative and hierarchical order and certainly the fact that it is the link of a larger team, which is led by competent and aware of the importance of the matter of superiors, i.e. bosses. So it was a good thing that these, not other ministers, were at the forefront of the force ministry and set an example of good work. It is impossible to ignore in most of the great attitudes of media communities, which dynamically, interestingly and mostly objectively report on the various important episodes of this summit. I think that we should also feel proud of the fact that our most important politicians, the President, the Prime Minister, the Ministers of the Polish President's Office and the Council of Ministers, have proved to be wonderful, in line with the aspirations and ambitions of a proud nation, playing an increasingly important and important role both in NATO and in the European Union. I encourage you, dear listeners, today, a few days after this event, once again beyond those emotions, to appreciate what Polish politicians have done for their own country, Europe and the world here in Warsaw. The last paragraph will be devoted to Warsaw and Warsaw. Sometimes, with surprise, as an outsider, I look at it - not yet to my city. Sometimes I come together for his cosmopolitanism, blizzards, and constant charity. At other times, it amazes me with contrasts, seducts me with subtle charm, encourages me to fraternize. This time, on the days of the NATO Summit, I felt proud of my capital. It spoke with hospitality, kindness from the inhabitants, patience and tolerance to the difficulties of the event. It also showed the face of a beautiful, modern, dynamic city - the capital. Let us rejoice, Poles, that it is just as it is: capricious and wayward, proud and brave, own and worldly, and very, very Polish. Warsaw, thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-19-sejm-23-1.u426	I thank you, sir. And please take the floor of Mr Leszek Galemba.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-19-sejm-23-1.u427	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Thanks for sleeping. Prof. Lech Kaczyński, President of the Republic of Poland, has been honoring the memory of steadfast heroes fighting to the end for the freedom of our homeland against Soviet aggression and the imposed communist system. This year, celebrations commemorating soldiers of the underworld of independence took on a worthy dimension of their sacrifice. It is particularly pleased that local communities have been actively involved in the organisation of these celebrations, including those from the district that I represent in Parliament. In Koło we stood in front of Zygmunt Lorenzo's coffin, pseudo. Vulture. According to the President of Law and Justice, Dr. Jarosław Kaczyński in a letter that I had the honour of reading to the participants of the ceremony: His young, because 20 years of life he offered to his homeland. His fate, like the history of other steadfast ones of his generation, makes clear to us what the price came to pay Poles for their faithfulness to values, for their faithfulness - let us repeat for St. John Paul II - the whole spiritual heritage, whose name is Poland. Thanks to the efforts and involvement of the mayor of the city of Koła Stanisław Maciaszek 70 years after the execution by representatives of the communist apparatus of repression of the criminal death sentence at Zygmunt Wawrzyniaku, his temporal remains were extracted from the ground and with a military ceremony placed in a worthy place at the parish cemetery in Kole at ul. Poniatowski. There were soldiers, cops, firefighters, scouts, and uniformed school students at the hero's coffin. His sister Stanisław Malinowska attended the funeral. As a young girl, she helped him with his conspiracy. In the mind of our nation's enemies Zygmunt Wawrzyniak was to disappear forever - murdered, vilified and erased from the memory of generations. In the dark times of communist lawlessness, faithful people to the end of truly free and independent Poland, such as Zygmunt Wawrzyniak, were hunted, persecuted, tortured, killed and secretly buried - without crosses and graves, without family, priest and prayer. The one we hid in Kole as a hero of free Poland was also to be forgotten forever. Today he takes his due honor away. His actions in the name of my homeland after many years have finally been recognized, properly evaluated and appreciated. It is a model of integrity for young people, how not to deny ideals. We showed with the celebrations that the sacrifice made by this young man 70 years ago was not a futile sacrifice. From this seymous stand I thank Mrs Kazimierz Pawlak, the Circle's resident, for years, despite the threats from the communist authorities of harassment, care and memory of the place of the temporal rest of Zygmunt Lobrzyniak. I would like to thank President Jarosław Kaczyński for a deep letter addressed to the participants of the celebrations. I thank the Minister of National Defence Antoni Macierewicz for cultivating honor for the steadfast soldiers and giving the colonel Zygmunt Wawrzyniak the rank of lieutenant. Thank you, Fr. Canon Józef Wronkiewicz - the parish priest of Kolski fara for his funeral Mass and God's Word. I would like to thank Mayor Stanisław Maciaszko for organizing the celebrations, attended by representatives of the communities commemorating Zygmunt Wawrzyniak, the Vulture Associations of Kolski Patriots and the Polish Gazeta Club, and the numerous residents of the city. I would like to thank scientists from the branches of the Institute of National Remembrance in Bydgoszcz and Poznań and the staff of the museum in Kole for organising an accompanying scientific session and an exhibition devoted to the underground of independence. Thanks to this joint commitment and activity in the awareness of the local community, the truth has been established that heroes such as Zygmunt Wawrzyniak deserve our memory and gratitude. Without them carrying freedom and independence to the grave [[♪ The bell ♪]] Today we could not enjoy the freedom of our homeland. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-19-sejm-23-1.u428	Thank you, sir. I ask the floor of Mrs Teresa Nolas.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-19-sejm-23-1.u429	Thank you kindly. Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Ladies and gentlemen! To make this statement, I was motivated by the performance of the Polish children's band Grodzińskie Słowiki from Grodno, who performed on 30 June in the show room of the Kransnostawski Association of Bonum Magnum in Krasnystaw and is associated with our association of extensive cooperation. The band was formed in 1990 at the same time as the first Polish organizations in Belarus and is an undisputed ambassador of Polishness there, at the former Polish borders. The founders and conductors of the band are Alice and Andrzej Binertów, educators of the Grodno music school. The band consists of four-voice choir and instrumental group: violin, cello and piano. All children are students of music school. In the repertoire of the band there are numerous Polish songs about patriotic, war and religious subjects. The band also performs classical music, Chopin, Moniuszko, Schubert, Haydn, Beethoven, and songs in the languages of various national minorities traditionally present in Grodnoszczyzna. All the arrangements are by Andrzej Binert, the artistic director of the band until 2014. After his death, his wife, Alice, took over the management, and it is she who brings us in our present form through these forest hills and green meadows of the land of Germany. During the 12 years of its activity, the team cooperates fruitfully with Polish organizations in Belarus, taking an active part in all the most important cultural celebrations of the Consulate General of Poland in Grodno, the Polish School Mothers, and also participates in numerous ecclesiastical celebrations. In 1997 the band organized a number of charity concerts, which I was very impressed with, in favour of the hydrate in Poland. Ladies and gentlemen, Grodno Nightingale has many concerts in front of an audience from Belarus, Poland, Germany, Great Britain. They've also made a lot of success. These include prizes at Polish festivals in Lublin, Mrągów, Dobrodzienie, Koszalin. In 1995, the Ministry of Culture of the Republic of Belarus awarded the Grodno Slavs honorary title to a model music band. The Binerts, the team's creators, also have numerous awards and awards. Mrs. Alice has been decorated, among others. Medal of the National Education Commission of the Republic of Poland and the award of the Australian Foundation for Support of Independent Polish Culture Polcul. He is also a member of the International Chapter of the Order of Smile. Working with children of Polish origin in the band Grodzińskie Słowiki and in the Club of Polish National Traditions, Alicja Binert conducts educational and educational activities in the field of popularization of Polish speech and culture. This work aims, as it says, to educate children and young people with a sense of national identity, interest and respect for the speech of their native and national traditions. Their honor is that most of the former members of the team study at universities in Warsaw, Lublin, Cracow, Minsk and even the United States. From this point of view, I warmly thank and congratulate the team on such beautiful artistic achievements and commitment for the good of our homeland. The team leader, Mrs. Alice, modest, but determined, always cheerful, apart from the range of successes, also has his sorrows and sorrows connected, as others call it, with her insubordinate character. It's great for us. What about the kids? Anyone who looks into their eyes already knows that they are in a better world of values. Thank you kindly. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-19-sejm-23-1.u430	Thank you, Member. I would like to ask the floor of Catherine Chechara.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-19-sejm-23-1.u431	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen! Not long ago, we said goodbye to a great person, a patriot, a husband, and a father. I'd like to say a few words from here today. The dead come out of the silence of their graves unknown and stand to appeal over the Polish land to convey all the best we have - faith, truth and honor - the unknown author. July 15th this year In Opole there was a funeral ceremony of a soldier of independence, a steadfast Henryk Wolski, ps. Fox. A loving husband and father, an extraordinary patriot, fought for us, for our future. He was one of the cursed soldiers who was willing to give his life in the name of the good of the nation and future generations. A hero that Communists would rather forget. A steadfast man, for whom the struggle for better Poland was a duty not only to his homeland, but also to future generations, who only today will learn the truth about who they were, whose traces and memories have been deliberately wiped out over the years. In times like these, no words will be able to give away the great pain that most of us feel today when we hear about the death of the dead. Mr Henryk Wolski, for whom his love for his mother was always superior. Henryk Wolski, son of Kazimierz and Genowefy, was born on 24 July 1930 in White Bor in the district of Grudziądz. Henryk Wolski grew up in a family in which the most important values were always God, honor and homeland, and such values throughout his entire life were guided. The fight for Poland has been with him since the early years. The most beautiful and carefree years of his childhood were taken from him by the Nazi occupation, while the joyous years of his youth were filled with a difficult period of communist regime. Unfortunately, he was not able to graduate from Pedagogical High School in Grudziądz because in March 1949 he was arrested and sentenced to 10 years of imprisonment for participating in a criminal organization of an armed nature fighting the regime. Henryk Wolski during this period was the commander of the underground organization of the National Army of Foxes. The organization led by Henryk Wolski was active in Grudziądz, Świecie and Chełma in 1948. This organisation was governed by the independent student organisation Mon. The Student Resistance. Armed resistance against communist slavery by the Fox was the cause of his arrest. As a political prisoner he was imprisoned in Grudziądz, in Sztum and in Wronki. He was very humiliated and tortured there. He was released from prison in February 1955 with an order to leave his residence. Henryk Wolski was sent to the other end of Poland, to Opole with a ban on contacting the nearest family. In Opole, he meets his future wife Emilia, starts a family, but his life is far from stable. He was still being harassed by the security services. Henryk Wolski was awarded the National Army Cross in 1995 and was awarded the Veteran Walk for Freedom and Independence medal and the Anti-Communist Union of Political Prisoners in 1999. In 2000 he was appointed lieutenant and in 2002 he was promoted to lieutenant. Henryk Wolski was very proud that he could wait for the time of honoring the cursed soldiers. His wish was to be able to wear the uniform of the Home Army soldiers again. Ladies and gentlemen, may our memory of him be an expression of great gratitude to the sleeper. Henryk Wolski for all the merits for Poland and Poles, for the daily joy and sense of humor that characterized him. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Everyone who knew him remembers good times and beautiful memories. Colonel Wolski, we will never forget you. Glory to the hero! [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-19-sejm-23-1.u432	Thank you, Member. I would like to ask the floor of Mrs Bernadet Krynicka.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-19-sejm-23-1.u433	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen! Divorce is one of the most traumatic situations in the life of children and adults. It always carries the risk of serious dysfunction in the functioning of the child. It's not just stress and negative emotions, it's also changing many aspects of life. The child has to face difficult situations, often moving to a new place, changing the organisation of time or spending holidays. For many years now, in the West of Europe, Scandinavia, the USA and Australia, the courts have given parents alternate care. The rule was to leave the parenting power of both parents. Polish law does not explicitly regulate the issue of transversal care, but the provisions of the family code are so formulated that it is possible for courts to rule on it. It is a condition that both parents agree on a proposal, expressed in agreement on how to exercise parental authority and maintain contact with a child, so-called. It's a parenting plan. Generally, in Poland it is the rule to entrust only one parent with full parental authority, which to some extent limits the authority of the other parent. The standard distribution of child care after divorce is that the child stays with the mother, and the father has the right to take care of the child one, twice a week for 2 hours, every other weekend, during part of the world, holidays or winter holidays. In practice, it appears that judicial decisions are not being enforced. Mothers often make it difficult or impossible to contact their children with their father or vice versa, fathers do not take care of their children and do not execute judgment. There should also be mention of problems related to the collection of maintenance obligations. The purpose of the decision is to have both parents full of parental authority. Replacement care is the most suitable for the child and guarantees the interests of both parents by maintaining a relationship with the child. In the case of care, the parenting authority is always entitled to both parents, and the place of residence of the child is determined by both the mother and the father. In addition, parents should live close to each other or at least in the same city, so that the child can attend one kindergarten or school. Moreover, parents should be able to communicate with one another so that the court can positively assess the prognosis of their cooperation in matters of the child. Parents should guard the welfare of their children. Each parent has a child for half a month, and there is no need to pay child support. The current legal framework strengthens the conflict between parents. This conflict is manifested by a long struggle for children, mutual talks of conflicted parents, whether about abuse or harassment, which leads to long-term court trials. In a situation of disagreement between parents concerning the care of children, the courts entrust children to one parent by restricting the parental authority of the other. Mostly, because in 97% cases, care is taken by the mother, whether or not there is a legitimate concern about the execution of a court order concerning the father's dealings with children. I would like to appeal to parents who should stand up to the task and, above all, take care of the child's mental well-being. We all know how difficult this is in the face of divorce. In addition to ensuring as much emotional security as possible, parents need to establish technical aspects of child care after divorce, sometimes causing many problems. I encourage parents to take turns. Replacement care is a technical solution, a week or two with mom, a week or two with dad. Parental equivalence is a more complex concept, because it is not about organizing time, but about establishing cooperation and equal involvement of both parents in caring for the child. A well-functioning alternate model is based on equivalence, which assumes mutual respect and a friendly atmosphere provided to the child. In equivalent parenting, there is no place to manipulate the feelings of the child, to criticize the other parent in the presence of the child, to alienate, to affect the negative influence of third parties on the relationship of the child with the parent so-called. Second camp, jealous of the baby's love. And there's no room for comfort, no place to dump a baby that's gonna feel like an unnecessary suitcase. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Replacement care is to serve the child, not the parents. Ladies and gentlemen! Replacement care is a valuable way to solve the child care problem in the event of his parents' divorce. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-19-sejm-23-1.u434	Thank you, Member. Please take the floor of Mr Piotr Pyzik.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-19-sejm-23-1.u435	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Today I have the honour of reminding all Members of a special anniversary. Here it is 90 years from the day when Marshal Józef Piłsudski appointed the Castle Company, whose tasks, apart from the guard service, belonged to the representation service. Today the traditions of the Castle Company are cultivated by the Representative Battalion of the Polish Army. On the eve of this holiday, I would like to wish this unit the best wishes, but I would also like from this place, the most important place in our country, to receive the words of appreciation and gratitude for the Battalion's soldiers for their indispensable and responsible service in spite of their appearances. After all, it is the Representative Battalion for many Poles that constitutes, you can say, the face of the Polish Armed Forces. It is these soldiers that we look proudly at as they march through the streets of our capital city or full-time guard at the tomb of the Unknown Soldier. In the faces of soldiers of the Squadron of the Polish Army Cavalry we see over a thousand years of tradition of unparalleled Polish driving, and for many Poles the sound of the Representative Orchestra is the quintessence of Polish patriotic and military music. We would also like to remember that this honor of representation is many hours of sweat and draught during exercise, and soldiers of all branches of the Battalion of Representation work hard every day to present stunning drill shows or wonderful performance of traditional Polish marches and soldier songs. Marshal Piłsudski, setting up a permanent representational unit, knew how great the weight of the Polish army's presence was not only in barracks or on the grounds, but also during official public ceremonies. I dare presume that few today realize the fact that, in addition to the necessary exercises, battalion soldiers in the heat, cooling or salt are present at nearly 2,000. official celebrations on a yearly basis. Therefore, today, on Christmas Eve, we would like to express our gratitude to these soldiers for their daily work, for their dignified representation of the Polish Armed Forces, awakening our pride and admiration of foreign guests. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-19-sejm-23-1.u436	Thank you, sir. I ask the floor of Mrs Lydia Burzyńska.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-19-sejm-23-1.u437	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! On 3 July 2016, the 95th anniversary of the Volunteer Fire Service in Pacierzów was held in the municipality of Kłomnice. As an MP from Kłomnicki land, a member of the Parliamentary Firefighters' Team could not miss this event in the life of the Pacierzow society. The fire in the village of Pacierzów dates back to the early 20's. In the 20th century, when several people who felt called to help others, founded in 1921. Volunteer Fire Department. The beginnings of the fire brigade formation were difficult. Thanks to the generosity of the residents, a wooden firehouse was established in the centre of the village, one of the first in the municipality of Kłomnice. Initially, the fire unit had little, but thanks to its strength and professionality, volunteers from Pacierzów were among the best in the municipality. Over time, more and more experience was gained, more and more equipment was gained, which was used during fires or natural disasters, among others. during the extinguishing of the church in the pot during World War II. Already in the 1950s, the amount of equipment in the fire department was so large that they began to think of a new, larger guard. Thanks to delegations to offices and sponsors, the construction of the new house was completed in 1959. The following years have been conducive to the development of the guard, new equipment has been obtained, and the building has been expanded with a view to obtaining a fire car. The first average fire extinguisher was purchased from its own resources from the Railway Fire Service in Tarnowskie Góry in 1980. Since then, firefighters from Pacierzów have been called to most events in the commune and surrounding areas. In 1991, the inhabitants funded the flag for the unit of the TSO, which still serves today during church celebrations, firefighters, but also represents their history. For the past several years, the fire department has expanded its equipment by the next necessary equipment for the operation, and the culmination of 95 years of their history was the handover of the Volunteer Fire Department in Pacierzów to a new fire-fighting vehicle. Today, from the building of the Polish Sejm, Mr Mark Misiewicz, the President of the Volunteer Fire Guard in Pacierzów, all the bridesmaids and bridesmaids, I wish to express my special appreciation and due respect for the effort, sacrifice and effort put into carrying out the firefighter's service. Please also accept my deep appreciation for your achievements to date in the work of providing assistance during the threat of property as well as human life. Firefighters take an active part in the life of our society, bear witness to patriotism and love of the country, lead first in their local communities, organizing cultural and social life. You are the model of a citizen's attitude, pursuing in practice the best of virtues, a noble example of helping others and saving common possessions. I am convinced that, as so far, also in the future, the slogan of God for glory, for the benefit of men, will accompany you in your daily ministry. Greetings to all the bridesmaids and bridesmaids of the Volunteer Fire Service in Pacierzów. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause]] [[Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-19-sejm-23-1.u438	Thank you. I ask the floor of Mrs Barbara Dziuk.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-19-sejm-23-1.u439	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Today's statement concerns the commercialization of health resorts and medical units. Since Resolutions 1201, 1202, 1203 of the Sejm of the Silesian Voivodeship decided to dispose of shares in Rabka-Zdrój, Górki Wielki and Goczałkowice-Zdrój against the Ministry of Health's ban on commercialisation and privatisation of hospitals, which was already announced in the 2014 Law and Justice Programme, I declare that there is still a ban on commercialisation and privatisation dictated by the protection of the health of adult citizens resulting from the Constitution of the Republic of Poland. Contrary to the administrative decision of the Marshal's Office of the Silesian Voivodeship, and in accordance with common sense, I call for special protection for children and seniors. I will also add that the construction of the spa in Rabka was financed by contributions from the inhabitants of the autonomous Silesian province, the greater the scandal. Entering July 15th this year. The law on healing activities, which prohibits the commercialisation of health care institutions, did not cover Silesian spas: Goczalkowice, Rabka and Górek Wielki. The Management Board of Silesian Voivodeship wants to sell them without valuation, against social interest. According to the Act, only those establishments whose commercialisation has not been initiated cannot be commercialised. Since commercialisation has been announced, the institutions concerned have taken action to protect their own interests much earlier. I stress: my own - not public, not state, not national, but own. The question is, who let the fox into the henhouse and let him rumble? We will not avoid difficult questions and even harder answers. Every average intelligent person has no doubt in this case. I find it extremely perfidious to privatize the spa for children. Children, regardless of family property status, should be given special care of the state. For bad management are co-responsible politicians in local government with PO, PSL and SLD. I have been fighting for Rabka since 2013 and no one has healed the situation since 2013. I've alerted many more marshals about degrengolad in the spa. I asked, I asked, and I asked again. Several interpellations, no response. Now I hear the answer: we privatize. No one has attempted to repair and heal. No one, because no one wanted to heal the spa. Why? It is best for employees of other privatized facilities, not just hospital facilities, to answer this question. Time for good change and compliance by all, especially by local governments managed by PO, PSL and SLD. No more permission to steal social, national assets. Together let us take care of the health of Poles and Poles. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-19-sejm-23-1.u440	Thank you, Member. And I ask for the floor of Mrs Joanna Borowiak. You're welcome, my fellow Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-19-sejm-23-1.u441	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The most constant and important question of life is: What do you do for others? The last few weeks have passed in my district under the sign of beautiful jubilees of volunteer firefighters. The honorable work of a firefighter is a selfless service not only for the local community, but also for the whole country. This isn't just a fire rescue operation. It is also an active, long-term participation in the social and cultural life of the regions. Building a tradition that is faithful to the principles of respect for uniform, banner, belonging and community deserve the highest recognition. The men of the uniform don't live for themselves. Their service is determined by sacrifice. In order to be a firefighter, it is not enough to be physically efficient, substantive knowledge, and even courage. There is a need for specific sensitivity, which is described as a kind of humane spirituality. Uniform, banner and oath: God for glory, people for good - they commit, give great strength and testify to our identity and rich and beautiful history. They unite in the most difficult moments, becoming a rock and, when necessary, also a challenge to fight. The functioning of the defence and protection section is a great blessing not only for local communities, but also for the entire country. Volunteer fire workers care for the well-being of their little homelands, while serving the whole nation faithfully, for which today, from this place, I warmly thank you. Thank you for always being in the right place and at the right time, putting your life and health at risk, saving others. Thank you for letting people sleep peacefully thanks to your generosity. This attitude deserves our utmost respect. The warm words of appreciation and the most sincere congratulations are directed, in particular, to the voluntary fire service units in Choczen on the occasion of the 100th anniversary of the Uprising, in Grabkow on the occasion of the 100th anniversary of the founding and 90th anniversary of the brass orchestra, to the CSR in Kłotno on the occasion of the 100th anniversary of the operation, in the Crosswords on the occasion of the 50th anniversary of the work, as well as to the voluntary fire department in Karnkow and Bogucin, but also to all Polish firefighters and bridesmaids, those of the voluntary fire department, as well as the State Fire Guard. You're putting out fires. Let your work never quench the gratitude of the people. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-19-sejm-23-1.u442	Thank you very much, Member. That concludes our parliamentary statements.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-19-sejm-23-1.u443	Statement on the 115th anniversary of Cardinal Stefan Wyszyński's birth. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On August 3, the 115th anniversary of Cardinal Stefan Wyszyński's birth - the Primate of the Millennium, the prominent leader of the clergy and the husband of the state, co-creators of the social changes that led to the fall of communism. Stefan Wyszyński was born on August 3, 1901 in Zuzela nad Bug. He attended the Higher Seminary in Włocławek. He was ordained priestly on 23rd birthday - 3rd August 1924. Stefan Wyszyński was a professor of sociology and canonical law at the Higher Seminary in Włocławek. During the Nazi occupation he was a chaplain of the National Army and insurgent hospital in Laska. When the war was over, Wyszyński became the rector of the Higher Seminary in Włocławek. In March 1946 he became a bishop of Lublin. On 12 May, on Jasna Góra, he accepted the sacrament with the bishop, and in his bishop he placed the words "Sola Deo" which means "only God." In 1948. Stefan Wyszyński was appointed Archbishop of Gniezno and Warsaw and Primate of Poland. On 12 January 1953 he was incorporated by Pope Pius XII into the College of Cardinals. As Cardinal, he participated in four conclaves: 1958, 1963 and August and October 1978. During the communist repression against the Church, Stefan Wyszyński defended the Christian identity of the nation and initiated an agreement with the communist authorities. The government guaranteed among others. teaching religion in schools and the existence of KUL and theological departments in Cracow and Warsaw. The Church, on the other hand, committed itself to respect for power and cooperation. The agreement was a far-reaching compromise on the part of the clergy, and the primacy itself had many voices of criticism. However, the compromise did not correspond to the communist authorities, and the government began to interfere more with the internal affairs of the Church. So the bishops sent a letter with the famous words (we cannot) which were an expression of opposition to the submission of the Church of power. When the primate publicized the contents of the letter, he was arrested. Until 1956 he was interned in Rywałd, Stochek Warminski, Prudnik and Komańczyk. For fear of mass pilgrimages, Communists decided to move the clergyman to a new place every few months. These were years of sacrifice, suffering and isolation. However, the Cardinal's relentless attitude in defending the Catholic faith and the communist society did not manage to break. The Primate himself was seen by Poles as a martyr for faith and the Church. During the imprisonment, Cardinal Wyszyński developed a program for the renewal of religious life in Poland contained in the idea of Jasna Góra's Vows of the Nation, as well as the foundation of Great Novena before the millennium of Poland's baptism. In 1965 the Polish Episcopate under the direction of Primate Wyszyński sent a message to German bishops, which called for reconciliation. The harsh reactions of the authorities of the Polish People's Republic have triggered famous words: "We grant forgiveness and ask forgiveness." This resulted in an even greater chase of Communists for the Primate, which was expressed among others. No permission to go to Rome for the Synod of Bishops. However, every blow given to Primate Wyszynski by the Communists only strengthened his authority and motivated him to fight. Cardinal Wyszyński participated in all sessions of the Second Vatican Council. Between 1980 and 1981, he was a mediator between Solidarity and the authorities. In mid-March 1981, Wyszyński was diagnosed with cancer. He died on 28 May 1981 in the House of Archbishops of Warsaw and was buried in the Warsaw architectry of St. John the Baptist in the crypt of the bishops of Warsaw. His funeral became a national manifestation. Since 1 June 1987 Primate Wyszyński has been sitting in a specially erected chapel for him. On 3 May 1994, he was posthumously awarded the Order of the White Eagle. On 29 May 1989, the beatification process of Cardinal Stefan Wyszyński began on the initiative of Pope John Paul II. From that moment on, he is entitled to the title of God's servant.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-19-sejm-23-1.u444	I'm ordering a recess until tomorrow, i.e. On 20 July 2016, no later than 12 p.m. 9. Thank you very much. [[Adjournment at the meeting at 3 p.m. 21 min 59]]
