ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-18-senat-11-2.u1	I'm reopening the session. I ask the senators of the secretaries to take their seats at the president's table. Dear Senators! As announced earlier, I propose to supplement the agenda with a point: the second reading of the draft law on the prohibition of the promotion of communism or other totalitarian system by the names of buildings, objects and public utilities and consider it as point six. If I do not hear any objection, I will find that the High House has accepted the proposal. In the absence of any votes against, I find that the Senate has accepted the proposal. We proceed with the consideration of item 3 of the agenda: the law on the re-use of public sector information. The text of the Act is contained in print No 78 and the report of the Commission In print No 78 A. I would like to ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Culture and Media and the Committee on Territorial Government and State Administration, Senator Jadwiga Rotnicka, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-18-senat-11-2.u2	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! This law responds to the achievement of the objectives set out by the European Union in its Communication 882. Open data - drive for innovation, growth and transparent governance - and the legal form of this idea is contained in Directive 2013/37/EU of 26 June 2013. The Directive significantly extends and facilitates access to information from the sector, i.e. public sector entities, in order to re-use it. Therefore, it substantially amends the existing Act on Access to Public Information of 6 September 2001 and at the same time amends as many as 11 other laws, inter alia: in the Law on National Archival Resources and Archives, in the Law on Museums, in the Law on Public Statistics, in the Law on Water Law, in the Law on geodetic and cartographical law. This law defines and defines four basic groups of concepts, namely: principles and modalities for making public sector information available and available for use; entities called obliged entities which make data and information available and provided; conditions for re-use; and rules for fixing re-use charges. In principle, the provision of information is unconditional and free of charge, but there are situations where there are certain deviations from this general rule. The Act allows the obliged entity to determine the conditions for re-use of information that is protected e.g. copyright, property law, rights relating to state information and other information which is never available in general; and these conditions are specified in Article. 5th Bill. In addition, the Act provides that public museums, municipal public and scientific libraries, as well as archives, will be able to specify additional conditions for reuse of information, other than those in the Act. In some cases, obtaining information for reuse will require the submission of an application It's just a request. o Because making available can take the form of viewing material, taking notes, I don't know, even electronic copies, etc. The law also specifies how such a proposal is to be made and what must be done in such a case. I mentioned that some information may be paid, but it is the provider who will determine which and for how much, because the fee must not exceed the costs incurred by the obliged entity for carrying out any additional or compilations or calculations. These are the general principles of this law. In the course of the Seym work on the Law, two fundamental changes were made from the Government's submission. Firstly, the subjective scope of the Act was extended by the addition of the Institute of Meteorology and Water Management and the State Institute of Geology, and secondly, the Act introduced appropriate changes in the Water Law, which allow free reuse of meteorological, hydrological and hydrogeological data. These data are to take the form of data, you can say, primary, those that are collected based on standard procedures. These standard procedures are set out in the corresponding annex to the Water Law or the Geological Law Act. This issue has certainly been welcomed by many universities, by the research institutes, as it will be easier to reach the data mentioned here. In the Senate, two committees were responsible for the re-use of public sector information: the said Committee on Culture and Media and the Committee on Territorial Government and State Administration. The committee meeting took place on 9 February this year. After hearing the opinion of the Legislative Bureau and conducting the discussion, the committee proposes to introduce 8 amendments to the bill under discussion, which are in principle more precise. The committees recommend the High House to adopt a resolution proposed in print No 78 A. I would just like to mention that there was a discussion within the committee on specific issues, but which are quite important for people involved in the development of hydrological, meteorological and hydrogeological data. It is about scientific institutions and the Polish Academy of Sciences. The dispute was whether the data were to be made available only for scientific research and teaching purposes, or whether they were to be made available for use at all, for the statutory purposes of the entity concerned. We're done here. I, while still reviewing these amendments, after consulting the patron, said that one more minor amendment would have to be introduced in Amendment 6, an absolutely unchangeable substance, only referring to the appropriate expressions of the previous laws. But I'm gonna report her in the middle of a discussion because that's the way it's gonna be. Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-18-senat-11-2.u3	Thank you very much, Senator. Thank you very much. At present, the senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the rapporteur's senator. Would any of you like to ask such a question? No. Thank you, Senator. The bill was filed by the government. The Minister for Digitisation has been authorised to present the government's position in the course of parliamentary work. Does a government representative wish to speak on the bill under consideration and present the position of the government? Welcome to the meeting of Minister Witold Kołodziejski. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-18-senat-11-2.u4	Dear Marshal, Dear Ladies and Gentlemen, Senators, I'd just like to point out... The senator here presented the whole complex issue of the bill discussed here, the importance of making it available... I would just like to say that we are talking about a really very important part of the market, it is estimated at several dozens of billions of euros on a European scale, and therefore on a Polish scale it is also a very powerful resource, which should be made available long ago and which will undoubtedly also strengthen the Polish economy. Because I remind you that the data in question can be used, re-used for scientific purposes, but also for commercial purposes. I hope that this will allow even better, deeper participation of society in the current digital revolution. And the data here is the most important, most valuable currency. And we're gonna share that data. Indeed, the discussion of recent weeks, because it was not only at the last meeting of the Joint Committee, which concerned the provision of meteorological data. These data are extremely needed in this digital market. So far, interested organizations or persons have used data from Polish partners who made it available on their portals free of charge. Practically since the early 1980s, the data of the Institute of Meteorology and Water Management have been unavailable in the public domain, in short, it was necessary to pay dearly for them. Today it's changed. This is the result of the work of the last few weeks, so we're really happy that we managed to do this. In the context of the discussions at the meeting of the Joint Committees, there were still a number of issues that could be clarified. This is what happened between the last committee meeting and today's meeting. After agreement with the Ministry of the Environment, so we already have a specific opinion, we will be able to answer very precisely. The Ministry of the Environment is responsible for the Water Law Act and this is the case with changes that imply the provision of public sector information as regards the Institute of Meteorology and Water Management. If you have any questions, I'm available. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-18-senat-11-2.u5	Thank you very much, Minister. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of questioning to a government representative related to this item on the agenda. Would any of you like to... Yes. Minister, you're welcome to the stand. Senator Rotnicka and then Senator Józef Zając. Please, Minister, come to the podium, or there will be questions for you. You're welcome. [[Mr. Marshal! Minister! I'd like to make sure...]] Wait a minute. Mr. Senator, maybe it's in order. I know Senator Rotnicka was the first. So that I'm sorry, you're listed as second. There you go, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-18-senat-11-2.u6	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Dear Minister, I will make an amendment today specifying the wording of Amendment 6 and therefore a committee meeting will have to be held. I would like to ask you if you are in a position to discuss with us an amendment that would extend this provision that you have mentioned so slightly enigmaticly. Maybe we could do this now. they have introduced, and they have not waited until the Water Law may appear with the amended annex. If that were the case, it would be a solution to the problem right now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-18-senat-11-2.u7	Thank you very much. Senator Joseph the Hare, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-18-senat-11-2.u8	Mr. Marshal! Minister! I would like to make sure that all these accesses contain satellite data of the weather type, geographic type, etc. without limiting the accuracy of the view?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-18-senat-11-2.u9	Thank you very much. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-18-senat-11-2.u10	Maybe I'll answer the second question first, because it's easier to answer them. Yes, they will. These are all data that the Institute of Meteorology and Water Management collects and processes in its standard and custom procedures. In a word, everything he has is to be made available, and it is also to be made available in the form of such an application interface so that other entities can use it, for example, to create applications, e.g. commercial phone applications when it comes to weather forecast. I think that this will significantly change the picture of what we're dealing with, which is actually the applications we use when it comes to forecasting the weather, because these data are really much more accurate. They are directly collected in Poland from radar stations, also from those weather stations which are located on the ground. It's in the bill. The amendment to the Act of. Water Law also states that all data from standard and non-standard procedures are to be available in re-use mode. Senator, yes, I have the position of the Ministry of the Environment and on change, and on what we can afford. I will read this position if necessary at the committee meeting. It is still possible to do certain things now, and I hope that we will proceed on this, as I said at the previous committee meeting. These changes we've been talking about are entering into other laws, other competences. I represent the government side, but this is a matter of the position of the various ministries. I have an agreement and some guidelines for the environment department, so that I think we're all going to leave this room and the committee meeting happy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-18-senat-11-2.u11	Thank you very much. Just a moment, Minister. You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-18-senat-11-2.u12	Excuse me, Minister, once again: in order to keep the procedure, if we were to do this today, we would have to make this amendment during the discussion. Is it possible, or is that going to be a problem?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-18-senat-11-2.u13	Yeah, it's possible, I...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-18-senat-11-2.u14	I also realized that it was possible. Are there any more questions for the Minister? Thank you very much, Minister... [[Me too.]] Yes? Mr. Marshal Borusewicz. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-18-senat-11-2.u15	I received a letter just like the other senators and the question is basically about the same thing, Minister, but I want to be sure. Did you actually... I have one question for you: do you think this law excludes the possibility of passing on information collected, processed as a result of standard procedures to other scientific bodies? It's about, let's assume, the cooperation of the Institute of Meteorology and Water Management with universities.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-18-senat-11-2.u16	Thank you very much. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-18-senat-11-2.u17	Ladies and gentlemen! In fact, the bill says... Because like I said, it's about the Water Law Act. This Re-Use Act of ours is a law that also amends the article. 110 of the Water Law And that's really two access modes. Perhaps it should first be clarified that our Re-Use Act is a separate law. We have decided to proceed in this way, so as to avoid misunderstandings, which is access to information in this normal, standard way of accessing public information today, and what is access in re-use mode, because there is much wider access and like other conditions of use of resources. As far as changes are concerned And now I'm referring to the question, I'm going back to him. In the Water Law Act, that is, in fact, art. 110 of this bill is an article. 3 and 4 repeat, duplicate the rules of access to information, meteorological data in this current mode. There are commitments for the Institute of Meteorology and Water Management to provide specific institutions, including scientific institutions, with a package of standard and standard processed data. And it's not a re-use access mode, it's just this old standard mode. Further articles that we have introduced, that is, art. 7 and 8, they are just articles on re-use, and they should be used by all, and therefore also by scientific actors. And I agree that this can be interpreted differently. I am after discussions, after discussions, this week we spent on clarification together with the Ministry of the Environment possible corrections. We are following these arrangements, so I know to what extent we can change this, and I am waiting for an amendment, and I know that such an amendment will affect That's what I'm talking about. Therefore, in a moment's time, this amendment will probably be passed on and I will then respond to it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-18-senat-11-2.u18	Thank you very much. Thank you very much, Minister. I'm opening a discussion. Please take the floor of Marshal Grzegorz Czelej. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-18-senat-11-2.u19	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The law which implements Directive 2003/98 and should enter into force in July 2015 is clearly necessary and beneficial, but... [[Minister, you can sit down now.]] ...I would like to propose 3 amendments to the wording of the present one. Art. 30 of the Act amends the article. 110 water laws. I propose that we make our mouths. The text of the information referred to in paragraph 5 was replaced by the following: 3 and 4 shall be made available to public authorities and water owners or bodies acting on their behalf, as well as to universities, research institutes and scientific units of the Polish Academy of Sciences to the extent necessary for the performance of statutory tasks. And justification. Change of mouth. 5 consists in replacing the expression "necessary scientific and teaching research' with an expression "to the extent necessary for the performance of statutory tasks'. This proposal harmonises the objective of making the information referred to in paragraph available. 3 and paragraph 3. 4, all entities, i.e. universities, research institutes and scientific units of the Polish Academy of Sciences, which will extend access to data of the Institute of Meteorology and Water Management, are information about the state of the atmosphere and hydrosphere The State Geological Institute, which collects information on the state of groundwater resources, but within the framework of statutory tasks. In the current legal state, the conceptual catalogue setting out the access of these entities to the above data is incomplete and covers only the purpose of scientific and teaching research, which in turn does not allow universities, research institutes and research units of the Polish Academy of Sciences to obtain the above data, e.g. for development purposes, which also fall within their constantly expanding and modified catalogue of statutory tasks. The use of the concept of statutory tasks, therefore, because of its flexible and complete nature, will, in my opinion, be a more favourable solution for these entities. This is Amendment 1. Amendment 2 concerns the same article, but paragraph 2. 6. This paragraph would be worded as follows: "The bodies of the public authority and the owners of the waters or the managers acting on their behalf, as well as universities, research institutes and scientific units of the Polish Academy of Sciences shall not communicate the information referred to in paragraph to other entities made available. 3 and paragraph 3. 4 for commercial use. This amendment in turn aims to clarify that the prohibition on secondary transmission of information made available pursuant to paragraph. 3 and 4 concern not so much the limitation of the availability of this information, but constitutes a limitation on the possibility of providing source information obtained from the Institute of Meteorology and Water Management and the State Institute of Geology by universities, research institutes and scientific units of the Polish Academy of Sciences. This limitation will, firstly, result in the above-mentioned entities not being accused of requests for access to data; secondly, the interested party who receives the information may be certain of their source, original, non-distorted nature. [[Talking in the O.R.]] And Amendment 3, which concerns paragraph 3. 7 of the same article. [[Voice from the room: Shh...]] Thank you. I propose the following wording of this provision: The Institute of Meteorology and Water Management and the State Institute of Geology shall provide free of charge for the re-use of information collected and processed as a result of standard procedures. This amendment boils down to the deletion of words to other recipients than those referred to in paragraph 1. Three and four. It follows from this that following the Article. 110 of these changes to free access to information for re-use would remain in the Water Law Act... [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[Excuse me. Gentlemen of the Senators, do not disturb me. If you wanna talk, that's what the clowns are for. There's plenty of room. I'd like you to have a conversation over there. Excuse me and be my guest, Mr. Marshal.]] This is a negative provision for universities and research institutes and scientific units of the Polish Academy of Sciences, according to which, in addition to information obtained on the basis of paragraphs. 3 and 4 entities could not obtain information free of charge from the Institute of Meteorology and Water Management for reuse. I hope that the High House will accept my proposals for amendments, they will find a positive opinion of the Ministry and will come into force with this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-18-senat-11-2.u20	Thank you very much. Senator Jadwiga Rotnicka, please. [[Cell phone signal]] [[Excuse me, Mr. Marshal.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-18-senat-11-2.u21	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! Minister! Thank you very much for your statement, and at the same time Mr Czelej, Vice-Marshal Czelej, for making these amendments, because only now will all those who are engaged in research and development for the purposes of the national economy have easy and actually free access to hydrological data, to hydrogeological data. Here are some of them. The scientific community fought for many years. So that we thank and bow to the Ministry for letting the subject go and solving this problem. But now I'm going back to the point. Together with your counsel, during the revision of the amendments, we stated that it would be necessary to further clarify the wording in the article. 30 in point 2. This is a clarification which does not change the substance of all that is written in this article, because it refers to the correct, altered sound of the article. 110 of the Water Law Act........................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ And I will allow myself to make this amendment. [[The meeting is chaired by Deputy Marshal Grzegorz Czelej]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-18-senat-11-2.u22	Thank you very much. Mr. Senator Napieralski You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-18-senat-11-2.u23	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I would like to thank the Minister for this bill for this next step. I urge you to continue. To make it even easier, even easier. Because access to these data, which is paid out of our taxes, is really due to us, Poles and Poles. So that's all the ministry's doing, every step, as the Minister said, is going in the right direction. Because it is not only research, but also a great opportunity for the Polish economy, for young people and not only young people who can obtain raw data from individual ministries and state institutions, process them and make really good use of them. New applications may be created, new companies may be created, and not only scientific work may be created. That's a very good direction. I'm just trying to get the Ministry to look for further ways and to revise this law, to find solutions as simple as possible for the citizen. It's just that it's more of an idea to push data outside than someone's gonna have to go after it. The more data we push, the easier access to it, the more we can actually get. You've already thanked the senator for the weather data. That's actually a very good step. Already today, there is an application on every mobile phone about what the weather will be like for the next few days. With this data, we could create such applications on our market. It didn't work because you had to pay for it, access to it was complicated. So I urge the Minister, I urge your department to make it easier and easier for it to be such a philosophy of thinking: we push this data out, we push this data out. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-18-senat-11-2.u24	Thank you very much. I inform you that the list of speakers has been exhausted. I would like to inform you that I, Senator Czelej, and Senator Rotnicka, have submitted proposals of a legislative nature. The discussion is closed. Does a government representative want to respond to the proposals put forward?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-18-senat-11-2.u25	This will, of course, still be the subject of the committee, but I can already say that the proposals presented fall within the framework of the arrangements we have made with the Ministry of the Environment, so I think we are able to accept them at the committee meeting. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-18-senat-11-2.u26	Thank you very much. As legislative proposals have been submitted, I ask the Committee on Culture and Media and the Committee on Local Government and State Administration to respond to the proposals submitted and prepare a report. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. We proceed with the examination of the fourth item of the agenda: the Act amending the Law on the Military Service of Professional Soldiers. The text of the Act is contained in print No 77 and the report of the Commission In print No 77 A. I ask the rapporteur of the Committee on National Defence, Senator Jan Dobrzyński, to submit a report to the committee. [[Talking in the O.R.]] We're waiting for the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-18-senat-11-2.u27	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! The Committee on National Defence discussed the amendment of the Act amending the Law on the Military Service of Professional Soldiers. In fact, the case concerns two issues: contract soldiers and the way in which the compensation allowance is paid where an officer, a professional soldier of a lower rank, serves as a soldier of a higher rank. In fact, many discussions on this subject in the Committee on National Defence were not present, the discussion was only about this addition and the change of these functions. Our office's opinion on this issue is negative, but the military insists that their record is safe. In particular, it is a matter of art. 13, which provides that a contract service soldier may carry it out for a total period not exceeding 12 years. This provision is proposed by the Minister to repeal, which will mean that the number of years of service of a contract soldier will not be limited by strict temporal censorship. And another thing I've been talking about. The regulation adopted in the Act allows the Minister of National Defence, in particularly justified cases, to transfer a professional soldier to a post of service of 2 degrees or more of military degrees higher than that held by a military degree soldier. In principle, the only dispute concerned the compensatory allowance. In the vote, the committee adopted this draft without amendment. That will be all, Mr. Marshal, when it comes to my statement. If there's any questions, I'll answer them.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-18-senat-11-2.u28	Thank you very much. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the rapporteur's senator. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? Senator Florek is the first, and the second is Marshal Borusewicz. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-18-senat-11-2.u29	Mr. Marshal! Mr Senator, rapporteur! There's one thing I don't understand, and I'd ask you to explain it. The Act repeals Article. Article 13 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1, quote: A soldier of the contract service may perform it for a total period of not more than 12 years. The total duration of the contract service shall include the duration of other forms of active military service. In the mouth. 2... we only withdraw our mouths. 1, point (b) is replaced by the following: 2 remains unchanged, i.e. the appointment of a soldier to the contract service may take place once for a period of between 2 and 6 years; and paragraph. 3: The first contract for contract service shall be concluded for a period of 2 years. That means we've washed our mouths. 1. I'm still reading. In Article 2, paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: 2 laws... because art. 1 concerns the Law on the Military Service of Professional Soldiers and the Art. 1 repeals Article. Article 13 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1. And in the article. 2 We have this provision: a professional soldier who is subject to an exemption procedure from the military professional service due to the expiry of the period for which the contract was concluded in connection with the completion of 12 years of service may apply for another contract. Article 13 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1, which refers to 12 years, remains only Article. 2 and 3, which states that between 2 and 6 years and the first contract concluded for 2 years and thereafter in Article. Two, it turns out, we're back to art. 13, which has been repealed, and we are talking about reaching a period of 12 years. I understand that as far as the military is concerned, we have a permanent service and a contract service, and I understand that the contract service may have lasted up to 12 years and that it is similar in the military, too. I don't know, but that's what I'm getting at. . other European countries. And the goals were that the contract service could possibly become a permanent service, or that the contract service would not block someone's professional development so that it would not last forever. And now it is clear from this provision that the contract service may continue indefinitely, and the justification of the law, as I read, is: "This change will enable contract soldiers to acquire rights for military retirement and housing, which are granted to professional soldiers after 15 years of military service." So, as I understand it, the point is to extend the contract service to enter into 15 years of military service. It seems to me that the purpose of the bill was quite different, that the contract service and the permanent service are two different matters, that from the contract service an officer or a petty officer can go to the permanent service, if necessary and there are opportunities. So I don't really understand why it's the repeal of the article. Article 13 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 and then in Article. 2 vocation for a period of 12 years which is no longer available, because this period of Article. Article 13 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 is eliminated here. So I'd ask you to explain if it was... I'm not a member of the committee, which is why I couldn't ask you this question, but I see such confusion here, so I would ask you to explain. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-18-senat-11-2.u30	Maybe after the first question...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-18-senat-11-2.u31	The Commission, Senator, has not discussed this. For the committee, it was quite clear. I can tell you, on the basis of my knowledge, that in your statement one sentence has just come true in the spirit of this law, namely that contract service can actually be conducted infinitely. I'm basically out of commission... I am generally, Mr. Marshal, High Izbo, opposed to contract services. I am their strong opponent, because it does not give security officers, it does not give professional soldiers safety in developing their abilities and in developing their commitment to gaining military degrees. The contract is always uncertain whether the boss will extend it or not, so this bill, or at least this part of the record, is very good to me. I think releasing a soldier into a civilian after 12 years is just... This is wrong. Let us remember that the training of a soldier is very expensive. I'm talking about professional soldiers to a degree basically from a lieutenant, a high-ranking ensign. And we should do everything we can to keep these soldiers in units. Or in general service to the state. In the United States, Mr. Senator, the old men are also actively involved in military training. The army doesn't get rid of these people, they're always in the army. So this change is going, I think, in a very, very good direction. The repeal of this provision will allow a contract soldier, who can now serve for up to 12 years, to serve for the good of his homeland after these 12 years, acquiring, among other things, pension rights after 15 years, but that is not the purpose of this law.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-18-senat-11-2.u32	Mr. Marshal Borusewicz, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-18-senat-11-2.u33	Mr. Senator, you've made quite a mess of my thinking, so I have an ordering question for you. [[I see.]] Isn't contract service at the moment an officer's service? [[I don't know your rank, but even you can be, Mr. Marshal...]] I'm a private marshal! [[Private could be in the line of duty, too. I don't know what they'd give you, but you can be...]] [[It's too low.]] I'm a private marshal. The military didn't want me. [[Joy in the Chamber]] [[Well, I had an A1.]] But I'm gonna walk away from this for a second. Mr. Senator, it seemed to me that contract service only applies to private soldiers, and officers are professional. If I'm wrong, then get me out of this mistake. I also have a question for you: could it be possible, could it be and will it be possible to transfer soldiers from contract service to professional service? If so, why extend this contract service?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-18-senat-11-2.u34	This was not discussed in committee, Mr. Marshal, but I will answer. For me, contract service is a professional service. As we know, there's no other army here. And this applies to soldiers from private to general, because, as I understand it, officers older, younger, generals are also on contracts. Here we may have similar knowledge, Mr. Marshal, which means incomplete. Professional soldiers are on three-year contracts, if I remember correctly, but the Minister will explain it in detail.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-18-senat-11-2.u35	Mr. Marshal Borusewicz, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-18-senat-11-2.u36	This question is essential to me: the law introduces it by virtue of Article. 42d possibility to include non-degree functions, i.e. higher than a degree... [[Yes.]] And it's said that it could be 2 military degrees up, which means the captain can get a function or a job, because that's what the military calls a lieutenant colonel, and the lieutenant colonel the general. Why the change? Is the Minister of Defence I'm not saying Law and Justice, but the Minister of Defense provides for some general changes that require younger officers to be promoted as senior officers? [[Maybe...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-18-senat-11-2.u37	Please, of course.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-18-senat-11-2.u38	I will, Mr. Marshal, use Major's rank, because to me it is the most beautiful rank in the army. [[Do you have a major?]] No, not yet, but I hope I will. [[...Services?]] Let's assume the major can function. This bill says that 2 and more degrees up, so you can even... [[Ah, so...]] Yes, the major may even take a position belonging to the colonel. And that's where the problem arises, and we've talked about it in committee. Well, Major. They have different pay levels there, for example 13, 13A, 13B, 13C, and 13B will take up a position belonging to the colonel who had, for example, a position. 15A stakes. Here the situation is that the compensation allowance is calculated, not the basic rate, but the compensatory allowance, which will be the difference between the 13A rate and the corresponding 15A or 15B rate in this case. This difference will create a compensatory allowance. Our office claims that the record in the bill will cause professional soldiers, senior officers, to be able to claim compensation after 3 years, because this law allows you to charge more compensation, in your opinion, than what the military is proposing. They claim that their regulations will lead to the fact that such situations will not be in practice. As far as the Councillors of the Ministry of National Defence are concerned, they claim that this act does not introduce such a danger, it does not give rise to the possibility of using more funds. The Commission has discussed very little about this, because it was actually two statements from your counselor. Your patron has proposed an amendment, it has been taken over by the Senator of the PO, but has not received support and has adopted a law without amendments. Mr. Marshal, that's what it looked like. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-18-senat-11-2.u39	Again, Marshal Borusewicz, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-18-senat-11-2.u40	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Senator rapporteur, I still have a question for you about what you explained. Will the lieutenant be able to take the position of general? Theoretically.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-18-senat-11-2.u41	I think you're going a little far, Mr. Marshal. [[No, no, in connection with this bill...]] They already have a general. We're about to get to the private. If the law refers to 2 degrees above and more... [[More.]] ...it would seem that it can be considered. I'll get back to the last question. This is a good bill and she has to give the Minister of National Defence in difficult situations, in special situations, because it can affect 2, 3 people or 5 people there, so as a rule... I think it's a good sign, the Minister of Defense must be able to do so, because if there are no other options, he can replace the colonel, for example. Major or lieutenant, and a well-educated lieutenant or lieutenant doesn't have to be any weaker than the colonel, Mr. Marshal, just like the senator. Or an MP from the marshal. [[I'm sure the marshal senator...]] Whether the Member, Mr Marshal or the Member. [[...can't be stronger. Of course, I'm not talking about physical strength.]] Here in this case... [[However, as for the lieutenant appointed general, I would have some doubts.]] Mr. Marshal, we must also consider the Minister of National Defence. These are extreme situations... [[But we're not at war, Senator. At war, yes, but we're not at war.]] No, no, I'm just speaking in general, of course. [[Maybe you're at war, we're not.]] ... whether it's a state of war or a state of peace. I don't think that's going to happen, but the Minister of National Defence gives this bill two degrees or more. I don't think the colonel can serve or take the general's position, but I'm sure the minister will explain it.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-18-senat-11-2.u42	Let's get back to the questions. I propose not to extend the scope of this law to the functions of marshal and senator. Senator Zdrojewska, ask me a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-18-senat-11-2.u43	Thank you very much. Mr. Senator, you were talking about a committee meeting, what it looked like, questions, etc. I'd like to ask. And, of course, I will address the same question to the Minister. The point of something like this is why a soldier of 2 degrees below rank is to be financially promoted. Why do you need the ministry? Isn't it a storm of a certain natural order in the military, where people get to their posts really hard work, getting more grades? Doesn't that undermine the military hierarchy? That's what I'm talking about. Did you talk about this at the committee meeting? If you are unable to explain to me the spirit of this record, I will, of course, address my question to the Minister. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-18-senat-11-2.u44	Senator, we haven't talked about this in the context you're talking about. As far as your statement is concerned, some of the arguments can be accepted here, but with a really small part. What you're talking about doesn't apply to this particular bill. I repeat, this is a good bill. The Minister of National Defence must have the opportunity to... I'm not talking about the situations we're talking about here, about the war. It could be a different situation, something could happen on the ground, something the prime minister might want, maybe some kind of natural disaster. And then it might be that someone needs to be replaced. That is why the Minister must have such opportunities. This bill, in my opinion, is correct and does not violate anything. The person will not receive a higher degree. He will only receive a compensation allowance in connection with the performance of a higher-level soldier's duties.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-18-senat-11-2.u45	Senator, again.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-18-senat-11-2.u46	A little more ad vocem. Wouldn't Mr. Senator be so kind as to give me the right record right now? Whether it concerns exceptional cases, or is it... How? It's written down?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-18-senat-11-2.u47	I read it at the beginning. The record is: in special cases. [[In special cases. And is that more specific? Is it mentioned in what cases?]] No, it's not here. [[In special cases. Okay. Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-18-senat-11-2.u48	The bill was introduced by Members. The government is represented by a representative of the Ministry of National Defence, Minister Bartosz Kownacki. Would the Minister like to speak on the bill under consideration? Come on in.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-18-senat-11-2.u49	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! Maybe I can explain the issues that have arisen here. It's about some misunderstanding. Art. The 2nd amending act read by your senator is only a transitional provision concerning the situation of soldiers who could be released today and after these 12 years could apply for appointment for subsequent contractual periods. It is simply during a transitional period that such situations may occur and that is why this provision sounds so. With regard to the fundamental issue, the dispute that emerged here, as to whether the lieutenant could be a general... Why are we making this decision? Maybe first I can tell you what it looks like in the Ministry of National Defence, because in fact, the case is mostly about office posts that can be occupied by both soldiers and civilians in the Ministry of National Defence. Well, 843 soldiers at the Ministry of Defense... I'm not talking about linear units, I'm talking about the resort itself. There are 736 colonels and lieutenant colonels employed in 843. The younger officers are practically gone. This is a kind of pathology. It was sort of introduced in 2004. This leads to a situation where, in the ministry in positions which do not fully qualify for this, e.g. As Head of the Secretariat or as Head of the Department, Colonels and lieutenants work. A simple example. The legal counsel's office at the Ministry of National Defence is a colonel position, so if a soldier wanted to be a legal counsel, he'd have to be appointed colonel immediately. Such a situation causes us to have no tools later to deprive such a soldier of certain powers and mobilize him. Right? If it was a civilian, we could thank him for his work and say, "You're leaving because you don't meet the requirements." The moment a soldier very quickly... I object internally to the fact that people who are very young and who do not have any special knowledge immediately receive the rank of colonel. Apart from my inner concern that it will demobilize such a person... She gets a colonel's job, and she's always on the board. She doesn't have to continue to work on herself, to develop, to try in this position, because it is known that this job will be transferred to another place at the most, but the money will be due, because it is not such a simple matter. The same applies to other situations in the Ministry. For example, we have civilian workers who can perform... Well, you can even have a head office at the ministry and be a civilian worker And there's no problem here because there are easier change procedures. But a soldier young, educated, after good studies, even foreign, or we need to get promoted very quickly, which also lasts, to the rank of colonel, or he can't, for example. take office as director, deputy director, let's say, head of department or department at the ministry. There is some kind of pathology, also demobilization of these people, because they get the rank of lieutenant colonel or colonel and then they don't want to develop anymore. If there is a young man, 30 years old, he is e.g. Captain and we believe that he may be head of the department. It is today that we must almost immediately appoint him as lieutenant colonel and he has all the authority. And here's the thing: he's becoming a soldier because we want to have soldiers in the Ministry of National Defense, as head of the department, he's still a soldier, he gets that kind of pay. 'Cause it's important because of competence. - What's that? He is entitled to the lieutenant colonel, but at a time when we want to cancel him, transfer him to another lower position, he does not retain the rank of lieutenant colonel and the salary involved, and if he leaves the service, he does not get the right money, he goes to a lower position and he becomes captain again or major again or lieutenant to whom he was. Today is simply a pathological situation, because the number of officers, including senior officers, in the Polish army... well, there is a super-representation here. This is particularly true for office posts, not line posts. And I don't think there's gonna be a situation, much less a linear situation, that a lieutenant or a lieutenant will become a general. This can be considered at the level of the department director: a person at the age of thirty-six finishes an officer's study, becomes a lieutenant, as a civilian could be a department director, as a soldier cannot be and then can be promoted. However, I do not think that anyone in linear units will make such decisions, and certainly the opposition will be very careful not to make such a situation happen, and it will certainly draw attention to it. It is about the possibility of managing the ministry efficiently and failing to bring about a situation that is very often taking place today, i.e. demobilising soldiers, unwilling to develop by guaranteeing their position and tranquillity that they will already remain in this position.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-18-senat-11-2.u50	Thank you very much. Senators can now report from the site. Sir, I'm asking you to stay here. With a maximum duration of one minute of questioning to a government representative related to this item on the agenda. Senator Zdrojewska first came forward. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-18-senat-11-2.u51	Thank you very much. Minister, perhaps... When you explained it, it sounded a little like this: we have a lot of colonels in the ministry, so we need to promote young people to new colonels, and then we'll have even more colonels. That's how I understand it, and I think that's your logic. I'm not in favour of cementing positions in ministries, etc. I believe that fresh blood is needed and I agree with the Minister on the assessment that something should be mentioned from time to time. But creating a rule that's pretty general, and it doesn't just apply to the ministry... [[Please ask for a question that lasts no more than a minute.]] Yes. He's in doubt. I would like to ask if you have considered a different way of solving this staff problem in the Ministry. Because I could give you examples of how these kinds of problems can be solved without this kind of, uh, weird practice for me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-18-senat-11-2.u52	Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-18-senat-11-2.u53	Senator, my intention was quite the opposite. I said: we have a lot of senior officers, lieutenant colonels and colonels, in the ministry and we don't want to create And that's even, you could say, a little against us The next colonel and lieutenant colonel, we just want the junior officers to be able to work in this ministry in responsible positions and not immediately become lieutenants or colonels. Today it is the case that a junior officer comes or a major comes, and he, when he gets a position as chief or head of the department accordingly, has an expecitation, expects an appointment as colonel or lieutenant colonel immediately. I believe that it is another matter of some professional competence, experience and knowledge, and another of the appointments of an officer of the rank of elder, and even more of a colonel. It should be, so to speak, the end of a career. It should not be so that almost every officer in the ministry, regardless of his qualifications, is a colonel or a lieutenant colonel. That's our idea.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-18-senat-11-2.u54	Thank you very much. Senator Flork's question, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-18-senat-11-2.u55	Minister, I cannot agree with this record... If it's art. Article 13 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 was removed from the bill, and it referred to a period not exceeding 12 years... In the mouth. 2 the period from 2 to 6 years and paragraph 2. 3 of the first contract for 2 years. So I don't understand... In Article 2, paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: Two I would like the Sejm legislature to clarify this issue, because I would like to be sure here. I mean, in art. 2 again speaks of the period of service... Here it is: with the achievement of 12 years. While there is no provision for the 12 years mentioned. Why not for ten years? Why not for six years? Why does it say: "According to the achievement of 12 years, can he apply for another contract? ' After four years after six years, after 10 years, after 14 years, etc... So I don't really understand... You said it was a transitional provision. It doesn't say anywhere that this is any kind of transitional provision. So I do not agree with this article. 13. I understand it's about 15 years, so you can get a pension after 15 years of work. That's it. As for the second point, the functions, additions and grades, etc., the fact that this is a special law... I can't understand it either, just like the senator said. What we are talking about here can also be an example to other uniformed services. Why not introduce such transitional provisions also in the police or in the guards, in the border guards... I mean, not the transitional ones, just... I mean, that's the degree of functional promotion. It is clearly stated in the Act that the Minister of National Defence may appoint a professional soldier for a post of service of two degrees and more in particularly justified cases. So this gate... This record, that two degrees and more, already opens such a gate that the lieutenant can also serve as a general. Because in the formulation of two military degrees and more, everything fits. So that, in my opinion, all of this is inconsistent. If you consider that there are a lot of officers in the military, what you were talking about... It's a pedestal, a recipe I think is very, very... I don't know much about military matters, but as a layman, I think the rule is really completely inconsistent and unclear. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-18-senat-11-2.u56	Maybe I can explain it again. Art. 2 concerns 12 years because there are soldiers whose contract service ends. And the point is that they should be able to make that request. Soldiers who are after 4 or 6 years may make such a request in the light of the rules in force. This provision is therefore a transitional provision. Mr. Senator asked about the contract service earlier. She remains because it concerns the soldiers of the private corps. Permanent service may be by the corps of Petty Officers and Officers. And that's why we want to extend, we think... Of course, another solution could have been accepted, such that we would have resigned from the contract service at all. But she's... well, that's also a mobilization element for a soldier. If someone is already in permanent service, they will be practically until retirement in this permanent service. And if someone is in the contract service, they are still evaluated, and it depends on their work whether their service will be extended for another two years, four years or six years. And in the case of private soldiers, there is simply no possibility of going to permanent service. In the case of Petty Officers and Officers, this possibility works. That is why we are amending this provision. On the second point, I will repeat once again that this is, of course, a question of political evaluation. We think it's pathological to say that 843 soldiers working in the ministry 736 are colonel and lieutenant colonel, which involves huge pension privileges, very high pay etc. We want to change this situation so that younger officers can function in the ministry as well. And that's a matter of assessment. If some of you think it's a good thing that they're all colonels, then I'm not gonna change that belief. In my opinion, it demobilizes people, doesn't encourage them to work. In every ministry, the point is that an employee who doesn't pass an exam doesn't meet expectations and can be fired. In the case of the Ministry of Defence, this is much more difficult. There's still a situation here that someone becomes a colonel permanently, gets the authority, and doesn't want to develop. Well, I leave an assessment of the senators, should it be so that the Polish Ministry of Defense actually so It works well that it is justified that the senior officers themselves, the colonels themselves, can work in it. That's your assessment...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-18-senat-11-2.u57	Senator Dobkowski's question, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-18-senat-11-2.u58	Minister, I have a question for you... [[Voice from the room: Microphone on.]] I'm sorry, I'm... Minister, was there a solution to the problem that you were talking about at the beginning, in such a way as to simply reduce the requirements for professional soldiers in management positions? The idea would be that someone who is to take up a certain leadership position would not have to be a colonel, would have been enough if he were a captain. Only in the case of very high positions would the requirement be e.g. being a colonel. I mean, so to speak, to take care of the matter the other way and to make a formal requirement to take a position... It just wouldn't have to be a colonel. It would have been a junior officer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-18-senat-11-2.u59	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-18-senat-11-2.u60	Mr. Senator, you have to understand the specifics of the functioning of the Ministry of National Defence. Well, we don't want to lower the demands for these people. Today, when someone is a soldier and takes a position, for example. The head of the department, he's on the colonel's desk, and if anyone's the head of the department, he's on the lieutenant colonel's desk. If we change that, for example. Lieutenant's office. I understand that's what the senator asked. It will turn out, in turn, that he has a lower salary. As a result, a civilian will make a lot more money than a lieutenant. That way, we're gonna be hurting those soldiers in some way. Due to the specifics of the Ministry and the assignment of the staff, i.e. remuneration, to the function performed, we want to leave it. Etat converted into remuneration, so to speak, remains a colonel or a lieutenant colonel, but this person has no colonel or lieutenant colonel. And that's the difference. Otherwise, we'd have to bring it down right away, and that would involve a lower wage... That would mean we wouldn't find, for example. A lawyer soldier, because a lieutenant's salary would be so unattractive that no esteemed legal counsel would want to work at the Ministry.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-18-senat-11-2.u61	Senator Rulewski, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-18-senat-11-2.u62	Thank you, Mr. Marshal, for this gesture encouraging us to ask a question. I'm taking advantage of your kindness. I will return to your statement, Minister. You said it was hard to imagine a lieutenant as a general. Well, actually... But in the ministry where you work, it happened that a minister who didn't smell the army got himself a junior advisor who saw the army on the Internet. I understand that you will answer that this is civilian control over the military, but I must admit that similarities are coming along. My question is yes. The state opposes charge, a very dangerous phenomenon... Shouldn't you oppose your powers? After all, the colonel who's supposed to be working at the ministry is an educated man, after a lot of studies, dorms, after verification. Do you want to give up this competence for the young people? In the Kemal state, it was called Atatürkan. Do you wish to make such a revolution charge and give up competence and knowledge? I was in the army, and I understand that the fighter bomber pilot... This position is determined not by the degree, but by the efficiency A better pilot could be a lieutenant than a colonel. But I don't know if that's consistent with military management, operations management, training.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-18-senat-11-2.u63	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-18-senat-11-2.u64	Mr. Senator, if you're questioning the Minister's decision regarding advisors... There was no situation in the Ministry of Defence where the daughter of one of the ministers was an advisor in another ministry. [[Voice from the House: At the Ministry of Administration...]] Well, that's the difference. In contrast to the Civic Platform, we try to comply with standards, not apply nepotism... Taking away young people, particularly well-known languages, well-traveled in certain environments, opportunities to work in the ministry, accomplish tasks... Well, it's a matter of assessment, we think there's nothing wrong with it. And as for the second point, which is the question of competence, then... You don't want to understand the idea of this recipe. Nobody talks about reducing the competence or requirements of knowledge and other qualifications needed to work in a specific position. The point is that if someone is competent and can, for example, take up the position of head of the branch, he does not have to immediately promote himself to lieutenant colonel, i.e. to get not only a responsible position, not only an appropriate remuneration, but an additional prize in the form of a promotion to lieutenant colonel. I want you to understand this: he will always be a lieutenant colonel. Today it seems to us whether the minister thinks that Iksiński will be the right person as head of the branch, but after a year, after two years, he may not be working out. And if we keep these regulations that are today, then such Iksiński will first be able to be promoted very quickly to lieutenant colonel and with this salary go to reserve, and the next post of lieutenant colonel will be the problem of the minister. And now, for example, if... After a year it will turn out that the same captain, although formally competent, had experience, etc., is incompetent, he returns to his degree and receives a salary appropriate to the rank of the captain, which means he does not generate costs then... The point is not to double-reward people who take positions, and not to create fiction that we have all great senior officers in the ministry, because that's not what I think it is. There are many capable junior officers, not necessarily young age, but, so to speak, young rank.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-18-senat-11-2.u65	Thank you very much. Senator Hare, you're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-18-senat-11-2.u66	Minister, it's common knowledge that the military's rules are in order. Wouldn't the problem be solved by itself if we just walked away from this parallel charge over positions? Because I understand that there may be an additional problem here of this kind, that the charges and positions will disappear, and the military are very sensitive to the behavior of those who have properly set grades. It may happen that the lieutenant will be someone who will be above the captain or the major or, God forbid, the colonel. Well, then there will be problems, the state as managing the ministry will have additional problems.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-18-senat-11-2.u67	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-18-senat-11-2.u68	The problem I'm trying to show you... Well, there's just no other way to solve this problem than by law, or we can't solve it. Indeed, there is such a fear that, in some department, the lieutenant will direct the work. Major, but this is a special case. I know it's a hierarchized institution, and it might cause some problems, but we'd have to make a decision... Well, it happens sometimes that a civilian runs a department in the ministry where people with officer degrees work, and there's no problem. So I wouldn't... Such an argument raises part of the soldiers in order to guarantee themselves an additional privilege. We want to deprive them of this privilege, and if they really want an officer's degree, let them show in their work that they deserve it, and they don't get promoted from a vending machine. I see this kind of threat, but I think there's a solution.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-18-senat-11-2.u69	Senator Łyczak, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-18-senat-11-2.u70	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Minister, at first I would like to say that the current government has received a very sick army after the previous team. I am referring here to the excessive, horrible, even overgrowth of the number of generals and colonels in relation to the number of those who are truly to defend us. And my question is simple: how does the current team want to heal this situation?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-18-senat-11-2.u71	Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-18-senat-11-2.u72	Mr. Senator, these two regulations we're introducing are just going to make sure that these proportions aren't disturbed. Today, half, and even half of the soldiers, are officers and petty officers, and this is a pathological situation. And if you look at the structure of the ministry, it turns out they're practically the senior officers themselves. We want to change this by introducing these rules, i.e. giving the possibility of a career promotion in the ministry without changing the degree, as well as opening the corps of private soldiers by extending the contract service to sixty years old. Then this service will be longer and these proportions in the perspective, well, not a year, but in the perspective of a few years, will turn away. Because now it is the generals and colonels of Poland that stand, and I do not have such a good assessment of this Ministry and the Polish Army that they actually justify such a situation. I don't think they have such extraordinary abilities beyond other NATO armies.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-18-senat-11-2.u73	Mr. Marshal, you're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-18-senat-11-2.u74	Minister, you said first and foremost... You've been concentrating on the ministry, but this law doesn't restrict these rules to the ministry, it's a law that... but is it limited only to the ministry? And that's the first question. Second question. Can't this problem be solved in the Ministry, which you point out, in a different way, as Senator Dobkowski said, by lowering the requirements regarding the need to take up certain positions in the Ministry according to these high charges. The secretary doesn't have to be the colonel or the major, maybe the lieutenant. But you're not going that way, though you can go. And then you wouldn't have to change the bill, because it's internal regulations, rules that the minister probably sets up. The third question is, don't you think this ministry needs to be civilized, so to speak? Why is there so many military forces in the Ministry of National Defence, although civil control has been declared by Poland for many, many years? So, what, the civilians are just the minister, the vice ministers and the head of the office? So I have a question: how many civilians work at the ministry? And the last question I want to ask. I'm sure you have some information about that. Unfortunately, it goes beyond the scope of the bill, but I want to ask it. Is there any work being done to restore primary service in the military? Is there any work on it at the Ministry? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-18-senat-11-2.u75	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-18-senat-11-2.u76	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. These solutions are not limited only to the ministry, although they were mostly practical in the ministry. Well, you can't just separate it and say that those soldiers who are in the ministry are treated in a way, and those in another military unit next door are treated differently. In the case of linear service, there's no problem either, because the proportions... I don't want to give you accurate data because I could shoot, but I'm talking about the entire army outside the ministry. It's about the second number. So the problem isn't there. This problem is in the ministry, not in linear service. I don't see that kind of danger out there. As for this reduction in requirements, this cannot be changed in any other way, because in the military, the job and salary goes... There is a table; if someone wants to be a legal counsel, he must meet the requirements of a legal counsel and then he has a colonel's office and he gets the right money. If... [[My question was, wouldn't it be easier to simply change these tables, Minister, rather than the bill?]] And if you change the table, for example. at the level of the head of the branch, when do we have to keep the right salary? You can, of course, reduce jobs in some places to get off these jobs a little bit; that's a way, but it doesn't do everything. It's not gonna change that way, because in one department, the head of the branch would make a different job, he had a different job, and in another department. It's completely different. That would lead to some gigantic chaos throughout the structure. There must be some transparency about the structure of the remuneration. As far as civilization is concerned, civil control is indeed a problem, but it is not that the minister himself is the only civilian in the ministry. I can give you the exact data, that's about half-fifty about the ministry. There's about... there's 843 soldiers and a little over 800 civilians in the ministry. So that's 50%. up to 50%. But also because of the nature of the ministry, it cannot be led to the situation that 95% They'd be civilians. Soldiers are often dragged into the ministry from linear units, due to some experience they have acquired before, because such knowledge is also needed in this kind of resort. You can still think of another change in proportion, but not one in which we will resign from the ministry. As far as the work on essential services is concerned, such work is currently not being carried out in the Ministry, and we have not discussed it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-18-senat-11-2.u77	Are there any more questions for the Minister? Minister, summarizing the discussion and calming the opposition... Because I got the impression here that the state, fearing opportunities, first of all, promoted with quite a leap of degrees and, secondly, some possible drastic exchange of personnel... I understand. And please take this as a question. The intention of these rules is not to increase the number of degrees, especially senior officers, but to employ soldiers with lower grades in positions suitable for higher positions without the need for irrevocable increases in degrees. In my opinion, the current state is that if you had bad intentions, you could simply advance to senior officer degrees some group of lower officers, and for that there is no need for any law. But the ministry's intentions, as I read, are to avoid that. I'm asking for your opinion as to whether I understood this correctly. It's an attempt to explain and calm my left side.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-18-senat-11-2.u78	Exactly that, Mr. Marshal. Today, in the light of the regulations in force and of the natural changes in staff that are taking place in the Ministry, it would be possible to create several dozen more colonels and lieutenants, which would have consequences for the state budget for many years. But that's what we're trying to avoid. Even if we recognize that someone is eligible for another position and could occupy it, it does not necessarily have to be given this privilege right away. An expetition of an appointment as an senior officer. We just want to avoid the fact that every year there will be an increase in the number of senior officers in the army.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-18-senat-11-2.u79	After all, no change in the law is needed to quickly promote a group of soldiers. But I don't want to get into a discussion, that's what the time will be for. Thank you very much, Minister. [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of National Defence Bartosz Kownacki: Thank you.]] I'm opening a discussion. You were the first to speak to Marshal Borusewicz. Come on in.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-18-senat-11-2.u80	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! It's an act similar to the media bill, but it's one that's going to be about the military. Now the troops. It gives the opportunity to be promoted to any position of any officer. The military is a hierarchical institution where the rank counts, the position involved, and the service period is also important. It is not that according to the applicable regulations you can freely promote an officer by a few degrees. No, because there is service pragmatism and there must be time for this appointment. I'm not a military specialist, but those are the rules, and I think they still apply. Before the next promotion of an officer, there must be an appropriate internship in the previous post. Of course, it's easier to separate jobs from grades. It took a long time because it was different before it got that the jobs were consistent with the grades. This state, when they didn't overlap, caused discussion in the military, dissatisfaction. It is clear to me that this bill is a preparation for a complete change in the officer's staff and the cleanliness of the army, Minister. Because what you're saying about the Ministry of Defense could have been achieved by other means. How? We have shown, when asking questions, you can lower your jobs, etc. But this bill doesn't just talk about the Ministry of National Defence. As far as the Ministry of National Defence was concerned, it was possible, by changing this principle, to clarify the scope of the case, to determine that this only applies to the Ministry of Defence. And this bill applies to the entire army. Art. 42d this is lex specialis in exceptional cases, and we will see how many of these exceptional cases will be. I don't know the Minister that well, but I know the Prime Minister well, and I know that there will be a lot of these exceptional cases, I mean. I know what the intentions are... That's why we're here, and we're politicians, and we have experience to read those intentions. I don't have any objections. as regards this contract service and the abolition of the contractual service limit. Yeah, that's right. But the other part, which I believe to be a fundamental part of... the first part, which concerns the transfer of contract service over 12 years, is just a veil for the fundamental change with which you came here. Unfortunately, this will cause serious military problems. You are now entering these conflicts in the military as a permanent element, as part of military management. It's bad for the army, so I'm going to vote against this bill, it's a bad law in this area, and it's a dangerous law. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-18-senat-11-2.u81	Senator Zdrojewska, please take the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-18-senat-11-2.u82	Dear Marshal, Dear Minister, Minister, I don't think you've convinced our side of the room. We will not talk about intentions here today, but we can say what is written in this bill, what it offers opportunities. That's exactly what you said to Marshal Borusewicz in front of me. Not only did you not convince me, but you also proved several times, answering the question that the ministry has no idea how to solve the problem you were talking about. It can be resolved in a different way, and you have chosen the worst and yet very dangerous. You have chosen a recipe that will cause the Polish army to become dissatisfied again, there will be a sense of injustice. And to me, it is clear why all this, you explained it to Marshal Borusewicz: you simply want to replace the staff and bring in other people. I'm not surprised... Don't be surprised, maybe I'll say our concerns. You spoke to Senator Rulewski about this young advisor who was employed at the Ministry of National Defence and I don't think he was working any more. It was embarrassing, even newspapers in other countries wrote about it. We are afraid of this situation, and we cannot rule out that it will. This could not have been the case if it had not been for such changes in the law that you are giving us today. You're talking about the MON specifics. You're the new minister, you can change, you can change the specifics. Think about it. And you're convincing us that you haven't considered any other, quite simple way out when it comes to pay grids, pay tables or changes to the internal regulations of the MON. Think about it and don't convince us it's just to let you change the MON for good. It is as Marshal Borusewicz said: it is to completely change the appearance of MON, as it was done in public media and as it is happening at this moment in many institutions throughout the country. You come to us here to the Senate and you say that you have pure intentions, and in a moment we see what these intentions are. That's what happened on the media bill. Look at the minutes and records of the discussion on the media law, when we talked here for hours and were persuaded to be very honest and very good intentions. And look at you... Every day, when I open a newspaper, I read about other well-deserved employees being fired from public media. I'm not going to dwell on the media here anymore, but this shows how you talk about your good intentions, and what it looks like after a week. We won't have to wait long. I think it's gonna happen exactly like Marshal Borusewicz said. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-18-senat-11-2.u83	Please take the floor of Senator Flork.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-18-senat-11-2.u84	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Dear guests! I return to this and I would like to stress this once again: I believe that the provisions of the Act are inconsistent. Art. 13, which refers to the contract service and does not exceed 12 years of contract service, is removed from the law, another 2 articles remain and one says that the contract may last from 2 to 6 years and the other says from 2 years. I'll go back to art again. 2th Act, which explicitly states... You're back in service for a 12-year contract that's no longer in the bill. And this is not a transitional provision. It's just one thing in the first part of the bill, which we were just talking about. One thing concerns contracts, i.e. pensions, and the other is more dangerous. And, of course, when it comes to pensions granted to professional soldiers, they can be obtained after 15 years, and I understand that a reduction of more than 12 years is that contract soldiers will also be able to acquire pension rights. We know that there are professional soldiers and there is permanent service and contract service. The contract service was supposed to be a transitional service. There are also privates in the contract, in the professional we only have a corps of officers and petty officers, therefore the contract service was supposed to be in order to allow us to be in the army, but if someone comes to the conclusion that they want to be permanently associated with the army, they should be transferred to the permanent service. And if he doesn't, he's still a young person who can get another profession, another authority. And that, in my opinion, was the purpose of the contracts. Yes, sir, and I think I'm not sure, but that's what my experience tells me. This is also the case in other countries. That's why I'm going back to the fact that we have inconsistencies when it comes to deleting the article. Article 13 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 and as regards Article. 2 laws. I would ask the legislator to speak on this, because I think this provision of law is wrong. Ladies and gentlemen, of course, the second issue is very dangerous, in my opinion, because we want to make an exception for uniformed services. We have different uniforms. It's not just uniforms, it's about functions, grades, promotions... We can talk about civil service. You can talk about it anywhere. This is unprecedented. You're talking about a particular case that might happen. I know that special cases become a rule very often. And to assure the Senator rapporteur that this is a good law, a right, a special act, absolutely... I believe that this could be discussed. And now, about these function-related things, degree-- Ladies and gentlemen, I think you should sort this out in the military. I don't think it's a difficult thing to sort out. If the function, I don't know, the director of some department, has to take over the major, and the state doesn't want to get promoted, so there's no military. Too many officers... 'Cause there's a lot of them. So that we don't expand this group anymore... In that case, if you can take such a position with a lower degree, you need to adapt these posts to function. Not necessarily a colonel, maybe a major. There will therefore be no problem. I know it's about the benefits, the money, the promotions... They don't always... It's about that promotion route I think the marshal was talking about. They are not always possible at a certain time. But it also goes... If you don't know what's going on, it's probably about the money, too. Because, of course, there will be functional and other additions in this position. And besides, this promotion... This provision that for a position of two military degrees or more, it is already the opening of the gate. I don't think that's what I'm gonna say. No one's inventing posts, grades. That you could do something like this... I understand if it were written one degree, two degrees. But more? This is where the gate opens forever, ladies and gentlemen. To sum up, the first part of the contract legislation, in my opinion, is inconsistent, the second part is very dangerous, unprecedented. In this situation, of course, I will also not support such a controversial, dangerous act and will vote against. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-18-senat-11-2.u85	Thank you very much. Please take the floor of Senator Lyczak.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-18-senat-11-2.u86	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I have a completely different opinion. I believe that the bill is very good and that Poles are waiting for this bill. They're waiting for one reason: because they feel threatened that the army... When I asked a question, I found that this government had been given an army sick after the previous crew. Poles are waiting for this army to heal as soon as possible. They just want to feel safe. It's about time we got rid of the generals and colonels, which maybe 10, or maybe 20 times too many, who are in the army by sitting. They're taking powerful money, and they're taking no advantage of it. I therefore fully support the changes made by the Ministry by this law. I believe that the Poles are waiting for an army that will be reformed, which will actually fulfil its role. And we Poles will feel safe. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-18-senat-11-2.u87	Thank you very much. Is Mr. Senator reporting for... [[I volunteered, yes.]] Oh, I'm sorry, you're not listed. Of course, I ask you to speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-18-senat-11-2.u88	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! This is not my field, but if, in the presence of the Minister and the military, the Senator of the Republic comes out, in a situation where his group is president, commander of the Armed Forces, and he speaks of the Polish army that she is ill, it is irresponsible. It's not, it's sick words. That's all I'm saying. [[Applause]] [[That's what you think, Senator.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-18-senat-11-2.u89	Please take the floor of Senator Czarnobaj.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-18-senat-11-2.u90	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! This is not an area that is my domain, but what Senator Augustine said is unacceptable. [[Talking in the O.R.]] Mr. Senator, you might have... [[That's what you think, Senator.]] I didn't interrupt you, though a little culture, if not knowledge and elementary order, at least a little culture, I would ask very much. Ladies and gentlemen! I mean... I, Minister, agree if you want to change some of the elements that prevent a good change. And I don't say it jokingly. A good change that will help make things better, then do it. Of course, there are various arguments here, there are doubts about the opposition, because that's what the opposition is for, Minister. And we have doubts about the fact that a lieutenant can be made a general, well, that's what happens during the war... But if it's going to help the Polish army, as you assure us here, if it doesn't serve some kind of purgatory, other things... I will say this: I will vote against it because I do not support it, but I will not protest against it loudly, because you are in power and you will show that it was a move in the right direction. But this kind of speech, in the presence of the Minister and representatives of the Polish Army, to talk about a sick army... Senator, this is something sick. Today in Poland there are certain problems concerning the international situation and if some things were done wrong I'm sure they were, because that's how life always is. It is for this to be the new Minister to change these things, but it is impossible in the Polish Parliament to speak out about what concerns the state of the Polish army. And that's just what I'd like you to do, Mr. Senator, to keep up with the sick discussion in the cockroaches, and I'm asking you very cordially. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-18-senat-11-2.u91	Senator Zdrojewska, please take the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-18-senat-11-2.u92	I wouldn't have spoken again if he hadn't provoked me, unfortunately, Senator. It's outrageous what you said about the sick army and that you should throw out generals and colonels. I'd like to tell you that it's not like we've got an army of generals and colonels raised in Moscow right now. No, we have a completely different situation. At the moment there are people who are very well trained for free Poland, and these are people who have been educated in foreign universities, these are people who work for the army with all their heart and dedication. You're talking about some kind of disease. You can talk about flaws, I'm not saying it's perfect, I think there are things in the army that need to be fixed. But what you said is outrageous, and I would like to strongly protest against it. But unfortunately, you've exposed the intention of the PiS to this bill that we're working on today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-18-senat-11-2.u93	Is the senator speaking? Come on in, you're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-18-senat-11-2.u94	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I'll stand up for my friend. Just because he said the army was sick, it's okay. I want to tell you that 99% of society are sick people, and as a doctor, I can say that because each of us has some kind of flaw, and they're all referred to as a disease. These are most often not fatal, but require treatment. And I understand that the senator's intention was to treat himself, which is to make an amendment. Ladies and gentlemen, at Smolensk, 10 of the highest military officials were killed. They were later quickly replaced with people. Sorry for the upset Which were quickly promoted, and without explaining the reasons. That is why I think that there is indeed a need to make an amendment at the moment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-18-senat-11-2.u95	Please take the floor of Senator Jackowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-18-senat-11-2.u96	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! This is an important bill, especially in this political and military situation, in which Poland is currently located as a country which is in fact an eastern flank of the Nativ Agreement. In view of the fact that the NATO Summit is to take place in July, which will actually decide on our security in the coming years, it is important that the issues that need to be straightened out are straightened out. It's important to be clear that the army after 1989... I'm saying this as a man who served in the army. Although still during the period of the Polish People's Republic, it served. [[That doesn't count.]] I would like to say that after 1989 the army was subjected to continuous human-organization experiments, which of course do not support the stable building of combat capabilities and the adaptation of the army to the new war doctrine that is currently in force, and to the change in geopolitical and systemic situation that took place at the turn of the 1980s and 1990s in Central and Eastern Europe. In this regard, we have to keep in mind that we're in a little bit of a situation like we're starting to renovate a house that needs renovation, and somebody would say, well, let's do the roof. The funds would be invested, the roof would be renovated, but it would turn out that the basement is leaky and the foundations need to be drained. They would start drying the foundations, but then somebody would come and say, "I don't like the communication lines in this building, you have to take down the stairwells, make new strokes, move the ceilings and make a new communication in the building." Someone would finally say: unfortunately, it is not enough, we still need to build a floor. Therefore, a newly renovated roof would be demolished, given a new shape, and another investment would be undertaken. Ladies and gentlemen, I wouldn't be talking about this if I wasn't a Senator from Ciechanów. In Ciechanów, as you know, there were traditions associated with the 11th Regiment of Legions of Ulysses. After World War II, the regiment was stationed there. The regiment had barracks where they were, if I recall correctly, 34 buildings. And 2 years before the unit was deformed This was in the days of the Civic Platform 6 million PLN was invested in the modernisation of the cafeteria. Then came the decision to deform the unit and close the barracks that remain empty until today. There was no idea how to make such an area in the city centre. Thank God, thanks to the efforts of local government officials and parliamentarians, thanks to the actions to which I had the honour to contribute, we managed to ensure that in Ciechanów there will be command of the American brigade and some of the barracks rooms will be used as a warehouse for American combat equipment. And praise be to God, for some idea has been made for the development of these lands. But how many situations we have in Poland, where areas after the decommissioned military units, which should not actually have been destroyed, should not have been deformed, but simply experimented... How many situations were there? How many places are there in Poland where until today there are barracks after the military garrison or after the military unit that simply destroy? It's a huge fortune. I think that if my colleagues looked at their districts, it would turn out that in many districts this was the case. This is also an expression of this joyful work and the lack of one stable, long-term concept that would be implemented in the long term. Not only do local communities suffer from this because people lose their jobs as civilian workers, there is a degradation of cities in which there were individuals, and they are no longer there, there are other economic repercussions, but there is also a professional military staff who would like to work in stable and predictable conditions, and is concerned about all this. I will remind you that in recent years, however, our army has an increased number of generals, senior officers, who have different positions of office. I'm talking about their numbers in relation to serial numbers, to the corps of privates or sailors, just ordinary soldiers who do their duties on a daily basis. I will remind you that we had a series of catastrophes, 3 tragic catastrophes during the reign of the Civic Platform, in which not only the President of the Republic of Poland was killed, on a military plane, Generality was also killed, the elite of Polish aviation was killed in the famous CASA plane crash and also in the famous, although the number of victims of the least of these 3 catastrophes, the Bryza disaster, the Navy aircraft. And they didn't learn from it. So please do not criticize the current government, which is trying under the conditions under which it is, to ensure that the Polish Armed Forces have the opportunity to act effectively, have the conditions for development provided, have sealed and improved personnel and organizational regulations. This is simply the foundation that is necessary to have the best possible instruments in these new conditions for this role. Finally, I would like to say one more thing. It is not by chance that the army in the Polish tradition has always enjoyed great social and military prestige as visible citizens who take responsibility for their shoulders, they have always been well associated. I was actually serving during the martial law period and although there was not the best atmosphere at the time when it came to the People's Polish Army, among ordinary people there was a full understanding of the situation in which ordinary soldiers were then found. This shows that the Polish army is always with Polish society and here absolutely nobody wants to question it. But it must also be remembered that there was a period of the Polish People's Republic, that there were generals who finished Voroshilovka, that there were officers, soldiers of the Military Information Services who finished various courses, GRU, not GRU. In today's geopolitical realities, it is important to draw appropriate lessons from this. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-18-senat-11-2.u97	Thank you. Please take the floor of Senator Flork. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-18-senat-11-2.u98	Mr. Marshal! High Senate! I would like to point out and remind you that we have not been in the Warsaw Agreement for many, many years, but we are in NATO, and it obliges us to do something, to this discussion in the Senate too. I'm gonna give you an example. I'm thinking about what happened last time in the police force. The new chief general of police has listed almost everyone. I don't think there's two left. He didn't have time to replace them. Voivodship commanders in the service, which is apolitical, commandants who are good officers who are trained, who are in foreign training throughout Europe, in the United States, because I know and collaborated with such commandants. I'm surprised to see some of the chiefs being replaced. I could say politically here, who they were supporting, because even when they mention their own, it's amazing. This example shows how changes can be made when you give some tools to make these changes. I do not know if we have an emergency situation in Poland at the moment. Well, if we do, we'd have to keep our meeting secret and ask the Minister to explain. Because maybe we're getting ready for some kind of war. If that's the case, I understand that action is needed. But there are no symptoms of this at the moment. So to introduce such rules in the situation that we have when we are in NATO, when there are rules that apply to us... After all, our discussion is being followed by the media, so we need to remember what we say on this stand, what we say on this stand, because this is important, because it will be commented on. Once again, I will stress that when all uniformed services are taken into account, this example of the introduction of this law in the form in which it is prepared is very, very dangerous and will, in my opinion, have further consequences. That is why I call once again for this law to be rejected. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-18-senat-11-2.u99	Thank you very much. Please take the floor of Senator Lyczak.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-18-senat-11-2.u100	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I fully support what I said in my first statement. The Polish army needs to be reformed, the Polish army needs to be changed, that is to say, the Polish army needs to be treated in order to make Poles feel safer. To the opposition, I would like to say this: I know a little bit about the military. I have an officer's degree, I've been in reserve many times, so that the army knows as if from the lining. And I would ask that you make these critical remarks, often very insulting, to your camp, to your ladies and gentlemen of the senators. Because statements from your environment have often been very harmful. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-18-senat-11-2.u101	Thank you. Please take the floor of Senator Czarnobaj.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-18-senat-11-2.u102	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! There are various declarations here, so I'll also say something: I don't know myself in the army, although I have an officer degree, I don't feel like a professional in this business. I see you're a great professional in this business. And what the senator said as a doctor, because of course I agree that, as they say, there are no healthy people, only misdiagnosed... It's just that the main thing is that those who shape the Polish army, Polish politics, Poland in general... We know they're sick, just like the doctor said, just so it's not mental illness, and the point is to have a clear diagnosis on these issues. And what Senator Jackowski said, who recounts a story that has nothing to do with what we're debating here... Well, I'll say two words, and that's what Senator Peter was talking about just now. Mr. Senator, ladies and gentlemen, the doctrine has changed somewhat in Poland, as far as I know. The deployment of various types of units in Poland has also changed. There was an army in my hometown in all his history, and today he's gone because it was recognized in this country when we became members... [[In our country.]] In our... I will then give a lecture on why I am speaking in this country, but not today. I'll give it to the senator in particular. I would like to say that this is a normal thing, that the locations and dislocations of individual individuals were changed, and that the role of local governments was the development of these facilities. I would therefore like to repeat the request once again: listen to what the Minister has said. I believe that the Minister and the commanders of the Polish army have pure intentions. And after the fruit, we're gonna judge that. We as opposition say that we have doubts, but do not say as it has been so far, that here is the media, the economy and everything, the whole of Poland is in ruins. Well, today I hear the army's in ruins too. Therefore, I would like to say this: we do not put our hands on the changes proposed by the Minister, because of the reasons that you spoke about the marshal and the people speaking in front of me, but please do not mention that the Polish army is in ruins until now and that we will be healing it only now. And all I ask is that we look at what concerns the Polish army in a healthy and not sick way. Thank you very much. [[I'm in corrigendum mode!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-18-senat-11-2.u103	In corrigendum mode. I give the floor to Senator Jackowski. But I'll be brief, if you don't mind.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-18-senat-11-2.u104	Yes, sir. Mr. Marshal, I would like to say very briefly to Senator Czarnobaj that, of course, I understand the need for changes that are taking place, but I do not understand the waste. I emphasized that in this unit two years before its deformity huge expenditures were made on modernization and construction of a super cafeteria for the amount of PLN 6 million. And that's mismanagement. Because since it was already known that there was a plan to deform this unit, why would they invest there? And that's what happened in your day. Please check the documents for yourself. This is the situation I was talking about, not the fact that I'm surprised some individuals are being deformed. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-18-senat-11-2.u105	Please return to the subject of the bill. Mr. Senator, please take the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-18-senat-11-2.u106	Good morning. Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! For today in Poland... [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[But silence, please.]] ...stations 100,000 NATO troops It's a very large number. Because Poland is in NATO, so all Polish soldiers are NATO soldiers. Here I see you smiling... That's a very large number. But after visiting different weapons facilities, I feel like this is a category. B, this is the east side. When Poland sent in the first contingents of our soldiers for international missions, it was Afghanistan, Lebanon, Central Africa, the equipment that they were bestowed on, and it was Tarpany, when it came to fighting cars, vehicles transporting soldiers, it was something at least taunting... When Poland decided to buy the first batch of Patria cars from Finns, the generals, just Polish generals, made such a condition: if Poland wants to make these cars, then these cars are to be waterproof, that is to say to swim. The interesting thing is that Patria's original cars weren't swimming. And this condition was very difficult to meet, so difficult that it made it almost certain that these cars would not be assembled in Poland. And it was a condition imposed by the Polish Army generals. The superhuman will effort of engineers from Siemianowice Śląskie led to the fact that these cars were swimming; several wagons in the meantime were drowned in Rybnik, but generally these cars were swimming. I am talking about this because they were big projects to strengthen the image, or actually the strength of a Polish soldier directly on the front, but unfortunately sometimes due to the fanaberism of generals they were already very burdened for good morning. In the meantime, the proportion of the 97 percent share of foreign parts in the construction of the Rosomak combat vehicles, because we are talking about this car today, has changed, it has gone the other way, so that now outside the engine and outside several sub-assemblys all the rest of the Rosomak is being built in Siemianowice by Polish capital. I'm talking about it because these changes have a very big impact. Except for the armament industry, which is really well prepared. The military. E.g. unrealized or ineffective, despite the existing prototype, a combat vehicle, so-called Gorilla medium tank. Do any of you remember him? And that was a dozen million drowned, thrown into the mud. Successor: Gepard medium tank He didn't like the generals. Successor: Light tank Anders There's a spark of hope here, because it's fresh. Built in OBRUM in Gliwice. Will he like the generals now? Will there be a green light so that the Polish army, with the help of the Polish industry and the machines created here, will be able to come out of this possession of buying used, obsolete constructions from Western demobile? It is also the generals who have a gigantic impact on whether our contingent, our 100 000 NATO contingent troops in Poland will have something to fight against on the front. This is not only about technical receptions made by ministers, not only about technical receptions made by engineers of technicians, but also about requirements made by generals. For my comfort, it is not only the Polish generals who have fanaber. When Rosomak was offered as part of the sale to the Malaysians, they wished that the ruthless equipment of the Rosomak must be a dinner maker. Because it's a custom for soldiers to have a break every two hours to eat rice. And the rice cooker must be in condition, fitted with the vehicle. You will have an influence on how the equipment of the Polish army is shaped. And it's very important that this army is a modern army. Saying the generals only pick up, just using... That's not true. Because generals at the stage of ordering and receiving a given product decide whether these projects I'll name them again: the Gorilla tank, the Cheetah tank and the Anders tank. They will enter the production and will be equipped with the Polish army or not. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-18-senat-11-2.u107	Thank you very much. Please take the floor of Senator Fedorovich.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-18-senat-11-2.u108	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I went out for a moment and listened to what Mr Łuczak said on TV. It's just a total disaster. [[I'm not an MP.]] Excuse me, senator. Excuse me, sir. Well, here's what I'm going to say: I have a badge here, Mr... [[I'm not an MP.]] Sorry, I'll get used to it. I've been a Member for 10 years, and I know how to do politics. You don't talk stupid in politics. [[You're going too far.]] What you've said has already taken on a media nature. By saying that the army is sick, you are beyond the limits of what is the norm for politicians. Because even if you think that, you don't say that in public. And by the way, you're hurting people, great commanders who died in Afghanistan, and their soldiers. I'm proud... I am the child of the cursed soldiers. So it's not a problem for me... The problem of honor and love of the country, soldiers... Telling the soldiers that the army is sick is outrageous. And it's you... I'm calling you... [[You're going too far.]] Whoa, whoa, whoa... [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[Quiet, please.]] I'm calling you to apologize. Because you just insulted people. I'm gonna get back to the bottom of this. The obvious thing is that the army requires different kinds of changes, as well as changes, every day, requires a technique. And the obvious thing is... A moment ago, the senator was talking about generals making different kinds of decisions, too. But, Senator, Professor, as a scientist, you know very well that the generals mentioned are also perfectly prepared to perform such functions. And this is a collective work. Sometimes decisions... I know all these stories because my colleagues, the soldiers I know, or Gruszek, or Bieniek, or General Skrzypczak, or other prominent commanders, and those who died, which I'm about to say... The boys, General Kwiatkowski and the other Colleagues who died, were never a sick army. These people were the ones who performed these functions. And you're welcome... I'm sorry about my emotional nature. If the senator is offended It's okay, we're gonna have to answer to a court of honor for that. But if you don't apologize, I think the Senate is going to suffer a great deal of harm. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-18-senat-11-2.u109	Please take the floor of Senator Dobrzyński.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-18-senat-11-2.u110	I don't know what my esteemed colleague, the senator at my club, said about the Army's disease, and I wasn't there at the time. Nevertheless, for all those who are interested in the army, the Polish army, it is clear that our army is in very bad shape. Mr. Senator Fedorovich, from the moment that a civilian in our country has been Minister of Defense, you cannot burden generals... When you criticize an army, you criticize an army, that doesn't mean you criticize generals, colonels, that doesn't mean you stain their uniform. Civil ministers, members of the government, are responsible for this. That's the way it is in our country. And politicians, among others. And so are we. If the generals, if the military, the military commanders have a clear vision of the army, they have a programme prepared, they will surely carry out... The truth is, these are people who are prepared and well educated. Eight years of rule of the Civic Platform, eight years of rule of this coalition were tragic for the military. I don't need to reverse that expression, and I don't need to translate it, just reach for the data, just keep in mind the aviation accidents and solve the 36th regiment. What was that for? If everything was okay, then why should we solve the regiment? The military are prepared to carry out their duties, they are prepared to carry out the tasks that are before our country, but we must use them, we must simply command them well, I am referring specifically to the Minister of National Defence. Our army for a 40-million-dollar country in a specific place in Europe, in this geopolitical situation, is simply small. I will no longer talk about the number of officers, so-called. professional soldiers, functionaries, and soldiers, let's assume, privates. This imbalance has to be changed, we need a lot of troops. In my opinion, Mr. Senator Fedorovich, it should be twice as many. I am based here on various studies: we see what army Belarus has, we see how powerful an army Ukraine has and how powerful an army Russia has. We should have an efficient, strong, well-managed army, and for that are the responsibility of politicians, not the military. I repeat: politicians, so do we. I don't know what it's like in our situation, but every army, every country, every strong state, which takes its security seriously, has a war doctrine, a military doctrine. I don't know what it's been like with us for eight years, and I don't have that specific information, so we have to fill it in. I am aware that the Civic Platform will not be a constructive opposition, but today we are not really talking about the military, about this broad issue, we have only a concrete amendment to the law and two specific provisions, one concerning the so-called. contracts. I'm glad the minister's taking down those contracts. I hope it goes further, because, as I said earlier as rapporteur, I am opposed to contracts. It makes it difficult for us to work, demobilizes people, especially in senior positions, petty officers, officers, senior officers, generals. The military staff must be free to act, they must be calm to carry out their tasks and continue to educate themselves. About the promotion change... This isn't a promotion when it comes to military promotion when it comes to grades. These things need to be distinguished: on the one hand, there is a military degree, and on the other hand there is a position which belongs to a given officer. And under the law, only a minister can move a low-level soldier to... entrust him with his job for a while. It won't take years, it won't last for months, but there may be situations where the Minister of National Defense... Well, then, Minister, maybe there's a chance that this could happen as well. You're only confined to the office, to the staff, to the peace situation. In emergency situations, during natural disasters. The Minister must have the right to shift the officer to the appropriate post. And there's nothing going on here... There are two levels and even higher. That's the question, because we're always looking for a hole in the whole thing, whether the lieutenant or the lieutenant can serve as a general. The colonel says it's not because the other rules are different, but it's okay to be in the colonel's position. And it is the minister who decides that, and surely the lieutenant after school will not be in charge of the position that the colonel is in, if he has lieutenants with more experience or has, for example. Captains or majors. I understand that the opposition has the right to criticize, has the right to ask The discussion is extremely important. But let's keep common sense in all of this. The bill is very good and necessary. Yes, there is a dispute about the compensatory allowance, and I have an opinion on it. However, in this general context, this law is simply necessary. The Minister must be able, in a special situation, to move the lieutenant colonel or Major to the post that the colonel held and belonged to him. That's where we need compensation. That's all. And let's just discuss it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-18-senat-11-2.u111	Thank you very much. Would any of you like to take the floor in the discussion? Senator Fedorovich, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-18-senat-11-2.u112	Mr. Senator, this is a good speech. After all, every one of us here in this room wants the army to be strong, to be enlarged. That there's a threat... [[Foreign servants...]] Yeah, I know. I'm the only one asking... There must be a continuation here. It's not the problem of giving power. If some crew raises retirement age and doesn't raise the budget, which is also the military... She has to realize she's gonna leave. The second team comes in and does their job. Except there's a road in the military called promotion. Experience, knowledge, platoon management, company, brigade, etc... And we have doubts about that. [[The bill says so, Mr. Senator.]] I know, except there's more like authority in the military. I can tell you, Generals are listening to us now. I just want to be clear... I'll tell you one thing. You just told me Senator Jackowski that there was something in Ciechanów... And I live right next to the building of a magnificent special forces unit and I see soldiers from Krakow, from all over Poland, who come there, who speak English and some German... I would like to say that of those soldiers who were mutilated today by certain words, one who has four stars and was vice president of the Natian service in the United States, General Bieniek, and many of his colleagues... And these are the people who will always serve the army. It's not like a politician or someone's gonna replace him. You were talking about civilian control of the army... This is our greatest prey, our greatest prey. Do you remember the dispute at the time of President Wałęsa's presidency... This is our prey. I remind the army once again of those who try to disqualify it in the eyes of society, Mr. Marshal, to all of you. It enjoys the highest authority among Poles. And thank you to the army for that. And for these peace missions, and for all that you're doing. I say to you, Generals, the Senate is always behind you. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-18-senat-11-2.u113	You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-18-senat-11-2.u114	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Mr. Senator, of course, it's just me criticizing the state of our army, I mean not the great military, but the politicians. Mr. Senator, you're forcing me to go into detail. The fact that we have a dangerous so-called Suwałski Pass, 70 km in principle unprotected border, it's not the general's fault or the colonel's fault. It's the politicians' fault. I don't want to repeat myself, but in the last eight years, the number of formations has been reduced. This is the decision of the Minister and his advisers. After all, in every country, the Minister can use military advisors to help him, and he can also organise a group that will analyse certain issues. After all, it's all in the staff, only that you have to use it and direct it, point out the direction in which the generals are going to work. I repeat once again: criticizing the state of the army, I mean the government concerned, and I mean, Mr. Senator, the parliamentarians, because we are creating the budget, because we are approving the budget, because of course we are setting up the military to present their proposals. What departments will the money be allocated to. This year's budget, in general, is clearly increased. And let's continue to increase this budget. Maybe not the 2%. , but more than 2% ? I say, Mr. Senator, that at least 3% Should be in the army in our situation. The military's tasks may be different, too. The military may be involved in some kind of action, let's say, social, but we need a well-trained army. I've always been a supporter of a partially active army, Senator. Well, maybe it's sentimental. I've been in the army, and I'm more sentimental about it. I think all healthy men in our country should be trained in the army and that's what the money should be for. Mr. Senator, every apartment closes because when we leave, we have to close it. It's the same with the army. The army is securing our borders, our homes, our apartments. So there should be no dispute in this discussion, because we should all care about it. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-18-senat-11-2.u115	Thank you very much. Would any of you like to take the floor in the discussion? I don't see any volunteers. Mr. Senator Fedorovich, no one has ever threatened a marshal or a Senate with a finger. [[Excuse me, I'm speaking from the jury... you know, body language, Mr. Marshal. But you know you're the only one in this parliament who won tennis with me, so it was the penalty for that victory. Thank you.]] I promise next time it'll be a tie. [[Joy in the Chamber]] [[Thank you, I'd better not.]] I inform you that the list of speakers has been exhausted. Nobody left their speeches to the minutes, no legislative proposals. The discussion is closed. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to ask you to change the order of two further points. I have a hot request to allow us now to consider point six, because we cannot now consider point five because the Minister had to leave us for a while. If I don't hear any objection, we'll move on to point six, and we'll go back to point five. Any of you... [[It's okay now.]] [[Yes.]] Do you mind? [[What's point six, Mr. Marshal?]] Point 6 is the second reading of the draft law on the prohibition of the promotion of communism, etc. I don't hear any objections. So we're moving on to... [[Isn't there a break?]] We proceed to the examination of item 6 of the agenda: the second reading of the draft law on the prohibition of the promotion of communism or other totalitarian system by the names of buildings, objects and public utility devices. I would remind you that this project was introduced by a group of senators and is included in print No. 47 and the committee's report In print No 47 S. I ask the rapporteur of the Legislative Commission and the Committee on Territorial Government and State Administration, Senator Jerzy Czerwiński, to present a joint report of the draft law to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-18-senat-11-2.u116	Mrs. Marshal! Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour to present on behalf of the Committee on Local Government and State Administration and the Legislative Commission a report on printing No 47 S. [[The meeting is chaired by Vice-Marshal Maria Koc]] This law popularly called the Act on... The bill's draft law popularly called the Act on decommunization of public space has quite a long and rich history. I think that this story will be presented better by the applicant's representative, so I will not concentrate on it. I will proceed to the direct report on the committee meeting that took place yesterday. This meeting was attended by representatives of the Ministry of Home Affairs and representatives of the Institute of National Remembrance. I am talking about this because they have made a great contribution to the fact that the text of this law, which is now revised and supplemented in relation to the source text, is simply better to make it more effective, in my opinion, and above all possible directly. I would also like to point out that during the committee meeting, which was quite long, because more than an hour long, and as turbulent as possible, many people presented their views. During the speech of a representative of the National Remembrance Institute of National Remembrance, we heard that this is very important It has a list of names that, I would say, are subject to this law. This, in my opinion, is very important information, because the Sejm, which I hope will be discussing this law, will have some clarity about what problem we are facing. The problem is that in our public space, I am talking about the naming of roads, streets, bridges, squares, buildings, objects and public utility devices, there are names that glorify, promote the communist system. Unfortunately, despite the passage of 25 years, these names have not been removed from public space, for which in most cases municipalities are responsible, which avoid the obligation to remove them, arguing this mainly because it is expensive, requires long-term procedures, etc. In fact, it is. I am expressing my private opinion here, looking for some kind of excuse so as not to complete this process. IPN estimates that there are still 1 000 300 to 1 thousand 500 of these names in public space. The legislator, or actually a group of senators, in the framework of the proposed project tries in a sense to compel the authorised authorities to remove the names that exist in public circulation. Now I'm going to tell you what kind of scheme this bill is. Art. 1 defines the subject matter of the law, describes in a descriptive manner what the law deals with. We gave up the casuistic indication of all cases that should be dealt with by the law, and we chose a descriptive mode which, in our opinion, is more appropriate. Art. 2 begins a real procedure of not allowing buildings and objects of general interest to be named, which would promote communism or other totalitarian system. Here we use the existing mode, which is included in the Local Government Act. Namely, if the council of the municipality wanted to give such a name by means of a resolution, in the supervisory procedure the voivode will enter and make a supervisory decision. When such a supervisory decision is valid, the municipality council will be required to adopt a resolution on the designation of the name in accordance with the law. If the council of the municipality does not give such a name, then the voivode will enter again and in the procedure of the replacement arrangement will give a name which is in accordance with the law, that is to say, a name which does not promote communism or any other totalitarian system. Of course, it is possible to appeal the municipality council to the administrative court. The relevant articles of the Municipal Government Act are used here. This procedure will prevent the possibility of introducing certain names into the public space since the entry into force of the Law. We hope that such cases will not happen, but such a procedure is necessary due to the matter of the law. When the law enters into force, of course, there will be names in the public space that have been given much earlier. This Article shall apply to this provision. Six, which describes... This is actually an adjustment provision that describes how names that already exist in public space should be removed. Here the procedure is slightly different, namely we give a two-year deadline for the commune council to remove those names which violate the law, i.e. which promote the communist system or other totalitarian system. If the council of the municipality fails to do so, then the voivode immediately enters with a replacement order and, within three months of the expiry of that two-year period, issues an appropriate replacement order, i.e. introduces a new name which is in accordance with the provisions of the Act. In both modes, i.e. in this respect the names that are constantly broadcast, and in this respect the names that already exist in public circulation, the voivode is obliged to consult the Institute of National Remembrance, the Committee on the Investigation of Crimes against the Polish Nationals, and may consult the Council for the Protection of Remembrance of Fight and Martyrdom. It reaches such an opinion in order to determine whether a given name really is a name promoting a communist system or another totalitarian system. In order to reduce or correct the likely protests of the municipalities, it is referred to municipalities which have not yet taken up this matter and in which areas such names exist, and which the municipalities raised the issue of costs, it is stated in the Act that all letters and proceedings, both judicial and administrative, in this respect will be free of charge, will not be charged. They'll be free of charge. One last thing. Since the costs may concern not only municipalities, which are primarily obliged to implement the law, but also citizens. are concerned with the costs associated with the exchange of documents of all kinds when changing the address In Article 2, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 5 there is a provision stating that the change of name made under the Act does not affect the validity of documents containing the current name. So citizens will be able to use documents. Of course, until they lose their validity, which they still have and which are exposed to old addresses, of course, those where the addresses function. The Act is to enter into force after 3 months. Such a draft law, high committees propose that the senators vote and refer them to the Sejm.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-18-senat-11-2.u117	Thank you very much, Senator. At present, senators may submit a maximum of one minute's query to the rapporteur of the committee and to the authorised representative of the applicants. I would remind you that the applicants have authorized them to represent Senator Robert Mammothov. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? Senator Pekkis, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-18-senat-11-2.u118	It was about the citizens. What about the companies that will have to replace the stamps? And that's the first question: is there such a record? Companies exchange stamps, it's also about KRS... Is it also free, or is it a paid form?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-18-senat-11-2.u119	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-18-senat-11-2.u120	Well, unfortunately, no, with the stamp change, it's got to... When you change your address... this operation is paid for.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-18-senat-11-2.u121	Second question, dubious names. A concrete example: People's Guard Square. Under the concept of the People's Guard, there are four groups in Polish history. They are groups from purely folk, peasant to very hostile to Polish, communist society. In a particular community wishing to make a change there is a lively discussion; historians claim that there is no issue at all, grounds for discussion, because it does not contradict the system, does not contradict the law on countering communism. What's going on in these cases?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-18-senat-11-2.u122	As I said when it comes to the implementation of the law at all, but also about the issues of questionable cases as to whether a given name is subject to the act, i.e. whether it promotes a communist system or another totalitarian system, will be decided by the Institute of National Remembrance, and the Council for the Protection of Remembrance of Fight and Martyrdom...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-18-senat-11-2.u123	But this is the situation, I'm sorry, I'll be more specific, if I may. The municipality claims that there is no claim at all, because the municipality has a historical basis, proving that it is not communist and that there is no indication in the minutes of approval of this name to which the People's Guard refers. In this situation, the municipality's lawyers claim that there is no reason to make any changes. [[There's gonna be a bill. It's gonna be an IPN. It's gonna be...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-18-senat-11-2.u124	Ladies and gentlemen, I'll say it again. From the point of view of this law, this procedure, which is in the law, both in the case of an existing name as proposed for introduction, whether or not that name violates the provisions of that law, is decided by the Institute of National Remembrance. But, of course, if the municipality were to force or maintain an old name in its territory, it could refer to court proceedings. We are a democratic state and there are courts at the end. Plus, among other things. shall be used by Article. 3 (1) (a) 4, not only with regard to municipalities, but also about powiats and voivodships, about county governments and voivodship local governments, where there is a reference to the relevant government laws, concerning those local governments which allow for an appeal to the administrative court. So in the end, if actually one of the municipalities, because it is generally the municipalities that will implement this law, disagree with the opinion of the Institute of National Remembrance, then perhaps after discussion with the Institute Although it will be, as I say, individual cases It has the right to bring this before the court and, as a last resort, will be decided by the court, the administrative court. [[Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-18-senat-11-2.u125	Thank you very much. You're welcome, Senator Wiesław Dobkowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-18-senat-11-2.u126	Thank you very much. Mr. Senator, there was a similar bill in the previous term, we passed a similar bill in the Senate, maybe not of the same substance, but the spirit of that law was the same. Except she wasn't passed by the Sejm. Now let's get back to this case. I hope there won't be any problems in the Seym this time. I have a question for you. Does the law also include the patronage of schools? I mean, in situations like this, when the school is named after the so-called. Folk power fixers. Does the law cover such cases? I'm asking because the previous bill didn't include it. Thank you. [[It embraced.]] No.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-18-senat-11-2.u127	You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-18-senat-11-2.u128	This law does not directly cover matters related to school patronages, generally speaking, the names of institutions. [[But this is school...]] We are talking about issues related to the names of buildings, public buildings and public utilities. I think the question should be asked rather... [[Let the IPN answer.]] Also, but above all to authors who have not taken this into account. I'll say it like that. This case would complicate the process of drafting this law considerably, and we do not hide that we want this bill, the draft of this law, to be in the Sejm as soon as possible, precisely because of what the senator said earlier. The point is that there is no situation that the Sejm will not have enough time in its term of office to consider and approve this bill. We want this to finally become the law. The earlier way in which this law was passed was, of course, different from the composition of the High House, indicating that there was quite a lot of resistance, there are forces against the adoption of this law. We want this law to be passed as soon as possible in the main layer, including its core. I will also say, perhaps before the next question, that this law does not include for example. monuments of the Red Army, monuments of gratitude of the Soviet Army, etc., i.e. symbolic commemorations, among others. because here matter is even more complicated. It covers international issues, including not only naming, that is, the full legal sphere, but also actual states, the physical monuments that exist in the public space. Therefore, this scope was abandoned in this Act. We are talking about street names, objects and public utility devices. That's what's bothering us mostly. I am not talking about the appalling public opinion of matters relating to the Soviet monuments, which are issues that come up every now and then. But as far as I know, the lawmakers have already declared at the committee meeting that they will also deal with this matter in a separate legal act.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-18-senat-11-2.u129	Thank you very much. I see Senator Robert Mammoth has something to say. You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-18-senat-11-2.u130	Thank you very much. I would like to point out that... [[Microphone, Mr. Senator.]] I'm so sorry. I would like to point out that this law covers the nomenclature of schools. It is clearly said that... The title itself is: "It is forbidden to promote communism or another totalitarian system by the names of buildings, objects and public utilities. And those are the schools. Well, that's what it looks like, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-18-senat-11-2.u131	Thank you, Senator. I ask you to ask Senator Andrzej Kaminski a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-18-senat-11-2.u132	Thank you. [[I'm signing up, Mrs. Marshal, for questioning and discussion.]] [[Good.]] [[To the question and to the discussion.]] Thank you very much, Marshal. [[Please.]] I wanted to ask you a question, but I have already received an answer from the Senator. I was referring to the conclusions of the IPN and among others KoLiber associations, which called for the bill to also include the removal of monuments glorifying the Red Army. And the answer to my question has already been answered, so thank you. Well, I think that's justified. And it would be good to introduce such a legal option in the future when it comes to removing the mentioned monuments glorifying the Red Army. Unfortunately, some cities still have problems with this issue. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-18-senat-11-2.u133	Of course, I agree with the senator here. This matter will have to be dealt with, for example, in order to knock out the possibility of interfering in Poland's internal affairs, just on a canvas, I would call it, in quotes, the protection of these memorial sites. [[Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-18-senat-11-2.u134	Thank you very much. You're asking Senator Jan Dobrzyński a question. You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-18-senat-11-2.u135	Dear Senator, I will go back to these costs, the fees. The senator asked about the stamps here. Perhaps you could answer what will be paid from the state budget for the changes discussed here. Because that's what our constituents are asking.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-18-senat-11-2.u136	You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-18-senat-11-2.u137	I ask you, as regards the issue of proceedings relating to this law, both administrative and judicial proceedings, and letters relating to those proceedings, for example brought before the court, are free of charge. Well, of course, the institutions that will conduct these proceedings are working. But they're working on their responsibilities. So that's how I'm going to put it, the fees, that is. the work of these institutions, we do not take into account. A slightly different issue is the increased responsibilities of the Institute of National Remembrance. Let us remember that, especially with regard to the issues of established names promoting communism or other totalitarian system, and such as the IPN's assessment is within 1 thousand 300 or 1 thousand 500, after the said two-year period, if it is assumed that the municipalities will not wish to carry out the act themselves, there will be a period of operation of the voivodeships in their territories, a three-month period for the elimination of the names referred to here, from public space. Then the IPN will have to... The IPN will be required by the above law to give its opinion on such matters, on matters not dealt with. And then... IPN estimated that this is at least PLN 300,000 per entrance, to create jobs, and in two years... If it was assumed that the municipalities would have wanted, after consulting the IPN, to implement this law without entering the supervision of the voivodeship, it would have cost IPN 1 million 200 thousand PLN in two years. But in my opinion this law is important enough, especially for the historical policy of the Polish state, that the costs mentioned are not so great. I think that the Polish State is able to bear such costs. And the IPN does not reject all of this, on the contrary, is very favorable and very open to the implementation of the law. Like I said, most of these names are already catalogued. The IPN representative promised that within a month he would be able to present a list of these names Of course, with the right locations. That raises doubts about IPN's compliance with this law. Incidentally, you can also find it on the Internet. I was just getting ready. I found that in 8 places in Poland there is Marchlewskiego Street, in 4 places ZWM Street, etc. This is knowledge widely available, but, I say, the IPN has this advantage that it is an institution that is able to assess it from an administrative point of view. The assessment of individuals is another matter.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-18-senat-11-2.u138	Thank you very much. You're asking Senator Jan Maria Jackowski a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-18-senat-11-2.u139	Thank you very much, Marshal. I have a question about the difference between this version of the bill. Because in our previous term of office, we've been working on it, too. It was also a senate initiative. Senator Mammoth was, so to speak, a spring and dealt with this bill. How is it different, in its present form, shape? I understand that the idea is converging. If the senator wanted to explain... My second question concerns this issue. E.g. in my district in Grudusk, there is a board at the municipal office from previous times, fixatives of folk power, that in this place, etc. It's a tribute. As I understand it, she's gonna have to disappear from the facade of this building within two years. I stress: the building is the seat of the municipality office, i.e. it belongs to the municipality. Those two questions.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-18-senat-11-2.u140	Excuse me, is the first question to Senator Czerwinski, or is it to Senator Mątkow? [[Both senators.]] Both. There you go, Mr. Senator. And then you're Senator Mammoths.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-18-senat-11-2.u141	Let me say this: Senator Mammoths is still like a spring in the case of this bill. Nothing's changed here. I'm just the rapporteur of the joint committee, the craftsman, so to speak. And what's the difference between this bill and the previous project? In my opinion, two main features. First, in the previous project, at least the one that was submitted to the Senate 'Cause the one that left was a little different. In one of the articles, there were precise indications of violations of the law. There was just a casuistic list, for example. posts. If any of them were held by a given person, then that person was subject to that bill. I might even find out what the translation was. 'Cause that's the kind of bill that was, practically speaking, unrealized. That's because never such a census is complete, accurate. And from a legal point of view, such a law could not simply be implemented directly. If you don't mind, maybe later. Secondly, it's completed in this project... Actually, it's not in the project, but in print 47 S, after the committee's work. Here is a slightly changed procedure related to names that already exist in public circulation, because this law will mainly be used to eliminate these names. We presume, and rather everyone takes the assumption that there will be rarely such a situation that the municipality will want to violate this law when giving a new name. I think it's about eliminating old names. This procedure for elimination of old names has been completed, in my opinion, healed in this project. Because, in particular, And it was also in the opinions of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs about those names that we do not know. That's okay. It's just that some street name is given, and we don't really know who gave it, or what's going to be more common, we know who gave it, but we don't know exactly the legal act, we don't know how it was given. Procedure under Article. Six, which means the elimination of old names, avoids this problem. She's just feasible, I mean. it can actually remove these names from the public circulation... [[I asked about the plates on the building.]] Oh, about the plates on the building. That was the second question. I will answer in this way: this law concerns names; the plaque on the building is a commemoration and it is a symbolic commemoration, but I think that from the interpretation of this law one can draw such a conclusion that since the building is a public utility building, all that is on it should be in accordance with this law. I would recommend to the voivode who will supervise this so that he can draw such a conclusion in this regard.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-18-senat-11-2.u142	Thank you very much. Is there anything else Senator Mammy wants to say?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-18-senat-11-2.u143	Just two sentences, Mr. Senator. Mr. Senator Jackowski, this bill is much better legislatively refined than the previous one. The previous law was a compromise between the two groups that dominated the previous Senate, as it was now. I will not hide that the Platform was unfavorable to this bill, the Platform senators were unfavorable to it, not all of them, of course, but part of it was, and the Act was a form of compromise. We developed that project in agreement with this part of the Senators from the Platform, who were very interested in making such a bill. This project is much better refined, no longer limited, and most importantly, legislatively it is better than that. [[Two more jobs.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-18-senat-11-2.u144	Very... [[If you don't mind, Mrs. Marshal...]] Yes, yes, please, Mr. Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-18-senat-11-2.u145	I'm just gonna finish this speech. I found this previous project. And in the article. This was project number 71 in the previous Senate term. We read that the symbol of Nazism, fascism, communism or other system are in particular... There were 17 points, quite kazuistically mentioned, which are actually not allowed to be used in the names of the governing parties, the names of military formations, the names of administrative units... To those who are interested in this list, I recommend this list; it shows how big this range is. Now it is described in a descriptive and exhausting manner, in my opinion. You don't have to use this casuistics. This law makes it easier to apply.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-18-senat-11-2.u146	Thank you very much. I'll ask Senator Piotr Flork for a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-18-senat-11-2.u147	Mrs. Marshal! Mr. Senator! I, of course, attended the committee meeting. The function of the voivodship is very important, among other things as regards supervisory decisions. There was quite a broad discussion on this subject; I, too, made comments. And I must say that I am surprised that despite the many comments we made at the committee meeting, a very good bill came out of the committee. All the comments we've been talking about... everything we've talked about has been taken into account. I think that some of the experience we all have has translated into the fact that a very good piece of legislation has been prepared, in my opinion. I would just like to point out one thing in the explanatory memorandum. This is page four. It is said that the Polish Districts Association supported the project and proposed amendments, and we read that the request for an opinion was addressed, among others. to the Polish Districts Association and that these entities did not provide an opinion on the project. This would be worth removing in this justification, so that it has arms and legs. I have two short questions. From the justification until the first version of the law it follows that the National Union of Former Polish Armed Forces Soldiers in the West has spoken against the law as regards the names of the streets. Do any of you remember why? Because it's weird for me. Why did the National Union of Former Polish Armed Forces oppose these changes in the streets? If anyone, or you, or the rapporteur remembers that, maybe he could explain it. The next question is a little broader, because I am talking about the financial consequences of the law's entry into force. You were just talking about the implications of the state budget. Well, here's the documentary stuff. But it's obvious that local governments... [[Question.]] ...they will speak on this matter. We are talking about tasks related to changes in street names, changes in tables, etc. And it's gonna turn out there's no money for that. So it should be expected that when it comes to local governments, it will be a problem. It is also about our documents, about their exchange, because we bear certain costs for it. I know that in the explanatory memorandum to this first version of the bill... the Minister of Finance's opinion on the implementation of this law was negative. I don't think these costs are that big, so... Two questions: about the National Union of Former Polish Armed Forces Soldiers in the West and about the financial consequences of the entry into force of the Act. Thank you. [[Me too.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-18-senat-11-2.u148	You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-18-senat-11-2.u149	As far as this opinion is concerned, it was an opinion for the first version of the Senate that was still pending during that term of office. I will admit that I do not know this opinion, this opinion was not presented on the committee, perhaps the senator representing the applicants will present us with details, and will develop this subject. As far as cost issues are concerned, it is indeed the case that we should explain most of these costs to these citizens, such as entrepreneurs who will have to change, assume stamps or company prints in connection with the change of address. Act to the extent that it can It is known that we are not able to exempt citizens from the fees for making a new stamp or for printing a company. It exempts citizens from the costs incurred as a result of implementing it. Among other things, the provision that the amendment pursuant to this law does not affect the validity of documents containing the existing name. This is the first issue, the issue of citizens, and as far as municipalities are concerned, let us remember that this law is being introduced, designed, inter alia, because some municipalities have not done the obvious, at least for me, maybe not the recommendations, but the actions they need to do. I mean, they didn't decommunize their public space they run. And now for rehearsals. I'm sorry for the expression of regret and perhaps torpedoing this bill, talking about increased costs... You'd have to ask, dear local government, where you've been before, why didn't you do it before? Others, those who had in their territory, let's call it bad nicknames, and who got rid of that nickname, have already incurred these costs. It's a simple matter. Ladies and gentlemen, these are the negligence of the municipalities, it is not the country that has neglected it. Maybe I misconstrued it, but they're unfortunately... We respond to the malfunctions of the municipalities. This is simply in a sense forcing municipalities, mainly municipalities, to act accordingly. I remind you that the ban on promoting totalitarian systems, in particular communism, fascism and Nazism, is enshrined in our constitution, and what is more, but the constitution also applies to the communes. [[Thank you very much...]] There was one more point. [[Oh, I'm sorry.]] I do indeed agree that there was a very good, substantive discussion in committee. First of all, no one has questioned the meaning of this law, and its present form may still be as in the justification for some minor errors, typos, but from the point of view that so to speak, applicability... I just think it's okay to use it. It's not like it's a dead law, a law passed for applause. This is supposed to be the right to be applied in life.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-18-senat-11-2.u150	Thank you very much, Senator. Please take the floor of Senator Robert Mammothov.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-18-senat-11-2.u151	I would like to tell the senator that the World Union of National Army Soldiers made that decision because he was afraid that there would also be monuments. This very delicate matter of monuments has always been involved here, and in my speech I will say a few words about it. The point is that they were afraid that there would also be a question of monuments, they were afraid that there would be some rewrite of other countries, so they expressed such an opinion, not another opinion, I spoke with them. As far as the county union is concerned, this law is being implemented because the counties, local governments in Poland have not dealt with this problem. Some of them do, but a large group doesn't yet, and that's why this bill needs to be introduced. Everyone in Poland, I am convinced of this, we respect self-government, because this is one thing that 100% We did it after 1989. And this self-government is preserved, but if we do not regulate this problem by law, we will continue to be stuck in that era. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-18-senat-11-2.u152	Thank you very much, Senator. And the question you ask is Senator Dorota Czudowska.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-18-senat-11-2.u153	Thank you, Mrs. Marshal. Senator rapporteur, a question for you, possibly the representatives of the Institute of National Remembrance. You've explained enough why there are no monuments here. But I have a question: if local governments or the community decide to remove a monument commemorating the Soviet Army from their territory in a manner appropriate to democratic rules, because it is mostly these monuments that they can do so, can they not do so? [[They can.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-18-senat-11-2.u154	Please, Mr. Senator. Was that the topic of the meeting?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-18-senat-11-2.u155	I wouldn't want to cause a conflict here, because this subject is quite sensitive. [[I know that, yes.]] I'm just making my point. By the way, there was no talk at the committee meeting, except for one statement that we're not doing this because... [[It wasn't in that bill, yeah, it wasn't.]] ...on the complexity of matter. As far as I'm concerned, let me put it this way: three forms need to be distinguished. The first is the grave, which is where the corpse is. [[I'm not talking about that.]] The second is a group of graves, a cemetery, and the third is symbolic commemoration. In most cases, what is at the moment, I would ask that an IPN representative possibly correct me. The 100 commemorations, which are still in Poland at the moment, are symbolic commemorations. They don't protect any corpses. There may have been corpses, but then they were generally exhumed and transferred to collective cemeteries. Thus, these symbolic commemorations do not really commemorate the victims, because they are properly honored in cemeteries, in accordance with the Polish culture and mutual agreement between us and the Russian party. These symbolic commemorations play rather the role of the indicator of the former domination of the Red Army in the territory of the Republic of Poland. That's how I read it. If this is so read, not only by me, but probably by the majority of society, then the latter indicators of the former domination should, of course, be culturally, factually and without tension, simply remove them from public space. It's the same as with names, except that names are in a slightly different sphere, and these are actual commemorations. The question is how to do it in a coordinated manner. I hope that the law, and the representative of the applicants, says that the appropriate project will be dealt with in the next order, will give the implementation path. Last question: is it possible to do this by means of a resolution at the moment, e.g. The council of the commune? As far as I'm concerned, it doesn't violate international regulations. But, as I say, this is my personal opinion, but I would ask more competent people to possibly confirm it.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-18-senat-11-2.u156	Thank you very much, Senator. You ask Senator Krzysztof Frost a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-18-senat-11-2.u157	Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! We will hold Senator Mammoth's word that these monuments will continue. 'Cause that's the problem. Senator Chudowska didn't say that. It is very serious in Legnica, where for many, many years, for more than twenty years it has not been possible, despite many attempts, to solve this problem, of course because of the resistance of the local authorities, the President of Legnica. Something's going on right now, but it's going very, very slowly. But I would like to address the senator again and clarify the problem of school patrons, because here a little dissonance has emerged. Does this law cover this issue or not? Because even the question of interpretation, in my opinion... I'm not a lawyer, of course, so I don't want to speak freely, but I think it's gonna be hard to pull up these school names because the school's patronage isn't a name... [[You're wrong, I'm sorry... patronage...]] No, I say patronage... [[Patronage...]] Yeah, that's the patronage. [[...we're talking about people who symbolize the communist system, and the patron symbolizes...]] Yeah, so... [[Mr. Senator, maybe Senator Frost will ask a question, and Senator Mammoth will answer... but first let me ask you a question.]] I asked that question at the committee meeting and there was no answer. So do schools' patrons fall within the scope of this law? Because in my opinion, it would be hard to pull it up under an article. 1 paragraph 1, more like under the mouth. Two, if we could already interpret this... Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-18-senat-11-2.u158	Thank you very much. You're welcome, Senator rapporteur.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-18-senat-11-2.u159	Let's make two distinctions, indeed. Another issue is the school's patronage, usually this patronage is part of the institution's name, it is said, let's assume, the state primary school such a number and such a name... and here I am sensitive name. This patronage is then placed in different places, e.g. in the form of a seal, official paper, but also on a board that hangs at school. And, ladies and gentlemen, as far as I'm concerned, It was already such a question of removing such an array from school, it is this law that deals with it, because we are talking about a public object. Another issue is the name of the institution itself. I think it's an extension interpretation, especially the mouth. 2, it is also possible to raise issues relating to the names of institutions in certain specific cases. But I'm not an educated lawyer... I would prefer that there should be no legal disputes between municipalities and voivodships or with the Institute of National Remembrance, so that this does not end in courts. This bill will actually be very well implemented if, after 2 years, we are talking about those names that already exist, they operate in public circulation, the voivode will have nothing to do, then we will simply say... Let us be honest, perhaps some communities are waiting for such an impulse, waiting for such justification, and they will say this: dear citizens, we do not want, but we must, we simply must do this, because the state has told us so, the Senate or the Sejm has told us so. And very well, let them pin it on us, but let these names finally be removed from public circulation.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-18-senat-11-2.u160	Thank you very much. Are you Senator Mammets now? No. Now you're asking Senator Alicia the Hare.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-18-senat-11-2.u161	Mrs Marshal, honourable Senators of the rapporteur, I would like to ask if there was a discussion at the committee meeting about the amendment of the title of the bill. That's my first question. And two: does this law also include procedures for the award of honorary titles or deserved citizen of the city or district? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-18-senat-11-2.u162	Thank you very much. Please, Mr. Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-18-senat-11-2.u163	At the committee meeting there was no discussion about the title, no one questioned the sense of the title, that the title includes what the law deals with, because that's what the title of the law is for. By the way, I'd like to thank you again. I have already thanked the IPN and the MSWiA, but I also want to thank the senate legislator, who has made a great contribution to the content of this law and this contribution is positive to me. Whether this law covers honorary citizens of municipalities, cities, etc.? Not anymore, it's too far. It's similar to the institution... That is to say, the law rather deals with, as it is defined in the article. 1, objects, devices and structures, not a strictly legal sphere. In my opinion, it doesn't.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-18-senat-11-2.u164	Thank you, Senator. The question is Senator Margaret Kopiczko. [[Talking in the O.R.]] Mr. Senator, please be quiet.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-18-senat-11-2.u165	Mr. Senator, I'm going back to those patrons. You said the name, if there's a board... The board can't be, of course, because the name school... But so are the stamps and all the names... I think this article... Like the senator said, Art. 1 paragraph 2. And it says, "The name that promotes communism is also considered to be referring to people, organizations, events..." We must treat this matter as a whole when it comes to patronages. Because there will be questions, they will certainly appear, starting tomorrow. And really, you have to take patronage as a patronage. And it's not just that there's a seal or a plaque, it's if you refer to the article. 1 paragraph 2... I think this applies to patrons as much as possible. Yes?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-18-senat-11-2.u166	Is that the end of the question, Senator? [[Because we have to do it uniformly... yeah, yeah. Isn't that right, Senator?]] Okay, thank you. Please, Mr. Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-18-senat-11-2.u167	Ladies and gentlemen, I am in favour of the widest possible interpretation of this bill. If the municipalities consider that the patronage was given to a person who does not deserve it, just because of, for example. activities in the communist state, this is confirmed by the IPN, of course there are no contraindications, on the contrary: I believe that such names should be eliminated from public life. [[Okay, thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-18-senat-11-2.u168	Thank you very much. Are there any more questions for the Senator Rapporteur or Senator Robert Mammothov? You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-18-senat-11-2.u169	This is actually a question more to the IPN employees, for the future. Well, let's take the situation that we have Wincenty Pstrowskiego Street. The question is: martyr, promoter of communism or victim? And now the institution will settle it. Pstrowski died at the age of 44, worked himself to death. [[300% of normal.]] [[That was a question, wasn't it?]] If I may... [[Okay, please...]] Let me put it this way: here it is in a sense, even included in this bill, a way out of such a dilemma. Although, as I say, it will not be fortunately a dilemma of senators or Members, it will be a dilemma of an institution which is called for to evaluate such cases. The point is, what is the purpose of such commemoration, giving the street a name, e.g. Vincent Pstrowski. Whether we gave this name to the street to commemorate the martyr, or the name was to be, more known, a symbol of the communist system, the hierarchy of values then prevailing, etc. I think we can. It may not be so much us as the IPN employees will settle this. And even if they were wrong, in the end there is a judicial path, and the courts will respond to it, as in other complicated cases. Fortunately, as I said, there is a court in the democratic state at the very end that will decide in disputes. But it doesn't have to happen.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-18-senat-11-2.u170	Thank you very much. Are there any more questions for the Senator of the rapporteur? [[Mr. I.P.P. would like to speak.]] [[Oh, that's right.]] Thank you very much to the rapporteur and to Senator Mammothov. Representative of the Institute of National Remembrance, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-18-senat-11-2.u171	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Maciej Łuczak, representative of the Institute of National Remembrance, advisor to President Łukasz Kaminski. I would like to refer here to a few threads that have emerged in this discussion, which the High House has discussed. The first issue that arises here is the assessment of merits and the historical role of individuals... The Institute of National Remembrance did not have a very positive view of earlier legislative solutions, because they were there, as Senator Czerwiński said, a clear statement. So if someone had a function, played a role in political life, he could not automatically be a patron, his name could not be marked with certain places in the public sphere. Meanwhile, there may be a lot of questionable cases here, just like with the head of the work of Vincent Pstrowski. We therefore fully agree with the new wording and with the new interpretation. Because the most important thing is what was the purpose, why the action was used, what were the intentions and why the name functioned in public circulation. Of course, the issue of certain social ideas, the idea of functioning in cultural communication is very important and must be nuanced. After all, we can speak of Joseph Stalin as the winner of the Great Patriotic War, and we can speak of him as the executioner of nations and political leader who changed the fate of millions of people in Europe. And surely no one has any doubt that if the names referring to this person were given, they were associated with the latter role in history. So there is a question of nuance and study of intentions that have made a given name given. Dear Senators, there was a question of monuments and possible legislative solutions to address this. In our opinion, we have stated in our position that if in the future, because we understand that further legislative work has been done in this area... Such action, i.e. the demolition of Soviet monuments, would not violate international agreements concluded between the government of Poland and the government of Russia, as these international agreements focus on the protection of memorial and resting places. And, of course, it is with the utmost respect that we refer to the resting places, the graves of soldiers, and completely different rules should guide the decommunization of the public area in this regard. Because the purpose of these monuments is not to commemorate the soldiers who died, but to define certain territories of Russian influence and to be a kind of sign. And this democratic mark must be said by Poland, while at the same time surrounding the graves of Red Army soldiers with due respect. I'm afraid that's the question you asked Senator Jackowski, but it's difficult. Because the bill that the High House is debating, I think, only applies to a certain intellectual sphere, which is to decommunization in terms of Names, that is, the spheres of superstructure, and cannot lead to the removal of permanent, physical memorial sites or these monuments. And probably demolition, for example. removing boards that should not be present in the public sphere because they oppose these principles and the values that this law brings would be impossible today. But, as President Kaminski said at the committee meeting yesterday, we are in favour of this if such legislative attempts are being made or are being made in the future. I'm gonna go back to what the senator said when I asked you a question. Of course, it is clear that, in the current legal situation, there is no slightest obstacle for municipalities and persons who are entitled to do so to decommunise public space by taking appropriate action. Unfortunately, in many years the existence of free Poland has not happened. This is why another legislative attempt to order, however, action consistent with the axiology of the free nation and consistent with the sense of certain decency of Poles. Because the Institute of National Remembrance also realizes that there are some questionable facts, questionable biographies, difficult, but this is an integral part of history. But here's the thing. And I understand that the High House also has such conviction. In order to eliminate from the public space things that make up a sense of decency, those cases that are the brightest and do not raise a dispute. The Institute of National Remembrance in such cases will be able to give very clear opinions, to which we will aim. So the point is to separate the things that offend some sense of good taste, patriotism and historical truth at the moment. Finally, I will also refer to the votes raised here regarding the costs of implementing the law and the entire project in general. These costs must be incurred. Of course, they should be minimized, but at the same time this amount, rational, which would be spent by municipalities, by people participating in public life, is, in our opinion, a proper and worthy amount, should be spent on this kind of delivery to the desired state. I don't think it's an excessive amount to get our country where it's supposed to be. So that if these are reasonable, justified costs, they should be borne for the good of Poland. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-18-senat-11-2.u172	Thank you very much, Mr Maciej Łuczak, representative of the Institute of National Remembrance. You were, in effect, called to your voice by the last question of Senator Gawl, but also by previous questions. I would like to ask if any of your senators have a question for the representative of the Institute of National Remembrance. I don't see any calls. Ladies and gentlemen, we have Minister Sebastian Chwałek, Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Internal Affairs and Administration. Welcome very cordially to the Minister. Would the Minister like to speak on the draft resolution presented? You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-18-senat-11-2.u173	Mrs. Marshal! High Senate! First of all, I would like to thank the senators for this initiative, a very important initiative, especially because, although I had the opportunity to draw up similar rules in 2005, they were then, although they had been submitted, unfortunately they had not yet been adopted. Later, in 2007, there was another approach to submitting this project in the Sejm, but then it was not supported by the required majority. Secondly, thank you also for taking into account the comments made by the Ministry of Internal Affairs and Administration for this project. All I can do is support him and encourage him to continue to proceed. Possible shortcomings that may arise concerning interpretation It could already be laid down at the level of the Parliament's work in such a way that there is no doubt as to the scope of the law and the specific problems that have arisen here in the Chamber. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-18-senat-11-2.u174	Thank you very much, Minister. Stay here, or there'll probably be questions for the Minister. At present, senators may submit no longer than a minute of question to the representative of the government present at the meeting on this item on the agenda. Senator Jan Maria Jackowski wants to ask you a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-18-senat-11-2.u175	Thank you, Mrs. Marshal. Minister, I have a question for you. A common argument, such as that not directly, against such laws or at all actions aimed at separating the clear moral and political censorship of the Polish People's Republic from the Third Republic, is the financial argument and the issue of organizational problems for residents, as well as for entrepreneurs, in case of changing the name of the street or the square. Could you explain to the Minister how the government will assess the real consequences of this law for citizens and possibly for local governments and, possibly, for the state budget? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-18-senat-11-2.u176	Thank you, Senator. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-18-senat-11-2.u177	Thank you, Mrs. Marshal. Mr. Senator, it should be said that the effects are not clearly calculated at the moment, because this bill will eventually give birth to them within a few years. As far as the state budget is concerned, we can talk about the functioning of the voivodship administration. It seems that the voivod's budgets in this area should not be particularly strained and the costs caused by this law will be covered by current activities. In my view, there will be no need for too many such supervisory decisions. I think we're all aware that most local governments are going to deal with this problem over the course of these two years, and they're not going to expect it. Without his own participation, the Minister's decision to give a name. As far as the IPN is concerned, it seems to me that the IPN probably also... Well, I don't want to speak on behalf of the IPN, but it seems that the costs on the IPN side shouldn't be significant either. From what we have heard here, the IPN has already prepared an initial list of streets, facilities, and it seems that it will also issue opinions as part of its daily work, current activity. As for local governments... This bill does not require a change of documents. We know very well that the identity card no longer has the address of the check-in, and the driver's license will continue to apply. The Act assumes that after changing the street name there will be no need to exchange these documents immediately, it will depend on an individual decision. In addition, we are aware that driving licences are currently issued for a limited period of time, so as these documents are exchanged, the street name will be updated in them. As far as entrepreneurs are concerned, there is no need to name the street on the stamp, only the city name and the KRS number are given. So that it seems that most of the costs, so to speak, will be involved in the ongoing activities of the various institutions that will deal with these issues, both as regards local governments and the voivodships' budgets. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-18-senat-11-2.u178	Thank you very much, Minister. Senator Jan Rulewski wants to ask you a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-18-senat-11-2.u179	Thank you. It is a good thing, Minister, that you are competent to carry out these changes, because it is good for you to carry out this difficult bill efficiently. Why is it difficult? Here, of course, the costs are not important. They're used as replacement ammo to block... Social awareness is important. My question is: do you anticipate As we predicted in the model of this law, to carry out some information action together with the IPN for all those for whom events... the names do not have as bad a connection as we think they do. And are you asking that not only residents, but also schools, universities, workplaces, of course economic operators and banks be involved in this informational action? The truth is, what you're saying is that there's no need to give an address anymore in the evidence, the truth is that the driver's licenses will remain valid, but the banks require... And as you know, the bank is more important today than a bunch of evidence. Problems with the lack of up-to-date data may arise from this. Do you have any kind of agreement with the banks? It doesn't necessarily have to be regulated by law, it just takes some kind of agreement to make banks willing to change their address.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-18-senat-11-2.u180	Thank you, Senator. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-18-senat-11-2.u181	Thank you, Mrs. Marshal. Mr. Senator, I don't think there's any clue to organizing such an action, informing about the bill at every stage. Both at the work stage here and after the entry into force of this law It's possible. And as for the problems with the banks, the banks will have no choice but to comply with it. I cannot imagine a situation in which banks will not be able to obtain customers or even lend for this reason. This is about the potential income of these banks. Of course, at the moment there is also a situation that there is no address in the proof, but if necessary, you can use the systems that you have at your disposal, such as CEPiK, in which there is a whole database of Polish citizens, their registration and personal data. It seems to me that if the bank asks for any additional documents, the issuing of a certificate under the system will be a formality. I think the banks will understand that need. Besides, it's not gonna be an amazing number of people who, first of all, change the address of the check-in, and second of all, they're gonna want to use, for example. It's a credit card. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-18-senat-11-2.u182	Thank you very much, Minister. Would any of you like to ask the Minister another question? No. Minister, thank you very much for presenting the government's position and for answering the senators' questions. [[Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Interior and Administration Sebastian Gwałek: Thank you very much.]] I'm opening a discussion. Senator Robert Mammoth will be the first to speak in the discussion. You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-18-senat-11-2.u183	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I need to start by saying a few words about the history of this bill. The bill was drawn up on the basis of a resolution of the City Council of Jastrzębie-Zdrój, which the city sent to the Senate in the form of a petition. This went to the Committee on Human Rights, the Laws and Petitions. At the meeting... I would like to point out that this was in the seventh term of office, in 2009 the Senate did this for the entire term of office, but the bill did not leave the Senate. We in the Committee on Human Rights, the Rule of Law and Petitions have taken up this subject again in the 8th term and a bill has been drawn up, which, I say, is almost unanimously accepted by the High House. But the project was unlucky, he went to the Sejm, and in the Sejm he went to the refrigerators. I make it clear: there was no political will to regulate this subject. And it needs to be regulated. I am convinced that different information from residents and requests to address this issue are coming to your offices, especially from local authorities. To show how difficult this is, I will give you a few examples. An extreme example that... Last week I was in Poznań and lit a candle under the monument to the victims of the events of 1956. And I immediately thought of this bill. Ladies and gentlemen, today is the fact that the authorities of the Republic of Poland pay wreaths, pay homage and commemorate the events of 1956. But I do not know if you know that in some cities there are still streets of Colonel Popławski, who was the head of pacification during the June events in Poznań. [[He was a general.]] Or even a general. At the committee meeting we learned from the representatives of the IPN that until recently there was Bolesław Bierut Street in Poland. In Gdynia and Bialystok there is, ladies and gentlemen, Zygmunta Berling Street, and in a small town of Sejny Marcely Nowotka street, Karol Świerczewski, Julian Marchlewski street. In Wrocław and Toruń there are streets of the People's Army. In the region of Białystok, in Sejny, the date of 22 July, the most important holiday in the times of the Polish People's Republic, commemorating the announcement of the Manifesto of PKWN, also called the Manifesto of July, which sanctioned communist power in Poland. That is why, ladies and gentlemen, this bill must be finally passed. I am convinced that in the previous term there was the will of the Senators of the Platform to pass this bill, but the Sejm did not allow it. I'll go back to the monuments for a moment. Ladies and gentlemen, I have read the opinion of the IPN, which has proposed an amendment on the monuments to this law, and I have spoken to the representatives of the IPN. This is really a very sensitive subject and we need to give him a separate bill, a separate regulation. We're saying there's no problem when it comes to monuments like this, I'd say, quite obvious... But that's not quite true. I learned that there was a situation when a monument of gratitude was dismantled to the Soviet Army and 100% to the Soviet Army. I thought it was just a statue that there was nothing there... However, it turned out that there were four soldiers there, which no one knew. That proposal that I.P.N. was making... There was supposed to be an exhumation. Ladies and gentlemen, we know very well how many graves there are of our soldiers outside the borders, especially in the East. We must be sure that under no circumstances will we risk any violation of our Polish graves abroad at any time. You have to be consistent. I think we all understand that. As it was said here before, our culture simply does not allow the rest of the dead to be disturbed. And it doesn't matter if it's a Soviet soldier or anything. All this needs to be considered, to think about everything well, to take into account all the agreements that are concluded by the Republic of Poland and to return to the topic, but within the framework of a separate regulation. There were a lot of questions about costs. Ladies and gentlemen, sometimes it's me, damn it. I'm sorry that I'm so nervous because the municipalities don't have any remorse to spend on a banquet to open some street, some road, and here, damn it, they're pissing off a few pennies to change a few plates. That's what it looks like, that's what it comes down to. The biggest cost at the beginning is related to changes in street names. And these are the costs of municipalities, because citizens of private individuals do not seem to bear any costs. Companies may feel it because they need to change stamps etc. But they can put it in the cost. Well, that's what it looks like. There are things that are important and more important. In fact, we've said all about it, ladies and gentlemen. I'm just appealing to you... We are obliged to respect the Constitution of the Republic of Poland and the law that applies in Poland, and the law clearly states It is forbidden to glorify symbols of totalitarian systems such as communism, Nazism, fascism. And this right in the territory of the Republic of Poland must be respected. I therefore call on you to adopt this law in the form that has been notified by the committee. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-18-senat-11-2.u184	Thank you very much, Senator. I'll ask Senator Jan Maria Jackowski to speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-18-senat-11-2.u185	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! First of all, I would like to thank Senator Robert Mammatov very warmly, because it is his tedious effort and his work, also during that term of office. They persuaded those who were, I would say, softly unconvinced about the draft of this law, caused us to adopt this resolution today. I agree here with Senator Mathematical, with those colleagues who spoke about the need for this law, also need Polish local authorities to finally have a legal basis to restore a certain normality, to move away from a certain schizophrenia that we would still have in public life. So, once again, I would like to thank the senator very much. Second thing. I would like to tell a story from the Warsaw government in the early 1990s. As you know, the law on local government from 1990 opened a field for Polish self-government. Today it is judged as one of the pillars of the Polish rule of law, democracy and systemic changes that took place after 1989. One of the districts of Warsaw. Councillors of solidarity propose to change the street name, which had the so-called name. He's a communist hero. This is what the councilman, a representative of the then post-communist party, seems to have been SDRP at the time. And he says he has a request. Because in our neighborhood lives, the mother of this communist hero lives, and it would be a terrible experience for her if the street name or the square was there, I can't remember now, changed, he proposes to wait with it. He said to the applicant, "Mommy will die, we will support this proposal ourselves." And that's what happened. The communist hero's mother died and post-communist councillors, probably then SDRP, supported the motion and that name of the street or skwerk in Warsaw disappeared. I'm talking about it because I think it's an example that speaks a lot. This shows that if there were more wisdom among those who were the foundation of the Third Polish Republic, we would not have the situation today, that here we have the closet of the dead former General Kiszczak and it turns out that at this moment we are witnessing the demiteology of one of the greatest founding myths of the Third Polish Republic, Lech Wałęsa about a wonderful, supposedly flawless resume. We see that the old principle recorded in the Gospel of St. Matthew, that there is nothing hidden that is not to be revealed, is confirmed in front of us. Many so-called. moral authorities assured that any clinging to Lech Wałęsa is simply ridiculous, it is a lie, almost a lie of Oświęcim. How can you question the myth of this great hero? It harms Poland, it harms the Polish transformation. Where are those who said those words now? They're gone, they're gone. We can see how short legs were reluctant to carry out the vetting, decommunization. At the moment, we will need to change the basic truths contained in the history books. Such situations will probably be more and more because, knowing the professionalism of Czesław Kiszczak, one might think that he had materials concerning not only this person, but also other people who played an important role after the 1989 changes. It was to secure his peaceful existence after the fall of the Polish People's Republic. High Izbo, the same could have been done before, in peace, to explain. Today we would be much further away, we could be dealing with economic, social problems, we would have a normal state. But no. They tried to take shortcuts, they introduced such a form, I would say, political correctness of the Third Polish Republic, a kind of new speech, they were told about certain myths, it was disseminated in the public opinion, they made water out of the brain, they said that files were inventions that everything there was forged, that resorting to such a source was a scandal at all. By education I am a historian, many IPN files I have read on the occasion of various my research and I have to say that of course errors occur there, it is not the truth revealed, which is written, but for the historian it is an important source that should be criticized, having a good workshop, because the information contained there is important for determining historical truth. High Izbo! In this context, I would like to read a passage from Dr. Hab's statement. Sławomir Cenckiewicz: The information given today by the President of the IPN Dr. Łukasz Kaminski during the press conference closes my many years of fighting for the truth about the agential past of Lech Wałęsa. Wałęsa was an agent of Bolk, made a written commitment to cooperation, betrayed friends and colleagues and took money for it. Despite the organized action of the theft of documents in 1989 and 1992, 1995 the basic agent documentation of Wałęsa remained. These are the facts described by me in many publications and several books. Szycany, talks, brutal attacks by the highest Polish authorities with President Komorowski and Prime Minister Tusk at the head, legal and operational actions of the ABW, harassment by the civil and military prosecutors, exclusion from the characteristics of historians, appeals for the taking away of degrees, pressures, and even forced to leave work in the IPN in September 2008 are already a sad experience and price for the fight, which I often conducted alone but consistently. High Izbo! This is a testimony of a man, a historian who wanted to work hard. What happened to him in the Third Polish Republic? We see that shortcuts policy, thick line policy, thick line policy and philosophy lead us to a starting point. Why? Because there was no clear moral and political censorship between the Polish People's Republic and the Third Republic and Kiszczak's closet will fall out another, so to speak, corpses. High Izbo! This is a time of deep reflection, it's not about satisfaction, it's not about revenge, it's not about reacting, it's not about condemning anyone, it's about honest truth in public life, and it's important to remember that. The fact that in almost every district or in most districts we have streets commemorating this criminal system, which marked such a tragic stigma on our latest history, is that they still exist, and the main argument for them to still exist was that there are supposed costs. It's something wrong. I would like to thank the applicants and Senator Robert Mamotov himself, Senator Czerwiński, who has undertaken to be a representative of the applicants, the Institute of National Remembrance, Minister Chwałk, representing the Ministry of Internal Affairs and Administration, very warmly thank you for the fact that today I trust that we will unanimously adopt this law and indeed give Polish local authorities tools so that they can make decisions in a manner consistent with historical facts and in accordance with a democratic state of law that will cleanse the space of public life from the remains of Soviet slavery. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-18-senat-11-2.u186	Thank you very much, Senator. I'd like to see Senator Wiesław Dobkowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-18-senat-11-2.u187	Mrs. Marshal! High Senate! In 1989, when, after the victory of the people who took part in the Civil Committee, Solidarity came to a conclusion on television that: ladies and gentlemen, communism had ended... In the flow of enthusiasm, satisfaction that our work did not go to waste, work in the eighties, work in 1980, work in the underground. Those elections won by the Citizens' Committee of Solidarity... At first I even believed that communism was over, many Poles believed it, despite the fact that only about 1/3 Members were free to choose in the Seym, and 2/3 were Members appointed according to the Round Table's findings. Most weren't just by choice with the broadcast, it's about the coalition of PZPR, ZSL and SD, and only one organ... Elections to only one body were held democratically Only in the case of our House, the Senate, the Higher House of Parliament... 99 senators were elected from the Civic Committee and one independent senator, Mr Stoklosa, and all were elected democratically. It is a good thing that we, as representatives of this House, to which the first elections were completely democratic, are proceeding with this law on the fact that communism should disappear from the names of our streets, objects. The fact that communism did not end in 1989 was a matter of urgency, because soon afterwards Wojciech Jaruzelski was elected president. Then our jaws fell, and we saw that it wasn't what it was said. I found out in my own way that at that time the appointments for executive positions also fell to the people of the old crew. The best specialists turned out to be former members of the PZPR, and new people had to break through long enough to reach some positions. Ladies and gentlemen, it's a shame after 20... Over 27 years, sham action has been taken. It was said that we had free Poland, that communism was over, that we already had a new system, but it was only appearances. The facts are that these old communists were acquitted, and for a long time they had an advantage both in the media and in the economy. I hope that now, after these last elections, when the Law and Justice have won, the situation as it was in 1989 or later will not be repeated, and there will be a breakthrough, a real breakthrough. This will not be an appearance, as it has been so far, but a change for good. And it just so happens that this is all happening at the time when, as Senator Jan Maria Jackowski said... This coincides with the case of General Kiszczak's briefcase. I hope that not only the names associated with communism and fascism will disappear, but that also the titles that were given to those who, as it turns out, were not... They shouldn't be honored like that. For example, I am talking about the name of the airport in Gdansk, about other names. If there's no actual verification of who was the real hero and who was the traitor, we'll still be stuck in the old system. A few years ago I came across this situation: I was in a school in one of the county cities and I noticed that there was a plaque in front of the building devoted to fixers of folk power. And there were written various fixers, officers, communist activists. There were flowers, there were candles burning in front of that board. I asked the principal how it is that this school is the name of these fixers and these people are glorified, etc. And she said, well, they all fought, so let the young people learn, lay flowers... And they always put flowers there on some anniversary. Another school, this time in the country, bears the name of one of the prominent communist activists. As we can see, local governments haven't dealt with it so far. But they're passionate... I know one passionate man from Belchatov, who is called Piotr Szczepankowski-Chelmoński. He's from the family of Józef Chełmoński, the famous painter. He writes conclusions and in Bełchatów, and in Warsaw, all over Poland, and insists on changing the names of streets that are associated with communism. Many street names have been changed thanks to it, but many local governments simply do not do it because they are comfortable to do nothing. I think that this bill will be an impulse, it will inspire local governments to act, so that during these 2 years they will change all these names and the voivode will not have to force after 2 years to change the names of streets, squares, objects that are associated with the totalitarian system. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-18-senat-11-2.u188	Thank you very much, Senator. Senator Mr. Frost, please take the floor. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-18-senat-11-2.u189	Mrs. Marshal! Dear colleagues! Here's what I'm gonna say. The fact that we are adopting this law today, or rather we are starting the legislative process on this issue, is, you might say, a little embarrassment. We need to get back to this topic after more than 25 years. According to what the representatives of the IPN said at the committee meeting, there are about 1 thousand, 1 000 500 names referring to the communist system in Poland. Ladies and gentlemen, I in Jelenia Góra tried... We're in town. It's a fair thing to say. In the early 1990's, most of these names were changed and were literally single, but already. in neighbouring small municipalities, e.g. In Piechowice, such a change of names was not made and there we have a whole range of names referring to these former heroes. When we tried to make a change today, we encountered incredible resistance from the local authorities. It was said not to touch it, that it doesn't bother anyone anymore, that people got used to it, etc. And this crown argument is always raised, that is, costs. That people would have to exchange personal evidence that they would have to change their eternal books... Yeah, there's an upstairs problem. These pretexts are convenient and very easy to manipulate people, inhabitants of individual cities. Because what does this PiS want? Are we gonna go back to history again? Right? Ladies and gentlemen, no one would tolerate this if there were names in cities referring to fascist ideology, and yet fascist ideology was just as criminal as communist ideology. There's nothing to discuss here. I believe that this bill will be a law forcing local governments to change. There was this period in the early 1990s, in 1990s, 1991, 1992, and what was then changed is changed. Later there were isolated incidents on the national scale, when after, I do not know, 1992, 1993 there were still changes, unless somewhere in the local government there was a very important change of power, there came some right-wing mob, the mayor, the president and very much pressured on it. The later, the less enthusiasm for change. So I think that this law is very, very necessary, that once and for all people who murdered Poles who were part of the enslavement until 1989... that we should finally settle this issue once and for all. I am not optimistic because I take into account the resistance that local government officials have shown to initiatives in this matter, which they have taken, whether they are individual councillors or associations. I think it is necessary to prepare for the fact that, however, the voivods will have to supervise and that many provisions of the voivode will be issued to change names. Once again, I would like to thank all these senators, especially the absent Senator Mammothov, who have put a great deal of work into doing this bill. I hope that this bill will be carried out by the Sejm as soon as possible. I'm afraid it won't be that easy in the Seym, because anything to say, but in the Senate the agreement on this bill is very large. I hope that you will succeed in the senator, who is our representative, whether he will be our representative in the Sejm, and also in making this bill very quickly and efficiently passed. Because let's remember that it's relatively... I even cast such a doubt that these two years for local governments are a little too much, because if there's one going down in parliament and we're going to give two more years, then we can go into such a very sensitive time and it's going to slip away. But perhaps there will still be a shortening amendment in Parliament, because this process is just beginning, so that in this term we will not only make this bill, but also so that if there is resistance of local governments, and I think that there will be local governments that will not want to make these changes, we will clear these names in this term of office. Thank you, Mrs. Marshal.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-18-senat-11-2.u190	Thank you very much, Senator. And to speak, please, Senator Jan Rulewski. [[Too many such ointments are functioning in public life in Poland.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-18-senat-11-2.u191	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Not only am I, but also the environment with which I am currently cooperating, expresses my support for this law, and I personally support the applicants who thus continue the efforts of the Senate of the previous term, in particular the Committee on Human Rights, the Laws and Petitions. As Senator Mamytkow pointed out, the initiative that came out of Jastrzębie's local government and several other local authorities, under the direction of Professor Seweryński obtained a proper statutory description, the elements of which are the basic elements contained in this law. Let's remind them. The State, without fulfilling its civic decommunisation obligation, comes with assistance. He's coming with help, first of all. Which was often expressed as a demand of local governments Material, with organisational assistance in the form of support for the decision of the voivods. In addition, unlike previous initiatives, the period of preparation of changes, as in the previous initiative, is longer than it would seem to revolutionaries... What is important, there should be agreement around this Senate project, because it is true that some local governments in the context of pluralism represent different political divisions. There is no denying that many local governments are still under the auspices of the SLD, which not long ago, through the release of the book, probably the leftist, tried to prove that Gierek's efforts were destroyed by the Solidarity. This must be borne in mind, even in the name of the electoral interests, that resistance will be greater there. That is why I repeat: it is important that we, from this House to the second Chamber, where the problems will indeed be greater, come out with agreement. But the voices that appear, including the voice of my good colleague, Senator Jackowski, are not the votes of consent. Senator Jackowski now divides the bill into those who support it and those who planted the leg. Yes, it's true that Senator Jackowski is a historian. And I suppose you're a good historian. But when he accuses closer to the indeterminate elites that they planted their foot, that they were looking at the Round Table, that they sabotaged the social will, I would also like him to remember that historians have it in them, that they look back. And when you look back, all the blocks go into place, everything goes into perspective. Well, I represent an engineering option, where we look backwards... Going backwards, you can even arrange that everything, the whole solidarity revolution, the peace revolution, was carried out on instalments and that you could not carry out this peaceful, yet systemic, little known revolution in the world one day. We didn't do this revolution for us, we didn't change the streets just because our opponent was Comrade Gierek. We've done this revolution for everyone and we're doing it, I understand, this bill for everyone. And if you're now accusing yourself that there were opponents, maybe even saboteurs, that's a bad voice. But as I understand it, the initiative is an expression of consent. I would like to return to my question, whether this agreement can actually result in not so much ideological resistance of the inhabitants. 'Cause it's addressed to them. - How many different organizational problems. Because it is true: although we live in a good system, today the running of people around their lives requires not as much money as time. Therefore, it is important that the government, in agreement with the IPN, allow the residents to establish, within this time pass, the long, both the names of the patrons they wish, as well as the timetable for implementation. After all, today the street is not only the inhabitants, but also economic operators, schools, institutions, volunteering, and it is a huge documentation, which needs to be corrected, after all there are even spatial development plans in which the streets are named. That time, two years, I don't think it's too long. It's time to consummate this case. Finally, the authors take on a very difficult role. In view of the conformist tendencies, however, they want the moral well-being of the inhabitants to be consistent with the state's justification, with the constitution. I will resort to an example that has also been reported to me. In Warsaw there is a street of the former minister, he was a minister of justice until 1956 and his name was Świątkowski. Maybe someone lives on Świątkowskiego Street. [[Senator Silence nods his head]] Yes? Then why didn't you change that name, Senator? Minister Świątkowski was Minister of Justice until 1956. There's a widow on this street whose husband, father, was persecuted at the time of that minister. At the time, the Minister had a greater role in pardoning, in the case of emergency searches. And he turned it down. And this widow today... I mean, when she wrote to the committee, she was talking about something that wasn't said here: that when she's writing letters now and she has to enter an address, the moment she puts her husband's stalker's name in the address, she gets it... Well, deep trauma. And it's worth remembering. In Poland persecution did not reach the same scale as in Russia, but it affected the closer and further members of the family, it aroused bad feelings for those who spoke on the side of such people. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-18-senat-11-2.u192	Thank you, Senator. I'd like you to take the floor of Senator Jan Zarin.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-18-senat-11-2.u193	Dear Marshal! Ladies, ladies and gentlemen, My esteemed previous speaker, Senator Jan Rulewski, has said a few sentences that trigger my reaction. First of all, what we are establishing today is undoubtedly so obvious that probably the entire Senate hall will adopt this law unanimously. If anybody's gonna hold off, it's gonna... We can guess who. And to some extent we will understand this attitude. The climate today is that the law discussed here is indeed clear. But it's not a contract between people who are sclerotics. It is a contract between people who also remember what happened in the Third Republic. And without a doubt the question of streets, objects, squares or roundabouts, which still bear names, whether commemorating communist leaders or partisans of communist formations from the times of World War II, whether it is in honor of the next anniversaries of the Polish People's Republic of Poland, there are entire settlements of the 20th anniversary, the XXX anniversary of the Polish People's Republic, etc., etc.. It's a certain legacy, which is the result. not only the Peerel reality, but also the decisions that were made in the 1990s and the 2000s. And you, Mr. Senator, know very well how to briefly, of course, because I do not have more time at my disposal, we can define, from this point of view, what happened in the 1990s. Well, as you know perfectly well, Senator, in the 1990s a significant part of the Polish elite was frightened by what she was trying to define, of course, contrary to historical truth, as threatening Polish and Poles' religions reaching the Second Republic. The greater threat after 1989 turned out to be suddenly not communism, with which, among other things, you fought bravely, but Polish patriotism. The enemy number one became the heritage of the Second Republic and the memory that we are a nation of free people who have the right not only to sovereignty but also to originality connected with e.g. with its attachment to Christianity, especially to Catholicism. These ideas, such as chauvinism, nationalism, anti-Semitism, and all sorts of other religions, have proved to be a very strong argument for the leading group in the 1990s, for us not to fall into full independence. And we have to make it clear to ourselves that it is undoubtedly You're right about that, Mr. Senator. Our going towards independence did not just happen as a click. It didn't happen in one day. Undoubtedly, responsibility for this state, for this, happened in the 1990s and 2000s, must be borne not only by communists. It is natural that they were attached to their criminal activities and tried to cover it up or call it an alternative version of Polish independence... It turned out that solidarity elites were also responsible for the legacy of the 1990s. Contrary to appearances, ladies and gentlemen, the names of the streets, squares and squares we are talking about are not decorations. This is, as we know very well, building the state of historical and social consciousness. This is part of bringing up the nation. As everyone knows very well, elites are responsible for raising the nation in a special way, and they are accountable for that. We will also be accounted for in the implementation of the provisions of this law. And from now on, Mr. Senator, we can speak out loud together, standing next to each other, that we will do something good to raise the Polish people in the spirit of patriotism, independence and freedom, that is, all the most important values that constitute us. And for that reason we should be happy together, but at the same time we should not be, so to speak, burdened with sclerosis, because it does not help. Today, obviously, we stand next to each other. [[The meeting is chaired by Deputy Marshal Grzegorz Czelej]] Now I'm going to say a few more words, if you'll allow me, on more specific subjects concerning this bill. It is obvious that the law has educational, educational qualities. Therefore, of course... giving names to the streets has a purpose. Of course, it is good that there is an institution such as the Institute of National Remembrance, which will be able to provide expertise in this field. The point is sometimes not to go too far in searching for the right street names and removing the wrong street names. This is not a question of the stage of the revolution. It is a question of the state of knowledge or a certain obvious truth about the time of complex issues. I'm going to use an example here. Please do not read it as an argument denying this law. This is an example that shows that there must be a verification and assistance institution. Namely, in the 1990s and 2000s representatives of local governments very often not only wanted to commemorate the environment, people or organizations that clearly deserve it... e.g. I participated in such a debate in Podlasie concerning the roundabout of the National Armed Forces. As historians, we explained to the councillor But unfortunately they left the room, as they saw us, somehow they didn't want to know the truth about the National Armed Forces, that they weren't fascists, they weren't criminals, that it was communist propaganda that burdened them with such adjectives. Long endurance in this mental state can harm both the councilmen and their children and their grandchildren, etc. Yeah, but they wouldn't listen. It is also a fact that many councilmen in various cities, also in Warsaw, try to deprive the street, for example. Louis Varyński. I made this in-law, which is that I know this character. For completely individual reasons, not because I am a lover of the views of Louis Varyński, how easy to guess Because I worked at a museum where his character was important. And I made this in-law. I mean. I asked these councillors: did you? Do you even know what you're trying to get him off these streets for? And what did it turn out to be? Of course, the answer is this. For Gomułkowsko-Gierzkowsko-communist propaganda. I mean. For what Louis Varyński did to the commune. And again stripping the street of the name of Louis Varyński The man who is the founder of all Polish socialists, both those who have gone astray and went into Bolshevism and those who are called Ludwik Krzywicki and Józef Piłsudski It's a misunderstanding. Just so we're clear, this isn't my worldview fairy tale. I have completely different views. If the streets were to be only the heroes of my worldview, Warsaw would be the national-Christian one, as I wish it, but not necessarily only these people have the right to the streets today. Among other things. The Institute of National Remembrance is such a good place where a certain verification of Peerelian times is also carried out, i.e. what was done to different people during the peerel period, what was done to use them for their evil purposes. And by the way, those who can't defend themselves were left in our memory as only negative heroes. So, ladies and gentlemen, this is also an important act for the recovery of our true communication with past generations. Because Peerel broke us in different ways, so to speak, consciously. And these ways aren't quite clear unless you go deep, if you don't understand the state that reigned in the peerel. I'd like to finish... Because I didn't quite understand Senator Rulewski about Henryk Świątkowski. Was he finally a positive hero or a negative hero in your story? [[Negative!]] [[Come on, Mr. Senator!]] [[Negative, I'm sure.]] I hope it's negative. Perhaps the syntax of the sentence was so arranged that I was lost somewhere. Don't be like that. But the fact is that the character of Henryk Świątkowski shows us, of course, a certain extent of our history. We can say that this is one of those communists who left the socialist school because he was PPS. He devoted himself to the communion in one hundred percent and in Stalin's times and later he focused primarily on the attempt to eliminate Polish Catholicism and the Church. I'm just saying this to clear things up, to make it clear what we owe this gentleman. That's what we owe him in the Peerel period. Happily, he failed in this work. But it is undoubtedly an example of a very intelligent man, a good writer, because he is the author of several publications and at the same time his talents serving a very bad cause. I don't know if you know. Maybe it's already been discussed here. The hero of the streets from the communist period is General Świerczewski Walter. As you probably remember, for some time the history of Poland, i.e. Since Janina Broniewska's books and a few others, this is the one who hasn't bowed to bullets. And please note, because it can be tested: why this happens, that the same Świerczewski Whose streets in Poland in 2013 were still 55 years old? Because communist propaganda was good. And Goebbels' propaganda was good propaganda in terms of its effectiveness. This is one such example, where the actual life story from the propaganda life almost divides Earth's distance to the Sun. And this negative image has been established, because effectiveness is indeed a feature of the propaganda created by the state. And now, turning it around, also ethically. Of course, out of evil for good. It can be said that this law, let us be aware of it, is not a law that will have no effect. That's what's gonna happen. I mean, the fact that we're just making a bill like this today... It was also known to those who tried hard, moving from side to side in search of arguments, to stop the process of investigation to a higher state of historical consciousness of the Polish people. Because it is the role of the state, but also the power of the state, that the power of local governments is that, through very clear signs, signs from the area You can say that you can raise people every day, educate people. As educators, as teachers And there's a bunch of teachers here, and we know and understand very well how to subconsciously enter into human consciousness information that then becomes everyday, just like a spoon and fork, so that we don't discuss it. So we do not discuss General Świerczewski because he has his street, which means he must be good. We're not discussing. Well, I'd rather we didn't discuss if there's Piłsudskiego Street somewhere, Primate Wyszyński, Roman Dmowski, Wojciech Korfanty, and that we have an obvious carbon in our consciousness, even subconsciously that it means that these are positive people, that's the foundation on which our children, our grandchildren, will be raised. And that's why you're very, very happy that this bill is coming into force. And at the end of the day, it's just a pebble... or rather a little bit of a cub of honey. Namely, I would very much like us to deal with this too. And it's gonna happen sooner or later. With another legacy related to this law, we did not take up the matter of this heritage here, that is, that we should also be able to finish this stage of our history, in which there are monuments on Polish lands that glorify murderers and attackers on Polish soil. And most of all, those who remained on our lands are red because they were Bolsheviks coming from the Soviet Union. Our state of consciousness as a nation today is that there is no doubt that no one in Gdansk will put up Goebbels' monument just because he was there before the war. We're not putting up a Goebbels monument in Gdansk. So I hope that only because a given general, who was in the Red Army, today in Polish territory, where we keep this type of monument or keep this kind of sign... It is de facto a trace of our enslavement and we are leaving it. I leave this issue with a question mark: when will we deal with this in turn an inheritance? But let us rejoice today that we have dealt with the problem of streets, squares and objects that bear the names of the patrons of the undeserved Very often traitors, people who murdered good Poles. In return, we have a really beautiful collection of names of people who deserve to become obvious heroes in our universal consciousness. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-18-senat-11-2.u194	Thank you very much, Professor. When you started your speech, I thought of a quote from Kaczmarski's song: We wiped off the wrists of the cord prints. Please take the floor of Senator Majer.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-18-senat-11-2.u195	Mr. Marshal! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! In one of the last sequences of his speech, Professor Żaryn quoted a figure very commonly known: Karol Świerczewski. I, ladies and gentlemen, will begin with this character. Not so long ago, during the election campaign, a man has it to himself that in the election campaign he reaches very different places.I have just reached the street of General Karol Świerczewski in one of the localities of Podfolkochów, a small town. Dear people, I am talking to these residents because we are talking, of course, about elections, about Poland, about what is happening, and I am surprised to ask: 'It is here that Świerczewski Street survived?' You didn't do anything. Well, ladies had, so to speak, views such a very patriotic, Polish one. And they are. And this is, my dear fellow Members, the element that Professor Żaryn called attention to, speaking of consciousness. They say to me, "You know, this Świerczewski is different, but he fought. But you know, if he was angry, they'd change that name over the past twenty-something years. And they did. Dear people, in historical opinion we are dealing with relativism. Dear people, looking at the past, we see facts, but we can see these facts as those that build our pride, build our attachment to the country, build our nation, and as such, as my predecessors have said, we should not glorify, display. Because if we leave them in public space, it'll mean they weren't that bad. It will mean that they still have their place in this space and can function as patterns. Dear Member States, I am sure that for this law, for which I would like to thank, the attitude of local governments will be decisive. Because it is the self-governments who determine, Dear State, the names of streets, squares, roundabouts, public places. It is local governments that manage public space. But, ladies and gentlemen, from the authorities of the State, from this House, there must be signals like us, Dear Sirs, looking at history. Because if we do not indicate what this story looked like, then there may be situations that were still in Częstochowa until recently. I hope it's not now, although I haven't followed it in the last two years. But not so long ago the Częstochowa self-governments submitted, Dear Lords, on the anniversary of the liberation of the city of Częstochowa by the Red Army, flowers under the monument of Soviet soldiers, on which there was a hammer, a sickle and a great red star. And how, ladies and gentlemen, the case came to me at the time I was the head of the review committee. With a clear complaint, because one of the patriotic organizations wrote that the president of a free city should not worship the symbols of communism, then, Dear Lords, the answer was this... And I would very much like to thank you for the fact that the Institute of National Remembrance in this bill received the role of the one who evaluates and defines certain phenomena to the end. At the time, I had this opinion of the IPN, because I had asked the IPN for an opinion on this subject, and it really helped me. However, there was also, Dear Sire, such reflection that we do not pay tribute to the hammer, the sickle and the red star, only to those soldiers who actually died during this liberation. And, ladies and gentlemen, there is also a very relative approach to this reality, which should be very unambiguously assessed. Dear State, this bill, this bill is intended to order public space, but it is also intended to order our awareness and system of values, which is actually implemented within the framework of a project of Polish historical policy, patriotic policy and national policy. And, ladies and gentlemen, I do not know if you have noticed, but we have this Senate meeting on which, Dear Sirs, we are proceeding and adopting a budget, I have the impression, groundbreaking, because the budget, which gives so much space to the family, giving an additional 500+, is, please, the first budget of Poland, in fact, solidarity and on which we are proceeding on this important legal act, which becomes one of the first acts of our historical memory, an expression of the kind of perspective we want to have in the past, because we want to see the past of Poland. Dear country, without such legislation, we will not build a nation and build a national identity. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-18-senat-11-2.u196	Thank you very much. Please take the floor of Senator Silence.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-18-senat-11-2.u197	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Better late than never, you could say finally. Ladies and gentlemen, we have finally seen a law on a case on which, as I recall, going backwards, the Sejm, or actually the Senate of the 2007-2011 term, was leaning down in an attempt to adopt such a law. Unfortunately, it turned out that many years had passed, and it is only now that this subject is coming back. Thank you to your clubmate, Senator Mammothov, for preparing this project. Ladies and gentlemen, this is a very important matter, because we lived in times, it would seem that free Poland after 1989, when it was tried very effectively to wipe out historical memory, to blur the differences between victims and executioners, and to preserve the name which commemorated as supposed heroes of those who were either the catalics of the nation, or the governors of the foreign power who installed the communist system in Poland after the Second World War. It is embarrassing that so far there are street names that point to this very dark history of Poland, subject to the pressure of the neighbouring power, which installed on bayonets a communist system against the will of the Polish people, who was always proud of the fact that he valued freedom, and fought for this freedom not only for himself but also for other nations. Some situations are even grotesque, because in some cities we have e.g. Edward Gierek's roundabout, and nearby, not much further roundabout or Solidarity Street. Recognizing what is wrong in the history of Poland, with what is the glory of the history of Poland, the kind of melange that was made, was a disgrace and it is time to end it. Someone once said beautifully that a nation that has no memory has no good future. And one could go even further and say that a nation that has a bad memory through the preservation of this kind of name, which should disappear in connection with the introduction of this law, is doomed to destruction, because there is nothing worse than commemorating something that is evidence of humiliation, evidence of alien supremacy and proof of the lack of true independence. Little of that, ladies and gentlemen, I think that we will finally end up with the shameful practice that exists in our justice system, when there are situations where the monuments of oppressors that still exist are protected. I myself participate in many trials where I am defending, especially Mr Adam Słomka, KPN-owiec, a former long-standing Member, also a Euro-parliamentarians who is being accused. What? This, I ask you, is that it opposes the existence of monuments of gratitude to the Soviet Army, the monuments of the occupier. Ladies and gentlemen, criminal proceedings are being brought against him, and this man is being locked up on the pretext that he hasn't put himself on call for a criminal hearing. Ladies and gentlemen, this is a practice, it would seem, in free Poland after 1989. If we adopt this law, it will also end the shameful conduct of the justice system, which at this point is giving itself the worst testimony. That's why I congratulate the senator on this initiative, and I'm invading this bill. It is high time that it was adopted and caused positive changes in the mentality of Poles, in the education of the young generation. Ladies and gentlemen, it's not like the street names are just, so to speak, direction indicators that show us the way to a specific object in the city. Ladies and gentlemen, these names also have a huge educational value, so if we maintain this state of affairs that has existed so far, it will have disastrous consequences in the field of education of society, especially of the young generation, which, as my previous speaker mentioned, often follows only... Since there is a given street name, apparently the person who is mentioned in that name was a positive figure. It's time to stop, and I'm really glad we're starting this end. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-18-senat-11-2.u198	Thank you very much. Please take the floor of Senator Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-18-senat-11-2.u199	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! I'm embarrassed by this discussion. Of course, as my predecessor said, it is better late than never, but it is a scandal that after 26 years since the so-called change of power in Poland we still have to talk about it, that for 26 years it has not been done... The truth is obvious: there was no change of power in Poland. It's even officially said it's a transformation. Just look in the encyclopedia and see what the word transformation means. I would say that it was a genetic transformation, which means that several genes were introduced into the main cell, so-called. transgenics, and that's what made them... These are, as they say today, genetically modified organisms. So it's no wonder that in Poland many of these Bolków function in public life and that for so many years There was nothing you could do. If this were to remind you of Mr. Michnik's words... Allegedly Kiszczak was a man of honor. I'm also amazed, appalled by the effects of the IPN. Is the president of the IPN... Mrs. Kiszczakova had to wait for a week or two for a party. I don't know how the IPN investigative pawn works, but it's just some laughter. In the O.R. After all, Kiszczak repeatedly threatened that if someone touched him, the halos would fall from many heads, which was obvious that he had documents. And immediately you should do a search of a lot of the hungover who functioned yet... I don't believe that what was taken from Mrs. Kiszczakow is everything. She should get security as soon as possible, because she may still have a lot of other things deposited in different places. And after Kiszczak, and after many other hungovers they could... The action of the IPN is pathetic and the President of the IPN publicly said that he did not have time to meet Mrs Kiszczakow on such an important matter. This is unacceptable. I don't have words to tell you what's going on, but I think somebody's gonna think about it. Thank you. [[Applause]] [[I'm sure it's a piss.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-18-senat-11-2.u200	Thank you very much. Please take the floor of Senator Flork. [[The streets of Bieruta are still here.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-18-senat-11-2.u201	Mr. Marshal! High Senate! Act prohibiting the promotion of communism or other totalitarian system by the names of buildings, objects and public utility devices This is the title of the bill, the good bill. In my opinion, after all these amendments, this is a law that really guarantees that what you are talking about or what we are talking about... And we're talking about the so-called. Cleaning bill. For many, many years, local governments have done something. For example, I know that I don't think there is Świerczewskiego Street anywhere in my voivodeship, but it didn't end anywhere. In different local governments, I'm going to say, different generals, mayors, presidents who may not have always been interested in this. Consequently, a law was needed to actually clean all that is behind us. I think she's great because she's talking about these new streets that... There will be no special problem here and I wouldn't be afraid that the voivode will have to issue supervisory decisions. Ladies and gentlemen, these are occasional accidents, because practically these new street names... Sometimes there may also be a consultation with IPN etc., because it may be that one name has some two meanings, but it can always be explained. So there's no big problem with that. You just have to clean up what's going on. And we have two years to get those local governments that didn't do it to look at their names. The Voivodeship can also check what the situation is like in individual municipalities and see what the scale of the phenomenon is. Probably in different voivodships and in different municipalities this scale will vary. There will be municipalities such that we have 2.5 thousand municipalities in Poland, ladies and gentlemen. Well, maybe 1,000 names, 1500 names... [[There's not even a thousand.]] ...or 2,000 names will have to be changed. Or there'll be only one name in one municipality. Therefore, this is as much to be done within 2 years. If some government insists and doesn't want to do it, there's a possibility that the voivod will interfere. I'm sure there's really not gonna be a lot of cases like this and that we can deal with that. Ladies and gentlemen, during this discussion, because you are all starting to judge the Third Republic of Poland, there are beginning to be such political statements here. One of you was talking about Gdansk, the name of the airport... Ladies and gentlemen, let us all adopt this law unanimously. She's well-written, and everyone, I hope, will accept this bill. Let's not spoil it. Let's give this bill a chance to pass in the Seym, because if we start discussing and drawing up stories of all kinds, it really will not promote a good atmosphere and that we adopt such a law. There have already been a few examples of this in the O.R., so I would appeal for peace. It's an important, good bill. We all want those old names that are still there to disappear. Remember, too, that we are living in different times today. Today, we appreciate people, their attitude from the 1970's, their 80's. Yeah, but not everyone remembers... Not everyone acted then, and not everyone knows what the situation was, what the risk was. It's easy today. Today we shoot left or right, we judge, we say: I would do that, I would do otherwise. However, we do not know the circumstances of that time. Therefore, really in these statements one must be careful and not demonize all of this. I am convinced that, as far as this law is concerned, we should reach consensus. And hopefully, during the work in the Seym, we will also be able to carry out this bill in peace. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-18-senat-11-2.u202	Thank you very much. Please take the floor of Senator Gawl.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-18-senat-11-2.u203	Mr. Marshal! High Senate! Ten years ago I was Belarus, there I visited the museum near Lenino. The museum is at the battlefield where so many Poles died in a senseless confrontation with the German army. Today we have so many documents that we can confirm the pointlessness of this clash, in which so much blood has been spilled unnecessarily. In the museum there was a guide to the Belarusian citizen, but still the Soviet one, with the mentality of that time And she showed a group of Polish youth all the souvenirs that are there. After her talk, the old man asked me to speak and explain a few facts to the young people. There are display cases in which there are images of Karol Świerczewski, Michał Roli-Żymierski and others in general uniforms. So I briefly told young people who these people were, who later became the foundation of the so-called idea. People's Poland. I explained that one fought in the Polish-Bolshevik War in 1920, only that on the Bolshevik side, he went to Poland I'm thinking of Karol Świerczewski The second one was an ordinary criminal who was convicted by the court of the Republic of Poland for the gas masks issue, I am talking about Roli-Żymierski. And that was the foundation of the consciousness of the young generation of that country. Now times are changing, and in fact, why go back to what wasn't done? But after all, people see everything that's going on, and they draw their own conclusions. In Gniezno there is a plaque dedicated to the memory of the Red Army, on the entrance street, where the Red Army entered Gniezno on 21 January. Two days later, they burned down the Cathedral of Gniezno, the mother of Polish churches, when there was no German in Gniezno. This fact has been faked for many, many years, only today everything comes out. The word only comes out today, that's the theme of the last days. Because the truth can't be hidden. And that's the way it is with that consciousness. This board is still there, two years ago I saw a teacher driving little kids who light candles there. This is what Prof. Żaryn said today: if we do not remove it from public space, this is how we will build awareness, a crippled historical consciousness. It's very important to change that. And let's not draw conclusions that go far, because they write themselves, history writes itself, and you can't bury all these weeds because they'll come out. Man's grief is that it took 26 or 27 years to wait for all of this. Finally, the Second Republic, which also had incredibly diverse elites, operating in three partitions, was able to deal with the legacy quickly and symbolized by the Council of Alexander Newski in Saski Square. They quickly swept out the symbols. And we've been struggling for so long. Thank you so much for this bill. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-18-senat-11-2.u204	Thank you very much. Would any of you like to take the floor in the discussion? I don't see any volunteers. I inform you that the list of speakers has been exhausted. For the record, Senator Czesław Ryszka made his speech in the discussion for the minutes. There are no legislative proposals. I therefore close the discussion. Now the Senate could proceed with the third reading of the bill. This third reading would only cover the vote. It shall be held together with other votes. Ladies and gentlemen, we will now return to point five. We proceed with the examination of item five of the agenda: the second reading of the draft law on the amendment of the law on public benefit and voluntary activities. I would remind you that this project was introduced by a group of senators and is included in print No 83 and the committee's report In print No 83 S. I would like to ask the rapporteur of the Legislative Commission, the Committee on Human Rights, the Rule of Law and Petitions and the Committee on Immigration and Communications with Poles abroad, Senator Janina Sagatowska, to present a joint report to the committee on the draft law. You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-18-senat-11-2.u205	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Gentlemen of Ministers! Guests! I have the honour to submit a report to the High House on the three joint committees The Committee on Laws, the Committee on Human Rights, the Rule of Law and Petitions and the Committee on Immigration and Communications with Poles Abroad On the draft law amending the Act on Public Benefit and Volunteering, print No 83. The Senate Marshal sent the bill to these three committees on 30 January. The committees gathered on 16 February and considered this bill after an interesting discussion, with great interest in the activities of the Polish Senate. High Izbo! Mr. Marshal! The main objective of this legislative amendment is to introduce a clear normative basis for the Senate to undertake activities in the field of care of Poles living outside the country, assuming as little interference with the applicable legal order as possible. Why it is so necessary to record this activity of the Senate in normative terms, I will say in a brief explanatory memorandum. Almost since the beginning of the reborn Senate, since 1989, the Senate of the Republic of Poland has played a leading role in the care of Poles and Poles residing outside the country. It was a non-constitutional competence, but generally accepted, derived from the pre-war tradition and the fact that only the Senate was elected democratically in the June elections in 1989. Today there were thoughts about the role of the Senate and the order that existed. In fact, the Senate's important role in this regard was confirmed by the annual reservation in the Budget Act, in the part at the disposal of the Senate Office, of the funds earmarked for the purposes of Polonia. This did not conflict with the constitution and was legitimized by the constitutional value of the common good and the principle resulting from the article. Article 6 (6) (a) 2nd Constitution, which states that Rzeczypospolita Polska provides assistance to Poles residing abroad in preserving their relationship with national cultural heritage. His powers were also derived from the Senate Rules of Procedure, from the Senate Bureau resolutions and from the Rules of Procedure. 3 (1) (a) 5 Act on Public Benefit and Volunteering. The Senate spent these funds in accordance with the Public Finance Act. Legality of spending these funds I would like to stress this. It was never questioned by the Supreme Audit Chamber and its inspections took place every year. In the context of the procedure for examining applications and granting grants, each expenditure of the Senate was consulted with the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and other resorts, which also have specific funds for Polish activities, and with organisations which benefited from these measures. As part of the procedure for examining applications and awarding grants, there were never any reservations about the role of the Senate. In 2012, these measures passed from the Senate to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. At present they are recorded, and this has been considered by the budget committee. As a means of the Senate Chancellery. According to the current proposal contained in the Act we are discussing, the care of the Senate for Polonia and Poles abroad will be carried out through cooperation with NGOs and entities mentioned in the article. 3 (1) (a) 3 laws. Cooperation will consist in commissioning public tasks financed from part of the state budget concerning the Senate Office. Regulation in the draft law on the care of the Senate of Polonia and Poles abroad will meet the requirement of the article. The Commission shall adopt implementing acts laying down detailed rules for the implementation of this Regulation in accordance with Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council concerning the implementation of Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council laying down the rules and general principles concerning mechanisms for control by Member States of the Commission's exercise of implementing powers pursuant to Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council. 1 the Constitution according to which public funds are That's the billing proposal... I have to say, we've often met with the charge that it's just a tradition that it's some kind of legacy. We were asked where the legal basis is. And this is the fulfillment of such expectations and legal order of care for Poles and Poles in the world. I have already stressed that the project does not interfere with the provisions which form the basis for cooperation with Polonia undertaken by other bodies. The project does not affect the past and future activities of these bodies, whether the Ministry of Foreign Affairs or the Ministry of National Education or the Ministry of Science and Higher Education etc. The solutions contained in the project respect the competence of the Minister of Foreign Affairs to represent and protect the interests of Polish citizens and Polish legal persons abroad, as well as cooperation with Poles residing abroad, including support for Polish cultural and educational institutions abroad. This means that the tasks of helping Polish people and Poles abroad will continue to be carried out by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. I would like to stress very strongly the excellent cooperation with the current Ministry of Foreign Affairs in the preparation of this project, in the fulfilment of the proposals. I would like to say that the draft provides for the entry into force of the Act on the day following the date of the announcement. It was not considered appropriate to include any transitional provisions, bearing in mind the statements made on 23 December 2015 by the Senate Marshal and the Minister for Foreign Affairs in connection with the planned transfer to the Senate Office of funds intended to cooperate with the Polish and Poles abroad in the State budget for 2016, in which it was decided that in the interests of the welfare of our fellow countrymen outside the borders, but also the stability and transparency of cooperation with NGOs in the country working for Polonia, currently conducted by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs procedures for the formal and substantive evaluation of offers in the context of the grant competition under the name "Cooperation with Polonia and Poles abroad' will be carried out and completed in accordance with the current rules and timetable. The ranking list selected as a result of the proceedings will be published publicly and forwarded to the firm in the form of a recommendation for further proceding. It's a further process with us, as it was... The Polonia branch or the Polonia team, the finance team, and then the evaluation by the committee in which I have the honour to chair, and the final decision taken by the Senate Bureau... Financial resources related to the implementation of the proposed law are planned in the Budget Act That's what I was talking about. For the current year of 60 million 500 thousand. In accordance with the amendment adopted by the Sejm at the third reading of the draft budget law for 2016 the special reserve in item. 72 The cooperation with Polonia and Poles abroad has been terminated and the funds included in it have been transferred to part 03 of the Senate. These measures safeguard the needs of the proposed law. Between 1991 and 2011 budget laws provided for expenditure on care of Polish and Polish people abroad in a comparable amount in the section concerning the Senate Office. I would like to stress that during the work on this bill, amendments to the Act, requests for opinions were addressed to the Minister of Finance, the Minister of Family, Labour and Social Policy and the Minister of Foreign Affairs, as well as to many entities and non-governmental organisations. I would like to say that there is basically acceptance of the solution contained in this law. I will not mention what these entities were, but there were 26 of them, and also the ministries I mentioned. Non-governmental organisations have generally welcomed the proposed changes. The first reading at the meeting of the Legislative Commission, the Committee on Immigration and Communications with Poles abroad and the Committee on Human Rights, Rule of Law and Petitions took into account the editorial comment on the correction of the reference. It was basically a typo, because instead of a "ust." In the absence of any further information, the 3. It was the only amendment. The board is bringing in... In the vote, the Senator abstained, which was almost unanimously. 3 committees have adopted an appropriate resolution in which they request the adoption of this law in the version before the amendments, as submitted to the High House. I too, Mr Marshal, as if I had been urged by the proposals of the ministries, the resorts of the family and social policy, made such a proposal, as well as by the ombudsman, by the Minister of Justice. I propose a change of this kind, taking advantage of the fact that we are debating a law on public benefit organisations and voluntary activities in order to extend the relevant provision of the law. Namely, I propose in the article. Article 4 (4) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013 shall apply. 1 after point 29, add point 29a, which covers activities for veterans and veterans injured within the meaning of the Act of 19 August 2011 on veterans of activities outside the borders of the State. The point is that from the information held by the Ombudsman, obtained in particular from the environments of non-governmental organisations providing assistance to veterans, there are situations where there is no indication of such activities directly in the catalogue of public tasks referred to in Article. Article 4 (4) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013 shall apply. 1 The Act on Public Benefit and Volunteering makes it difficult to obtain a 1% write-off for these organisations. The Ministry of Justice also supports such an amendment. In order not to debate the law on public benefit for the second time, I propose an amendment to that effect and ask that this amendment be addressed to the 3rd committee at this meeting and that a third reading of the proposed resolution on the amendment of the law be held at that meeting. Thank you very much and I am making an amendment.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-18-senat-11-2.u206	Thank you very much. Thank you very much, senator, for a brief discussion of the bill. At present, senators may submit a maximum of one minute's query to the rapporteur of the committee and to the authorised representative of the applicants. May I remind you that the applicants have authorized them to represent the senator. Would any of you like to ask such a question? Senator Augustine, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-18-senat-11-2.u207	Mrs. Senator, will the Senate, as a result of this change, regain the opportunity to act in favour of Polonia to the same extent as it had before those unfortunate changes that took away this prerogatives from us?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-18-senat-11-2.u208	You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-18-senat-11-2.u209	Yeah, that's what I said. The amount assigned to the Senate Registry by means of a budget law will ensure that these tasks are carried out. I will say this again, although I have already stressed that this year will in some ways be a transitional year. In very close cooperation with the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, we will carry out these tasks, which have already been decided in the competition proceedings. Otherwise, we can't. Until December 3rd Ub. There was time to submit appropriate applications to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, the competitions were decided and we do not want to leave the entities to whom the funds were granted or make some revolutionary changes. There must be certainty of turnover, as in every area, in this too. In order to ensure that it somehow works fairly, smoothly and without the slightest prejudice to the beneficiaries and the awaiting assistance, we will carry out this mission, because I believe that the Senate, in general the Polish state in relation to Poles, mainly in the East, and Polonia in the world has a specific mission to fulfil. That's what I think. This is a mission in particular with regard to tasks such as education, language care, etc. I would like to tell you that, for example, education, the issue of Polish language are priority tasks both in the case of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and now in the Senate. This has always been the case: culture, heritage, education, language They are priorities, more than 50% The entire amount goes to these activities, and this is, once again, the amount of 60 million 500 thousand. Maybe if the minister speaks... I must say that the Ministry of Foreign Affairs has left a certain amount at the disposal of consulates, because, as you know, consuls are the first link to which Poles address on various matters. And the consul has a great deal of insight into the needs of Polish organizations and directly provides assistance in certain places where there are clusters of Polish people around the world.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-18-senat-11-2.u210	Thank you very much. Would any of you like to ask the rapporteur another question? I don't see any calls. Thank you very much, Senator. [[Thank you and ask for the bill to be adopted along with this proposed amendment. Thank you very much.]] Yes, of course, I accepted the proposal for amendments. I would like to welcome the representatives of the government. I warmly welcome Krzysztof Michałkiewicz from the Ministry of Family, Labour and Social Policy and Minister Jan Dziedziczak from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. Gentlemen of Ministers, welcome. Do you wish to speak on behalf of the government on the bill submitted? Minister Krzysztof Michałkiewicz, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-18-senat-11-2.u211	Mr. Marshal! (PL) Madam President, I would like to ask you a few High Izbo! I'd like to talk about two things. The first is that the Ministry of Family, Labour and Social Policy was pleased to submit a draft amendment to the law that was prepared by the State and welcomes the proposals put forward by the Senate to regulate public tasks in the field of care for Polish people and Poles abroad. The subject matter of the proposed amendments falls within the scope of the Law of 24 April 2003 on public benefit and voluntary activities. There is also nothing to hide that the experience of cooperation with the Senate in previous years has shown that it has always been very effective and effective. I would also like to thank the President for submitting an amendment which includes the public benefit of taking care of veterans outside Poland. It is a new group, but it certainly requires support for what it has done for Poland before, for representing our Armed Forces outside the country. This amendment, as the President said, falls within the scope of public benefit activities, while at the same time meeting the expectations and ombudsman, who had various interventions in this matter, and the Minister of Justice, who believes that veterans and veterans are different environments, and it is worth taking this into account in the activities of public benefit. Thank you very much. [[I have another question.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-18-senat-11-2.u212	Thank you very much. At present, senators may submit no longer than a minute of question to the representative of the government present at the meeting, and in principle present at the meeting of the representatives of the government, related to the item on the agenda. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? [[I'd like to ask you a question.]] You're welcome, Senator Gogacz.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-18-senat-11-2.u213	Minister, we are debating a law on public service activities. I would like to ask you, because the main objective of our meeting today is to prepare a more explicit legal basis as regards the transfer of funds from the Polish state's budget by the Senate of the Republic of Poland... Is the current wording of the article. Article 4 (4) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013 shall apply. 1 point 28 was the provision sufficient for such activities to be carried out? And, therefore, were the allegations made in 2012 that the funds issued by the Senate were unconstitutional, without a legal basis, but were not, in the context of that provision, missed allegations? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-18-senat-11-2.u214	You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-18-senat-11-2.u215	I do not hide the fact that I find it difficult to respond to allegations made by other entities. However, as I said before, there is also support for Polish and Polish people abroad among the areas of public benefit. The fact that the Senate wants to support Polonia through grants to NGOs is the right thing to do. This is good for the implementation of the Law on Public Use and Volunteering, but also gives organisations operating in this area the chance to make their activities more effective, effective and implemented together with the Senate.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-18-senat-11-2.u216	Thank you very much. Senator Augustine, ask me a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-18-senat-11-2.u217	Minister, the senator's friend didn't exactly calm me down. Because she assured us that, yes, we accept back... that these powers are restored to the Senate, but in this barrel of honey there was also a spoon of rudder. And that's what I want to ask you. 'Cause some of the funds, though. As I recall, however, we received more than 70 million zlotys to serve this task. It remains, as the senator said, at the disposal of the consuls. So everything, but not everything. Because in the financial and material sense, that's what it is. I would very much like the Minister to tell you why this is happening. [[Cell phone signal]] Sorry about the call.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-18-senat-11-2.u218	Of course, I will give the floor to the Minister of Foreign Affairs. However, earlier I would like to stress that tasks, like all other areas of public benefit, can be financed from different sources. Let me also remind you that public benefit organisations get a copy, 1% Tax... Also those organizations that deal with Polonia and support of Poles abroad. And I believe that this funding from various sources, the use of different instruments and different actors is beneficial for the achievement of this task, and for Polish and Polish people abroad. Thank you. If the Minister of Foreign Affairs would like to supplement...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-18-senat-11-2.u219	Just a second. Question is, Senator Rooster. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-18-senat-11-2.u220	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! Gentlemen of Ministers! Minister, I think one word is due: thank you. Because, Mr and Mrs Dear, I remember what happened when Minister Sikorski took these measures. Even the appeals of the marshal of that time, Mr. Borusewicz, and ours didn't help anything. I thank you for the little steps... that we start somewhere. And thank you to Marshal Karczewski, too. Because we were actually standing on our heads, we were addressing the President of Jarosław Kaczyński, so that the decisions would be beneficial, so that the funds would return to the Senate. And on your hands, Minister... I just want to say, in human terms, thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-18-senat-11-2.u221	If I may make two comments... High Izbo, in fact, because we oversee the sector of NGOs, we also collect reports on their activities, we know that in the years when the Senate was supporting Poland and Poland, it was done Very well. The competitions were organized much earlier. The money went to the organization at the beginning of the year. And there were no problems with cooperation between the Senate and NGOs and providing support and assistance for Polish and Polish people abroad.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-18-senat-11-2.u222	Thank you very much. Do any of you have a question for the Minister? No. Minister, thank you very much. [[Secretary of State in the Ministry of Family, Labour and Social Policy Krzysztof Michałkiewicz: Thank you very much.]] Would Minister Dziedziczak like to speak? [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs Jan Dziedziczak: With pleasure.]] Come on in.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-18-senat-11-2.u223	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I will only allow myself to complete the statements of Minister Michałkiewicz and, above all, Senator Sagatowska, who has presented the planned changes to us in a professional and readable manner, to highlight two points. This project is the legal formula for making the changes that the political camp has called for, which I have the honour to represent as the representative of the government of Prime Minister Beata Szydło. We have kept our word and at the moment the money that was the subject of the competitions will return to the Senate, will be maintained pre-war tradition as well as the tradition of the last 25 years. Ladies and gentlemen, I would just like, I stress, by way of addition, to quote an important sentence from the point of view of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs from the justification of the project. In this statement we read: it should be added that the draft law does not interfere with the provisions which form the basis for cooperation with Polonia and Poles abroad undertaken by executive authorities; the draft does not affect the existing and future activities of these authorities in any way. I think this will be a certain answer to the questions raised by your senators. As far as consular expenditure is concerned, I would like to thank and the senators of the Committee on Immigration and Communication with Poles abroad from this point of view, and at the moment, the senator for this statement, because she shows good will and responsibility. To answer the questions that were asked here, to Minister Michalkiewicz, I would say this: I think they should be addressed to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. An amount without comparison smaller, which is a small fraction of the principal amount that consuls have, i.e. the amount, first of all, complementary to the expenditure that the Senate will distribute. At the same time it is also an important tool to respond to the current needs of Polish environments abroad. Note that the competition takes place every year. And the competition closes, and sometimes there are new expenses, new challenges. At the moment, I can tell you that there is even a case of a Polish school fire in Norway. And actually, well, the contest procedure is over... And how can we help our fellow countrymen out there? And this is a game about whether the school will exist there or not. We know she's needed. Such challenges sometimes arise, and this small part is precisely so that the executive authority can respond to such challenges and that we as a Polish country are effective. Let us stress, however, that the largest sum, 60.5 million zlotys, mentioned by the senator, is coming to you. You will decide about these strategic expenses. Of course, we serve all the time, we are open, we encourage you to consult with the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. We kept our word and returned to the procedure of a well-known majority of you from the last 20 years. Thank you kindly.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-18-senat-11-2.u224	Thank you very much. Would any of you like to ask... Senator Gogacz is the first.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-18-senat-11-2.u225	I would like to ask, Minister, whether, after the adoption of the law, when the decision is already adopted, the Senate decides that PLN 60.5 million is to be decided, i.e. after returning to the mechanism 4 years ago, the funds that were issued by Polish diplomacy, by consular posts, maybe by embassies, will be at the same level. And now I would like to ask: is this going to be at the level of 4 years ago, about the funds that were intended for the tasks of Polonia and Poles? Or at the level of the present time, after deduction of the measures to be implemented by the Senate? How's that gonna look? Will these tasks be as they were to this, or will they be reduced or extended? Would you mind saying something about that?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-18-senat-11-2.u226	The amount that you have at your disposal is an amount not reduced by any amount... which is PLN 65,5 million. I would like to make it clear that the budget is adopted by Parliament, which means I can ask you for money, which I am doing here. If we could just... I am pleased to be in the Senate, in a House that is particularly sensitive to the affairs of our fellow countrymen abroad, and I can appeal to you. The more money for Polonia and Poles abroad, the better it is for Polish interests. I strongly encourage you to create a cross-party coalition of senators and increase this amount to any extent possible. After all, soon, in a few months, we start working on the 2017 budget. [[Minister, one more thing.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-18-senat-11-2.u227	Mr. Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-18-senat-11-2.u228	I am talking about the measures that are being implemented by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, i.e. consular posts, not the Senate funds. Are you going to bring in, under this budget that you're going to share... Whether you are more interested in Polish and Polish matters abroad or strictly related to the competences of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, i.e. relations between individual countries, etc.? What's the priority? I understand that this will be, I would say, a polonium priority.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-18-senat-11-2.u229	Polonia matters are a priority for us. The issues of the community of Poles all over the world, which are connected by history, culture, tradition, language, that is, everything that makes us Poles, are for the political camp that creates our government, very important things that define other matters. So obviously working with our fellow countrymen abroad, with this, according to various estimates, 20 million people, are particularly important and important to us.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-18-senat-11-2.u230	Thank you very much. Senator Czerwiński is asking a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-18-senat-11-2.u231	Minister, using your presence... Although this is not a question strictly concerning this law, which, of course, I support. Could I present the amounts, rounded up, which are allocated by the Polish State to the Polish language of Poles in Germany, by the Polish State to the German language of the German minority in Poland and, if you have such data, by the German State to the Polish language of Poles in Germany? By comparison, of course. If not now, then eventually, in writing. I ask this in the context of the twenty-fiveth anniversary of the treaty... [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs Jan Dziedziczak: Of course.]] It is the symmetry of this treaty or the absence of it.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-18-senat-11-2.u232	Thank you very much, Senator, for this question, an important question. We present these data to our German partners. At the moment preparations are underway for the 20th anniversary of the signing of the Polish-German Treaty. This treaty talks about the rights of the minority of the Polish minority in Germany and the German minority in our country. The Republic of Poland is exemplary in fulfilling its obligations under this Treaty The German minority has very good living conditions and development in our country. Let us add that, despite the fact that budgetly, economically, our country is a poorer country than Germany, we are all fulfilling these commitments. In the Polish Parliament there are parliamentarians from the German minority. On the other hand, the situation of the Polish minority in Germany is bad, the situation of the Polish minority in Germany is unsatisfactory. It is worth noting that the status of the Polish minority in Germany has decreased as a result of the actions of the Third Reich, the Goering Directive. Strangely enough, we still see I'm just saying it with sadness. That the elements of these legal solutions from the period of the Third Reich have not yet been fully restored to the state before the reign of the Third Reich, which is today, in the 21st century, absolutely unacceptable. As far as details are concerned, they also require information from the Ministry of Home Affairs, because this Ministry deals with the situation of national minorities in Poland. Of course, we'll send all this information in writing to the senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-18-senat-11-2.u233	Thank you very much. Who of you would like to ask the government's representatives another question? I don't see any calls. Thank you very much, Minister. [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs Jan Dziedziczak: Thank you.]] Thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen. I'm opening a discussion. I have Professor Augustine in writing, but I don't see him. [[I'm gonna sign up.]] Senator Gogacz. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-18-senat-11-2.u234	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! Gentlemen of Ministers! This is a very important debate, a very important item on the Senate agenda. It is also a great joy for us who have believed very strongly that such a day will come, such a moment that what was good, what was just, what proved to be continuity between the Second Common and the present Commonwealth, will come back, that is to say that the funds we spend on tasks related to the needs of Poles and Polonia will return to the Senate. We believed it very strongly. Four years ago, when there was a discussion about it. The amendments were tabled in order to restore these funds, the amendments were even tabled by representatives of the club, which decided that these funds had been transferred to the executive authority. Nevertheless, for four years, these funds were not recovered. And certainly if it weren't for political change, if it wasn't for a change in power in Poland, if it wasn't for a change in government, we wouldn't have had those resources so far. We remember and there are a bunch of us, people who participated in that debate. The arguments that were then made, the arguments that seem to be... I mean, they were deprived of the basis for some rationality. 'Cause, ladies and gentlemen, even this bill that we're amending today... As the rapporteur, Madam President, has said, this is about more explicit standards, about normative principles, so that this is more clearly done. Well, maybe four years ago there wasn't. that's more explicit, but there were legal bases all the time. There were constitutional grounds, there were inspections of the Supreme Audit Chamber, and of course all the time. Because this law on which we are debating the amendment is from 2003 was this article. Article 4 (4) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013 shall apply. Point 28 states that public benefit organisations, non-governmental organisations with the status of public benefit organisations can pursue objectives related to Polonia and Poles abroad. Someone who stands outside of all this, someone who benefits from this aid, but treats this aid as Polish aid for Poles and for Polish people abroad, for Poles abroad and for Polish people, could of course ask the question: and what does it matter whether the Ministry and the government will give it to the executive authority or whether it will give it to the Senate as the second chamber of the Polish parliament? There's a difference. These arguments that we put forward in the earlier debate, through which we tried to prevent the financial resources from being taken out of the Senate... However, we pointed out that there is a difference, among other things. this difference which I said at the very beginning, i.e. that the Senate in the Second period of the Republic was called to care for Poles and Polonia abroad. Some might say, " After all, this care can still be provided. ' Senators travel abroad, where they meet with Polish environments, and this can in a broad sense be treated as care. Only that each of us, whether or not he is a member of the Committee on Immigration and Communications with Poles abroad, whether he meets with Poles on the occasion of other visits... We've visited twice... All senators who live in southern Poland and members of the committee went to the Czech Republic. When we go there and we say that the Senate is called to help Poles, when we see an object such as a Polish school in Ostrava, where there is a big inscription "Dar" of the Senate of the Republic of Poland, we know that we are helping. When we are in Gródek Podolski and we see a school which is in the Ukrainian education system, but teaches in Polish, we know that the Senate helps. But talking about the Senate helping every time you say it helps... When someone asks us for help in terms of investment, modernisation, purchase of books, textbooks or promotion of Polish culture by inviting a team from Poland, it turns out that we cannot do it because the Senate has no resources. Now it is put into use the House of Poland in the Bar, a beautiful house. Glory to the NGO, the Polish Community, that it has completed this case. But there's no Senate. There's a Foreign Office and there's a non-governmental organization. Of course, we are very happy that this has all worked out. There is the laying of the foundation stone at the Polish House in Lviv, the first Polish House in Lviv since World War II, and the Senate is not there. I'm talking about some investment and technical facts. There is a government of Poland, there is a Ministry of Foreign Affairs and there is a non-governmental organization, but there is no Senate. The Senate can, of course, attend various celebrations, watch as they are cut in ribbons. It's not even about us being there to be thanked. etc. The point is that we are developing a certain awareness about Polish and Polish relations with the Senate. Is the Senate really helping or not? As for the arguments that were made 4 years ago, I would like to remind you that we were also talking about the fact that it would be very bad when the government would transfer funds for the needs of Poles abroad in a situation where there are different relations between the Polish government and the governments of the countries in which Poles live. Poles who hold the nationality of a given country. When information appears that something is a gift of the Senate of the Republic of Poland, a gift in the form of investment, in the form of teaching Polish language or promoting Polish culture, it is accepted as a certain obvious fact, because there is continuity with the Second Republic, and we have a moral obligation to help Poles. It's kind of obvious. But when suddenly it turns out that the country in which Poles live, in which there are Polish environments, sometimes very numerous... What if relations between Poland and the government of a given country in which Poles live suddenly collapse, worsen? What will be the situation then? Then the aid, which will be managed by the Polish government, can be treated as interference in the internal affairs of the country concerned. Someone there can say that the government of another country deals with the citizens of our country, although these citizens are also Poles. I would like to say that the interest of citizens of other countries, not necessarily Polish nationality, culture and Polish language is huge. Ukrainians and Belarusians, who do not necessarily have Polish nationality, are very interested in Polish language, participate in Polish language learning, courses, etc. The point of discussion is that the funds at the Senate's disposal four years ago are returning to the Senate, which is a very happy point. I, of course, thank you for that.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-18-senat-11-2.u235	Thank you very much. I ask Senator Augustine to speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-18-senat-11-2.u236	Mr. Marshal! Gentlemen of Ministers! I think the most credible words from the Platform representative will sound these two words: congratulations and thank you. I would like to offer my congratulations to Marshal Karczewski and to the ministers. Thank you. We have lost, as Senators of the Platform, with this narrative, with the conviction that it is good that foreign policy issues and funds are connected in one hand, that it will be better if the Ministry of Foreign Affairs directs these measures and supports Polonia abroad. We have just protested for the reasons that Senator Gogacz referred to in the last part of his speech, because, of course, it is not about tradition, yet prewar, it is not about prestige. These prerogatives, which we have demanded to maintain, were related to the genuine concern for our fellow countrymen, who, especially in the east, especially in Belarus, are very much saddened because of their nationality, because they are Poles. In such a delicate matter, when Poland is in the heart, and another country entered in the passport... It is good to keep support tools that do not conflict with the people and allow them to give real help. And my previous speaker, Senator Gogacz, presented it very nicely here. It's often like this. And that's what we were talking about at the Parliamentary Group meeting. Cooperation with NGOs that aid to Poland is part of development aid. Now we return, maybe in a bad atmosphere, to the times of Solidarity, and yet this movement was helped by the United States Senate, not by the State Department. That's why, to avoid suspicion of a violent policy that conflicts. And this is where we get back to the good news. It seems that the Senate has gained enough credibility over the years about being able to do it well, wisely. Of course, Minister, perhaps sometimes you will have to reach out, sometimes argue with consuls, priorities, elections. It's a good thing that we're a little bit off on this assignment for non-governmental organisations that are going to distribute this money on our behalf. Once again, I would like to stress: this is an important day for the Senate, it is an important day for Poland, it is also an important day for us. It is good that we can enjoy together the good behind this decision. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-18-senat-11-2.u237	Thank you very much and I hope that we will adopt a resolution unanimously. I ask you, Senator Lightning, to speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-18-senat-11-2.u238	Dear Marshal, Ladies and gentlemen! Of course, I would also like to express my joy at the fact that today this legal environment is being created or improved, which gives us senators the opportunity to take again, after a break, is a huge task and challenge, which is to take care of Poles in the East and Polonia. And I want to focus my speech not only on congratulations and satisfaction, but more on challenges, tasks and responsibilities. 'Cause that's what we're taking on today. I cannot imagine, Minister, that we should take this responsibility without clear and very clear cooperation with the Foreign Ministry. In this connection, I thank you very much for this declaration that the Ministry of Foreign Affairs will support us, and this has supported us twice, because on the one hand as a resort which performs the tasks of the Polish state, in this case related to relations with Poles and Poles in the East, and on the other hand as a resort which has a clear set of current information, needs, signals that it will be very clear and clear to us in these matters. I mean, personally, I'm counting on the Senate and the committee I'm a member of... [[Even for every sitting.]] Yes, for each meeting; I am very pleased that you are already President with such a clear hint. Because things are very important in this area and it is important that we do not miss them as Poland. And the foreign affairs department is responsible for keeping the Senate from missing them. We have instruments that we will use and which we will have, making various decisions, but without the current communication these decisions may be affected by a crook. So this declaration of cooperation is not only a declaration, I hope, but also a task that the Ministry of Foreign Affairs will take on so that we have current information about the changing needs that exist. But, on the other hand, the Senate has had responsibilities from now on. And here he refers to Senator Augustine's words. It's connected with the fact that it's really... Well, it's not mostly, although I'm a historian and I'm also very happy that it's some generation of correspondence with the Second Commonwealth, but of course it's not just and it's not really important to recall history. The important thing is that, as the Senate, we are a liability to our constituents. The question is, how far do we reach these peaks? To be the House of reflection, to be a House with tools, time, and opportunity to discuss various issues in this case with Poles in the East and Polonia. And these are not easy topics when it comes to reflection, identification of needs and choice of strategic directions. As I understand it, our task as Senate is to make the choice of priorities, priorities for today, which are beyond the competence of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs only, but are also related to many other institutions that operate in Poland; I mean the Council of Protection, but also the Institute of National Remembrance, and above all the Ministry of Culture and National Heritage. And in these priorities, Maybe now isn't the best time to talk about them in detail. Besides, of course, we're gonna take care of ourselves and watch with care. what is happening with Poles in the East, what is happening with the Polish cultural heritage, sacral architecture, magnificent palace and court architecture, everything that is largely ruined due to the Soviet statehood that existed there, this is all our great concern about this eastern direction... Eastern direction, which has the task We as realizers of this direction Keeping the sign of Polishness in those areas. The sign of Polishness, which is in people, in those Poles who did not leave their homeland, are only in it, and it is still great, inherited to our days and generations, the Republic. Whether we call it the first, the second, the third, or we want to mark it with another number, it is the Great Republic, which is our heritage, and it consists of the people who live there, but also the cultural heritage that functions there. Here I am thinking, of course, primarily of cooperation with the Ministry of Culture and National Heritage, with foundations that are put into the blood circulation of this Ministry. And of course, this second direction, the Polonia of the widely understood West, i.e. Multigenerational Polonia, which, please, to some extent parallel to the 19th-century Polonia, must be seen constantly by us in the perspective of the emigration heritage. Emigration heritage, i.e. subsequent generations of Poles, who for one reason or another found themselves in the West. Without the protection of that emigration heritage, these Poles entering their natural new environments will become more and more distant from Poland. Their Polishness is among others. in the fact that there is a POSK in London, that there is a Polish Museum in America in Chicago, that there is a church of St. Stanisława in New York since 1874 that there is a church of St. Andrzej Boboli in London, one not different, with great information inside about the history of Polish emigration. The protection of this Western heritage, the protection of Polishness on emigration, is a very important task, also connected with the fact that in the West we are dealing with multigenerational emigration and on the one hand we have to look at it separately, and on the other hand we have to look at it separately. Together, each generation has its own dynamics and has its own problems. But, as I understand it, one of the priorities of the Senate should be to think about how to keep that Polishness in emigration in contact with the previous generations that were there. Paradoxically, you can say that paradox please unplug at the moment when it will start disturbing the Polish People's Republic in a sense there was a much greater ability of emigration to maintain continuity. Just as in the 19th century there was a greater ability to communicate between the generation of Adam Mickiewicz and the generation of Colonel Zygmunt Miłkowski. This emigration continuity existed along with tasks, with attitudes. Similarly in the Polish People's Republic, where, as it turned out, this great post-war emigration, independence, was very quickly able to become an authority for the poor numerically, but important emigration of the 1970s and later solidarity. It was not by chance at the convention of Solidarity, the only one, from 1981, one of the letters which was read in the very solemn formula, was just a letter to Poland, a list of workers of Solidarity to Polonia. The workers understood that there was communication, and in a moment some of these people found themselves in exile, and this connection was already there, after 13 December 1981. Well, under the conditions of theoretical comfort of the independent Polish state, it is quite appropriate to ask whether we should do more than It's paradoxical. The consequences of the existence of the Polish People's Republic. And I have doubts whether we as Rzeczpospolita after 1989 did everything to ensure that Poles living there on the one hand felt the comfort of the existence of the free Republic, and on the other hand felt the ability, also from the outside flowing, i.e. the Polish state, to introduce them into the blood circulation of the heritage of Polish emigration. And these challenges are not easy, ladies and gentlemen. They're not easy. At a level so widely told by me, they are of course acceptable, but we will see how it will translate into very concrete, also material issues, disputes, often very difficult to resolve. Let me give you just one general example. Because I do not want to offend any of the great Polish immigrants there today living Poles. But the fact is that one of such historical disputes today, so it is possible to talk about it, was it whether the legacy that arose there in the years of World War II and after the war... Or, for example, The great archival resources of the Institute of General Sikorski in London are to be transferred to Poland, whether they are to be our good here, because we have regained independence, or because of the heritage created there... I'm not just talking about the principles of archivism. I'm an archivist by education, so I know about the principle of pertinence and the principle of provinence. But that's not what I'm talking to you about. ... But whether or not this good is to be, first and foremost, the good that exists in emigration. So that after the great Dr. Andrzej Suchcitzu, other Poles living there could continue to live there with equally precise memory of the achievements of Polish emigration and sustain the existing Polish institutions. This is not an easy dilemma. From the perspective of the researcher's historian, I know that. It is also not easy from a perspective, you can say, a permanent-ownership perspective, in short. We're going to have a lot of these dilemmas as Senate, and we're going to have to solve them. Which is why I'm hoping that those priorities that we're going to set ourselves, which I'm sure we already have... A state much longer in this committee, not just one term, but a few term, has a great deal of work, a great deal of knowledge. Our president, Janina Sagatowska, also has a huge gift of influencing us in committee meetings, so that we think and not just talk. Therefore, there is hope that we will do well. But I also ask the Ministry of Foreign Affairs for constant assistance, constant preparation and such operational vigilance as to strengthen us and allow us to draw these priorities well. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-18-senat-11-2.u239	Thank you very much, Professor. When I listen to you, I wonder if we have too short a limit for speaking. If I may... [[Excuse me?]] When I listen to the professor, I wonder if the ten-minute limit is too short to speak. But take it as a short... [[Thank you very much. I take that as a compliment.]] [[A voice from the hall: Professor!]] [[Voice from the hall: For the professors 45 minutes!]] Professor, with great respect. I inform you that the list of speakers has been exhausted. To remind you that a representative of the government has undertaken to give a written answer to the question asked by Senator Czerwinski. I would like to inform you that Senator Ambrozik has made his speech in the discussion for the minutes. I would like to inform you that you have submitted legislative proposals in writing to Senator Sagatowska. The discussion is closed. As legislative proposals have been tabled, I have a question: does a government representative want to respond to the proposals put forward? [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs Jan Dziedziczak: No.]] Thank you very much. As legislative proposals have been submitted, the Senate directs the bill to the Legislative Commission, the Committee on Human Rights, the Rule of Law and Petitions and the Committee on Immigration and Communications with Poles abroad. Senator Sagatowska has requested that the committees set a deadline for the preparation of an additional report in order to carry out a third reading of the bill still at this Senate meeting. If I do not hear a voice of objection, I will consider that the Senate has accepted the proposal. I don't hear any objections. We can therefore move on to the next item of our meeting. We proceed to the examination of item 7 of the agenda: the second reading of the draft resolution on the establishment of 2016 by the Year of Polish-Hungarian Solidarity. I would remind you that this project was introduced by a group of senators and is included in print 79 pop, and the committee's report In print No 79 S. I would like to ask the rapporteur of the Legislative Commission, Senator Jan Maria Jackowski, to present the committee's report on the draft resolution.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-18-senat-11-2.u240	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I was honoured to present the report of the Legislative Commission on the draft resolution on the establishment of 2016 by the Year of Polish-Hungarian Solidarity. High Izbo, the latest history of Poland and Hungary clearly shows that 1956 is a special year. In Poland we had events of Poznań June, which later led to October events, post-Stalinian thaws, while in the case of Hungary we were dealing with an unprecedented and outside Czechoslovakian year 1968 the biggest armed act against communist enslavement in the countries of Central Europe after World War II. I am thinking of events in 1956 in Hungary. Both our stories, history of Poland and history of Hungary are somehow intertwined. It is a long-standing tradition of our common relations, not to mention that it was Prince Stefan Batory of the Sevenfold who was the king of Poland, little of it, who was the winner from Pskov, which in today's reality may take on a special context and historical reminiscence. There were more of those relationships. I remember perfectly well from my family stories that my older, already dead sister as a high school student in 1956, along with many young people from Poland, wanted to go to Hungary to help Hungary during these struggles. Thousands of Poles then declared such a will. It seems obvious that honoring the 60th anniversary in the form of a special resolution, which would establish 2016 as the Year of Polish-Hungarian Solidarity, is of particular importance, especially since we are sitting here in the Senate at the moment, and the European Council is held in Brussels, where very important issues are discussed concerning the future of our countries and of the European Union. On this occasion, it must also be remembered that Polish-Hungarian cooperation within the Visegrad Group is important at the moment to stabilise the situation within the European Union. Therefore, I have the honour to present a draft of this resolution and at the same time inform the High House that the intention of the applicants is as follows to parallel Although not on the same date, because it could not be done due to differences in the calendars of Parliaments' deliberations, resolutions were adopted in the same way both by the Senate of the Republic of Poland and by the Sejm of the Republic of Poland and by the National Assembly of Hungarians. Therefore, the draft resolution by us, applicants Because I am also a representative of the applicants, it was proposed in such a form, which was established between 3 high chambers, i.e. the National Assembly of Hungarians, the Seym of the Republic of Poland and the Senate of the Republic of Poland. As I stressed, it could not be arranged in such a way that at one time, although in three different places, we would adopt these resolutions. The formula, which is more descriptive, has therefore been proposed. In the text of the resolution I'll talk about it in a minute. It is proposed to refer to resolutions that are not yet in place. We have not formally adopted our resolution yet, and we are the first chamber to do so. The Sejm is due to adopt a resolution next week. Also next week... Or maybe next week... I don't know exactly what day it's gonna be. In any case, the last resolution will be taken by the Hungarian National Assembly. That's the calendar of the committee meetings. I would like to ask the High House to make such an amendment to the printing which you have received In order for the text of the resolution to be in the same form as the resolutions in the Seym and the National Assembly of Hungary will be adopted. Allow me to present an amendment to the text which is currently contained in the printing. This is an amendment that I make with Senator Stanisław Gogacz, President of the Legislative Commission, during which the resolution was designed. I would like to stress that during the committee meeting held on Tuesday at 12.00, all the senators participating in the meeting were in favour of adopting a resolution. The discussion at that time was indeed related to procedural and linguistic issues. At the moment, after consulting the applicants I was just their representative, so I couldn't make a binding decision. Senator Gogacz and I are presenting an amendment giving a new wording to the resolution. It is very different from the present one, but I will allow myself to read the contents of the amendment to the protocol and, of course, submit it to the hands of the Marshal in writing. The text of the resolution is replaced by the following. To commemorate the 60th anniversary of the anti-communist rebellion of Poznań in June 1956 and the uprising in Hungary in October and November 1956, the Senate of the Republic of Poland and the National Assembly of Hungary, convinced of the special importance of the anniversary for the common history of the two Nations, announce 2016 as the Year of Polish-Hungarian Solidarity. The heroic break between Poles and Hungarians was a manifestation of our eternal desire for freedom and protest against the enslavement of the entire region as a result of the partition of Europe imposed after World War II. Mutual solidarity and the assistance of our Nations in 1956 represent a special value to be remembered together. The resolution was adopted by the National Assembly of Hungary, the Sejm of the Republic of Poland and the Senate of the Republic of Poland. This is the content of the amendment. Of course, the draft resolution adds a sentence that is applied to us: The resolution is published in the Official Journal of the Republic of Poland. I submit an amendment to the Marshal and, please, request that an additional report be prepared by the Legislative Commission so that the third reading of the project can take place at this Senate meeting. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-18-senat-11-2.u241	Thank you very much. At present, senators may submit a maximum of one minute's query to the rapporteur of the committee and to the authorised representative of the applicants. May I remind you that the applicants have authorized them to represent Senator Jan Maria Jackowski. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? No. I'm opening a discussion. Senator Chudowska signed up to speak. Come on in.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-18-senat-11-2.u242	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Dear young guests, we are pleased to welcome you to the Senate of the Republic of Poland. Mr. Marshal, can we ask where these young people are from? [[From Podkarpacie.]] [[From Borek the Great.]] How? [[From Borek the Great.]] [[From Podkarpacie.]] Thank you so much for coming. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! We will probably unanimously adopt the resolution on the establishment of 2016 as the Year of Polish-Hungarian Solidarity presented by the rapporteur, Mr Jackowski, just now. The resolution is short, she only has to emphasize Polish-Hungarian friendship in the special year of the anniversary of the bloody Hungarian revolution. This resolution certainly does not give away all the wealth and all the historical heritage that these two nations have in common. There is a saying that comes to everyone's mind as soon as they talk about Hungary and Poland: Pole, Hungary, two nephews... But it wouldn't be enough if we said we were in such a friendship when we had to fight or when we could hang out together. Why such a long-standing friendship? In various studies, articles about this phenomenon, about the sense of such fraternal proximity between Hungary and Poles, emphasized that nations who speak such different languages communicate well in the emotional layer, in the emotional layer. In the age of the Internet... We now have the opportunity to travel, thanks to the broadest understanding of globalisation, we can often meet and exchange information, travel to each other. You can see that there is really an understanding between us that we are catching certain things on the flight. I am also saying this on the basis of my own experience, because during the last Senate term I worked in the Parliamentary Polish-Hungarian Group, I was vice-president of this group, and it was chaired by Mr Piotr Naimski. Now I also signed up for this group, and Mr Naimski trusted me and appointed me vice-president, and the others agreed to it. I would like to say that there has really been a lot of contact with Hungary over the last four years. And maybe not with regard to historical facts anymore, but with regard to affection, the history of our friendship... Sometimes I thought that this community of ours... It was the beginning of the 11th century when Hungarian Prince Emeryk arrived in Poland. He then did not treat this arrival to Poland as... just hunting in the Holy Mountains. And during that hunt he had an accident, and he saved him, as the legend says, a deer who had a double cross between the horns. This deer led him to a safe place where the saint... [[St. Emeric.]] For a souvenir of St. Emeric gave the monastery on the Holy Cross the relics of the Holy Cross, which the sanctimonious nuns have been boasting about for years. That is to say, St. Emeryk... Then... That's what I'm saying. I was more prepared to speak tomorrow, so I wouldn't bring up historical details, because there are a lot of historians in this room, and I don't want to put myself in danger. That's why maybe it's gonna be really short-lived... Then we had Queen Jadwiga, the daughter of the Hungarian king. With her, I would say, came to Poland wisdom and a certain social sensitivity. We all thank Queen Jadwid for funding the Jagiellonian University and for the famous words in defense of oppressed subjects that money and the return of stolen or unrequited property will not be enough, for who will return their tears. We were gonna... King Stefan Batory, mentioned just now by Senator Jackowski, Józef Bem... We had a lot of heroes in common. But also during World War I, when many Hungarians lost their lives in Świętokrzyskie and many Hungarian blood soaked into Polish soil... We parliamentarians from the previous Senate term have even funded such an obelisk in Ivanisks, with the inscription in Polish and Hungarian, commemorating the heroism of Hungarian soldiers in the fight for the Quail. A beautiful obelisk stands, you can see it on websites. World War II - a beautiful example of friendship between two politicians, prominent figures: Pole Henryk Sławik and Hungarian József Antall, who together brought thousands of people out of Poland, including Jewish children who were rescued in Hungary, had schools there, could... Some remained there for the rest of their lives, many returned to Poland. It may also be worth recalling that last year, as part of the celebration since 2007, established by both Parliaments, Hungarian and Polish, the Polish-Hungarian Friendship Day, which falls on March 23rd, in Katowice, a beautiful monument dedicated to friendship and this great heroic work of Henryk Sławik and József Antall was unveiled. From these Hungarian and Polish figures, kings, intellectuals, so to speak, we gained faith, we gained wisdom, we gained heroism, valor. So that the saying: Pole, Hungary, two nephews, and to the sword, and to the glass has a deeper justification than that which probably arose in the 18th century. Because this proverb dates either from the 18th century or from the 19th century, there is no certainty in the sources. But I do not know whether ladies and gentlemen of the senators know that there is yet another part of this proverb: the Pole, Hungary, two nephews, and to the sword, and to the glass, both of them, both of them wobbly, may their Lord bless them. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[The meeting is chaired by Vice-Marshal Adam Bielan]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-18-senat-11-2.u243	Thank you very much, Senator. Senator Ryszka.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-18-senat-11-2.u244	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The resolution on the Year of Polish-Hungarian Solidarity, as already mentioned here, especially since it will be taken by the Sejm, the Senate and the National Assembly of Hungary, is really very important, especially for today's cooperation of our countries. And although he emphasizes this heroic break of Poles and Hungarians 60 years ago, this protest against enslavement of the whole region due to the partition of Europe imposed after World War II, we must look forward to what we have in common today. But for starters, because this Hungarian revolution has not been mentioned here, I would like to stop at least for a moment, briefly, over history. To begin with, I will recall a dramatic announcement of the Hungarian radio of 4 November 1956. I quote: Today, in the early hours of the morning, Soviet troops began attacking our capital, wanting to overthrow the legitimate democratic government of Hungary. Our troops have fought. Help! Help! Help! The Hungarian Prime Minister Imre Nagy was so dramatic on the radio, who was hanged two years later by Soviet collaborator János Kádár. Not everyone may know that the police terror in the years of communism was much bigger in Hungary than in Poland. Since the end of World War II, nearly 500,000 people have been imprisoned and this has been a dozen percent of the population in Hungary. People were murdered under any pretext. Even many communists, such as the Minister of Interior László Rajk, were victims of Stalin's purges, murdered for alleged espionage to Yugoslavia. Christians were brutally persecuted, closing churches, arresting priests, including Primate József Mindszenty. It is true that it was the Poles in October 1956 who set an example for Hungary to introduce some democratic changes. It was the Poles who first showed Hungary that it was possible to drop Stalin's terror. E.g. On October 23, 1956, the Hungarian party newspaper Szabad Nép, published a paper by Władysław Gomulka on lawlessness in Stalinism. And that day, also as if under the influence of the text of Gomulaka's speech, the Hungarian Revolution began. It began with a rally supporting Poland's October transformation. Students of Budapest University of Technology announced 16 postulates, among them.: withdrawal of the Soviet troops from Hungary, the right to a multi-party system and free parliamentary elections, the need for economic reforms and the abolition of censorship. So, which gathered several thousand people before noon, in the afternoon there were over 200,000 protesters. People are on the street. The first shots were fired when the protesters were going to take over the radio and just read these postulates. So-called. awoshes is the equivalent of the Polish Security Service They shot dozens of people at the time. From this point on, regular fights began in Budapest. Part of the militia went to the side of the revolutionaries, the insurgents carried their weapons out of nearby military units, without encountering much resistance, and the weapons were removed from the arms plant. A crowd of tens of thousands knocked over an almost 30-metre statue of Joseph Stalin. On the morning of the next day, October 24, the radio building was captured. Soon, however, Soviet tanks called by Hungarian communists appeared on the streets of Budapest. On October 25, Imre Nagya was elected Prime Minister, unfortunately he was cornered in parliament by the Soviet army. When thousands of people came to free him, more than 200 people were killed. This was the beginning of a revolution that spilled across the country from Budapest. The Soviets began to suffer enormous losses, and Soviet tanks withdrew under fire and bombardment with gasoline bottles. In a few days, communism ceased to exist in Hungary. Unfortunately, the world did not come to help the fighting Hungarians. On November 4, 1956, 250 thousand Soviet soldiers stationed at the Hungarian border armed with armored weapons, supported by aircraft, invaded Hungary. In mid-November, the Hungarian revolution was suppressed. Nearly 3,000 people were killed, 20,000 were injured, over 200,000 emigrated. János Kádár, the first secretary of Hungarian communists, has received full authority from the occupier, who has been regarded as a traitor to this day. Mass processes began, resulting in the hanging of nearly 300 insurgents, and as I mentioned, two years later, in 1958, Prime Minister Imre Nagy. Several thousand people were imprisoned in prisons and camps, and many did not come out until the 1970's. Several hundred people died there under unexplained circumstances until today. It is mentioned here that Poland was the most involved in helping Hungarian revolutionaries. For many months Polish society organized gifts in kind and money, blood and medical dressings. Many Poles fought with guns against Soviet aggressors. In several Polish cities there were demonstrations supporting Hungarians' aspirations, among others. in Warsaw, Poznań, Wrocław, Olsztyn. So much for history. Someone's gonna ask if it's gonna happen today. 'Cause maybe it's just like in Poland. Is there anyone in Hungary legally responsible for the crimes of the communist system? As with us people of the old system, including many communist criminals, nothing bad has happened. Moreover, in 2001, as in Poland, the communists in Hungary returned to power for two terms, already as capitalists. When they finally lost power in 2010, they failed to account even for the government of Viktor Orbán. Its reforms to this day are the most attacking people of the old nomenclature and, unfortunately, the European neoliberal elite. The new Hungarian constitution does not like the European Union the most. Among other things, they were found in it. The preamble and articles referring to Christendom. There is an article defining marriage as a relationship between man and woman, thus excluding the possibility of so-called. homosexual marriages. There is a legal protection of human life from conception. The Constitution also includes a record of a forint as a national currency. The name of the State has also been changed from the Hungarian Republic to the Hungarian Republic in order to avoid any association with the Soviet Republics. Finally, the new basic law clearly condemned communism as tyranny. Importantly, the new constitution has become the basis of economic and fiscal policy, among others. banks and commercial networks, large foreign corporations, have been taxed, while fiscal burdens have been reduced for small and medium-sized enterprises. If we are thinking today about repairing the Republic of Poland, then Hungarians That's what I think. This time they show us the way to reform. That is why I rejoice at the last meeting of the heads of government of Poland and Hungary, who declared in Budapest that the next years of cooperation within the four Visegrads will be devoted to strengthening relations between Poland, Hungary, the Czech Republic and Slovakia. At present, there is a chance for the EU state of our part of Europe to present a common, coherent position, and I am thinking here in particular about the problem of the so-called. refugees from Asia Minor and Africa. So let the resolution on the Year of Polish-Hungarian Solidarity, which we are currently undertaking, contribute to the construction of our path to the future with Hungary. And as Senator Czudowska reminds me: Pole, Hungary, two nephews, lengyel, magyar, két jó barát. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-18-senat-11-2.u245	Thank you very much, Senator. The discussion is closed... [[No, I'm still here.]] Oh, and the senator. You're welcome, Senator Sagatovsky.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-18-senat-11-2.u246	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! After listening to the speeches in the debate, especially the speeches of Senator Czesław Ryszka, and also after talking to a colleague who also spoke in this debate, I have as if a request or even a proposal, in a sense, relating to ourselves, to the Senate, that, on the occasion of such important resolutions, which speak about the truth which reveals it... We keep saying that we have to stand in the truth about events and events. Memory is short, fleeting; we must learn to remember; we must practice this memory. We should even have some material with us when we're in the field, for a meeting at school or anywhere else, for example at a voluntary fire department or a kindergarten, so we can show it. This is the Senate's work. Why am I talking about this? Such a historical feature, which was included in the speech by the senator, attached by the Senate to such resolutions in the form of a notebook edition, once thicker, once thinner... It's about getting us something like this. As my colleague said, every resolution in such cases is dry, short, because it only has to contain a certain essence, to summarize something, and the whole truth is in some preparation, refinement... For example, I am already announcing that, at the initiative of the committee of emigration and Poles abroad, a resolution will be taken on the 80th anniversary of the deportation of Poles, and also Germans, from Zhytomir region to Kazakhstan. I had a historian, a professor's expertise on this draft resolution, so that it wouldn't be that someone would say anything, just that someone, based on historical sources, would submit to us... and imagine that I had already received a prepared expertise, such on 70 pages, about this terrible tragedy that was this deportation. And I'll want it later... I've already asked the Senate to issue it in the form of a notebook that will be attached to the resolution. And I'm going to suggest to all the senators that they take a look at it and pass it on. I will reach here for a song: we must sow! We have to sow. We, responsible, elite. We have to sow good. It is about the good and the memory of those who have fought for this good, liberty and all that is noble. We need to shift this to one another, and first we need to educate ourselves. Because to teach, you have to learn first. And that is my request to us at all, to work in committees and to the Senate Office, that we, I don't know, accept as a good custom this sowing of good. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-18-senat-11-2.u247	Thank you very much, Senator. I inform you that the list of speakers has been exhausted. I would also like to inform you that you have submitted a legislative proposal in writing to Senator Jackowski. Senator Jackowski also requested... I therefore close the discussion. In view of the fact that such a request has been made, the Senate is directing the draft resolution to the Legislative Commission. Senator Jackowski also requested that the committee set a deadline for preparing an additional report in order to carry out a third reading of the draft resolution still at this Senate meeting. If I don't hear any objection, I think the Senate has accepted the motion. I don't hear any objections. And I'm announcing a recess by 10:00 a.m. tomorrow. Thank you... [[We're still on the news.]] Messages, yes. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-18-senat-11-2.u248	First communiqué. A joint meeting of the Committee on Local Government and State Administration and the Committee on Culture and Communications on the consideration of the requests submitted during the debate to the Public Sector Information Re-Use Act will be held today, immediately after the announcement of the break in room 182. The meeting of the Committee on Budgets and Public Finances on the examination of requests submitted at the 11th Senate meeting to the 2016 Budget Act will take place today immediately after the announcement of the break in room 217. Joint meeting of three committees: the Legislative Committee, the Committee on Human Rights, the Rule of Law and Petitions and the Committee on Immigration and Communications with Poles abroad on the examination of requests submitted at the 11th Senate meeting to the draft law amending the Law on Public Use and Volunteering will take place today, 15 minutes after the announcement of the break in room 176. In the same room, the Legislative Commission will then consider the proposals submitted for the draft resolution on the establishment of 2016 as the Year of Polish-Hungarian Solidarity. Thank you. [[Adjournment at the meeting at 15 minutes 50]]
