ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-23-senat-21-1.u1	I open the twenty-first Senate meeting of the Republic of Poland IX term of office. [[Marshal hits Marshal's staff three times.]] I appoint Senator Alexander Swed and Senator Jerzy Wcisła to be the secretaries of the sitting, and you will lead the list of speakers by Senator Jerzy Wcisła. Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators, I inform you that today the Marshal of the Sejm, Mr Marek Kuchciński, appointed Minister Ewa Polkowska as Vice President of the Supreme Audit Chamber. Minister Ewa Polkowska is no longer the head of the Senate Office today. [[Applause]] [[We don't clap, we don't clap...]] The Minister's new position will take place on 1 July this year. Ladies and gentlemen, on behalf of myself and all senators, I would like to express my appreciation to Minister Ewa Polkowskia for her 25 years of work at the Senate Office, for her long service for the good and prestige of the Senate of the Republic of Poland... [[Don't cry.]] ...including over 10 years as head of law firm. Thank you very much, Minister, for the smooth, professional conduct of the Senate Office. I would like to stress that we all appreciate the high working standards introduced by the Minister and the kind involvement in helping us, the senators, in our parliamentary work. Dear Minister, thank you very much for your many years of work and for everything you have done for us and for the Senate of the Republic of Poland. I was a senator and opposition, and a coalition, and I can say that you could always count on the Minister. Very cordially, also personally, thank you for that. I wish you success in your new workplace and every success in your personal life as well. At the same time, Minister, I would like to give you the distinction of 25 years for the Senate of the Republic of Poland established in 2014 with your huge participation. You are one of a few employees with such a long working experience for the Senate of the Republic of Poland. You're welcome, Minister. I'll give it to you now. [[Applause]] [[Minister, thank you.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-23-senat-21-1.u2	Ladies and gentlemen, the marshal has allowed me as a guest... [[No, not yet, the landlord.]] ...to speak. I would like to say very briefly, without taking your time, that it was an honor to spend With some of you for 20 years, some of them a little less at the firm, along with our esteemed colleagues for 25 years. My heart stays in the Senate, in the Senate Chancellery, stays with you, and good thoughts remain here. Thank you for letting me serve you so well. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-23-senat-21-1.u3	Thank you very much, Minister. At the same time, I would like to inform you and the senators that Mr Jakub Kowalski, the current director of the Office of the Marshal of the Senate, has become the new head of the Senate Office. [[Applause]] Ladies and gentlemen, on 15 June 2016, Elżbieta Solska, senator of the third term, member of the Committee on National Economy and the Committee on Foreign and International Affairs died. Please rise and celebrate with a minute of silence Senator Elizabeth Solska. [[Everybody up.]] [[A moment of silence]] [[Give her eternal rest, Lord...]] [[The gathered answer:...and let the eternal light shine upon her.]] [[May he rest in eternal peace.]] [[The assembled answer: Amen.]] Thank you very much. In the absence of objections to the minutes of the 17th meeting, I state that the minutes of this meeting have been adopted. I would like to inform you that the minutes of the eighteenth Senate meeting, in accordance with the Senate's Rules of Procedure, are prepared to be made available to the senators. If no one of your senators raises objections to it, it will be adopted at the next sitting. Mr and Mrs Senators, the draft agenda has been placed on senators' benches. I propose to consider point one and point two of the draft agenda, although the prints for these items were provided at a later date than those referred to in Article. Article 34 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 2 Senate Rules of Procedure. If I do not hear the opposition, I will find that the High House has accepted the proposal. I can't see, I can't hear. In the absence of any votes against, I find that the Senate has accepted the proposal. I state that the Senate approved the agenda of the 21st Senate meeting of the Republic of Poland IX term. I would like to inform you that item 2 of the agenda, i.e. the appointment of members of the College of the Institute of National Remembrance of Crimes against the Polish Nationals, we will consider tomorrow at 9 a.m. A secret vote is planned on this matter immediately after considering this point. I would also like to inform you that, following the preparation of the report of the Senate Committee, the agenda of the current Senate meeting can be supplemented by a point on the examination of the Law on the amendment of the Education System Act and some other laws of the Senate Print No 215. The remaining votes will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. We proceed with the first item on the agenda: the Act on the National Media Council. The text of the Act is contained in print No 211 and the committee report In print No 211 A. I ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Culture and Media, Senator Jan Maria Jackowski, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-23-senat-21-1.u4	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I have the honour to report to the High House on behalf of the Committee on Culture and Media on the Act on the National Media Council and to amend certain other laws contained in print No 211. The Committee on Culture and Media took note of the Act at today's meeting. They were present: Minister Czabański, State Secretary at the Ministry of Culture and National Heritage, as a representative of the Government, and Madam President, Elżbieta Kruk, as a representative of the Act's applicants, because the Act on the Council of National Media and the amendment of certain other laws is a parliamentary project. High Izbo, I would like to point out that there was a broad discussion at our meeting with representatives of the National Radio and Television Council. They are at a meeting, and Mr President, and member of the National Radio and Television Council On the subject of the bill to be submitted. Two applications have been submitted. The first motion, to reject the bill, was made by Senator Boris-Damięcka, the second request, to adopt the law without amendments and to recommend to the High House such a position of committee, I had the opportunity to submit it. High Senate, during the vote of four senators voted in favour of Senator Boris-Damięcka's motion, 6 senators In favour of a proposal to adopt a law without amendments. Therefore, I am presenting the position of the committee, and Senator Boris-Damięcka is a representative of the minority proposal. High Izbo, this bill, before it went to the Senate, was quite widely discussed in the media, a number of opinions were presented to this law. This law generally changes a certain philosophy, which developed after the changes in 1989 in Poland, namely it changes the philosophy which was included in the Act on Radiophony and Television of December 1992. It was a law which set up the National Radio and Television Council, which liquidated the Radio and Television Committee, which was the Radio and Television Committee, and transformed the Radio and Television Committee's structures into separate commercial law companies. For many years the public media system was shaped in such a way that we included the Polish Share Company Television, the Polish Radio Joint Stock Company and 17 regional companies of the Polish Radio. They functioned on the basis of the Commercial Code as 100% share companies of the State Treasury. But to these companies did not apply the full scope of the Commercial Code, which defined the rights of the owner, the Treasury, only we just had lex specialis in the form of the Radio and Television Act, because the way the authorities of these companies were created was differently distributed. Originally, it was the National Radio and Television Council that selected almost all members of the supervisory boards, and one was pointed out by the treasure minister. This later changed, and the Minister of Culture and National Heritage was also attached to this decision-making process. The authority of the Treasury Minister, who was the nominal representative of the Treasury as the owner, was actually quite limited in the case of media companies because it did not have the powers which, in the case of other companies of the Treasury, had the State Treasury minister acting as a single-member general meeting and as the highest statutory authority in the company. High Izbo, the 1992 Law, de facto decided on the possibility of stubbornness or politicisation of public media under the law, was to be the opposite, and in practice this was the case. Over the past 24 years, or actually 23.5 years, there has been such practice that the governing camp has influenced the full cast of the National Radio and Television Council. I no longer go into details, but it is known that the governing camp had an impact on the National Council of Radio and Television. The terms of office were not established and the domino rule was in place: The National Radio and Television Council appointed members of supervisory boards of media companies, supervisory boards in turn appointed public media boards, and the boards already managed companies directly, i.e. they decided about heads, programs, internal structures and they dealt with day-to-day management in companies. Not going back to history, I'm just going to say that there was also such a practice that in the National Council of Radio and Television, the government camp... And let me remind you that the members of the National Radio and Television Council are calling the president, the Sejm and the Senate. At the moment, there are 5 people at the National Radio and Television Council. It so happens that in recent years, the governing camp in Poland had a total impact on the functioning of public media, as well as on what the National Council of Radio and Television has in its power, namely the definition of the system and media order in Poland. Mr Czabański, including the office, announced a large package of laws on changing this way of media management, moving away from company statutes, converting the media into something like a public benefit institution, and at the same time establishing completely new rules and stabilising the revenue of public media. It's no secret that the proceeds from the subscription have been significantly... It didn't always work. And after Donald Tusk's famous speech in 2007, in which he suggested not to pay his subscription, there was a drastic decrease in subscription collection. As far as public media are concerned, the subscription is important for public television, but not the most important, because in the stream of public television revenues the proceeds from the subscription are a minority, most of which are financed by own income, including advertising revenue. However, in the case of radio media, large radio companies and regional media, the situation is quite different because most of the money needed for their activities comes from a subscription. Therefore, small revenues from the subscription destabilize the situation of Polish Radio and regional companies of the big radio. In the course of the work it turned out that in this respect the original idea had to be changed, and hence this bridge law. It was tabled as a parliamentary project, a group of Members, and the applicant's representative was Mrs Elżbieta Kruk. High Izbo, the law which is the subject of our deliberations, is a short law, because it is, as Minister Czabański himself said, a bridge law. It sets out the principles of creating authorities in public media, and also includes the Polish Press Agency, which is the 20th company in the public media palette. That is: 17 regional companies of Polish Radio, a large radio, i.e. Polskie Radio S.A., Television Polska S.A. and the Polish Press Agency, these are 20 companies whose authorities, or supervisory boards, are to be appointed by the National Media Council proposed by the applicants. The National Media Council is to be composed of five members, of which three are appointed by the Sejm, and two are appointed by the President... But there's one in this bill. . and this should be emphasised. Another element aimed at depoliticising the functioning of public media. Namely, these candidates will be pointed out by the biggest opposition clubs. So Mr. President will receive applications for four candidates, if... four candidates from the Sejm, two candidates from the biggest clubs, and of them will appoint two members of the National Media Council. For the first time after 1989, or actually for the first time in history, we are faced with the situation that the opposition is legally guaranteed to participate in an institution which decides the authorities in public media. It is not enough that the National Media Council is something of a trust board, because members of the National Media Council and the entire Ingrio Council also have some powers to the extent that it is a supervisory board, so they have insight into financial documents, they can make inquiries, and they can monitor how the public media operates on an ongoing basis. And in this respect, this is a good solution, because in this way people of public confidence coming from the election of the Sejm or from the appointment of the President But this indication will take place in connection with the presentation of candidates by the largest opposition clubs, those people who have media knowledge, as described in the Act, will sit on the National Media Council and will create supervisory boards in these media. In the course of the Parliament's work on the initial submission of Seym printing No 592, the Senate adopted two major amendments, which I would like to mention. Among them, the most important amendment was the rewording of the article. Article 6 (6) (a) 2 the Act on Radiophony and Television, which states that the tasks of the National Council of Radiophony and Television belong in particular And it stays the way it's been so far. Design in agreement with the President of the Council of Ministers of State policy in the field of radio and television. The second amendment led to the withdrawal of the amendment limiting the number of members of the National Radio and Television Council to 3 persons. It was an idea, but it was modified in the course of the Seym. These amendments are prudent and it is good that the Sejm has accepted these amendments. We held a debate at our meeting. As I mentioned, two proposals were made: Senator Boris-Damięcka's motion to reject the bill and my motion to adopt the law without amendment. The Legislative Office proposed two amendments detailing the bill, but no one I would like to stress: no one The senators did not take over these amendments during the committee meeting, so these amendments were not even voted on. High Izbo, I would like to recommend to the High House the adoption of a law on the National Media Council without amendment. Thank you very much. [[The meeting is chaired by Vice-Marshal Adam Bielan]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-23-senat-21-1.u5	Thank you very much, Senator. Now I ask the rapporteur of the minority of the Committee on Culture and Media, Senator Barbara Boris-Damięcka, to present the proposal of the minority of the committee. You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-23-senat-21-1.u6	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! As was said by my previous speaker, this will be a proposal by the minority of the Committee on Culture and Communications regarding the proposed law. There are a lot of reasons, but I'm not gonna list them all in detail... You received the appropriate printing and certainly had access to the content of this law proposed by the Sejm. I would like to highlight a few very important things in which we should reject this law. I will make an appropriate proposal for the title of the Act, which at the moment is the Act on the National Media Council. There is no justification in any context for the use of a name which is proposed under the title of the Act, i.e. the name of the National Media Council. This is not a matter or a national problem. It's a law that talks mainly about public media. And that's the title it should have. I am sending everyone to the dictionary, please check what the national words mean, the nation. The only reason that could be applied to that name... Alternatively, it should be the Council of Public Media, because all the articles of the Act concern public affairs. Unless, in the next step, an attack on commercial media is also to take place, and all indications are that it would be that way. I would like to point out that commercial media do not include the concept of "nation," "national," "national council." It's such an exaggeration to add the seriousness and authority of this council. That's one thing. Secondly, the Minister at the committee meeting stressed that this was a bridge law. Why do we need a bridge bill that's so misplaced, so to speak, unfinished, so fast-tracked as you'd like to propose? We should lean on the creation of a fundamental law that we still do not have. You're pointing at us all the time. We, that's the opposition. That throughout our reign we have not led to the adoption of such a law. Well, now's the time and place to work on it. If you have better ideas The difficulty with the adoption of the previous law led to a delay, and this should be dealt with, rather than introducing another bridge law, some transitional act. Here's another thing. The content of this project discusses what candidates can be appointed to this council. I'm already abstracting from the fact that the candidates are only to be appointed by the Sejm and the President. There's no mention of the Senate at all. Has the Senate ceased to be a higher house? Why is it impossible for the Senate to submit its candidate to the pot of these 5 people if we agree that it is to be 5 people? I don't see why... There's no reason for that. There's talk of parliamentary clubs, opposition clubs, that they can submit candidates. What does opposition clubs mean? Ladies and gentlemen, if the next election wins not today's ruling party, will we change the bill again and change the candidates in connection with this bill? Are we just gonna do this because there's been a change? At the same time, you want candidates to be appointed for 6 years. So it doesn't make any sense at all. There are still a few examples of this. The division between the rulers and the opposition, indicating that the opposition will have... I stress that this division is not justified. Here's another thing. The process of prosecuting this law at such a rapid pace caused that no consultations were held. We didn't have a chance today at the committee meeting to hear the representatives of the environment, the media, their point of view, their views, because we received today before 11 a.m. this bill passed yesterday by the Sejm. Even we didn't get a chance to read it, see what was left of the previous bill, and what came out of it. Not to mention the fact that there was no consultation, as far as I know, at the meetings of the Sejm Committee and the Sejm meeting. And from the information I have from creative backgrounds, media people, media experts, etc., it appears that they were not asked for any consultations on this law. This is very disturbing and surprising. Now there's another thing I'd like to talk about. Many points refer to what authority a member of the Council may have, what he can do, what his appointment looks like, and who cannot be, are indicated by representatives of the President's Chancellery, representatives of the ministries, but nothing is said about the fact that a Member or a Senator should not sit on such a council. So Members and Senators can sit on the council and run. And it is called that this is a pluralistic advice, while there is not a single word about Members and Senators. I could give you at least ten more examples because I wrote so much in the context of this project. I will therefore make an amendment, as I said at the beginning. At the same time, on behalf of the minority, I repeat that the minority reports... [[Voice in the Chamber: Request for rejection.]] Yeah, for not voting for that bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-23-senat-21-1.u7	Thank you very much, Senator. [[Senator Barbara Borys-Damięcka: I will, of course, submit an amendment in writing later.]] Good. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the senators of the rapporteurs. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? Senator Boris-Damięcka is the first to be recorded. To ask a question or to discuss? [[Voice from the room: To ask a question.]] To ask the question. Yes? [[Voice from the room: No, for discussion.]] [[Voice from the room: To ask a question.]] Is it for discussion? Now there are questions. Did the senator sign up for the discussion or the question? I'm asking because Senator Secretary doesn't know. [[Senator Barbara Boris-Damięcka: Yes? I'm the first. Yes?]] Yeah, to ask a question. [[Senator Barbara Borys-Damięcka: In order not to take the time, please treat my speech and the case report...]] Senator, we're in a round of questions for the Senators of the rapporteurs. Does the senator want to ask you a question, as I understand it, Senator Jackowski? [[Senator Barbara Boris-Damian: No, no.]] No. [[Senator Barbara Borys-Damięcka: I realized that due to the lack of questions the discussion begins.]] Oh, no, not yet. [[Senator Barbara Borys-Damięcka: No, I have no questions for Mr Jackowski.]] I see. It was unclear, but it's clear now. Thank you very much. Who's next? Senator Rybicki.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-23-senat-21-1.u8	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. I have a question for the Senator Rapporteur, Senator Jackowski. [[Voice from the room: There is no...]] [[I am, I am, Mr. Senator.]] Mr Senator, was the opinion or opinion of experts taken into account during the committee's work, suggesting that the adoption of the Act on the National Media Council will violate the article. 213 The Constitution of the Republic of Poland, according to which authority responsible for the implementation of the mission of public media is the National Council of Radiophony and Television? The Constitutional Tribunal has already stressed several times that, in accordance with the article cited above. 213 of the Constitution and the Act on Radio and Television The National Council of Radiophony and Television upholds freedom of expression and independence of the media and is responsible for the implementation of the public mission. These records, which you are proposing, can create the so-called ones. competition with a constitutional body, which is the National Council. Were these opinions presented? And were they considered?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-23-senat-21-1.u9	You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-23-senat-21-1.u10	Mr Senator, at the committee's meeting on this subject there was virtually no speech, but during the debate this motive appeared; among other things. Minister Czabański mentioned that the introduction of this law would in some sense undermine the competence of the National Radio and Television Council. However, nowhere in the Constitution is it written that the National Council of Radio and Television participates in the creation of public media authorities. Therefore, this constitutional argument, taking into account the self-correction or verification of this original printing... I don't know exactly which opinion it's from... Why don't you tell me which senator you're referring to? [[Well, I'm citing to a pretty common...]] But what day? What's the date? [[Not for a specific opinion, but for all the opinions that emerged in the debate. They appeared during parliamentary work in the Seym...]] But I'm talking about the date, which is why... [[And I asked the senator if such opinions appeared during the Senate work. And if so, have they been taken into account?]] So here's what I'm telling you: the moment the article was kept. Article 6 (6) (a) The 2th Radio and Television Act, part of the argument, lost its meaning. And in my opinion, This is already my private opinion, because there was no discussion at the committee meeting on this subject, no one raised this thread, none of the senators, of the ten senators present at the meeting. There is absolutely no violation of the principle that you have invoked. So, in my deep conviction, it doesn't matter in this bill. Few of this, some of the opposition admit that the idea is rational and worth pursuing. He doesn't... He does not eliminate the National Radio and Television Council, but in a sense diminishes its competence, but the competences which gave the National Radio and Television Council the Act on Radio and Television. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-23-senat-21-1.u11	Thank you very much, Senator. Mr. Senator Klein.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-23-senat-21-1.u12	Mr. Marshal, I have a question for Senator Jackowski. The Act provides that the National Media Council shall consist of five members. It also predicts that representatives of opposition clubs will be able to join this council. Did you at the committee's meeting consider the situation... Finally, during the term of office there may be a change of coalition agreement, moreover, the largest club can become oppositional, the opposition can become ruling or the opposition join the coalition. Did you ever wonder what would happen to the presidential candidates who came from these clubs? Well, that's gonna cause some trouble.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-23-senat-21-1.u13	Thank you for that question, Senator. Well, at the committee meeting, we didn't really consider the situation you mentioned... [[Whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa.]] [[Senator Barbara Borys-Damięcka: Wait a minute...]] The kind of situation you mentioned, that the opposition club would become a governing club, and the governing club would become an opposition club... [[Talking in the O.R.]] Please don't disturb me. Mr. Marshal, because there are voices in this room... [[I'm asking you to calm down.]] Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. And now I'm going back to the essence of your question. The Act sets out a rule It's about the moment of creation of the National Media Council. What happens is done in a particular situation. However, a member of the National Media Council is inextricable and cannot be revoked. It will be possible if the law changes because it is invoked under the law. But during his term of office, he can't be... Unless he resigns, or is sentenced to a final sentence, and... there are still a few of these situations described in detail in the bill. Therefore, the question is purely theoretical. You know, on a similar basis, you could write an article in any law: unless there is no end to the world And then the Act naturally loses its validity, although formally no one has repealed it. [[Senator Rulewski was canceled when they changed...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-23-senat-21-1.u14	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal... [[I want to correct the inaccuracies as chairman of the committee.]] [[Senator Barbara Borys-Damięcka: Microphone!]] [[I'm sorry, but...]] But the corrigendum is about saying...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-23-senat-21-1.u15	Corrigendum. I held a committee meeting and, of course, it happened at the meeting, but it is only possible that Mr President was in a different place at the time. But we've been debating it. This is a situation we call "curiosal" in the record. Indeed, if the document states that it is to be a coalition, and that is to be an opposition, this document becomes nonsense after a change in this respect. We talked about this. And we still think that this is nonsense, but now I merely remind you, Mr President, that this discussion at the committee meeting was and is recorded. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-23-senat-21-1.u16	Thank you very much for this attention. But it's clearly stated in the bill that three members are appointed... appoints... that is to say, she chooses the Sejm. It is not said that they must be of the ruling coalition or that they must be of the governing camp. It is written that 3 are appointed by the Sejm, and 2 indicate the largest parliamentary clubs that... [[The opposition is said to be...]] Opposite. But it might be, Mr. Senator. Although I can see you're a little bit of faith. In consensus, the Sejm will elect three members of the National Media Council. However, you rule out this situation in advance. And no matter what... [[Senator Barbara Borys-Damięcka: On a formal matter.]] ...will be submitted to candidates by the biggest opposition clubs, and that's two in each option. Dear Senators, these are speculations that can, of course, be done with every bill... For each situation you can search for extreme paradoxes and can rely on them. I understand this method, it's a good method for the opposition. However, as rapporteur for the committee, I find it important to set up the National Media Council and the situation, the state at the time of appointment and, during the term of office of the members of the National Media Council, it is not possible to dismiss them, apart from the situations set out in the Act, inter alia. like, apparently, a permanent loss... inability to perform functions, conviction by final judgment, etc. And so the question was theoretical. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-23-senat-21-1.u17	Thank you very much. About the formal Senator Boris-Damięcka. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-23-senat-21-1.u18	Yes. I would like to say formally that I do not really understand why Senator Jackowski ignores a part of my speech. I, on the grounds of the minority's request, made it very clear that one of the elements of the justification for this proposal is that the text in the project speaks about representatives of parliamentary clubs, including opposition clubs. I used the word "oppositional" and signalled the problem. I don't know why you're so disrespectful about this, as if nothing's been said about it at all. That is what was said at the committee meeting, as well as clearly stated in the passed act. It's oppositional. And this matter in the minority's motion sounded out.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-23-senat-21-1.u19	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-23-senat-21-1.u20	Senator, I was talking about this. That's exactly what I'm talking about. I told you that 2 representatives or 2 members of the National Media Council came from indications of the largest opposition clubs and they are appointed by the President's order. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-23-senat-21-1.u21	Thank you very much. Now, Mr. Marshal Borusewicz.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-23-senat-21-1.u22	The minority rapporteur, Senator Boris-Damięcka, has overtaken my question, as it were, which I was about to ask her. I would therefore like to ask the rapporteur of the majority a question. You said that this procedure of the President's appointment of two candidates designated by two opposition clubs If by one opposition club, it depends on the situation This is the depolitics of the National Media Council. Is it therefore envisaged that representatives of these opposition clubs, if they are members of a political party, must resign from membership of a political party?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-23-senat-21-1.u23	There is no record of this in the bill.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-23-senat-21-1.u24	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal Borowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-23-senat-21-1.u25	Senator Jackowski uses such words as spells. the word "depolitics." Well, after that answer, you can see there's no depolitics here. Okay, well, he's been picking the council members so far, so it's fair to say that he's chosen himself in this respect. It's not gonna change much. It's just not to advertise it on purpose as a big success and change. Because it's not a change. And here's the question... Mr. Senator Jackowski is very advertising this way of choosing, i.e. that the three choose the Sejm, and the two opposition choose the President; because he has a choice there. - Yeah? - Mm-hmm. And even the senator suggested that these three Sejms could choose from among the opposition. [[Exactly.]] Well, that's a subtle joke, Mr. Senator, you laughed at it yourself, as you said. Because that's not why you write in the bill about choosing two of the opposition to choose three of the opposition. And so here's my question. On these five... How are these five members going to be, and this council is going to set up and cancel the heads of television, radio, etc., so what majority of the votes would I like to find out, will it make decisions there? Will it be a qualified majority, or will it be a mere majority?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-23-senat-21-1.u26	Mr. Senator, I just said that there may not be enough faith in these questions, because there may be three such excellent candidates among those elected by the Sejm, that even the opposition will support them in voting as elected by the Sejm, and regardless of that, it will expose those four, two of whom you will elect the President. We can't rule that out, since Senator Klein already assumed that maybe today's governing camp will be an opposition. So we have to anticipate different scenarios. It's true, isn't it? You will agree with me here that this may be the case. [[You should eat lemon, you'll get that smile off your face.]] What I would suggest is that in this discussion, without malice... [[But I have a question about this majority. What's the majority...]] No malice. 'Cause I can be mean too. [[Oh, we know, we know.]] [[Voices from the hall: We know, we know.]] And I don't think this is the place for us to be spiteful. [[I'm ready to stand, but answer the question about most of it.]] I answer your questions, of course. The answer to this question is that simple majority decisions are taken. [[Normal?]] That's right, three votes is enough. [[And thank you very much.]] There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-23-senat-21-1.u27	Thank you very much. Senator Żaryn.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-23-senat-21-1.u28	I have a question for the rapporteur of the majority. Namely, this model of election of members of the council would, of course, be called pluralistic, not necessarily apolitical, because I understand politics probably slightly differently than the opposition and I see nothing negative about it. I have a question about Mrs Boris-Damięcka's speech, but I am directing it specifically to you. The question is precisely in this connection with the word "pluralism": did the committee try to answer the question of why this advice would be called "National Media Council"? Whether this name is compatible, in conjunction with the procedures provided, or whether it should be understood Is it separable? And is the national expression really over-represented in relation to the actual principles of this law, or is it a logical term for what the legislators provide?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-23-senat-21-1.u29	Mr. Senator, there were specific questions on this subject, as I recall, Senator Zdrojewska was raising this topic. The Minister was in charge of this. And I'm sure the Minister, as a representative of the government, will explain it best. However, I would like to draw attention to one point: this law would probably not be at all if the Platform, which has been ruling for 8 years earlier, had implemented its ideas and if it had carried out what was announced by Minister Zdrojewski, as he was Minister of Culture and National Heritage... or a project which was prepared by the creators and which was to be considered... I don't remember anymore, but there have been several announcements like this over the last eight years. Even bands were formed. And now we wouldn't be in a situation... After all, there was an opportunity, there was a majority in the Seym, in the Senate, for five years of the reign of the camp there was a president who supported this camp, there was a majority in the National Radio and Television Council connected with this camp or just... So that there were all the instruments to take... But it wasn't done. And it has simply led to a situation in which public media are now in a situation, a situation that kind of puts them against the wall, especially in terms of the way they are financed. And the thing that's known is that for the public media mission, It is described in detail what is part of this mission. Measures are needed. Because it is often about programmes or programmes that are completely non-commercial, i.e. high art, culture, religious programs, programmes for national minorities, information programs that are expensive, probably the most expensive in production in terms of media production. So that it is, Mr. Senator, a whole series of events. And that is why the criticism that flows today, especially from the Civic Platform, in my deepest conviction, is simply turning the cat around and distracting attention from not doing what had to be done in previous years. Then we wouldn't have had a situation like this today that we're investigating this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-23-senat-21-1.u30	Thank you very much. Senator Wach.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-23-senat-21-1.u31	Thank you very much. I would like to ask the Senator of the rapporteur about the following question: does the law in any way change the number of seats or the way in which branches of TV Poland are established? Does the Act in any way concern this problem, namely the number of seats or the way in which branches of the company are formed?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-23-senat-21-1.u32	Senator, I would like to reassure you: nothing changes in this respect. This is enshrined in the Act currently in force. And in this respect, the law discussed here does not change anything. So that as far as Poznań Centre is concerned, centres in Szczecin, Katowice, Rzeszów, etc., so-called. regional or field centres, nothing is changing in this respect. And in general, this law does not interfere in any way with the internal structure of public media. Not in any way. She merely defines the principles of creation, appointment and competence of the National Media Council.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-23-senat-21-1.u33	Thank you very much. Senator Bear.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-23-senat-21-1.u34	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. I have a question for Senator Jackowski, the rapporteur of the majority. During the committee's deliberations, was the problem of choosing 2 members of the council indicated by the opposition raised? Was the question raised that maybe it's a bit of a waste? 'Cause it's known that the voice won't break through. At the same time, it is a certain shift of responsibility from the council to the opposition? It's a little hypocritical. Were these issues raised at the committee meeting?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-23-senat-21-1.u35	Yes, I can confirm that some of the debaters raised this thread. Words have been said that it will be a fig leaf, that kind of wording has been used, but most of the committee has not shared this point of view and this assessment. For my part, I can add that on many issues... Yes, theoretically there may be disputes concerning e.g. HR policy, hypothetically, may come to such situations. However, the National Media Council will necessarily have to address a number of substantive issues and divisions in this area can be very different. E.g. If there's a project that I don't know about, I'm considering it theoretically. Senator Wach, the National Media Council may be opposed to, for example, changes in the rules governing the operation of the field departments. some change in this area. The divisions may look completely different, so that it doesn't rule out in advance... Because it's not like those two members of the National Media Council designated by the president have a different status. They have the same status as any other member of the National Media Council as those three elected by the Sejm. They have exactly the same status. And resolutions will be taken by majority vote. So, yes, there may be a situation where these three elected by the Sejm will be unanimous to some extent and two will not. But there may be a situation where five will have a similar opinion on a case, and there may be a situation where one Seym and two Presidentials will have the same opinion and vote on these two Seyms. I would absolutely not rule out any situation... I believe that this argument is slightly missed because there is a certain principle of choice, but it does not divide individual members of the National Media Council into those who have a weaker voice and those who have a stronger voice. So I think in this case, practice will show you how the vote is going to go. Besides, referring to Senator Kleina's question, I'd like to say that if we're going to be theorizing like this, we won't know who's here in a minute... It's just that these voices can be different. In principle, I believe that this is a huge step forward. I would also like to point out that for many years there has been such a practice that the opposition had no representative in terms of the functioning of the media system in Poland. 'Cause even when the PO coalition was running, PSL, it's happened. And the vote at the National Radio and Television Council can confirm that. It was de facto a coalition between all members of the National Radio and Television Council. If the Radio and Television Act had been registered e.g. The principle that there are five members of the national council, three, I don't know, is indicated by the parliamentary majority, and two points to the president, but from among the biggest opposition clubs, it would probably be a completely different situation in terms of concession policy and many other solutions that were adopted by the National Radio and Television Council and which were controversial. So that in this case there is the will of the legislator This was the system that was proposed at the moment. Of course, we can discuss this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-23-senat-21-1.u36	Thank you very much. Senator Rybicki again.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-23-senat-21-1.u37	Thank you very much. I also have a question for the rapporteur of the majority. From this law, and I have it right in front of me, it doesn't come directly from what rules. Perhaps from various laws; please tell me whether this was the subject of the committee's deliberations The members of the National Media Council will be responsible for the actions, any actions that will be subject to legal review.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-23-senat-21-1.u38	This was of course mentioned at the meeting of the Committee on Culture and Media. You're right. There's no record of that in the bill. Mr Czabański pointed out that the National Media Council would have to adopt the rules of procedure for its action, which would largely define the procedures in force within the Council. But the bill is silent about it.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-23-senat-21-1.u39	Thank you very much. Senator Komarnicki.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-23-senat-21-1.u40	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. I have a question for the honourable Senator of the rapporteur. Why do you propose that active politicians enter the National Media Council? In civilised countries, such councils consist of independent individuals, without party cards, e.g. Rectors of the university, experts or media experts. That's what my second question is. Dear Senator, why should five people be on this council? Wouldn't it be possible to propose a six-person council to balance the votes of the ruling party and the opposition when you no longer want to have independent people there?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-23-senat-21-1.u41	Mr. Senator, I'll start from the end, from your last question. If it were a six-person council, it could be a voter, it could be a vote of 3 to 3. That's why such a grammar, for example. National Radio and Television Council... Why isn't the National Radio and Television Council six people? That's what I'm talking about. for such a reason and for such and not for any other will of the legislator who has adopted the regulation. The so-called question. active politicians. Well, Mr. Senator, if... the council can't have a member of the government, that is. a representative of the public administration. The fact is that a Member or a Senator may sit in it, the bill does not rule that out. He doesn't talk about it directly, but he doesn't rule it out. I would like to point out that both the Member and the Senator have been elected by specific voters. He legitimizes democratic legitimacy, he's not a usurper who owns a senator's mandate or a parliamentary mandate, he represents some part of the public opinion. If this is included in the design proposed by the applicant... In this way, in theory, we have a whole spectrum of political views of Poles who are taking part in elections. I'm speaking theoretically, because the perfect model simply doesn't build itself. I therefore find this allegation inappropriate. Do you think it would be better if we were on the National Radio and Television Council, where people who were once partying or conducting public activities were councillors or parliamentarians? That's what happened. That's how it worked. Well, it can't be that the bill rules out some government for reasons that are more specific. It is reasonable that there will be no representatives of the administration or government on this board. And that can be explained in a doctrinally way. But excluding Members or Senators, denying them the opportunity to sit on the National Media Council, in my deepest conviction. I am presenting my opinion here, and we did not discuss it in detail at the committee meeting. We absolutely will not ensure... If it were represented by corporations of creators or scientific corporations, it would not be certain that we would not be dealing with potential lobbying for any interests. You won't have any argument here.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-23-senat-21-1.u42	One sentence. You are an experienced senator, Senator rapporteur, and you know this very well that my question was going in this direction: even if the members were involved with the parties then, now that you are preaching a good change, you can do so. I want them to be independent.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-23-senat-21-1.u43	That's your opinion. I'm convinced... [[Which I'm entitled to. Which I'm entitled to.]] ...that a good change is taking place. I could give you a whole series of laws here, but this is not the subject of my report. Among other things, 500+ and many, many other solutions. [[Then let's not talk about depoliticism, because it's not right.]] [[Senator Barbara Boris-Damięcka: Exactly.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-23-senat-21-1.u44	Thank you very much. Senator Blackbay.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-23-senat-21-1.u45	Mr Marshal, I would like to ask you a question to the rapporteur of the majority. It was very interesting to hear from the senator, especially the thread in which the senator spoke about depoliticisation. In order not to lose what depoliticisation is, I would like the senator to say once again, as concisely as he said in his speech, what it is about depoliticizing national media. That's one question. And the other. From the statements of the Senator submitting the report, there was a need to set up a National Media Council in order to increase the revenues of Polish television and radio. Subscription, etc. You made that comparison. Could you once again specify, in one sentence, why are you calling this advice? In one sentence, not to prolong. Was it a slip of the income, or was it...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-23-senat-21-1.u46	It was a thought shortcut. Indeed. Thank you for paying attention, sir, because I didn't. That is, a law is being prepared that will concern new rules or sealing of the subscription system. I know they're going on or they're going to keep working on this subject. I propose to ask this specific question to Minister Czabanski, who is responsible for the government's relations... Not relationships. It is simply for the government to monitor the situation with regard to the way public media operate. So she's the most competent person to give you an answer. As I understand it, this is a bridge law, because on 30 June the law ends, which concerned such rules that the single-member board, the President of Polish Television, was elected, i.e. The management board is now larger and new rules for the creation of boards in public media have been identified. This bill expires, as you know, on June 30th. A large bill was announced or, in fact, a package of several laws that were about to define the new public media system and the new rules for their functioning, while guaranteeing their financial stability. At the moment, we're making part of this old package, namely the National Media Council Act. And, of course, this Finance Act, and that's where you're right. He doesn't say anything, he doesn't change anything about it. But the government announces that such work will continue and this sealing will take place. And when it comes to depolitics, we often confuse different concepts. I'll admit, sometimes I get confused, too. Namely, the denial and depoliticisation. And the public media, High Izbo, always operate in the space of par political excellence, because they operate in public circulation. And just like we have. such a situation that the Cortes are calling the power of public television in Spain, as we have the situation that de facto the Prime Minister of Great Britain appoints the head of the BBC, so we have the French model, which Poland somehow copied there, with the national audiovisual council. We have different creations in this area. It is impossible to create an ideal system that creates something such as public media, which are completely. I put an accent on the word "totally separated from political realities." This system has not been invented and there is no such system. Perhaps that is why some propose that the public media and the media should be left to private, commercial entities in general. There are countries that have gone this way, for example. The United States, where public media are actually very niche media, and the entire burden of social communication rests on commercial media. Each of these models, of course, has its pros and cons. We in Poland inherited a situation after a monopoly, which had a ruling party of PZPR and its coalitioners in the form of a Radio committee, which in fact was the first front of an ideological fight and as such was treated. This resulted in concrete arrangements, rules for the admission of people to work, programming policy, evaluation of programmes, creation of heads of the Radio Committee, authorities, etc., etc. In 1989, one of the postulates This was one of the postulates of August 1980 on the functioning of public media. And that's when the lively debate about it began. I'm going back to this because this is the point of importance of how to do this. So, above all, there was a law on the liquidation of RSW, because there was a de facto party group in the form of RSW There was also a discussion about public media, and it was carried out, and there was the 1992 Radio and Television Act, which I talked about a lot about, because it created the foundations of a system that... This law has had certain effects to this day. And now we have this situation that we are leaving this model that has been criticised. Well, High Izbo, when it was two thousand years ago... I'm not going to say which, then the rulers criticized television that it was bad. When it was other years, someone else criticized TV for some reason. And it's never been so that anyone would say that this system works perfectly, it's perfect, and nothing should change in it. They were extremely isolated voices. Mr. Senator, High Izbo, I was one of the critics of the 1992 Law, and there is evidence of it in writing. I wrote this in my books, in numerous publications and as a member of the media council at the President of the Republic of Poland in the 1990s I also publicly spoke on this subject. But this model was adopted and that was just how it worked. Now there is a change in this model, although please note that public media are maintained as share companies, as companies in such an organisational and legal formula. So in this respect, this law doesn't change anything.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-23-senat-21-1.u47	Thank you very much. [[I didn't check in yet.]] Senator Wach has already been... [[And so do I.]] [[Again.]] Again, okay. Senator Wach... [[And so do I.]] Good. Senator Wach, then Senator Fedorovich.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-23-senat-21-1.u48	Thank you kindly. I also have a question for the Senator of the majority. I would say yes... in agreement with your last statement, especially the initial part, and actually a little bit in denial, because you are the majority rapporteur who proposes to adopt a law without amendments, but I would like to ask if it would be worth introducing an amendment that would solve the problem of opposition representatives in the Council to some extent. In the mouth. Article 3 7 cases in which the body which has chosen or appointed a member of the Council may revoke it before the end of its term of office shall be indicated. And there are two cases. A third case could be added, it could be said that in the event of a change in the groups... those submitted by parliamentary or parliamentary clubs forming part of the Council of Ministers may also be dismissed by the appointing authority. It would give us a chance to have this theoretically desirable balance. Because if the groups referred to here were to change, the appointing authority could, before the end of its term of office, revoke the representatives he has appointed. And the question that was raised here could change. I'm sure... It's an art. Point 7 (3). It seems to me that this is a relatively simple construction, the more that earlier, in the article. 6, are listed parliamentary or parliamentary clubs set up by groups whose representatives do not form part of the Council of Ministers. So this name already exists in the bill. I ask you this, even though you have actually proposed... and you represent a majority who thinks that this law should be adopted without amendment.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-23-senat-21-1.u49	Mr. Senator, I can say that if you make such an amendment, then she will simply be considered by the High House... [[But would you support her? Yeah, theoretically.]] I would not support it because I believe that this law should be adopted as soon as possible and as proposed. This shape satisfies me. But, of course, you can make such an amendment. We will certainly bend over and vote at the committee's meeting. Of course, there's a situation here... It's just that I wish I could point out that you can't file everything in the bill. Every situation... There could be very different situations. The article you're referring to, Mr. Senator. 7, states, I quote: "The termination of membership of the Council before the end of the term of office shall take place in the case of death; the resignation of office Well, that's obvious. No one's gonna question that. Judgment by final judgment of the court... and further: lodging an incorrect judgment confirming the final judgment of the court. And now the mouth. 2: the expiry of the membership of the Council states... no, the marshal in the case of the three members appointed by the Sejm and the President in the case of those appointed by the President. Come on, mouth. 3: The Organ who has chosen or appointed a member of the Council... [[That's what I'm talking about. About the cancellation.]] .............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. Article 5 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 2 or 3; diseases that permanently prevent the performance of the function. [[And point 3, changes to the majority...]] Change of majority... Well, I would be defending the record here, which is now, and I would be against your amendment for a very simple reason. On the other hand, the members of the National Media Council should have as a guarantee their independence and sovereignty decisions, written down that they cannot be cancelled for some reason. Well, imagine the situation where there's a representative of the opposition club and for example. Because of some internal processes in this group, someone is filing a motion to exclude him from the parliamentary club. And that conclusion goes through. And that person de jure is out of the club for some reason, no matter what. It can be like this. Because of some political game inside the group. And then what? And then there'd be grounds for putting out a ticket for that kind of person? Well, it would be an instrument to act simply on such a principle. So from this point I would defend this record, which stabilizes the situation. It happens... The High Sejm, the Platform Club and the Law and Justice Club were chosen from these letters, which later, during their term of office, changed their membership for various reasons. There was, of course, an argument that, in that case, they should waive a senator's or parliamentary mandate, but apart from perhaps one... I don't know. I don't want to talk anymore. But this request has never been met. So that I would remain with the records that are now. But, as I said, if the senator makes an amendment, you're welcome. It's a possibility. [[Mr. Marshal, can I have another sentence? Because there's been a slight misunderstanding.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-23-senat-21-1.u50	Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-23-senat-21-1.u51	In your explanatory statement, you're talking about individual cases. And I'm talking about groups that are part of the Council of Ministers. But that's a little bit different.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-23-senat-21-1.u52	I agree, Mr. Senator, but I wanted to show you a variety of implications that could come up if we put one of these into this bill, I'd say, a gate. I think there's a state... I answer the questions that have arisen. Situation on the day, I don't know, let's assume, September 15, the date of the choice, and for 6 years from the date of the choice of this condition... Who was appointed by the majority of the parliament, who was appointed as the representative of the opposition by the President... This condition remains. And then what happens? It'll be six years and there'll be a new choice. Perhaps another parliamentary majority will decide on these three... Perhaps another president. We can't rule that out. It will carry out gestures of opposition clubs, just as it is constructed. And all possible situations Life, politics, etc., etc. In my opinion, such an act cannot be described in such a way that it provides for every possible casus.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-23-senat-21-1.u53	Thank you very much. Senator Fedorowicz:
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-23-senat-21-1.u54	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. Ladies and gentlemen, where we are, we should avoid hypocrisy, but it's pouring out of all of us. And this bill is the height of hypocrisy. Well, for example. There's a rule in it that the council consists of five members, but it doesn't indicate whether they're from opposition clubs or non-opposition clubs, and those from opposition clubs... Well, it's some kind of legislative psychic that I'm sure will be researched in law schools. Senator, the rapporteur has to try anyway... I'm gonna ask you to... in Article 4, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: The 4th is that the term of office of a member of the council lasts six years, but it hasn't been written since. Well, it's a problem that needs to be solved. And there's an adjustment. Maybe somebody can make it. And I have two questions. Mr President, the Senator rapporteur himself said that it is not entirely right that the Senate does not have the right to vote on the appointment of candidates, which I consider to be complete nonsense, because in such a large country... After all, we, the senators, are the people who most, you can say, have come to know life. That's one thing. Second... And that's gonna be a question about something that's not in the bill. What's it like with senators and MPs who might be on the National Media Council? Is there... like... I'd be happy to be on this council, because as a member of this board, I'd get, according to the law, a national average. But would I also have the right to take a diet as a senator and a senator's salary? If it's not in the bill, I'd like someone to explain it to me. Because there is a suspicion that this was done so that Members and Senators can make extra money if they do not, of course, have to give up their mandate and pay the parliamentary... Probably not from the ticket, 'cause it doesn't say. But what about the embassy? I respect the national average, Senator, but I'm afraid it will be difficult to find people with suitable professional achievements who would like to take such a serious role for the national average. I'd also like to correct... I asked us not to go back to history at the committee meeting, but I would remind you that there are two opposition representatives at the National Radio and Television Council who have been sitting on the National Council for many years, and no matter how we cursed reality, the truth is... Whether it's hypocrisy or not... The fact is, there are left-wing representatives in the council. And that would actually be all about the extra questions for now. Maybe I'll ask another one later.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-23-senat-21-1.u55	Thank you very much, Mr President. For me, it's a key issue... As for the reference to what I was saying... As for the coalitions at the National Radio and Television Council... For me, the choice of members of supervisory boards in this pool, which belongs to the National Radio and Television Council, is crucial. And in many cases it was in consensus, it was established and it was done. And it didn't matter that the left, as you said, or the candidate who's on the National Council who was somehow there. indicated or tied to the left, in some sense did not participate in this coalition, although formally Of course you're right. He wasn't in the government coalition. It was similar with the election of 5 members of the Court of Justice on the basis of the Constitutional Court's Act on the Constitutional Court repealed. Leszek Miller and his camp in that term gave the candidates to the Constitutional Tribunal for this Friday and later publicly apologized to the public for being involved in this disturbance because they were elected there. So, in fact, there was a coalition to choose from, although Leszek Miller was not formally a member of the ruling coalition at the time, but a coalition of a certain business, let's call it, there was. Now the Senate issue. Mr President, we have asked Mr Czabański about this, and I have also discussed this topic in my speech. I understand that... all the more so because there is a situation that the National Media Council, which we have not discussed so far, report once a year on its activities, submit them to the President, before the Seym and before the Senate. Minister Czabański answered the question of why the Senate does not participate in this creation, that it does not exclude senators from sitting on this council. And in theory it is because these are opposition clubs, and parliamentary clubs are parliamentary and senator clubs, they will indicate the candidate and they can, for example. indicate the senator. If the opposition club points out to the senator, he can be appointed by the president, so that can't be ruled out. And the third point you mentioned was the issue of the fee. The law states that the provisions relating to members of supervisory boards shall apply accordingly. This is not, as I understand it, a form of employment, a membership of the National Media Council is not a form of employment. Of course, if there are business trips, there are away meetings, there is reimbursement of costs, there is a diet, etc., but on general terms, on the basis of general regulations, but this is not the kind of employment that would require 8 hours of work per day. So... I'm talking about this because you raised some doubt here, and it came to the conclusion that a professional who is not a politician would probably disagree with this national average because he would have thought that he had to make more money. In my opinion, there is no such danger here, because it is a kind of lump sum or remuneration for members of supervisory boards, which regulates the relevant rules. So you can do your job, you can do your job somewhere, you can be in different relationships, and at the same time you can be a member of the board of directors. It's the same thing to be... [[As a senator, I can't, Mr. Senator...]] You can't, of course you can't, but in this case there's no ban on enforcement and there's no provision in the law that, for example, if. Parliamentarian, let's talk more, not just a Member, but also a senator, will become a member of the National Media Council, he will not be able to take a diet or will not be able to take a full salary at the moment. That's not in the bill. So that, of course, it can happen that a parliamentarian who works will take a diet and an allowance will, of course, be entitled to an office and will also receive an allowance as a member of the National Media Council. It's obvious, it comes directly from this bill. If I had said otherwise, I would have misled the High House. I would like to point out that the element that Mr Senator has raised is an interesting element at all, because there are many parliamentarians, who are e.g. Secretarys of State or Ministers, they are government officials and have the right to collect funds, although they do not then receive salaries, but have the right to a diet, have the right to funds for the office, etc. They have to decide. They can stay. either on the salary or on the ministerial salary. As far as the diet is concerned, as regards the means for running the parliamentary office or, by analogy, the senator's office, they have the possibility to do so.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-23-senat-21-1.u56	Thank you very much. [[I'm on a formal issue, Mr. Marshal. I'm sorry.]] Senator Zdrojewska on a formal matter. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-23-senat-21-1.u57	Mr. Marshal, I would very much like to ask the senator to pay his attention and ask him not to go so far beyond the scope of the questions and beyond what was mentioned at the committee meeting because it is really hard to hear. Perhaps it's a good thing to say, Senator, but it's very difficult to listen to such multi-minute speeches. So I'm going to ask you very much to shorten your speeches that go beyond the subject. You're welcome. [[Senator Czesław Ryszka: Questions go beyond matter.)]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-23-senat-21-1.u58	Thank you very much, Senator. But first of all... [[But I have to answer...]] ...questions often go beyond matter, that is, beyond the committee's own report 'Cause that's what the questions should be about. And secondly, it is difficult for me to censor the rapporteur. [[What questions, such answers.]] Senator Florek. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-23-senat-21-1.u59	My question is also to the Senator of the rapporteur... You said that the members of the National Council elect the Sejm, the Senate, the President of the Republic of Poland. With regard to the National Media Council Act, I would like to remind you that this is a parliamentary project, that is, Members of Parliament, I think that Members of Law and Justice The Senate was not included in this project, but it was foreseen that three representatives were elected by the Sejm and two were appointed by the President. It seems unacceptable to me that we, as Senate, do not make an amendment here. I hope you will support my amendment. However, so that not three, only two representatives elected the Sejm, and one representative elected the Senate of the Republic of Poland because of the rank and, as always so far, it was necessary to divide it in some way. And one more question for the rapporteur. In Article 2, paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: 5 it is written that a member of the board may be a person who has Polish citizenship, has not been convicted by a final judgment and stands out by knowledge and experience. Is such legitimacy of standing out only with knowledge and experience to be a member of such an important National Media Council sufficient? Did you discuss this at the committee meeting? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-23-senat-21-1.u60	There was no wider discussion on this subject. To tell you the truth, those who will designate or propose will have to assess for themselves whether the person they propose meets these criteria, because whoever they propose will of course bear witness to them. This is not specifically stated in the Act that such a person, e.g. He has to, I don't know, work in the media for 20 years... These criteria have not been written down. So that there was no wider discussion on this subject. But I cannot imagine that in practice they are people who do not have any more knowledge about the functioning of the media system in Poland and in particular public media. And as far as the amendment is concerned, the senator will certainly put it together and then we will vote on it.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-23-senat-21-1.u61	Thank you very much. Senator Bear.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-23-senat-21-1.u62	Senator rapporteur, I have a question about the name of the bill. Was that the discussion at the committee meeting? Because the name of the bill is: the National Media Council Act. In Article 2, paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: 5 the conditions to be met by a candidate for the National Media Council are set out. Was there an issue of nationality raised? Because here, as I understand it, the word "national" means that it is about the Polish media, the Polish people... Was there a problem, what would be the problem if the majority of members or all members... or the majority of members were of a different nationality, had Polish citizenship, but had a different nationality? Will the National Media Council then continue to comply with this requirement, which, I understand, is kind of in the spirit of this law?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-23-senat-21-1.u63	There was a discussion on this subject in part. Senator Zdrojewska raised this issue in the discussion. Minister Czabański has responded to this. I think if you ask that question, the Minister will answer the senator as well. As rapporteur, I can say that these criteria are clear to me. And it absolutely does not matter what the ethnic origin of this person is if it has Polish citizenship. For this reason, I would absolutely not crush a copy, because in this way any law that defines a catalogue of persons who can perform some functions, have some privileges or duties... This is described as a requirement of Polish citizenship and I propose to stick to that. And as for my answers... Well, they're exactly what the questions are. If the questions go beyond matter, I'm trying to answer them, Senator. I address Senator Zdrojewska here. So if there are specific questions about what happened in the 13th minute of the sitting, then I will talk about what happened in the 13th minute of the sitting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-23-senat-21-1.u64	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal Borusewicz. [[No, thank you, it's...]] Thank you. Senator Rotnicka.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-23-senat-21-1.u65	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. I have some doubts about how this advice is organized and how it works. In Article 2, paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: 4 states that the term of office of a member of the Board lasts 6 years, but it is not known for what time She's starting. Will all members of the council be called at the same time? And when? This is also related to the article. 23, which refers to the fact that before the date of the meeting of the Council for the first meeting on matters of urgency, the Minister responsible for State treasury matters shall carry out acts which are legally reserved for the Council. The point is that it is not known when this council will meet, it is not known when we will call it, and therefore the minister can do whatever he wants. And this counsel is to rule on personal matters. What's the explanation? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-23-senat-21-1.u66	Thank you for that question, Senator. This issue was raised by a representative of the Legislative Office. She tabled a proposal for an amendment, but none of the senators present at the meeting And that's what I said in my report when I presented this bill to the High House, and it didn't take over this amendment. This does not mean that it will not be submitted, because we are in the process of the legislative process. And as for this article. 4 in connection with... [[Art. 23.]] Yeah, it's about art. 4 in conjunction with Article. 23; that is what the senator asked. That's how I understand it. That's my interpretation. That if the council hadn't been called to the first... [[Talking in the O.R.]] ...until 30 June, or rather it is impossible for it to be established, then this law is in force, in this respect introduced on 30 June. That's how I understand it. That's how I interpret it. And as soon as the first meeting of the Council is held, Article. 23 will be... I mean. it shall cease to operate from the first meeting of the Council. [[Can I fill in the question?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-23-senat-21-1.u67	You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-23-senat-21-1.u68	Don't you think it should be a transitional article saying that until... etc.? You can also give a definition of that time, not too long. Because that's when you, you know, give... It actually contradicts what you want to do. It's for this council to decide, not the minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-23-senat-21-1.u69	Senator, in conjunction with the article. 23... if I'm not mistaken, there was no discussion about it. And if the senator thinks there's a need for an amendment, just make it. We'll look into it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-23-senat-21-1.u70	Thank you very much. Senator Blackbay.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-23-senat-21-1.u71	Mr. Marshal, High Senate, I have a question for Senator Jackowski. Mr. Senator, as I understand from you, 30 June ends with the current law. Draft laws should be submitted to deal with the matter in a comprehensive manner. Given the lack of time and the need for discussion, they are not submitted and this proposal is submitted. I understand it's some kind of forpost: something will happen, and for now let's do it. Did you consider, at the committee meeting, whether it would be better to extend the existing law not until 30 June 2019? Nothing would have changed anyway, and it would have been time to work quietly on this bill. That's the first question. And the other. I go back to politics all the time. Have you considered such an element: if it were so that 5 members of the council would be chosen from the rightly planned group And there would be a new radio committee within the framework of the implementation of this law, are there any safeguards in this law that would prevent this situation from happening as part of this fantastic phenomenon of combating media politicisation? [[But please specify the question, because...]] Again, that's the second question. Was there a discussion at the committee on safeguards against the fact that five members of the National Media Council would be members of one group? Of course, other security features than goodwill.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-23-senat-21-1.u72	Well, this is a theoretical situation and we did not discuss it in detail at the committee meeting. As regards the entry into force of the Act, Art. 25 says that the law shall enter into force after 7 days of notice except for Article. 19, which shall enter into force on the day of the announcement. Art. 19: In the Act of 30 December 2015 amending the Act on Radiophony and Television art. 4 is replaced by the following: "The Act shall enter into force on the day following the date of its publication. So that's plus this article. 23, mentioned by Senator Rotnicka, makes it possible that the National Media Council could be chosen in theory, e.g. in July, i.e. after the expiry of this law from the 30th, and nothing interferes in the legal system, there is no situation that would leave a legal gap.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-23-senat-21-1.u73	You're welcome, Senator Blackbay wants to ask.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-23-senat-21-1.u74	Mr. Marshal, Mr. Senator, that's not what I asked you. I'm gonna ask you one more time because maybe I've done too much talking. Did you consider at the committee meeting that, in order not to bring about the changes that this law brings, a law that changes nothing in the legal and media situation for the better and even for the worse Did you consider the State at the committee meeting, whether there was such a discussion, extending the period of operation of the Law of December not until 30 June, or for example. until 30 June 2019?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-23-senat-21-1.u75	There was such a wreath in the speech, in the voice of one person, but there was no detailed discussion about it. I don't remember, but one of the senators talked about it, either Senator Zdrojewska, or Senator Borys-Damięcka raised this issue, justifying their motion to reject the bill. I can confirm it happened.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-23-senat-21-1.u76	Thank you very much. Senator Rybicki.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-23-senat-21-1.u77	Thank you. Mr. Senator, the bill contains a fairly enigmatic description of the location of the program board. There is no information on how the programme board is shaped and what competence it has. Was this subject discussed during the committee's work? If so, how was the enigmatic and up-to-date treatment of the program board translated?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-23-senat-21-1.u78	This thread appeared in the course of the discussion, Mr Czabański spoke on the subject and I propose that the senator ask him that question.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-23-senat-21-1.u79	Thank you very much. Senator Florek.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-23-senat-21-1.u80	Mr. Rapporteur, two questions on Article. 11. The Council meeting shall be convened by the chairman of the Council. And what happens if the chairman of the council doesn't call a meeting or delay it? There's no other form planned here... There's only the chairman of the council. Well, what if he gets sick, he's gone? And the question is, did you talk about it? And then there's the second line. Paragraph 4: The detailed procedure for the work of the Board shall be laid down in the Rules of Procedure of the Board. I have a question: is this board policy... Because in our experience, we remember the way the Constitutional Tribunal works, who determines... Is this the board's policy of approval, or is it the council just setting up its own mode of operation and that's it?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-23-senat-21-1.u81	Mr. Senator, I'm literally reading the bill, and I can see that there's no way in the bill that anyone would approve the board's regulations. The Council shall adopt it itself at its meeting. I practically imagine it this way: at the first meeting, when the Council is forming itself, it will simply also establish the mode and principles of its work. It will probably adopt the Rules of Procedure or simply decide to draw it up and at its next meeting it will approve the Rules of Procedure. In any case, this is where the council has autonomy in shaping this. Of course, it must be borne in mind that such regulations must fall within the legal and legal framework and must therefore not go beyond what is enshrined in the law. As far as the first question is concerned, the board is taking... The meetings of the Council shall be convened by the Chairman of the Council. In one of the senator's statements, there was such a thread that the statute or act did not provide for the function of Vice-President of the Council, and therefore, theoretically, the element of the dispute between the President and some members of the Council may appear. But these are situations, I'd say, hypothetical. On the other hand, it is also rational to argue that, in a 5-person group, the multiplication of functions such as secretary, first deputy, second, ordinary member, unusual member, etc., would be a little bit... It is such a small body that it will have to develop rules of action in the course of its ongoing work. As for the question of what's going to happen if the president doesn't want to... Well, I'm sure the board members will be taking a stand. After all, a member of the council can comment publicly on the subject and may draw public attention to something. Well, there are different instruments. I assume, Mr. Senator, that this council will be addressed by people who have some experience in the functioning of public life, not just by the media system.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-23-senat-21-1.u82	Thank you very much. Senator Piech.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-23-senat-21-1.u83	I have a question for you, senator of the minority rapporteur. Because she, speaking of the National Media Council Act, said that the word "National" is so... Well, you shouldn't be in that name, you should be talking about the public media council. I would like to point out that national media exist in Germany because Germany has 100% in their media Your capital, and this on TV, and on the radio, and in the press. And if you look at our media, written press, you can see that 85% is concentrated in the hands of German or Swiss capital and others. Therefore, this road which we are going at the moment is an attempt to rebuild the role of Polish media in our reality. Public television should be such a medium as to have adequate funding, the subscription is to be downloaded as it is in Germany, France, the UK, and not... [[I'm sorry, but again, because the senator... and you're addressing her, so I'm sorry, sir...]] But... Okay. [[Why are you interrupting?]] [[Because you said the rapporteur...]] [[Just a question, just a question.]] But... Okay, but... [[Calm down, please. Calm down, please!]] But that's later... I will ask the question: is this model of media that we have in Poland now, i.e. 85% The press is in the hands of German or foreign capital, is it acceptable to you? In the case of television, it's the same thing. And how are we, Poles, to communicate with our society when we are now doing this through media, where capital is foreign? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-23-senat-21-1.u84	Thank you. You can answer from your seat, Senator. [[Senator Barbara Boris-Damięcka: I understand that this is a question for me.]] I think so. That's how I understood the senator. [[Senator Barbara Boris-Damięcka: Mr. Marshal, allow me to reply from this place because it is difficult for me to move.]] Yeah, yeah, I said it, I just asked the senator to answer from the spot. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-23-senat-21-1.u85	Thank you. Sir, this bill is about electronic media. In this bill there is no problem of press media, paper media, newspapers, weeklys, etc. It's about electronic media... [[I know...]] So it's as if the question is unfounded. [[Why unjustified? You said that the national language is no longer in your political language, but only in your public language. I think it should be national media, that is, our Polish media.]] [[Voice from the room: This is not a discussion.]] [[I understand, but we're not at the stage of the discussion right now, so please ask questions. And the senator answered the question, didn't she?]] That's why... [[Please...]] Thank you. That is why I believe that the name should be public media, that it concerns society, concerns regions, and also concerns religious and religious unions. That's the media. He has no idea about national media. Explain to me what national media is about this. Because you speak our Polish. A public media aren't these ours, polish? And the media of religious unions aren't they our Polish citizens? All media in Poland concern Polish media. And Polish doesn't mean national, and national doesn't mean Polish. I suggest you look in the dictionary, what it means to be a national, what it means to be a nation, to be a national, to be a national media. Because this concept should be known to all of us. We're making a bill... [[Mr. Marshal, is this a debate, or are these questions?]] Rather, a law on public media should be drawn up.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-23-senat-21-1.u86	Thank you very much. That was the last question, wasn't it? There's no more... [[Wait a minute, I volunteered.]] I don't have that information from Senator Secretary, but if you volunteered, of course... Senator Augustine.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-23-senat-21-1.u87	On the same point, to the Senator-rapporteur. Each bill has its object. And here it's clear that this is a pick that tries to complete media politicization. It's clear. It's written down. But in fact, the law also has its subjective, subjective scope. Well here is a very serious problem, really a very serious legal problem, because in Poland we do not have defined national media. [[Voice from the room: It's just an own name...]] It's not just a matter of name. The National Media Council is not an own name... [[Ask the question.]] ...only the identification of the entity concerned. Well, I'd like to know from the Senator rapporteur, you've been discussing this. Because everything else that's written must refer to this entity. Where is he? He's not in the vocabulary because there's no vocabulary. There is no such term in the common language. So what kind of media is this advice? I'm very interested in answering that question.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-23-senat-21-1.u88	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-23-senat-21-1.u89	Mr. Senator, there's been a discussion on this, there's been an exchange of views. Minister Czabanski He rightly pointed out that, when it comes to e.g. about the public media, it is said to be the TV Poland SA. However, it is not said that it is... It is not said in the laws that the Polish Television S.A. is a public medium, only the name of the Polish Television S.A. is used. And I therefore propose that the senator raises this question, if you wish to discuss it further, with Minister Czabański. [[Thank you, I will.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-23-senat-21-1.u90	Thank you. Are there any more reports of questions being asked? No. So I'm finishing up the question phase. The bill was introduced by Members. Does a government representative wish to speak on the bill under consideration? No. Thank you very much, Minister. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of questioning to a government representative related to this item on the agenda. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? Mr Rybicki... Mr Rybicki. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-23-senat-21-1.u91	Thank you very much. Minister, I have a question that I have already asked the Senator of the rapporteur about responsibility for actions, actions, decisions of members of the National Media Council. I heard in my reply that the rules were to be drawn up. As I understand it, the Rules of Procedure decide the actions, so to speak, addressed internally, and I am concerned with legal responsibility for actions or omissions of the National Media Council.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-23-senat-21-1.u92	There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-23-senat-21-1.u93	Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. Excuse me, I have a favor to ask... [[The Minister asked me to be able to answer from the place...]] ...about repeating the question. I was on my way to the podium and I just didn't hear it. Excuse me, Mr. Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-23-senat-21-1.u94	Minister, I would like to ask you about the responsibility of the members of the National Media Council. She is not described in the bill, and yet for certain acts, the omissions of every public officer, and such as I understand will be a member of the council, should be liable. This cannot be regulated by any internal decision of a regulatory nature. I'd like an answer.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-23-senat-21-1.u95	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-23-senat-21-1.u96	In addition to the responsibility that arises from the relevant regulations, codes and so on... Indeed, this law does not provide for a special liability regime such as: in the case of members of the government. I would like to stress that the government does not have a position on this bill. What I am going to say to you, when I answer your questions, I am going to speak as the government's proxy for the preparation of public media reform. This is not a position agreed upon by the government.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-23-senat-21-1.u97	Thank you very much. Senator Zdrojewska.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-23-senat-21-1.u98	Thank you very much. Dear Minister, I forgot to ask this question at the meeting of the cultural committee. Let me ask them now, because it seems pretty important to me. What will be the concrete financial impact of the establishment and operation of the National Media Council? According to the justification of the project, page 4, which you submitted to the Sejm, the new expenditure under the Sejm Registry will be fully balanced with the savings under the National Radio and Television Council budget resulting from the earlier reduction in the number of its members to three. You have so justified this in the Sejm that it will be financed from the savings that will be made by reducing the number of members of the National Council. There is no money in this pool for organization of work, housing, fixed assets. No calculations in this area. Please tell me, if, as proposed by the Parliamentary Committee on Culture, the number of members of the National Council is maintained, so it will continue as it was, the change will not happen, how this council will work, where will the money be, how much will it cost each year? Tell me where the council will have its seat, etc.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-23-senat-21-1.u99	That's all, Senator, is described in the bill. I'm sending it back to the bill. These matters will be governed by the budget of the Sejm Chancellery.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-23-senat-21-1.u100	Excuse me, but tell me exactly what the cost will be. In the implementation of laws, the costs of operating these laws are calculated, and this is an obligation. I will reiterate that the explanatory memorandum states that these costs will be compensated, balanced as the number of members of the National Radio and Television Council will be reduced. This limitation has not occurred, so please tell me what it will be financed from, whose expense and how much it will cost.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-23-senat-21-1.u101	I've already told you, but I'm going to say it's going to be financed by the Sejm's budget. This budget will not be increased It will be necessary to cut the resources for the functioning of the Council. [[Senator Barbara Borys-Damięcka: So this is supposed to be the parliamentary media council.]] [[And how high is that gonna be?]] Please? [[How high is that gonna be? I think you were counting it.]] [[We'll see about that.]] Your salary or diet is recorded in the bill. It doesn't matter what you call the board members. And it's easy to figure out what costs these are when it comes to boarding. The total costs will probably be less than the cost of one member of the National Radio and Television Council, so they will not be particularly large, and the office service will provide the Sejm law firm within its budget, this budget will not be increased. [[Can't you, Minister, specifically, tell us how much it's going to cost?]] No, specifically, I'm not answering that question.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-23-senat-21-1.u102	Thank you very much. Senator Augustine.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-23-senat-21-1.u103	Minister, your credibility in my eyes is not great. When you were standing there, you swore at your previous bill that there would be no politicisation of the media, and now you're boldly looking me in the eye. Would you say that again? That's my first question. The second is: what is the subject matter of this law? There's a public media council going on, so... [[Nationals.]] Nationals. And where are those national media we're making advice for? It is not true that you do not know what public media is. You know, they're public companies. What are public companies, it is the capital structure that decides. Meanwhile, what are national media? We don't know. We're creating some kind of media council that doesn't exist. So I'd ask you to tell me what the national media are and what it's supposed to be, what media it's supposed to be.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-23-senat-21-1.u104	Senator, if I looked you in the eye, I would have repeated with even greater force what I was saying here in this room a few months ago. And what makes me think about this is that, in my opinion, we have achieved more than I could have expected, then, as I said to you. [[Congratulations on your sense of humor.]] [[Joy in the Chamber]] [[The meeting is chaired by Vice-Marshal Maria Koc]] [[Calm down, Mr. Senator.]] I didn't comment on your expression with laughter, although I could, because the festival of hypocrisy that's going on here, and some of the speeches make you laugh like that, a little sardonic laughter. What is the depoliticisation of "department"? It is worth remembering that these are different concepts. Firstly, on the fact that according to the law this council is pluralistic, which so far has not been in Polish legislation on public media. Secondly, this advice shall be chosen for six years without the possibility of shortening the term of office of any of its members, unless one of the circumstances set out very precisely in the Act occurs. This has not been the case until now, because the National Radio and Television Council has not only been a country, it has yet to register in the world of politics every year and obtain the approval of this world. Shorter leashes and more dependency I do not know, and I have been working in Polish media for 50 years and I could observe how it works. That's what you came up with in 1992. I, like Senator Jackowski, was one of the critics of that law, mainly for this reason, because of the obligation to report to politicians on an annual basis and obtain their approval. Now this advice will be off the hook for six years with politicians. Of course... [[Because it'll be the council of politicians.]] ...by their fruits you will know... [[We're getting to know each other.]] No, Mr. Senator... [[Mr. Senator, please be quiet. Let me answer the question.]] Mr. Senator, I would refer to the European Championship here. If you think the score of 5:0 for one team is more interesting for the other team than the score of 3:2, then it's your choice. We have placed two seats in a five-man opposition council, and the state has given no place. The state over the past years has completely excluded from the public media people who represented at least 30% of the population, and please remember that. Now that you're talking to me about pluralism, about depolitics, I'm the one you really want to laugh at, I'd quote you with that laugh. If Senator Fedorovich talks about it... [[You haven't answered the second question yet.]] What's the subject range? I'll get right to it. But first, I'd like to... Because you asked me if I'd repeat it, like you thought we did something different here than we said we would. We've done more for pluralism than we predicted, and more than I expected. [[More, I agree here, more than anyone expected.]] Mr. Senator, as far as the subject range is concerned... Since you like malicious comments, I refer it to the bill, read it, it's all written there. [[That was a good...]] 17 regional radio stations of Polish Radio, large radio, Polish Television, Polish Press Agency. You have everything described, everything that falls within the scope of this bill. I don't understand why you're in trouble, but I understand you don't like this bill. [[Answer the question of how...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-23-senat-21-1.u105	Thank you very much, Minister. Now you ask Senator Leszek Czarnobaj. You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-23-senat-21-1.u106	Minister, if you don't mind, I'd like to present a case like this. I wouldn't want to go back to who's guilty here. I am still interested in this argument about depoliticisation. From Kowalski's point of view Sorry, all Kowalskis. The most interesting thing is what concerns the integrity and integrity of what is presented in the media, generally. Tell me, Minister, because you are a great professional in this area, which of the European systems is similar to what you propose, in your opinion. [[Tell me what the definition of national media is, because that's what I asked you.]] And a second question about it. Which one of your systems is the best? I'm already looking, and I'm gonna read it right now. . guaranteeing the objectivity of public media, broadly understood?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-23-senat-21-1.u107	The objectivity of public media is the result of a very complex process. [[But I'm sorry...]] He doesn't depend on one factor, but I'll try to answer your question, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-23-senat-21-1.u108	Wait, wait, Minister, wait a minute. [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Culture and National Heritage Krzysztof Czabański: Excuse me, Mrs Marshal.]] Mr. Senator, are you done asking questions? Yes? [[Yeah, yeah.]] Okay, two questions. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-23-senat-21-1.u109	May I? Thank you. Mr. Senator, an investigation into a certain state of objectivity of public media This is a complicated process and it depends primarily on separating direct policy from these media. In every European country we have a more or less direct system, a political mechanism to appoint the authorities of these media. It can be hidden behind certain screens, like. in Germany, where there is a very complicated system associated with the land, with the authorities of these lands, etc., but also as a result politicians, although buried somewhere, behind some screens. In England It's already been mentioned. The prime minister, the government system, in Spain The Cortesa directly elects public media authorities, in France until recently the president single-membered all public media authorities, and for several years there has been a more complex system, but it comes down to the fact that this national media council elects a parliamentary majority. And there's just no other way. In my opinion, looking for another way is a little wrong because we are dealing with public property, public property, public property, citizen-wide, national property, and it must be the supervision of representatives of society, but with an election mandate. With us there were ideas that creative associations should choose the public media authorities, but I only make it clear to you that this would de facto mean the ownership of these associations on public property and later without any control... I mean, politicians... We propose such a trust and supervision board appointed by the Sejm in fact, because three people will be elected directly by the Sejm and two by the President from among the candidates designated in turn by parliamentary clubs. So it's kind of a parliamentary-senatorial solution, and sometimes it's just a parliamentary solution. So we have de facto the introduction of direct parliamentary supervision of public media and we are removing executive authority from it. In turn, the supervision of politicians, members of parliament, public media or persons designated by these politicians shall be subject to electoral verification. Every 4 years politicians are accounted for, among others. for the state of public media. A better system wasn't invented. These systems, where certain environments, creative environments, would have a decisive voice, in my opinion, and not only in my opinion, lead astray. And yet, the objectivity of the media is, on the one hand, the removal of the world of politics, the one that is everyday, from public media, and, on the other hand, the incorporation into these media of certain mechanisms that safeguard journalistic independence in these media. And we provide such mechanisms in this large media law, for which this law is a bridge law. There will be settlements, directly recorded competitions, terms, etc. This will allow managers, managers of these public media, bosses and journalists to carry out their journalistic duties without fearing that someone will have consequences for them. So that's how we build this system. And the first thing we want is to replace the supervision of these media by the National Radio and Television Council, which is also a market regulator. I remind you, none of you have told me about this. She's supposed to have equal distance from all media market players. Here, we do not know why, it appoints public media authorities, and it is supposed to keep an equal distance to private, commercial and public media. So we remove it from this power over public media and we create a system of appointed council, which has not been cancelled for six years, so that it can act independently of the current government policy. I would also like to point out that this is the first case in history that, after this law has been passed, the government will have nothing to say about public media.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-23-senat-21-1.u110	Thank you, Minister. You're asking Senator Jerzy Fedorowicz a question. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-23-senat-21-1.u111	Thank you, Mrs. Marshal. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, first of all, I would like to say something to Senator Czarnobaj. Indeed, in most European bodies supervising the performance of tasks carried out by public media, it is prohibited to combine these functions. So that's mostly... [[Senator Leszek Czarnobaj: Mr Senator, I know because the Minister explained...]] [[Mr. Senator, but you...]] But the Minister didn't answer... [[Mr. Senator...]] Yeah, but I'm explaining. And now I'd like to... [[Senator, you are now asking the Minister's question. You're welcome.]] Right. [[Senator Leszek Czarnobaj: If you are Minister, you will answer.]] [[Senator Stanisław Rooster: He won't be Minister for long.]] [[Senator Leszek Czarnobaj: Robert!]] [[Senator Robert Mammoth: It wasn't me.)]] [[Stas!]] Well, then, Minister, I'd like to ask what we're gonna do about it. Namely, it appears from the Act that from resolutions of the Council, which are not administrative acts, no appeal is served, as well as that the Council during the term of office is irresistible. We can't write the bill in such a way that we don't give any access to it if somebody misrepresents the rules. We talk here about public media throughout the years, and the problem is that people elected by, let's assume, governments or ruling coalitions don't have any civil honor to act on their own behalf, on behalf of a man to whom... as the constitution obliges. This is a personal problem. And now this advice made up of some people who, unfortunately, can also be politicians... Because you're talking about non-politicism, and you're letting politicians make money for a Member or a Senator's salary, which, in my opinion, is against the mandate of a Member... [[We're asking you a question.]] Tell me how we're supposed to oversee the council and how these people will be held accountable. Because this is the only project in which... This is the only institution to which there is no appeal and which also bears no responsibility.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-23-senat-21-1.u112	Thank you very much. Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-23-senat-21-1.u113	Please, Mr. Senator, don't make it easy for yourself to ask questions or to press charges and not formulate first things I don't formulate. I've never formulated a thesis on non-politicality. On the contrary, I say that this is a political council, that this is a political council... This is supposed to be parliamentary supervision, i.e. supervision of the body in general politically, of the public good that is public media. We don't want to do fiction, we want it to be genuine parliamentary supervision... Why mostly the Sejm? Because of the Sejm Senator Jackowski has already mentioned this in some detail, as if with some thickness... There, however, the diversity of the worldview and political societies through a system of elections within a proportionate ordination... i.e. in some way, because it's not quite like that. And therefore, please pay attention. I will also refer here to the votes that may soon fall, why the Senate does not choose The president doesn't choose either. It's not like the President and the Senate... that the President and the Sejm choose. No. Only the Sejm de facto chooses, and parliamentary clubs indicate candidates. Yes? The president only chooses from candidates selected by parliamentary clubs. It is a conscious idea that the Sejm should play the main role here, so that this task belongs to the Sejm for the reasons that I mentioned earlier. So that we do not hide the fact that, in our opinion, the supervision of the body is precisely the most politically representative, i.e. the Sejm, of public media is right, accurate and necessary, and that because of its pluralistic character, it is not a coincidence that these two people in five give up to opposition clubs... This is to ensure the pluralistic nature of public media, which we have not experienced so far. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-23-senat-21-1.u114	I'm sorry, Mrs. Marshal, but the Minister wasn't kind enough to answer my question, what does that mean? There's no responsibility here. It is written that to the annual report submitted by the National Media Council of the Sejm, Senate and KRRiT can only make comments, cannot account for them... Is this some kind of team... Are these people unaccounted for? Or am I wrong or am I wrong to read the bill?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-23-senat-21-1.u115	I don't know... If you consider it irresponsible that the team that is appointed by the Sejm and the President... I don't think so.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-23-senat-21-1.u116	Thank you, Minister. Please ask Senator Tomasz Grodzki a question. [[Talking in the O.R.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-23-senat-21-1.u117	Excuse me. Thank you very much, Marshal. Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators, Minister, I have basically two questions. The Minister has been kind enough to begin this thread... Well, much to say here, we feel a little hurt as senators, that we are not even allowed to put up a candidate; of course we are not talking about senators, because we stand in the position that Members and Senators should not be candidates for this body. I am already abstracting national media from the title, because it reminds me of some voivodship national council, with the Front of Unity of the Nation, with such stories. But it's already been... This has been noted many times. And please forgive the personal question: are you going to run for this council, or are you not considering this possibility at all? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-23-senat-21-1.u118	Thank you very much. Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-23-senat-21-1.u119	Mr. Senator, the senators, contrary to what you're saying, can put candidates through parliamentary clubs. After all, candidates will be drawn out by parliamentary clubs After all, those candidates elected by the Sejm and those nominated by the President will be candidates appointed by parliamentary clubs. They won't be candidates, I don't know who will come to the Sejm and say they want to run. - Yeah? - Mm-hmm. So that the senators can also put forward candidates, after all, you are members of parliamentary clubs. As far as the second question is concerned, the Act describes very precisely the procedure for appointing members of the National Media Council, and there, if I remember correctly, there are no names. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-23-senat-21-1.u120	Thank you very much. You ask Senator Sławomir Rybicki a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-23-senat-21-1.u121	Thank you, Mrs. Marshal. Minister, the bill doesn't say much about calling the authorities of the new national media, but, I understand, the competitions are canceled... [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Culture and National Heritage Krzysztof Czabański: No.]] You don't give up competitions? [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Culture and National Heritage Krzysztof Czabański: The Act does not say anything about this.]] Yeah, he doesn't say anything. I would like to ask you how this issue will be regulated when it comes to the appointment of the authorities, the supervisory board and then the authorities of the other companies. That's the first question. The second question concerns the assessment of the effects of the regulation on this law. There is such a good custom that a good bill has an assessment of the effects of regulation. And I think that's what Senator Zdrojewska was going to do, asking the Minister about the costs of running the council. I understand that this will be in the budget of the Sejm Chancellery. But there are also indirect financial implications for the implementation of laws. In this case, these effects are probably difficult to assess with regard to the effects of checks in companies which are subject to liquidation as of the date of entry into force of the Act. Was there an estimate attempt? So far, some 170 journalists and senior workers have left the public media. There's probably some kind of financial measure, what the impact will be on this new institution in terms of clearances, dismissals, etc. for employees, journalists and other persons. [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Culture and National Heritage Krzysztof Czabański: Yes, I understand...]] These are the indirect effects of the new regulation. [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Culture and National Heritage Krzysztof Czabański: Mr. Senator... Can I answer now, Mrs. Marshal?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-23-senat-21-1.u122	You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-23-senat-21-1.u123	Mr. Senator, about the competitions. I'll start with your first question. It is a law that does not express itself in this matter. But she doesn't assume that the term of office of the company authorities will end, except for the term of the programme councils. Because the term of office of the Programme Councils is extinguished at the time of the entry into force of this Act. But programming boards are not company authorities and there are no checks or any such things. With regard to the possible choice of new company authorities, since these company authorities, especially the management boards, were appointed by the Minister of Treasury in a non-competition manner after this December amendment, I personally, but this is neither the opinion of the authors of the law nor the view of the government As a representative of the government, I can say that I will urge the National Media Council, as it will arise, to consider, after some time, say, after a few months, either at the end of the year or at the turn of 2016 and 2017, the holding of competitions for members of radio and television boards and regional radio stations. Because in the Polish Press Agency the president comes from the competition, he was selected in the spring of this year, so it wouldn't make any sense here. But that's just my suggestion to this council. And when this is over, I don't know, because it's the National Media Council that's gonna decide. As regards the impact of the regulation Okay, I'll do it again. There is no expiry of the term of office, there is no expiry of any companies, so there will be no termination of the term of office. And as for what you said about the people who left work from January this year to today, in this group, about 200 people, as you said, 80 These are the people who left at their own request or at the agreement of the parties. The exemptions concern a dozen or so people. Such data, with precise calculations, I received... after the debate in Parliament I asked for television and a large radio for such information and received it from the authorities of these companies. If you are talking about slowing down, please note that most often to one basket You put people called off and people who left work themselves.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-23-senat-21-1.u124	Thank you very much, Minister. Senator Andrzej Bear.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-23-senat-21-1.u125	Thank you, Mrs. Marshal. Minister, when you read the bill... Actually, the main task of the National Media Council It is described in Article. 2 (2) 1 is the appointment and cancellation of personal storage units of public radio and television units and the Polish Press Agency. In what form? That's the first question. Is this advice going to call them up and cancel them? As I understand it, I think it's in the form of resolutions. If so, do such resolutions have the power of an administrative decision? And what's the appeal? Because I don't see it here. If there is no appeal procedure, if this is not an administrative decision, it is not subject to the Code of Administrative Procedure, then, as Senator Fedorovich said here, it will be the council of wise men who will be infallible. That's the way it's supposed to be. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-23-senat-21-1.u126	Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-23-senat-21-1.u127	Indeed, this will take place in the form of resolutions. But this is simply the competence that the Minister of the Treasury is currently exercising towards supervisory boards and boards. And unless I'm mistaken, it's for those decisions. there are no administrative appeals.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-23-senat-21-1.u128	Thank you very much, Minister. Senator Leszek Czarnobaj.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-23-senat-21-1.u129	Mrs. Marshal, Minister, before I ask my questions, it's just about that... Minister, at the general meeting of shareholders, any decision shall be subject to a judicial complaint. That's one thing. Secondly, administrative proceedings are in the case of an administrative decision. And in the case of what Senator Bear said here, there is no appeal procedure. That's what it looks like. And here's the question. Minister, it is said that the establishment of the National Media Council is a restriction of the constitutional role of the National Radio and Television Council. Would you mind commenting on that, Minister? What's your assessment of relationships? Because now there's going to be some duality. What is your assessment of these relations and the question of constitutional compatibility?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-23-senat-21-1.u130	I'm gonna start with that first question, actually your statement about the shareholders' meeting or the general meeting, where the State Treasury Minister... And he retains this role in this bill. So, of course, there is a normal way of complaining about a decision, as you rightly said. And about... Remind me. [[It's a constitutional matter.]] It's a constitutional matter. According to the Seym Legal Office, various legal experts believe that there is no conflict here because the Constitution does not give the National Council of Radio and Television any power over public media. The Constitution states that the National Council takes care of freedom of speech, taking care of the so-called. public interest in the media, in all media, also commercial, not only public. However, it does not give any power of authority in the sense of the right to appoint public media authorities. These powers of the National Council are based on the Act on Public Radio and Television. And because it is introduced under the law, it can also be changed under the law, what this law does.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-23-senat-21-1.u131	Thank you, Minister. And Senator Czesław Ryszka. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-23-senat-21-1.u132	Thank you, Mrs. Marshal. Minister, the opposition is still accusing us that in this law we will fully own the public media, making them national media. So there's talk of stubbornness, media jumping, and so on. Then answer me: why are we giving in this bill 2 seats of opposition on the 5th board, since the term of the National Council will expire at the beginning of August, and then this jump, is the title, this stubbornness, politicization can be accomplished in white gloves? And then no one will mind what Law and Justice does, so to speak, with public media. I'm sorry for the wording, but I have this feeling... Isn't the Minister, so to speak, the Rat of the Platform in Law and Justice? [[Voice from the room: Oh!]] [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Culture and National Heritage Krzysztof Czabański: Who am I?]] [[Voice from the room: Rat.]] A rat. Well, the one who, to put it this way, knocked out our public media stunt.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-23-senat-21-1.u133	Please, Minister... [['Cause it gives the opposition so big, so to speak, power when it comes to the media.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-23-senat-21-1.u134	Mr. Senator... You're done, aren't you? Mr. Senator, the future of the media market and the future of the National Council is that it should be limited to the role of market regulator, in addition to the UKE. It's gonna have to be solved anyway. We aim to achieve some purity in the media market, so we want to separate the authority over public media from the function of market regulator. And that's why we're not doing the surgery you mentioned. It would indeed be possible, and in addition it would actually throw many arguments out of the hands of the opposition, which we give these 2 seats, exposing ourselves to criticism on both sides. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-23-senat-21-1.u135	Thank you, Minister. And Senator Marek Borowski. Please, Mr. Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-23-senat-21-1.u136	Well, maybe I'll put my fellow senators on the line a little bit, but I don't feel any... I don't have a special problem with the fact that the Senate doesn't report a candidate. There is indeed a different system here and it can be accepted. Besides, I know what systems are in other countries, Parliament's choice is not uncommon. So you could say that the political nature of the choice is quite common, but I wouldn't mistake the so-called. politicising with stubbornness. These are two different things. And let's just say... the Sejm elects the judges of the Constitutional Tribunal, the politicians choose them, but the judges of the Constitutional Tribunal cannot belong to a political party, a trade union, etc. The same is true for e.g. The Supreme Audit Chamber and other such control bodies. The council... [[Senator Barbara Borys-Damięcka:...National Medies.]] ...National Medies is a very important body because they make personal decisions. I don't have to explain it, do I? Unfortunately, there is no provision which is in the case of the National Council of Radio and Television; I will read it from the Constitution: a member of the National Council of Radio and Television cannot be a member of a political party, a trade union or a public activity incompatible with the dignity of a function. And that's interesting. 'Cause if we want those people out there, I don't assume that bad intentions were treated as people with maximum objectiveness, that's what we do, and that's what we do. We don't let them belong to political parties because it sets them automatically... The political party is interested in a specific message, and even if he is trying to be objective and something doesn't like it, then of course he is pointed out to be part of the party. The Minister said the Minister wasn't the author, although I believe there's a fingerprint of yours. But wouldn't you support an amendment that says a member of the National Media Council can't be a member of a political party?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-23-senat-21-1.u137	Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-23-senat-21-1.u138	Senator, no, I would not support such an amendment because it would be contrary to the concept we have adopted. I already told you that. We have adopted the idea that Parliament should be overseeing this common good, which is the public media. And we see no reason why people with a mandate from the general and democratic elections could not participate in this supervision, because it should be people who have public confidence and such a mandate is a legitimacy of public trust. I'm sure the senator will agree with me on that. Don't confuse two plans, I mean. do not confuse the management of public media, which is the responsibility of the boards, supervisory boards, managers, directors, etc., with the function of the board of trustees, which will ensure that the media carry out their mission. That is why it is also important for the opposition to participate in this Council. Because it's not like... first of all, it's always good to have a different point of view on this kind of council, because it brings us all to earth, too. It doesn't matter who's the power and who's the opposition. Secondly, please bear in mind that we are not only guided by the fact that we want to build a system of democratic public media. We want this system to work in the future because we have, as a political group, very bitter experiences from the past, because we have been systematically excluded from these media Even though we represented 30% of the population or more In a conscious, brutal way, etc. Perhaps someday the election results will be different and we will be in a situation... we will be in opposition. We want a legal guarantee that this will not exclude us from the public media. We are working not only for the current democratisation but also for the future and also for a certain personal interest; we are not hiding it. Because the experiences of the past are the worst for us, because the media for 20 years. Not for the whole period since 1992, with some interruptions, ruled the establishment built from the Civic Platform, which previously appeared under other names, PSL and SLD. And only this arrangement was governed by public media, no one else was allowed into these media. The best example of this is the one from the last months: the President of Polish Radio, Mr.Siezieniewski, came to the radio, being previously on the exposed position of the head of the company, the Management Board of the Palace of Culture and Science from the platformed arrangement in Warsaw, and returned to this function after leaving the Polish Radio. So if you want to offer me this kind of denial, thank you very much. I prefer Parliament's direct supervision of public media, in which we do not pretend anything. Something else is the choice of authorities, which will run these media, will be responsible for the programme of these media and for their quality. Thank you very much. [[Mrs. Marshal, I'll see...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-23-senat-21-1.u139	Thank you, Minister. Mr. Senator, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-23-senat-21-1.u140	Minister, we haven't fully understood each other. There was a contested provision here, or actually no provision that would prevent Members from running for council and sitting on this national council. But I'm not talking about messengers. [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Culture and National Heritage Krzysztof Czabański: Please?]] I'm not talking about messengers. [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Culture and National Heritage Krzysztof Czabański: I understand.]] I generally believe that Members should not run, but well. So I am not trying to exclude Members from this. I'm talking about being part of a political party. Let us say that he is a candidate of a Member who is a member of a political party. He may be elected, he may not be elected, but if he is elected, he renounces membership. That's the point. This is not a situation where Parliament suddenly has no choice, a Member cannot run and so on. Joining a political party simply means a certain connection with certain political party directives. [[Question, Mr. Senator.]] I'm gonna clarify this because you've been responding to something else... In short, you were talking about the fact that Members should be able to run because the point is that Parliament and so on...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-23-senat-21-1.u141	Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-23-senat-21-1.u142	I see. Mr. Senator was asking a little bit of a different question. Indeed, there is no such question in the bill, she is not concerned about it. After all, it is a matter of general concern, not specific. You may find it comforting to know that I am an attorney for public media reform, I am a member of the Law and Justice, but I am not part of the party.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-23-senat-21-1.u143	Thank you. [[I would generally like to say that I am very pleased that you will be a member of this National Media Council.]] Gentlemen, this is not a discussion. Don't go into polemics. [[It's not polemic. I am in favour of the Minister's candidacy.]] [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Culture and National Heritage Krzysztof Czabański: Thank you very much, but there is a certain mode that...]] [[I'm glad he's gonna be on this council because it gives you a chance to exchange...]] Thank you very much. [[...President Kurski.]] [[Joy in the Chamber]] Mr. Senator, the Minister has answered the question. The question is Senator Piotr Florek. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-23-senat-21-1.u144	Thank you, Mrs. Marshal. Minister, I would first of all like to thank the Minister that we are not excluded from the public media. Even though the President of Opole was booed, the way you watch the show on TV... Well, thank you for not being excluded. [[Question, question.]] Minister, I would like to point out that, as far as senators are concerned, we are elected directly in the majority districts, we have a strong mandate. Therefore, the fact that three representatives are elected by the Sejm to the board, and the Senate has only an indirect influence, which you have mentioned, possibly on the selection of two candidates we propose to the president... Well, it's an indirect and really insignificant road. I am convinced that together we will come to the conclusion that we must defend the role of the Senate and that the Senate representative must be on this council. [[Question, Mr. Senator.]] I'd like you to... Please explain, Minister, about the article. 25, pursuant to which the law enters into force 7 days after the date of publication, except for Article. 19, which shall enter into force on the day of the announcement. If we had not passed this bill today, she would have had to return to the Sejm and then be signed by the President, and she entered into force after 7 days from the date of the announcement, which means anyway, she would not have been able to enter into force before 1 July, and this article. 19, or this law of December 30, last year... what would have happened if this law had not entered into force by July 1st?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-23-senat-21-1.u145	Minister, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-23-senat-21-1.u146	Lawyers say nothing would happen. However, we want to avoid a legal gap, because in legal terms nothing would have happened, but in terms of some supervision of public media, it would have been an extension of the supervision of the Minister of Treasury, which we consider to be purely ad hoc and temporary. That's what we've always said, and we want to change it to a more rational system as soon as possible. That's it.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-23-senat-21-1.u147	Thank you, Minister. And Senator Piotr Wach. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-23-senat-21-1.u148	Thank you very much. I actually have a question about art. 22, which probably concerns the first composition of the National Media Council, I'm guessing. It says: The President of the Republic of Poland sets a 14-day deadline for opposition clubs to submit candidates to the board no later than 30 days from the date of entry into force of the law. It says here: "It designates opposition clubs." Whether it means that it designates everyone or, as it is said in the article. Six, the biggest or the two biggest? In short, on the basis of the article. 22, which is probably forming the first council... Could it be that they would go on this council by election of the president, for example. a representative of the PSL and a representative of the Kukiz party15? 'Cause I think it would be. Opposite clubs are like all clubs. What's it like?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-23-senat-21-1.u149	Thank you. And I'm asking the Minister for an answer.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-23-senat-21-1.u150	Mr. Senator, no, this mode is described in the bill. We start with the biggest clubs, the biggest ones, the second ones in order, only when one of these clubs resigns from issuing a candidate, then the right goes to the next opposition club in terms of size. This is described very precisely in the appointment mode.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-23-senat-21-1.u151	I'm sorry, I wouldn't want to argue, but I don't think so. I'm on the law. I don't really know each other, it's not my specialty. But it's art. 6, which says that first the biggest club, then the next one, is undoubtedly about the next edition of the council, because it is a deadline of not more than 2 months before the end of the term of office of a member of the council. There's no term so far. Art. 22 is undoubtedly to do counsel for the first time, and there it is written, "The opposition clubs." So either by analogy, you can guess that no, or all the clubs will get an invitation to introduce their candidates to the president.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-23-senat-21-1.u152	No, no. I'm not a lawyer either, but according to lawyers it's described very precisely and it's done in order of magnitude.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-23-senat-21-1.u153	Thank you, Minister. Senator Jan Rulewski. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-23-senat-21-1.u154	I'm sorry, I'm gonna go back to that point, see if the Senate is gonna be here, too. And it's not my business that I'm in the Senate, it's my art. The 4th Constitution, which says that the nation exercises its power by representatives, of course elected. It's still said that the Sejm and the Senate are representatives, you don't make molecules out of it. The Sejm and the Senate always act as representatives, except in other ways they are chosen. The question is, of course, why do you cut off the part where the nation is represented by senators? That's one thing. And now I'm going back to the law, to the technical issue, because I've been hurt by the grief that an expert has just... It is about the expiry of the mandate, which has to do with opposition and non-opposition. First of all, Minister, it is not clear who is announcing the expiry of the mandate. And there must be such a clear statement that it is not the same as the Constitutional Tribunal, the Court has stated something, and the Prime Minister does not announce it. That is, the term of office will last. Such a lack of experts will always sue you because someone has to decide to terminate their mandate. The mere fact that the illusory statement is false does not mean that this mandate will expire automatically. And that has to do with what's supposed to be an advantage here and what the Minister is so proud of, which is opposition. That's right, it's said that the biggest opposition party is awarded 2 seats, and you're the president. However, what will happen when today the main opposition party in the next edition The Council's edition will be 6 years and will cease to be the main opposition party and will be e.g. Five? Well, I'm not talking about him not getting into Parliament at all. Then, of course, the state of the council needs to be verified. And that's not what's written about in the context of the expiry of the mandate? So what will happen next when the party in question does not enter, when the present opposition party, in particular, because, as you say, the mandate is for 6 years to become coalition or government or even rule? Therefore, the opposition established in this six-year term will cease to exist. At the end of the day, the expert said something about a case like mine. Because I've been removed from the Labor Protection Board. More or less so: there is no discounting of functions that are designated or involve cooperation in some way with Parliament. And that's what this function is here, by saying "oppositional" or "coalitional." In other words, the expert was probably partly right, because it is said that only four years of opposition and coalition, and the next election is the next hand, these are the new proportions and they require verification. And if that's the case, we need to get back to the art. 7, in which it will be said that the Marshal of the Sejm If it is assumed that there will be no Senate, it will determine that the term of office of the person concerned expires because that person has ceased to be an opponent or has ceased to be a ruler or has ceased to be any such person at all.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-23-senat-21-1.u155	Thank you, Senator. Minister, please refer to this issue.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-23-senat-21-1.u156	One at a time. When it comes to claiming the Senate, the role of the Senate, I have already explained the political concept of... [[Voice from the hall: But here is the constitution...]] Yeah, but I'm talking about the political concept, not the legal concept, not the constitutional concept, but the political concept behind the proposal in this project. So I'm not gonna say it again, 'cause I'd have to... As for the expiry of the mandates, Senator, this is clearly stated in the project... i.e. in a law already passed by the Sejm yesterday. It is written that it is announced by those who choose or indicate this, the Marshal of the Sejm on behalf of the Sejm or the President, when it comes to the candidates elected by the President. So they're announcing a possible expiry for some reason, as indicated in the bill, of these mandates... [[What point is that at? It's not there.]] This is... I don't remember the article, but it's written. [[It's not there.]] What happens when after the election or earlier, because it doesn't necessarily result from the election The opposition party will become a party of power? Most likely then the party of power will become an opposition party, so nothing will happen. It's gonna be... [[What if he's not chosen?]] There's gonna be a media board where the opposition will be, and power, but maybe a little... [[What if he's not chosen or loses his spot?]] Mr. Senator, I'm sorry, it's like Senator Jackowski said, what if the world ends? Anything can happen. But we can assume that the biggest clubs... After all, we have to remember that we're kind of driving the size of clubs, considering the size of clubs. The government coalition group is usually the largest, the coalition has a majority in the Seym, so it must be a powerful group, and then there are the biggest opposition clubs. It's hard to imagine that they're all gone in the election. For God's sake, there's gonna be a continuation. And if there's a cast in advance, they'll eventually switch places and the National Media Council... [[...Mr. Minister, AWS didn't find it, AWS didn't find it...]] Then maybe even... [[Mr. Senator...]] Then even a very interesting situation can arise. Which some of you have been trying to talk me into, whether it's on the Sejm Committee or even at the time of the Sejm, or here, on the Senate Committee. A situation in which the opposition will have a majority in this Council. It may happen that the opposition will have a majority on the National Media Council.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-23-senat-21-1.u157	Thank you very much, Minister. Please, once again, you ask Senator Leszek Czarnobaj. Yes, Senator? [[No, Mrs. Marshal, thank you.]] [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Culture and National Heritage Krzysztof Czabański: Didn't I answer any questions? No, I answered them all.]] No, no. Good. It's Senator Arkadiusz Grabowski now. You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-23-senat-21-1.u158	Mrs. Marshal, Minister, I have a question about the article. 15. Senator Zdrojewska, I believe, asked about the financing costs. I wouldn't want to bring that up any more. I'm talking more about organizational matters. Is this model of functioning of the newly appointed organ... Because it's an organ, but the members are, so to speak, submitted by the Sejm, by the president, but it's not strict. the authority of the Sejm. [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Culture and National Heritage Krzysztof Czabański: Of course not.]] Will this administrative service be carried out in the end by the Sejm Chancellery? Besides, I'm asking if the Sejm Office is prepared for this. Even we as senators have some problems with the rooms during the Senate meetings. However, these rooms should be separate and accessible, permanently available. That's the problem. Was that even consulted with the Senate Office? Are they prepared... [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Culture and National Heritage Krzysztof Czabański: Sejm.]] Sejm, I'm sorry. Are they prepared? That's pretty much it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-23-senat-21-1.u159	Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-23-senat-21-1.u160	Mr. Senator, yes, yes, the Marshal of the Sejm took it kindly, he didn't see the problem. Please bear in mind that, just as this law is bridged, the same solution is written here by bridge, because we aim to create a large media law, containing other types of records, provisions for the allocation of funds, parts, a certain ceiling, up to 1.5% If I remember correctly, the funds collected under the subscription for the operation of this council, and especially the specialised parts of this council. I wish we could understand each other. The council itself is, as you know, 5 times 4,000, and 2,000 more for the president. This gives 22 thousand PLN gross per month for advice, and this is probably one salary at the National Radio and Television Council. So let's not make this a problem, because it's not a problem. The financial problem that will need to be considered, because it will certainly not be possible to burden the Sejm Office, even during the transition period, will be that, for example. Such advice must have specialised services to monitor public media, and such services cost money. But please note that this obligation will largely be removed from the National Radio and Television Council and it will be possible to speak the transfer of funds between the National Council and that Council, or the performance of tasks by the National Council for the National Media Council. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-23-senat-21-1.u161	Thank you very much, Minister. Any of your senators want to ask you another question? I don't see any volunteers. Thank you. Thank you very much, Minister. [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Culture and National Heritage Krzysztof Czabański: Thank you very much.]] Thank you very much. Does the Chairman of the National Radio and Television Council wish to speak on the bill under consideration? The National Radio and Television Council is represented by Minister Krzysztof Luft. Would the Minister like to speak? [[Member of Krzysztof Luft National Radio and Television Council: Yes.]] You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-23-senat-21-1.u162	Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! There was a longer exchange of views on the scope of this act, namely, in short, what the national media are. It must be said that there is really no such existence in Polish law. There are no national media in the Polish legal system, there are public media, which are defined in the Radio and Television Act, and there they are enumeratively named. There is no doubt about what Television Poland is. Yes, Polish Television is one of the institutions of public media... also large radio, and regional radio stations of Polish Radio. So here the legal system leaves no doubt that there are public media and there are no national media today. So I understand that it was a project that referred to the project. At the moment, its procession in the Sejm is inhibited On the establishment of national media, but in fact today we do not have national media. Even this law, which the Senate is debating today, also refers to public media, because in Article. 2 it is mentioned that the aim of the National Media Council will be to appoint the authorities of public media companies. So, in short, this bill also indicates that there is no such thing as national media. There has been a longer discussion on this issue, many times there has been a return to it, concerning a certain politicisation. Undoubtedly, in the assessment of the National Radio and Television Council, also in connection with our experience of international contacts with regulators in other countries, this is a problem. This problem has already arisen in December, when the powers to appoint authorities of public media companies have been delegated to the Minister of the Treasury, and today they are to be transferred to an institution that is not really executive authority, and it is expected to have politicians in it... Minister Czabański has long presented a certain point of view of what it looks like on the part of the law's creators. However, from our point of view, it is unknown that active, active, political politicians should make such direct choices, especially since the Act does not indicate any procedures that accompany it. Of course, it is at all that, as Senator Jackowski said here, Where there are public media, there is always a contact between the world of politics and the media everywhere in Europe. And everywhere these influences appear, they are criticized. Also the BBC was... is in England by the opposition invoked, often accused of being favored by e.g. British authorities, right? And we'd like to have a BBC... So it's all sort of graduated and it's all about creating procedures and a custom that maximizes the public media from the world of politics. We, too, in our almost recently existing instruments had such tools, such procedures that fulfilled such a task. These were multi-stage competitions, that was the interaction of a lot of organs that had to be said so... Supervisory Board e.g. elected the board of directors, and this board was eventually appointed by the National Radio and Television Council. Supervisory boards were selected in competitions by the National Radio and Television Council, but candidates for these competitions were submitted by universities. So here were these procedures built. Were they perfect? Of course not. And as it was said here, there has always been a relationship between the world of politics and public media in the last 25 years, as Senator Jackowski said. But the idea is to do whatever it takes to make these influences smaller, not the other way around. So they don't grow. Well, unfortunately, in our opinion right now... We, as the National Radio and Television Council, have, during these six years, attached great importance to reducing and reducing these influences. E.g. We have completely reduced the participation of councillors in supervisory boards. There was no councilman left in the authorities, public media companies. We've got 28 out of about 60 today, so... This is the measure of such a change. This law also sanctions, in legal form, this type of approach, with which we find it difficult to agree when we look at the experiences of other countries and how these processes are organised in other countries. There is also a question of constitutionality, which one of you has also mentioned here. It's about art. 213 and 214 constitutions. Well, no doubt these doubts remain somewhere, because it is said that it is the National Radio and Television Council that represents the public interest in the media. According to the Constitutional Court... In its judgments of the 1990s, this case was discussed and stressed that the same public interest is identified with the public mission and therefore the National Radio and Television Council is responsible for this area, it remains within its competence. So I don't want to make such a very harsh statement here, but I certainly want to say that we also have... that the National Radio and Television Council also has doubts. They are reported in many environments And that it is certain... that it may be interpreted... and it may prove to be a violation of constitutional regulations. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-23-senat-21-1.u163	Thank you very much, Minister. Wait a moment longer, Minister, because the senators can now submit a question to the Chairman of the National Radio and Television Council on this item. Would any of your senators like to ask you a question? Senator Leszek Czarnobaj... Yes, Senator? [[I'm the one who's gonna quit 'cause the Minister has already answered. I wanted to know about your position on the constitutional issue.]] Okay, thank you very much. Would any of your senators like to ask you a question? Senator Czerwinski, you're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-23-senat-21-1.u164	Mrs Marshal, Minister, the question concerns the last question you have made about constitutionality. I've got an art in front of me right now. 213 of the Constitution, I quote it: The National Council of Radiophony and Television upholds the freedom of speech, the right to information and the public interest in radio and television. I do not see the wording of public radio and television. Rather, I see the wording concerning certain, I would call it, conceptual scopes, certain features, such as freedom of speech or the right to information. So, didn't you abuse public media issues a little bit in your speech?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-23-senat-21-1.u165	Mr. Senator, of course I know that in the article. 213 constitutions do not mention public media, there is a public interest in the media. I refer here to the judgment of the Constitutional Tribunal, as I recall, in 1996. The Court has indeed examined this case. And so it is defined in this judgment that the above-mentioned provision of public interest protection in the media means that public service missions are carried out by public media, a mission which is carried out by public media. I refer to this judgment and, so to speak, to this acquis. [[If I may, Mrs. Marshal, an additional question.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-23-senat-21-1.u166	You're welcome, Senator, of course.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-23-senat-21-1.u167	As I understand it, this is not a judgment on this bill that we're working on right now. [[Member of Krzysztof Luft National Radio and Television Council: Sorry, I didn't hear...]] As I understand it, this is not a judgment on this bill that we're working on.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-23-senat-21-1.u168	Oh, no, of course not. [[Good.]] It's hard to get a conviction on a bill that isn't there yet. But in any case, this was about the issue discussed here. That's why the doubts I was talking about.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-23-senat-21-1.u169	Thank you, Minister. Are there any more questions for the Minister? No. Thank you, Minister. [[Member of Krzysztof Luft National Radio and Television Council: Thank you very much.]] Thank you very much. I'm opening a discussion. I'd like to speak with Marshal Bogdan Borusewicz. Mr. Marshal, you're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-23-senat-21-1.u170	Minister! Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! We are debating another law, which was to be a general law concerning electronic public media, but is not a general law. It's a procedure that's pretty weird to me, but it's important. This bill is supposed to give rise to personal changes, because this is the main competence of the media council. We recently discussed, and then adopted a bill that was called a small, transitional act. Ladies and gentlemen, it has resulted in the removal of at least 172 journalists and employees of electronic media. For these people. This is not a transitional act and also for us. watching TV, listening to the radio. This is a rift that reflects on the level of journalism, on the objectivity of electronic public media. 172 journalists for yesterday's day. [[More like officers.]] I will tell you what these journalists are like: Marzena Adamczyk, TVP Kultura, Sławomir Assendi, Polish Radio One; Olena Babakowa, Polish Radio for Foreign Affairs; Wojciech Biedak Radio Mercury; Kamila Biedrzyca-Osica TVP Info; Aleksandra Biernacka TVP 2; Marta Bobowska, TVP Opole; Mariusz Bojarowicz, Radio Olsztyn; Romuald Bokun, TVP 3; Mariusz Borkowski, Polish Radio, IAR; Lena Bretes, Poznań; Katarzyna Buszkowska, PAP Media; Elżbieta Byszewska TVP 1; Agata Calkowska. TVP Info; Dorota Ceran. TVP Łódź; Marcin Boy. TVP 1; Ewa Chrabąszcz. TVP 3; Waldemar Chudziak. TVP 2; Mirosław Cichy TVP 2 and Andrzej Ciszewski TVP Białystok; Barbara Tchajkowska TVP Info; Maciej Tchajkowski TVP 1; Daniel Czarnecki. TVP 1; Marek Czunkiewicz. TVP Info; Marek Czyszy TVP Info; Ryszard Ćwirlej Radio Mercury; Kamil Dąbrowa Polskie Radio One; Zuzanna Dąbrowska TVP 1; Tadeusz Doroszuk TVP History; Anna Drączkowska. TVP Lublin; Kamil Dziubka. TVP 1; Leszek Dziura TVP Kraków; Justyna Dzbik-Kluge Polish Radio Białystok, Ewa Godlewska-Jeneralska TVP 2; Andrzej Godlewski TVP 1; Jacek December TVP Łódź; Henryk Grzonka, Radio Katowice; Agnieszka Gulczyńska, Radio Mercury... [[Hello their memory!]] Artur Gurec TVP Gorzów Wielkopolski; Grzegorz Hofman Polskie Radio Trójka; Igor Isajew. Polish Radio for Foreign; Katarzyna Janowska TVP Kultura; Wojciech Jankowski Radio Gdansk; Kinga Jasionowska TVP Kielce; Piotr Jaźwiński TVP 1; Magdalena Jethon. Polish Radio Triple; Jolanta Kaczmarek Radio for you; Jerzy Kapusciński TVP 2; Łukasz Cardas. TVP Polonia; Magdalena Karpińska TVP 1; Elżbieta Kiernicka Polish Radio; Jerzy Kisielewski TVP Info; Andrzej Klewiawo, Polish Radio One; Zenia Klimakin, Polish Radio for Foreign; Krzysztof Komorska Polish Radio Lublin; Małgorzata Kościelniak Polish Radio One; Jarosław Kowalski TVP Olsztyn; Robert Kowalski Polish Radio One; Łukasz Kowalski TVP Info; Marcin Kowalski TVP Info; Dominika Kozłowska Radio Kraków; Anna Krakowska; Polish Radio Triple; Piotr Kraśko; TVP 1; Leszek Krawczyk, correspondent in the USA, cancelled; Milena Kruszniewska, TVP 1; Marian Kubalica, TVP Sport; Maciej Kucharski Radio Mercury; Piotr Kuciński TVP 2; Jarosław Kulczycki TVP Info; Roman Kurkiewicz Radio for you; Jarosław Kusto Polish Radio Kielce; Anna Kwiatkowska TVP History; Elżbieta Leśkiewicz TVP Info; Karolina Lewicka • TVP 1; Hanna Lis • TVP 2; Anna Lisowska • TVP 2; Paweł Ławiński Polskieradio Portal. ROLES_OF_TRANSLATORS Polish Radio Triple; Cezary Łazarewicz TVP Info; Dariusz Łukawski. TVP 2; Sławomir Majcher TVP Warsaw; Artur Makara; Polish Radio One; Juliusz Maliszewski Polish Radio for Foreign Affairs; Radosław Masłowski TVP 2; Piotr Maslak. TVP Info; Anna Mentlewicz. TVP 1; Beata Mes. TVP Poznań; Grażyna Mędrzycka-Gęsicka Polskie Radio Trójka; Tomasz Michniewicz Polskie Radio Oneka; Joanna Mielewczyk Polish Radio Triple; Małgorzata Mierzejewska TVP ABC; Andrzej Mietkowski Polskieradio Portal. ROLES_OF_TRANSLATORS TVP Oddział Kielce; Dorota Milewska; TVP Białystok; Jerzy Modlinger • TVP 1; Paweł Moskalewicz • TVP Info; Jerzy Nachel • TVP Katowice; Grzegorz Nawrocki • TVP Polonia; Katarzyna Nazarewicz • TVP 1; Michał Niewniskie Polish Radio One; Jan Ordyński • Polish Radio One and TVP Info; Nina Nowakowska • Radio Mercury; Joanna Osińska TVP Info; Bogumił Osiński. TVP, Regional Program Centre; Michał Overczuk. TVP 1; Jerzy Owsiak Polish Radio Triples; Lech Parell; Polish Radio Gdansk; Andrzej Petelski - TVP Białystok; Tomasz Pietraszak - TVP Bydgoszcz; Katarzyna Pilarska - Polish Radio One; Tomasz Plutiennik - TVP Info; Beata Polakzek - TVP Opole; Marcin Pulit Polish Radio Kraków; Joanna Racewicz TVP 2; Iwona Radziszewska TVP Info; Paweł Radziszewski. TVP Info; Tomasz Rakowski. TVP Lublin; Ewa Rogala Polish Radio One; Piotr Rogoziński.TVP Kielce; Agnieszka Rokita. TVP Kielce, Diana Rudnik. TVP 1; Krzysztof Roman Polish Radio One; Grzegorz Sajór. TVP 1; Agata Sakowicz. TVP Białystok; Grzegorz Sawicki. TVP Białystok; Magdalena Siątkowska TVP Info; Małgorzata Serafin TVP Info; Monika Sieradzka TVP 2 - Jakub Sito TVP Warszawa; Marek Składowski Polish Radio Łódź; Jacek Skorus TVP, Panorama, Ewa Slezak, TVP 1; Jacek Snopkiewicz TVP; Magdalena Sobkowiak Also TVP, correspondent; Igor Sokołowski, TVP Info; Jerzy Sosnowski Polish Radio Triple; Tomasz Stawiszyński • Radio for you; Tomasz Sygut • TVP Info; Mariusz Syta • Polish Radio One; Jacek Szarek TVP Rzeszów; Marta Szostkiewicz. Radio Kraków; Przemysław Szubartowicz. Polish Radio One; Andrzej Szwabe. Polskie Radio Lublin; Mariusz Szymyślik. Radio Mercury; Jacek Tacik TVP 1; Beata Tadala. TVP 1; Kamila Terpiał. Polish Radio One; Grażyna Torbicka. TVP 2; Bogdan Ulka. TVP 1; Janusz Weiss Polish Radio One, Joanna Warech, Deputy Director of Regional Programs Centre; Maciej Wąsowicz TVP Info; Dominika Wieluwieyska. TVP Info; Cezary Wojtczak Radio Pomerania and Kujaw; Piotr Wojtkowiak TVP Info; Ewa Wolniewicz TVP Wrocław; Bożena Wójtowicz-Waszak. TVP 3; Marcin Zaborowski Program 3 of Polish Radio and TVP History; Patrick Zalasiński TVP Info; Anna Zaleska. PAP; Sławomir Zieliński. TVP; Tomasz Zimoch.Polish Radio; Anatol Zymnin.Polish Radio for Foreign. [[Mr. Marshal, 30 seconds.]] This, ladies and gentlemen, is a list of the people you threw out. A lot of... a lot of people talked to me. And I'm gonna say... [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Culture and National Heritage Krzysztof Czabański: That is not true.]] I didn't know their political views. [[Mr. Marshal...]] This is the only decision you've ever made... [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Culture and National Heritage Krzysztof Czabański: That is not true. The senator is misleading the House.]] Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-23-senat-21-1.u171	Mr. Marshal, time's up. Thank you very much. Now you speak to Senator Leszek Czarnobaj. You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-23-senat-21-1.u172	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! About what the Minister has read... It is not, Minister, honourable Members, so unambiguously that everyone was expelled in one day. In turn, without entering this political discussion, I would like to quote Mr Wojciech Mann, who, thank God, is not yet on this list. He said... He is not a man of the Civic Platform, because he, Minister, has been working on the radio for 50 years, and 50 years ago, the Civic Platform was not there yet. And he said, of course, he doesn't assume that the new people who come in, assume they're going to do a bad job, but in everything that is, there's a spirit of revenge. And it's dangerous, Minister. These legitimate assumptions that the market regulator should be the one who, in an objective manner, as far as politicians are concerned, is this very important element in making Polish law and everything that happens in the media... It is me, Minister, asking the rapporteur, and the minister, for examples from other countries... After all, anything to say here, over the 25 years we had various elements, which, as the Minister has said gently, could have been changed faster. And full agreement, Minister. Only if you do something, you should also use those elements that are good in other countries. Why break open doors? The Lord asks if there is no difference between losing 5:0 and losing 3:2. I'm going to tell you that from the point of view of the effect of the next game of the Polish team, which will play on Saturday, it's really indifferent whether we lose 3:2 or, after a beautiful game, 5:0. And it's the same here, Minister. You can fool us all to believe that this opposition will have a lot to say. Beautiful passwords. But still, three standing guard of the warriors appointed by you. I'm sorry I'm using that phrase. It's still gonna be doing what somebody in the PiS is gonna do. I don't know who's calling the shots at the PiS. But I'm talking about someone who's gonna decide how to be in public media space. This is a threat, Minister. So I'd like to say a few words about how other people do it. And let's take good examples. Why are we taking examples from Russia Today, from what is happening in Belarus? Because there are standards: what he says, then they go and vote, and they do the right thing. So even if some elements were wrong in the previous system and I also sign what the Minister said It's the system you're proposing, Minister... I'm sorry to identify you again, but everywhere I read, you're the godfather of this idea. Let's do better, first of all. Secondly, since this is a forpoczta, when we say, let's do something bridge-wise, because it ends... you just had to come up with a project on this end of June 30th, extend it to June 30th, 2020, and you would have time to calmly... And nothing worse would have happened on TV. Mr. Marshal has read... Nothing worse than that. I read today that your kindergarten teacher will be the head editor on one of the TVs. I don't have anything against kindergarten girls, but so far they were people who were educated in the right directions, well, maybe related... I don't know, maybe it'll be a children's program for you. And now, Minister, two words about how they do it in other countries. In my opinion, and I'm not a professional in this business, they do it better. I'm sure you know exactly that, and if I make a mistake, you'll correct it. Well, these disliked Germans do it this way: they have a 77-person band, which is the advice of television, 31 people are appointed by the world of politics... And that's what the Minister said. No, the involvement of politicians in media governance cannot be avoided. Well, it can't be that politicians are completely off the hook. After all, the law is created by politicians, the Sejm and the Senate. But in this 77-person team, 30 people are appointed by various social groups, such as trade unions, athletes, etc., etc., and 16 people are chosen by representatives of the liberal professions. And this 77-person council is a market regulator. And what is important, ladies and gentlemen, the decisions of this council are made by a majority of 3/5 votes. So, Minister, it is right for you to think that sometimes you're in opposition, sometimes you rule, but this order should be sure... Due to the stability of public media You should go in that direction. I'm not saying it's supposed to be exactly the same 77-person council, but it would be good if their representatives had social organizations, institutions, liberal professions, trade unions and politicians in it. In the meantime, what do we have? With us, it will be the politicians themselves, three and two, and they will make the decisions, perform the functions of the regulator. So that there is no charge that I have chosen a country that has a long tradition of democracy, I have checked how it is done in the Czech Republic, with our neighbours. The Czechs choose 15 people. Candidates shall be notified by cultural organisations, trade unions, religious unions, environmental representatives, educational centres, etc. The choice is made by politicians, but among those reported by society. And who will report the three you choose? As I said, I don't know who makes decisions in the political party you represent, but someone there will have a decisive vote and say you will and you won't. And in the countries I'm talking about, it's different. Now there's an example from France. In France, the president calls... Ladies and gentlemen, the truth is always somewhere in the middle. I speak softly without entering into the fact that there are three truths... What I'm saying is that in France, 15 people... The main weight... The President agrees with representatives of both chambers of parliament Ladies and gentlemen, you agree and do not take note of their views with the representatives of the media committee and the audiovisual world, who is to act as chairman. It's not like he knows best. And that's the socialization, Minister, that's what it is to protect the media from what you're talking about, the marshal, from stubbornness, and that's what we're afraid of. As far as the others are concerned, these are two politicians, representatives of both chambers of parliament. We already have three media workers, five representatives of politicians, the Sejm and the Senate... So here's the question of participation... But there are five people in the audiovisual world, totally outside the media. It's moving towards maximum socialization... Well, if we want to have, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the real media you're talking about. Whether they'll be national, transnational or any other word, no matter what country you use. It's without a good bill, which is objectively... Without the representatives of the various social groups who will sit... There will be no national media, no social media, no objective media, and we will deal with the situations that the Marshal spoke of. So that I ask you very much to reflect on this large media law, Minister, which you are working on, it would not be advisable to transfer these good practices, because today's law does not bring anything good. Well, let's hope it doesn't ruin anything anymore, that we won't read about another 300 people who decided to leave for different reasons. And the last sentence. Minister, an example of your editor Zimoch, my beloved radio editor... Well, to get a guy like that fired for having a different view than the state's on matters relating to the Constitutional Tribunal? Even your hot supporter, Professor... [[Voice from the hall: Pavlovicz.]] ...Stanishkis said it was a bit of an exaggeration. And that's what we're afraid of. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. You want this: whoever is not with us, who is against us, who is not with the Mighty, with the smash. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: 8 years ago we learned this.]] [[The meeting is chaired by Deputy Marshal Bogdan Borusewicz]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-23-senat-21-1.u173	Thank you very much. Senator Jerzy Fedorovich.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-23-senat-21-1.u174	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. High Izbo! I have no delusions, Senator Blackbay. It was a great performance, full of emotion and some kind of request... Don't count on the miracle. This is the property of television made with the hands of politicians. And if that's the case... [[Talking in the O.R.]] I'm the Minister, please... I'm focusing on you guys talking, and it's gonna be hard for me to talk. And most of the speeches are addressed to you. [[I'm sure the Minister will listen carefully, Senator.]] Excuse me, sir, maybe the marshal can, because I... [[I'm sorry, I'm driving here, so I see everything...]] All right. [[There you go.]] It's hard for me to speak, Mr. Marshal, if I'm addressing someone who's talking at the time. I'm sorry, but I'm not used to it. [[But the Minister isn't talking right now, so continue.]] Mr. Marshal... I've followed this bill closely. I've been doing media for years. I know we're guilty, too, and all political groups are guilty of negligence in this area. The level of hypocrisy in one or the other was greater or lower. We tried. We, a group of citizens for whom Poland is important... Excuse me, but I need some water... [[One minute break. Ma'am...]] I'm ready to continue, Mr. Marshal. [[There you go.]] My emotion, Mr. Marshal, was that I listened to the letter you presented. There were outstanding journalists on that list. I don't mean that they were my friends or people close to me, but they were people of the highest moral and professional standards. And these people will run out of public media. And for that, the public media will pay a huge price. There's no reason for Mrs. Torbick to leave, for Mr. Owsiak to leave or for other people to leave. The Minister was wrong when he said that Marshal Borusewicz was wrong. In fact, some people have been fired, and some people have left because they do not want to be under the pressure of some uneducated or What's the most common? A camera that tells them to do their job. Most of these people, according to the press and all the media that dealt with these cases, have shown You have the best evidence, you know how it was on one or the other program. That journalists who didn't want to be on the belt... I haven't remembered such standards since the old PZPR. I was looking at the records because, of course, I was working on this bill as chairman of the committee... Well, Minister, there's a lot of different things in this bill, some understatements, etc. Excuse me, but if the Members are preparing a bill that you promised as Minister that it would be yours and large... It didn't work because it's not that easy. It's not as simple as it turned out, and you had to swallow that frog. And all of a sudden it turns out... Of course, the government didn't do it again. There is no need for consultation, we have a short path, we have a bill prepared by Members of Parliament. The question was whether you would be the head of the National Media Council. The Lord replied that this is not in the bill. Of course it's not in the bill, but what if you're the boss? So what are you gonna do with this protocol that's shown here? You'll say you've been assigned to this function. I don't get into people's personal attitudes about what's important in this country. For me in this country, there is a certain truth I want to get. Didn't you pay attention? I'm addressing my colleagues from all the senator's benches. That we don't believe each other anymore? Well, I'm sorry, after all, when we open a newspaper in the Web... I don't believe what they say. You open the Election Gazeta, and you don't believe what's going on either. So what are these people supposed to do? Well, we're the paranoid ones, and we're the adults here, and we're the fathers and grandparents here. And by the way, it's Father's Day today, I've been given wishes. And now, Minister, it can't be that there's a body that doesn't answer to anyone. I know you said it would answer to the Sejm. But there's absolutely no logic in the writing in the mouth. 2 that membership cannot be combined with the exercise of the function of executive authority, local or administrative self-government, or local government. But I'm going back to art. 3: The Council is composed of five members, three of whom are elected by the Sejm and two members are appointed by the President of the Republic of Poland. And we have this configuration... Excuse me, my vice-president, Mr. Senator Jackowski, said that it is hypothetically possible that the Sejm as sovereign will choose people from opposition. So, Minister, who's the president to choose, if it's written that the president's going to choose people from opposition clubs? I understand that there are customs, and that's rare, but that's a possible situation. She's hypothetically possible. The bill shouldn't allow such a thing. Next point. Well, I'm very sorry, I'm a senator, I've been an MEP for 11 years, and I know I'm not allowed to sit on supervisory boards because that's the rule book on the senator's mandate and the head of committee. I find out it's supposed to be some kind of supervisory board and that they won't have to work eight hours a day and that, therefore, this fee could be... Well, wait a minute. This is the board of directors, isn't this the board of directors? Those are questions. And there's a lot of questions like that. Of course, I also listen to the parliamentary debate, because it belongs to my duties as head of committee, and I know what the opposition people, i.e. modern people, from our party, etc. have said. We could somehow adopt this bill because we know there's a purpose for something good to happen to the media. But only if there are no Members or Senators there. Or let's take a case that's in our country... Well, we've really been saying for years that it could be like this, and it turns out... What, sorry, three people and two people? What's it gonna be? I'd like to see a vote like this. Well, I can give you an example from my town where I know every person who has some value and presents in the media... Good journalists, of course. Someone's changed. One's better, the other's worse. Okay. But if I, as a senator, as a man who has knowledge and experience, bring a person to whom I believe she is fit for the board of directors of such a company, it will not turn out that then the chairman or vice-president of the board will say that such a person cannot be, because she is recommended by Senator Fedorowicz? And there are only two senators in Krakow who are from opposition. And that's the kind of nonsense we're talking about. I would like to end this speech with obvious information, namely that our club will not support it, although I have no right to speak on behalf of the club, so I speak on behalf of my own and on behalf of the thinking people. I would just like to point out, so to the record, that with great concern, I would like to stress: I will come to the vote tomorrow with great fear. If this bill passes, it could be a very dangerous time for Poland. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-23-senat-21-1.u175	Thank you, Senator. I'll have the senator... All I'm saying is that the list of 172 people whose names I've read is a list of those who have been thrown out or forced to leave or those who have been taken away from the programs because there are a few of them. It's just for the record, because I didn't say it exactly. Senator Barbara Zdrojewska, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-23-senat-21-1.u176	Mr. Marshal! Dear Senators! Dear Minister, I would like us all to return to memory together until 31 December last year, 2015, when we were here and some even spent New Year's Eve in Warsaw, e.g. Me and my friend, Senator Rotnicka, because we didn't make it home to our families. But that's not the point, because if we have to, we can work day and night. That's not the point. Only then we were placed against the wall of something very important was going to happen. [[Court...]] No, it was the media, Mr. Marshal. [[Yeah, the media.]] It was so-called. Human Resources Act. That's what we used to call her back then, and today, basically, everyone calls her that. The list you've read is basically the justification for that name. It wasn't a law that was supposed to improve the functioning of the media, which was supposed to depoliticize them, or make those media work. Mr. Minister used that phrase. It's democratic. There is no possibility, Minister, that the media should be democratic, but we are trying to get close to it somehow. And that's how you promised the minister as a proxy. That's what you promised us back then. That's what you promised us in interviews for the last few months. Not just you, but other representatives of Law and Justice. You said you'd provide funding for the media. What are we getting today? I'd say the mountain gave birth to a mouse because we're getting a bill that... Well, it's a 4- or 5-card bill that doesn't do anything specifically, which doesn't regulate anything, especially this basic issue, which is media funding. This bill doesn't work. We've been talking about a lot of things here... She can ruin everything, she contains a lot of mistakes that can even prevent it from working. This is a bill that, as I say, doesn't do anything. There was supposed to be an eagle, and a midget came out. That's what it looks like. Ladies and gentlemen, why is media funding so important? If we're looking at public television... The fact that she can't be seen, we all know. Everyone's reviewing it. Everyone's commenting on it. This is unbelievable... At today's meeting of the Culture Committee I was talking about the fact that there were different CEOs, different situations, but such a weak, so politicized television has never been, ever before. And that's something you've managed to do. For the past six months, destroy everything and not fix anything. Is this bill gonna do anything? No, he won't. We didn't have time to mention here, and the Minister didn't mention it either... Yeah, because what's the problem is that we're moving the Polish Press Agency from one place to another, etc. We didn't even think about that today. And this is the Polish Press Agency, this is an institution quite respected. While the media are being criticised, I have not heard any criticism of the Polish Press Agency, at least not of any common, serious. Why in the last six months... Minister, we discussed this at the meeting of the Committee on Culture and you said that you knew that a notification from the European Commission was needed. But I remember you promising. Please take a look at your interviews. That there will be an audiovisual fee. And you have proposed a solution that is legally impossible at the moment. We'd have to wait a year for that, and so on. Well, if you knew about it, why would you promise, why would you say that the public media was gonna fix it? I'd like to refer to the case... I'm gonna put some... I'll make one amendment, we'll make another one. I would also like to refer to the National Media Council. It's not like we're fighting about a name or anything. There's no such thing as national media. There isn't. There's no definition of it, it doesn't exist. It's the advice of nothing, it's like... it's like in Poland, which is nowhere, it's like in the King's Ubu, Minister. That's what it looks like. And here's what I'm gonna say: if we're gonna put this in our current shape, we're gonna be ashamed of it in six months. I'm absolutely convinced of that. I think if you have the chance, because you have the majority that can and can do something in the Seym, and in the Senate, without anything, if you have the majority that you can write every bill, the best bill, and you don't use it, it's just That's what I think. Shame. And that's all I'm saying about it. Ladies and gentlemen, I am making an amendment which consists in adding to the list those who cannot sit on the Council, the Member and the Senator. Because I don't understand why a councilman can't sit down, for example. Councilman, ordinary councilman from Radom, for example, cannot be a member of the media council because he is forbidden by the law, and how is the senator You're welcome. That's why I'm making this amendment, Mr. Marshal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-23-senat-21-1.u177	Thank you very much, Senator. Senator Barbara Boris-Damięcka, please. And please speak from the point of view.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-23-senat-21-1.u178	Thank you so much for agreeing to come out of this place. I'd like to ask Senator Jackowski not to leave just in case, because I'd like to address him. [[I am, Senator!]] Okay, thank you, sir. In my speech, I would like to address my colleagues in Law and Justice, but I see that having a majority in the Senate, the state is in a minority at the moment. So I'd like to ask Mr. Jackowski to make my request and my appeal to you. Maybe I'll wait... oh, he's passed it on to his friends. First of all, I'm disgusted. I have to say it. And very disappointed by the fact that none of you have made an appearance on the absence of a Senate representative on the appointment of members of this council. It seems to me that your concern, like all other senators, is that the Senate's prestige should be preserved. The Senate has always had representatives and the opportunity to appoint representatives to various bodies. I'm talking about the entire Senate House, God forbid I'm talking about political preferences or opportunities, even though I know you have the majority. But I am very surprised that none of you have spoken on this matter. So I ask Mr Jackowski to tell his colleagues that I am asking them to support this proposal so that the Senate of the Republic may, however, have the right to select a representative for this council. This is the first one. Second thing. I would also like to ask you, Senator Jackowski, to try to talk to your colleagues about the name. Because it's not such a mess. And this amendment, which I'm about to make about the name, it's not a frivolous thing. Because, ladies and gentlemen, we must be aware of what it means to be a national, a national, a nation, etc., and that we should not abuse that word. The National Media Council is not the same as the national representation for the European Championship. Because in that name, it's exactly what it means. This means that we are exhibiting a composition which represents Poland in Europe, in the world, no matter at this moment in what field, whether sports or cultural, as a delegation, etc. We're calling the country. We define you. The National Media Council cannot usurp the right to represent Poland as such because it does not represent Poland. She represents a set of people who will have the power to make decisions about electronic media. And advice like that isn't the same as national advice. Therefore, I have a great request, Mr Jackowski, that you talk to your colleagues, but that we accept an amendment changing the name to the public media council, because such a name is closer to what this advice is going to do; from all these laws it appears that it will mainly deal with public media. Abstracting from these two requests and from this amendment, which I am going to make, I would also like to say that we need to take a close look at this law, because it focuses on... The Minister has just not spoken about whether he will be at the head of this council, maybe he is already guaranteed to be at the head of it, maybe he will be elected, maybe he will stand for the competition. We do not know how this advice will be chosen. Will the competition be announced? To the council... Looking at the list of people who have the right to apply to be a member of the council, and what powers they have, I would like to say that there is not a single word about the fact that in this council there are supposed to be representatives... people who know the media in a broad sense. We're not sure that's gonna happen. So everything in this bill is written with a finger on the water. There are a number of questions, doubts, question marks. It's disturbing, for example. The fact that the council office is to be located in the Sejm and that the Sejm is to finance this council. As a result, it should be the Sejm's media council at all, because the Sejm will focus all competences in its hands. It is all the more important and important that the Senate be able to appoint its representative. The worrying thing is that he is calling for such advice, and we do not know the approximate costs; there were many questions here. And the strange silence in the Seym, there was no outrage, surprise, or request for funding of the Seym. Or what? 'Cause it's only gonna cost $5,000 or $50,000? After all, it will be huge sums, because this involves office service, officials, rooms, administration, for example, such costs. Why isn't the Minister able to present us with the costs of setting up such a council? If the government was able to calculate and give the costs of 500+... This is a much smaller action, and its cost is easier to calculate. Why can't we know the cost? I don't want to go into the arkan other people were talking about. I support a number of speeches and agree with the questions that have been raised here because they relate to doubts and problems. However, since Mr Jackowski has left, I repeat once again that I appeal with great appeal to my colleagues in Law and Justice: fight for a Senate representative in this council, on equal terms with all of us... and the second point. Accept this change, for it will make the name appropriate to what this advice will do. It will not cause... not surprise, but ridicule. Let us not ridicule this advice by calling it upper-alien national, because it has no national features or predispositions to be a national council. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-23-senat-21-1.u179	Thank you, Senator. And please take the floor of Senator Maria Panczyk-Podniej.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-23-senat-21-1.u180	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. High Izbo! Minister! When I try to convince someone I'm right, I avoid eating examples from my own resume, because I find it infantile. Today I have to withdraw from this principle because the institution and the person I want to defend have been involved in my resume for half a century. When I first exceeded the thresholds of Radio Katowice nearly 50 years ago, I was so fascinated by this medium that I thought it was enough that I could listen and write, because this is the best recommendation to do radio journalist work. I was very wrong, life soon verified my youthful zeal, but yet I had some very beautiful moments on the radio. There were things I'd rather not remember. I survived, as it is said today, the Game Age, then the time of the Solidarity that I co-created, then the martial law when I got kicked out of the radio. And then there was the euphoria. Here we can do a real profession, unlying, open to people. We'll open our gagged mouths and take the tape out of the closet, which, due to censorship, has never been on the air. I counted I survived 25 directors, editors, CEOs on the radio. Different were their competences, different knowledge to perform such functions. They were like that. In particular, this is the case. That we're talking about today with disgust. A man who, instead of defending us, made a list of 13 people to intern. Do you know who defended us? He's an SB handler. Paradox... only four people were interned instead of 13. In the last few years, we've had a man who's been accepted by all of us, and everyone likes him. You know, it's rare that everyone likes the boss. He came from a beautiful Silesian family, his grandparents were Silesian insurgents. He knew the story perfectly well, and the story of the radio was in one finger. He caused the pre-war name Polish Radio Katowice to appear on the building of Radio Katowice. He put a Polish flag on the building. He put the patron on the bench of the radio station Stanisława Ligonia. He from Radio Katowice made a medium of the 21st century, modernised his studies, equipped them with excellent microphones. He could, as I said once, reconcile water with fire. In times of financial miseries, and it is known that in radio stations... Radio Katowice was the largest regional radio station in the country. He was able to stop excellent journalists, excellent sounders. I don't know if you know what a Prix Italia is. This is such a radio Oscar, this is the highest prize for radio coverage. And in Radio Katowice there are winners of the Prix Italia, but also Gold Microphones. When in Silesia the leaders started raising their head, my boss told me to keep your hand on the pulse and I kept my hand on the pulse, I told you, I wrote. From Zaolzia came e-mails, phone calls, words of horror, so that I would talk on the radio about people on Zaolzie not being fooled, because they come to them before the census, emissaries from the Silesian Autonomy Movement, and encourage them to say that they are Silesian, so I wrote and told them. My boss kept telling me keep your hand on the pulse and I held it. When Mr. Senator, Marshal Borusewicz called the competition That's what it was called. The Watchtower of the Republic of Poland, I have declared to this prize the Polish Cultural and Educational Union of Zaolzia. And it worked, they got this award. We visited Zaolza with a wide representation of the Senate, we were at the Polish theatre in Wałdrynia, we were at the Polish middle school in Cieszyn, we were at the Polish House in Jabłonkow. And those people, Poles, who are also Silesians, kept these Polish schools, Polish skylights, Polish street names. On another occasion, when I was at a meeting of the Silesian Autonomy Movement, where people were asking for Silesian language, I asked an elder Silesian... How often I find myself saying "older," and someone is my age. I say, Lord, in what language is this language for you, why do you need it? And he says to me, "Ma'am, we don't care about any language." We're talking about nationality. You know, if we have a tongue, we'll get a national worthwhile one, and if we have a nationality, we'll have Mom's autonomy. And he showed, oh, yes, on a tray. I said it was dangerous not only for the Polish state, but for the Silesian state right. And my boss kept telling me keep your hand on the pulse and I kept my hand on the pulse. Here in these benches until recently, still in the previous term, he sat, you remember, Kazimierz Kutz, a great apologist of the Silesian Autonomy Movement, which destroyed literally Everyone who thought otherwise. I was a particular purpose of his assault; with a special interest his texts were printed by Gazet Wyborcza, where he called me the biggest inhibition of the aspirations of Silesians, who on gleaming, i.e. on Silesian games, came to apanage and to a senator's stool; he wrote that I was trading in old language as if this language age had not been used by the heroes of his films. He didn't just treat me like that because he treated me in the same way. Professor Jan Honeyk That's what he was talking about. He's got some scientific titles on this language age. Or Professor Dorota Simonides, who sat on these benches for almost 20 years. When I disobeyed and wrote a reply to the Voivodeship Gazeta, it was not enough that they censored me, but my text was written under the title "Readers" and "Maria Panczyk" was at the bottom of the smallest font that was possible. But my boss kept telling me, keep your hand on the pulse, and I held it. When it seemed that this man was safe because everyone had access to the radio, people had access to political debates regardless of what party card they had in their pockets, there was a good change. And this man was turned into another man, one we knew very well from the martial law, because he was admitted to the radio for human resources in the martial law. He was promoted very quickly, from DJ he became the headmaster responsible for music. But he had one thing: he cared for his own apanasses and a narrow group... I'm sorry, I wanted to use the ugly word A narrow group of their guys, that's a fashionable term right now. And you know, this man judged and valued others, many older and more experienced journalists, including me. I retired after 40 years of work. The Silesians would say, "No brawn, but I'll say it." Inaccurate work thanks to these valuations with a pension of less than 2 thousand. And now this man is the president of Radio Katowice. And I'm gonna... [[Disgraceful.]] [[Disgraceful.]] ...nobody says keep your hand on the pulse, but I know I have to. I spoke to prominent Members of the Silesian writing family, and they said they didn't agree with this nomination either. They said they wrote a letter under which a dozen Members signed their names and sent them to... [[16.]] Yeah, 16. ...and sent to Novgorod. So? [[Nothing.]] And nothing, because you can't do anything, someone else is pulling these strings. What can I do? All I can do is write and talk. [[And keep your hand on the pulse.]] [[Yeah, and keep your hand on the pulse.]] And that's what I'm doing. And what else can I do? I may not vote for the Good Change Act and I won't vote. Because, you know, I'm not afraid of anything anymore. It's a paradox, but I'm not afraid of anything, because they're not gonna throw me out of nowhere, they're not gonna fire me, they're not gonna hand me a wolf ticket. At best, they're gonna take away the program I've been doing for 25 years, and it's still not just the Silesians who listen. And I'm gonna be very sorry, very sorry, because I'm not doing it for the money, because, like I said, there's a lot of money on the radio. I've been doing this because I am and I've been connected to the radio for half a century. And I'm gonna be very sorry, because I once coined a saying that the radio is an incurable disease for which there is no cure. And it's a good thing there isn't. Thank you for listening to my complaint. [[Applause]] [[Yes, sir, unfortunately. You come in and exchange professionals. Yes, sir.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-23-senat-21-1.u181	Thank you very much, Senator. Please take the floor of Senator George Wcisla.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-23-senat-21-1.u182	High Senate! I, too, have never used this platform to refer to my resume, but I'm going to do a little bit today. High Senate! Mr. Marshal! Today is the two hundred twenty-second day of the ninth Senate term. If we count off the holy days that we as senators should also celebrate, and such days were 49, then there are 172 working days behind us in the Senate. 172 days and 172 journalists fired from work. [[One every day.]] Excellent achievement. I'm sure there's no precedent in world democracy. Sarcastically, it would be worth noting, e.g. In the Guinness record book. I doubt it'll be beaten quickly unless we consider Belarus and Russia democratic. Just in case the perpetrators of this achievement want to join the world's annals, I give you a website where you can do it: www. Bureaurecordow.pl. Of course, I'm being sarcastic. Yes, ma'am, because it is ironic that the National Media Council is called to monitor such functioning media. I am talking about irony as a former journalist who, protesting the tabloidisation of the newspaper that was led by the Polish publisher, resigned from the position of editor-in-chief day after day and did not take the job as editor-in-chief of the German newspaper the next day. I did not accept this work by informing the Polish publisher that I, a journalist from Stutthof, will not work for a German publisher from Munich. That was 20 years ago. Then, ladies and gentlemen, High Senate, I felt like a national journalist, a Polish journalist. And after 20 years I am a senator, in the period during which the Polish state throws 172 journalists out of the Polish media at the rate of one journalist for one day and at the same time appoints the National Media Council. For me, a journalist from Stutthof, such a use of the word "national" is the glory of a new language, a new language from the year 1984, Orwell, which had not yet been published in Poland. And that's why I think it's the same as me. They may be offended by those who have fought against Communists for freedom of speech, who also believed that they have the exclusive right to decide what lies under the national word. And it was so anti-national and criminal then to talk about the attack of the Soviet Union on Poland in 1939, about Katyn, or about the so-called. Polish months. Now the national media will really continue this tradition, they will inform about the Smolensk bombing, they will inform about a few demonstrations, about the scandals detected involving opposition politicians. And journalists who refuse to participate in this process will join the group of co-founders, even against their will, the next record of Guinness. [[If you take over, that's how it's gonna be.]] Mr. Senator, sign up for the discussion. [[Hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, ……]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-23-senat-21-1.u183	Mr. Senator Ryszka, please don't disturb me. The senator's registered. There you go, Mr. Senator. [[Mr. Marshal, I've been holding my tongue for two hours...]] I understand, but it's too much? How much do I have to hold? [[And my ears are what?]] How much do I have to hold? You're registered... [[I'm doing everything I can to be quiet.]] ...you're third, no, second. [[Then you can leave.]] [[You can leave.]] Gentlemen, senators, please don't take this pleasure. You're welcome, Senator, continue.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-23-senat-21-1.u184	As a former journalist who did not work in a non-Polish newspaper at one time because he felt as a national journalist, today I cannot support this law, even because of the title itself. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-23-senat-21-1.u185	Thank you, Senator. You see, Mr. Senator, how quickly did you end? Good. [[Senator Wczyła is full of...]] Senator Jan Rulewski, and then Senator Czesław Ryszka. If Senator Czesław Ryszka doesn't want anyone to bother him, don't bother the others. [[I won't bother Jasi because he's...]] Thank you. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-23-senat-21-1.u186	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I look at the room and I see that personal architecture has changed a little bit. Here in the free Senate you are led by Marshal Borusewicz, a participant in the Gdańsk Agreement, and there is a government representative, also a member of the Freedom Route. Both of them were clearly in favour of abolishing censorship as early as 1980. It was limited, but it was about abolishing censorship. And here are the two gentlemen, and I'm sadly between them. Although I will tell you where I am and I must now ask who to turn to so that there is no censorship, where to advertise twenty years after the creation of a free state is that the law restores personal censorship. So far, the 170 journalists you've told the marshal about, but let's not be deluded, because another 170 will, out of fear of censorship, close even further. And the others, the worst, they're gonna look at the side... And here I am making to you, State, the charge that you have introduced one of the worst censorships, because this is no longer a censorship of the text, this is the deletion of freedom of speech. [[Senator Czesław Ryszka: The greatest freedom...]] There's no democracy. You have no right to say that there is a democratic state if there is no free word! [[Applause]] This is insolence, brutality, hypocrisy! [[Applause]] And you should immediately, if you confirm that this is a free state, take off your... take off your white-red flag and go to Canossa, ask the Pope's forgiveness! [[Senator Czesław Ryszka: The greatest freedom in Poland is in German newspapers 80% of Polish newspapers are in German hands.)]] This is a country that is now following in the footsteps of all totalitarianism, because totalitarianisms closed the word and then people! That's not what I'm authorized to do. Yes, Minister, I have just distinguished you as the one who fought against censorship in the underground and very well organized one of the opposition writings, whose value was by no means the amount of paper, but just a free word. And today you're acting as the prosecutor, as the one who wants to destroy a free word through personal censorship. Because I remind you, this isn't the case of 170 journalists, this is the case of arresting a free word. Yeah, because this bill is dedicated to one thing, i.e. HR, seceding or distinguishing HR. Plus, it doesn't work. And your interpretation, Mr. Buddy, Mr. Minister Czabański, is not true. The Lord uses the modern language of the Euro and you say that the opposition gives a good result because it is 3:2 instead of 5:0. And that's not true. The opposition gives a place in the quarter finale when it wins, it will pass. But because he won't win, he's out. And that is your interpretation, and that is the free word in this country: the opposition will fall out regardless of what mathematical figure you will apply. Of course, I'm not gonna go into... I'll make another charge. You have arranged well, Minister, a letter of opposition, but this proposed structure of media management from the point of view of the organization is curiosable. Look at it from the viewer's point of view, which is, as you say, a member of the nation or, as in the present law, an audience. How many of these institutions are gonna manage this TV? Where's she gonna come up with a complaint if you need anything? The National Constitutional Council, the Media Council, will also be a fund council where, I understand, contributions, television supervisory board, chairman of the board, and also social programme councils, etc. Well, it's a Soviet system, isn't it? At this point, I'm already getting lost about who I'm going to turn to if I need to. I'm gonna have to read a dozen laws and a few commercial codes first. Is there a way out today? There it is. There was a case here... It is worth considering if we listen to the words of others and if we want to listen... The issue here was that the media would be politicized, stubborn. I'm sure they'll be in this transition to the semi-finals on the principle: we have the majority, no matter what, and then we have the majority, even the absolute... or rather the ruthless, as is included in the bill. Well, in arrangement 3:2, as for those appointed, it will always be a ruthless majority. My proposal is as follows. Citizens, viewers, who listen to this debate, actually say this: nobody is right here because some people want to be there as an opposition. Well, that's what the law says. Others say that as a government, they have the right to conduct politics, but where are we, viewers? We who are committed to paying contributions, in return, offering sometimes good programs, e.g. Sports, but generally stunned by adverts. And if we don't pay for this bad shit, he's complaining about us, we're being raced, we're being taken away. I couldn't come up with the construction Mr. Czarnobaj referred to here, the German construction, the thought-out... Well, how did those Germans even figure out that these people were going to be 77? It couldn't have been easy. This means that it is not so easy to construct a system of public participation. Since the number 77 was accepted, not evangelical or German... Maybe it should be 10 or 100, and this is 77. This means that this decision is a single example I'm talking about. It was deeply balanced. We've been very invited to do this. Here's my offer. We must take this advice if we accept that it is to exist, introduce the listener, the viewer, the citizen. I therefore propose in the amendment that the board be enlarged by 1 person chosen from among those who do not belong to any party, no club, do not go to Novgorodska or Agora. It's just going to be one of the millions. Today, unfortunately, there is only 1 million paying, chosen by drawing lots. If we can't organize a representative system, let fate decide. It would be a person who, first of all, paid in an undisturbed way for at least five years... so it would be a person with a certain internship. Secondly, she would have a higher education, she would have been unpunished, she did not belong to any political parties. I think such a person would be a kind of publicist. Not the chosen ones, even with the best intentions in the Senate, the Seym or by the President, but the one whose fate will indicate and represent those down there, i.e. the viewers. What other advantage does this concept have? 'Cause you could ask why not draw two. This 1 person would provide a certain balance. Since the bill states that the absolute majority... Well, in that case, these three reported by the coalition will always have an absolute majority. If the sixth person were introduced, the absolute majority would be 4 and that means, Minister, that you, your own, I think, will have to convince not only your friends, but also the fourth one, to make a fair argument. [[But who's gonna pick him?]] Computer. Haven't you heard, my friend? Computer. If for five years 1 million people paid, even though there were voices that they didn't have to pay, they shouldn't... Such a person already has competence. [[And if he's not qualified, then what?]] Friend, did this PiS cover your eyes and ears so much that you don't know what I'm saying or you're not allowed to listen? I'm saying again... [[I don't understand.]] [[Voice from the room: Relax.]] That's even worse, 'cause I can buy you a hearing aid. Mr. Marshal... [[Please recapitulate, Senator.]] I would ask the High House to accept this option. Democracy is about convincing yourself, taking into account the views of minorities, reaching out. This amendment will create such an element. I will not discuss the other two amendments, but they are also important. Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-23-senat-21-1.u187	Thank you, Senator. I would like the floor of Senator Czesław Ryszka. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-23-senat-21-1.u188	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Speaking of Senator Zdrojewska, I would like to say that we are definitely watching completely different news on other televisions. Where I appear, and whoever I ask, I hear in answer: well, we finally have a good TV that tells the truth. But that's okay. And as for Senator Lady-Later... I respect you very much, really. You told your radio story, I'm sure it's true, but the president you praised left 2.5 million in debt and one-digit listening to Radio Katowice. So that the new president promised that the listening would double, that it would be two figures and that it would close the debt. We'll see, won't we? But that's the truth, too. Now, going back to the bill or rather starting to talk about the bill, let me first say a few words about the need to pass a law on the National Media Council, because I see that you are not talking specifically about the law. Thus, the need arises primarily from the temporary nature of the Act of 30 December 2015 amending the Act on Radiophony and Television. The legislator indicated here on 30 June 2016 as the last day of application of this law, in particular the exclusion of the Minister of Treasury from supervision and the appointment of supervisory boards in public media. That's one thing. Secondly, the law on the creation of the National Media Council is, as Minister Czabański has said many times here, a bridge, i.e. not a temporary, not a transitional, but a bridge, to further, in order to prepare a large media law. So I think so, because I don't know everything either. In this context, the appointment of such a council is very important in order for its members to also be able to work on this large law and to help update the subscription law in order to seal the charging system. This is very important, because if, as I say, we seal the charging system, if we can increase the enforcement of the subscription, then we will not need a notification from the European Union, because we will be based on this bill... on this subscription which is now paid. The greatest outrage of the opposition arouses what I think... Like I said, a little joke that Minister Czabański is the mole of the Platform in Law and Justice... Suppose you have 2 members of the Platform, e.g. This is Halicki and Budka, and they will allow themselves to have no insight into personnel matters, financial media, etc. After all, the meeting of this Friday's National Media Council will be one great war just for freedom of speech, I would say anything. We give you the opportunity to participate in two, so to speak, such scouts from the Platform who won't blow themselves up, and you call it media possession. Well, then I'm starting to doubt your mental abilities a little bit. In short: the composition of the National Media Council guarantees for the first time in the 25-year history of freedom, i.e. Polish public media, the participation of representatives of the parliamentary opposition in the direct exercise of this supervision, as well as in personal decisions, because there will be a fight for every president of radio or television or PAP. The fact that, according to the law, members of the council will be able to be parliamentarians is a very conscious intention, very aware, because we are the most experienced people who can direct the media. Let's imagine that there's a film director, that there's some librarian, people from different associations, etc., and that there's fifteen of them... and this war for every person, every comma... Well, it's hard to imagine. Come on... And above all, then the managers appointed by the board... It is not going to be that the board will be running the radio, television and PAP, but it will be done by their appointed people, directors, presidents, who will be responsible for the success of the media. It is incomprehensible to me that the opposition is outraged that the National Media Council supposedly takes away some prerogative from the National Radio and Television Council when it comes to non-constitutional... Specifically, it is about setting up parts of boards and supervisory boards of Polish Television, Radio and PAP. I'm sorry, but this is the very good solution that the National Council doesn't have... Because as, say, the only authority has everything, because it is a regulator of the media market, and also exercises power in the sense of ownership of media over entities representing public property. And only this first function, the regulator of the media market, is based on the constitutional status of the National Radio and Television Council. The Constitution obliges the National Council to uphold freedom of expression, the right to information, public interest on radio and television, including in private stations. And we're not taking anything from her. And the rest was made by the bill. It's not like we're violating the Constitution by changing the bill. And about the powers and tasks of the National Radio and Television Council... Where was the National Radio and Television Council, as we learned from the audit of 8 years of the Platform and PSL coalition, when the incident related to surveillance by the special services of the Third Republic of Poland journalists and many media communities in Poland came to light? It turned out that over half a hundred journalists, numerous editors and authorities of these editors, as well as people working with them, including the observation of lawyers representing them in the trials, followed the services in 2007 and 2015. Even the situation of their families was worked out. And all this was done with the silent permission of the National Radiophony Council, which is to be the statutory guardian of freedom of expression and freedom of the media, freedom of journalists. I'll leave it without comment. I'm going back to the bill. I am sure that something will have to be said in practice, but I would like to stress that for the first time the governing party is determined to bring not only the proper, good funding of national media from public funds, but also the best possible implementation by national media of missions. Without all this commercial pressure, the need to compete for viewers with private media, very often with the help of just low-quality television production. I would also like to refer to the doubts of Senator Boris-Damięcka, who does not understand the term "national media." In this context, I would like to draw attention to the current nomenclature, as has already been mentioned here. Television Poland, Polish Radio Katowice. Right? Not Silesian, Polish Radio Katowice. Polish Press Agency. As far as I know, there will also be a Polish national portal. So that I believe that our democracy is not supposed to be of an EU or trans-state nature, but just a national one, in accordance with the Act on the National Radio and Television Council. Public media, in the future national media, are supposed to be national, but also national-Christian, because that's what the law says. In other words, national media should defend vulnerable institutions such as marriage, school, family, church more than ever. So those institutions that shape human values in the most complete way. And here is the most important answer to the question of the meaning of the changes being made. The question is: what role should public media play in Poland? What role should national media play? They simply have to change the Polish media space functioning after 1989. And I don't need to remind you that this is media space in large part liberal. E.g. The Polish press market was embezzled by the German media. 80% The press. You're talking about freedom of speech for journalists. And I am asking about the freedom of a journalist from Katowice, who writes under the dictation of the German owner. Our task is to create national media, which should shape the identity of the Polish people in the 21st century. We should establish Poland's sovereignty in the media. And in this context, National media can be more competitive than ever for liberal media, for those media whose principle of action is only profit, cosmopolitanism, consumption. National media have a huge, special role to play through their name. They're supposed to promote values and at the same time be attractive. Well, in order for them to be attractive, they have to be well paid. There must be a lot of money. And that is what we should guarantee the Polish Television and Polish Radio. Finance will give them independence, allow them to maintain objectivity, pluralism, freedom of speech, and, above all, increase their mission. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-23-senat-21-1.u189	Thank you, Senator. Please take the floor of Senator Jadwiga Rotnicka. Mr. Senator, at the same time, I'd like to inform you... No, sit down. ... That you said 11 minutes. And last time, I gave you 13 minutes. [[Mr. Marshal...]] I'm just letting you know. Because I know you've been complaining to me. [[I really appreciate you giving me a minute longer.]] I gave you three minutes last time. [[And when was that?]] [[Joy in the Chamber]] All right. [[Voice from the room: In the previous term.]] [[Last term.]] At the last meeting you were in, I was driving. [[Splendidness will be rewarded.]] No, it's not generosity, I'm just trying, if there's time for the senator to speak. Please, Miss... [[How much did Rulewski get?]] Rulewski... [[Less.]] Rulewski always talks. [[Joy in the Chamber]] Senator Jadwiga Rotnicka.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-23-senat-21-1.u190	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! Of course, my speech won't be that media, it won't be that emotional. It's gonna be pretty specific, because I'm gonna refer to some provisions of the media law. One thing I just want to say is that right now I understand perfectly why these media should be called national. Senator Ryszka gave this interpretation. Of course, not all of us fully agree with this interpretation, but at least we know what's going on. However, I would like to return to the issue which involved my question to the rapporteur, namely the relevant provisions of the law that we are proceeding today. This is the following question. There's a lot of nuances and understatements in this whole bill. The first point I have pointed out is that, as is the article. Four members of the Council shall be elected for a period of six years. And this is a term of office. a member of the council. Somewhere out there, we're guessing, too, that the term of the council is also six years old. But that doesn't mean that all candidates will be elected at the same time. That means it's going to be kind of a walking term. Do you agree with me? [[Yes.]] And there are consequences to this issue. Since when are we gonna count the first board meeting? What if the mandate of one of its members expires and we have to wait for a re-election, and it's known that we have to choose... by a majority, right? Eligible majority. There are certain inaccuracies here that are likely to have consequences. At the same time, there is one of the entries in Article. 23, quote: Before the Council meeting for the first meeting... We don't know when it's gonna be the first meeting. There's some rules out there. But I ask: if they are not kept and there is no full membership of the board, then what? Before the meeting of the Council for the first meeting on matters of urgency, I do not know what these are going to be, which are urgent and which are not affected by the act of law reserved to the Council by the Minister responsible for State Treasury matters. So, just for the record, without choosing the full board, the minister can sort things out before her first meeting. This is in some way inconsistent and dangerous for me, too. That's one thing. And there's going to be an amendment with him that I'm going to make. And one more point I would like to draw attention to, namely, the wording of the article. 15, which refers to the fact that the administrative and organisational services of the Board are provided by the Sejm Office. It gives indirect information to someone who is not aware that this council becomes a political body seated at the Sejm of the Republic of Poland. Is that a good solution? I don't think that's a good solution. So that it would be worth thinking about. I'm making these remarks so that he can improve this bill, because we know she'll pass. Perhaps it will be accepted at all without any amendments, because that is what is happening in the Senate lately. But what has been written will be read and maybe used someday. I therefore make 2 amendments. One is to delete the article. 23, which concerns the Minister of the Treasury and its capabilities, and the second amendment concerns Article. 21 and the deadline for this first Council meeting. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-23-senat-21-1.u191	Thank you, Senator. Please take the floor of Senator Piotr Flork.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-23-senat-21-1.u192	Mr. Marshal! High Senate! I will make three amendments in a moment, but first a few comments. The fact that this is another staff bill has already been emphasized and there is no doubt about it. But right now, the 2016 Euro Championship is taking place. I remember exactly Euro 2012, because it was held in Poznań, where preparations were also conducted. And I was thinking, Because I was an active football player, I played in several clubs. When I was a little boy, we used to play soccer a lot, but we never had a score before the game. We used to play to one goal, but we were counting on who scored the goals, so there was no doubt. In this case, we can make it clear in advance that the result already before the match is set, so the result is sure of 3:2. The judge is established, and there is no doubt about it. The red cards were handed out, Mr. Marshal Borusewicz read the names. Some people got yellow cards, one or two. If it's two, be careful, 'cause it's time for you to go. So the cards were also dealt. What else, ladies and gentlemen, can we add in this situation? I'd like to say that I'm listening to you. E.g. I listened recently to Minister Kempy, who was here. Minister Kempa said that I've heard that many times. You have to read with understanding. So I took this bill and I said to myself, you have to read with understanding. So I'm reading. And that's the first amendment I'm going to want to make. Ladies and gentlemen, Art. 3: The Council is composed of five members, three of whom are elected by the Sejm and two members are appointed by the President of the Republic of Poland. I read it with understanding. Of course, I don't agree with that. I am convinced that all of you senators disagree, equally with the opposition, as well as with the state, because it must be possible for the Senate to elect a member. I don't think there should be any doubt about that. I am convinced that you will support this amendment. Ladies and gentlemen, second thing. Senator Boris-Damięcka has already mentioned these members, this election, but I would like to add one more thing. It also referred to the appointment of a Member and a Senator. Of course, there is no doubt that, with such a politicisation, there should be a provision that neither the senator nor the Member should perform that role. This is the second amendment I make, an amendment to the article. 5. And a third. In Article 2, paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: 11 states that the Council shall adopt the resolution by an absolute majority. I'm listening again. I'm in this room, and I listen, I like to listen, I often sit and listen to what you say. I listened to what you said when we were debating the Constitutional Court. Do you remember this discussion about the Constitutional Court? Ladies and gentlemen, I am proposing an amendment to adopt a resolution by a majority of 2/3 of the statutory number of members. And I think you agree that this is the right amendment for 2/3 to choose, not the ordinary majority or the absolute majority, as it was written. So I submit, Mr. Marshal, these three very important amendments. I count on your support from the senators during the vote. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-23-senat-21-1.u193	Thank you, Senator. I'd like the floor of Senator Jan Maria Jackowski. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-23-senat-21-1.u194	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I am amazed to hear these speeches in defence of the independence of the media, freedom, pluralism, democracy and ask myself the fundamental question: and who says this? I will now read a list of people, journalists, whose services during the times of the Civic Platform's government performed operational and cognitive activities. Internal Security Agency: editor Frey Grażyna, editor Gabryel Piotr, editor Gargas Anita, editor Gmyz Cezary, editor Gociek Piotr, editor Gursztyn Piotr, editor Jerzy Jachowicz, editor Jarosław Jakimczyk, editor Piotr Jakucki, editor Igor Janke, editor Jarosław Kałucki, editor Patrycja Kotecka, editor Michał Karnowski, editor Sylwester Latkowski, editor Michał Lisiecki, editor Karol Manys, editor Michał Majewski, editor Robert Mazurek, editor Piotr Nisztor, editor Eliza Olczyk, editor Leszek Pietrzak, editor Paweł Reszka, editor Marcin Rybiecki, editor Piotr Skwieciński, editor Aneta Stabryła, editor Mariusz Staniszewski, editor Jarosław Stróżyk, editor Wojciechieczka Graciech editor, editor Marzysz Słej Tołędzierzymliński, editor Michałk, editor Michałk, editor Michałk, editor Michałczyk, editor Michałej Tołłłłej Tołłłłłowski. Central Anti-corruption Office: editor Arkadiusz Gołębiowski, editor Cezary Gmyz, editor Paweł Miter, editor Piotr Nisztor, editor Marcin Rybak, editor Marek Szyperski. These activities were carried out not in connection with any proceedings, but in connection with the performance of journalistic duties at the time when the Civic Platform and PSL ruled Poland. Here's another example. Regarding the cleanliness of journalists in the times of the government of the PO PSL, I'll just mention a few names, I won't be reading the whole list anymore. Well, they fired, among other things. Editor Bronisław Wildstein, editor of Rafał Ziemkiewicz, editor of Krzysztof Skowronski, editor of Marek Pyza, editor of Anita Gargas, editor of Katarzyna Heyke, editor of Tomasz Sakiewicz, editor of Jack Sobala, editor of Michał Karnowski, editor of Anna Sarzyńska, editor of Piotr Skwieciński, editor of Wanda Zwinogrodzka, editor of Artur Dmochowski and many others. I would like to remind you that the unprecedented arrival of the special forces at the weekly edition of the Civic Platform took place during the reign of the Civic Platform. The editor in charge of this magazine was pulled out a laptop to capture information covered by journalistic secrecy. I'm not going to mention the scale of surveillance and wiretapping in the days of the Civic Platform. On this subject We spoke in detail. So, High Izbo, what is it? Look who's talking. I propose that we focus on the substance of this debate and discuss it through arguments rather than using propaganda moves. As far as the surveillance of journalists is concerned, this is a matter that should be fully clarified, because this is an attempt on the foundation of journalistic independence. This bill sets things straight that the Civic Platform hasn't dealt with in eight years of its government. And as far as all these arguments are concerned, or almost all the arguments that were made during the debate, there is again a fundamental question: and who is it? You had a majority in the Sejm, a majority in the Senate, since 2010, the president who supported you, you had a majority in the National Radio and Television Council, so you could change the media law 20 times to whatever you wanted, which you would consider appropriate. You didn't do it. And now, when someone tries to sort things out, there are voices about politicization. [[Senator Czesław Ryszka: Rescue, not only order.)]] Look who's talking. And who politicized the media? Who led to a situation in which the supervisory boards could not find their place, anyone who was not somehow associated with the governing arrangement? Who did this? Except they tried to do it in gloves, hoping that no one would see it, and that the hypocrisy that flows from all of this would simply be loosened, sugared, and none of it would be left. High Izbo! Let's discuss the arguments. We may disagree with some solutions. You may take advantage of your statutory option, you may submit draft laws. It's not like anybody forbids it. There's democracy, there's freedom. Anyone may carry out a senator's or parliamentary mandate as they see fit. Can I put it together? It's okay to fold. Who's talking about restricting freedom? Who said anything about an assassination attempt on democracy? Those who, unfortunately, at a time when they ruled, behaved differently in this respect, contrary to the slogans they had on their mouths. High Izbo, I'll be done with this for now. I believe that this bill should be processed as soon as possible. I hope that at this meeting we'll approve her, and that... [[Senator Jan Rulewski: Where are the corrections?]] The amendments will be carefully considered. I would like to wish everyone a pleasant evening and that we remain with the thoughts that have been spoken during this debate and that each responsible, in accordance with his free conscience, make the decision in the right way, as he thinks, by pressing the buttons. Thank you very much. [[Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-23-senat-21-1.u195	Thank you. Please take the floor of Senator Krzysztof Mroz. I have some concerns, Senator, whether now, after your speech, it will be a pleasant evening. [[Senator Leszek Czarnobaj: It is just beginning.)]] I have some concerns. There you go, Mr. Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-23-senat-21-1.u196	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I listened to the discussions of the Senators of the Civic Platform, who raised many different reservations, spoke about fears, fears. The vast majority of these charges were completely missed. Ladies and gentlemen, I will refer only to a few who have been raised here. Senator Zdrojewska said that the bill does not solve the problem of media financing. Of course she doesn't solve it, because she doesn't cover the subject at all. We all know, Senator, that, in accordance with EU rules, certain procedures last longer and must continue because this is what the rules require. I do not wish to be malicious, but for the fact that today is such a downloadability of the subscription, please thank one Mr. Donald Tusk, who publicly encouraged Poles not to pay the subscription. When Minister Czabański presented an idea about the audiovisual fee from which we withdrew, because this could not be achieved within these deadlines, many politicians of the Civic Platform publicly speak of Members here, of course, because in the Sejm politics are more involved, accusing the Law and Justice of wanting to introduce a new tax, a further burden. Of course you were against it. Today, Senator Zdrojewska says there is a problem with media funding. Poles are not to pay their subscription by listening to your former boss, and you do not agree to the audiovisual fee. So how are the media gonna be funded? [[If we disagree, if she's not here...]] But, ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Senator, you could listen... [[Excuse me. Don't argue.]] ...your colleagues from the Sejm who commented on the proposal to introduce an audiovisual fee of 12 PLN and connect it to the energy bill. The Civic Platform, Modern said that of course it is scandalous that it is a new tax. So the question is: how to finance public media? Second line, a little weird for me... Namely, in many of your speeches the idea of criticizing the definition of national media, the National Media Council, was moving. What's wrong with a national word? Rather, it is a word that is positive. So I completely disagree with a concept of criticism of the word 'national'. Patriotism, a nation is not a bad thing. That is why I am amazed that even the name of this creation raises reservations. Another point I would like to address is the question raised by Senator Leszek Czarnobaj. Of course, in Germany there are 70 couples council that politicians, people of culture, people of science, athletes are appointed. Mr. Senator, these people of culture, these people of science, they have opinions, too. What are worse politicians than these people? I could say that... [[They're worse...]] No, Mr. Editor... [[But I'm sorry...]] Mr. Senator, you're a good example. Being a man and a culture and a politician, you have your political views. It's hard to say that. Ms Agnieszka Holland does not write her political views very strongly. And what is the difference between politicians and these different associations? Each of us, Members or Senators, had to strive very hard for the support of the voters and we are stronger because of the support of the people. I do not know why any organization of artists should have a greater right than politicians, than Members who had to work very hard in their districts to get people to choose them. [[Because he's an artist.]] Well, we have an artist, Mrs. Agnieszka Holland, and she also has a very... [[But she's famous, Mr. Senator, and some of them...]] [[Mr. Senator...]] Mr. Senator, do you think Mrs. Agnieszka Holland would be on this apolitical council? [[Yes.]] Well, that's your view. [[Mr. Senator, I'm so sorry. Don't argue with the O.R. And please, Mr. Senator, don't interrupt.]] [[I'm not interrupting.]] [[There's no polemics in the O.R. because we're just not gonna finish...]] Ladies and gentlemen, there will always be a discussion about whether the media are apolitical, as far as they are political, because everyone has political views. And since we are now calling the body which is chosen by the Sejm, this is always the political aspect in this. He is, ladies and gentlemen, in every parliament. I don't know for sure Mr. Marshal Borusewicz has more experience in this area. But I think this is the only law in the Polish legal system that guarantees the law of the opposition's right to participate... [[Constitution.]] ...and not on the basis of some consensus, gentlemen's kind of deal: we'll guarantee you any places in some representative body. I'm even worried that we, by putting this record in, that the President must choose from among the opposition representatives, so that we do not narrow down a little bit of the President's maneuvering. But this is... Well, I don't know any other law, maybe it is, but I don't have enough experience, which would make it clear that the opposition, the opposition clubs have legally guaranteed their representatives in some kind of... [[The Sejm and the Senate.]] Well, a parliament that's more representative... [[It's okay.]] But we're talking more about the Seym than about the Senate, because we know there's a different electoral order here. Dear Senators of the Civic Platform, this is a certain opportunity for you, because we are bringing you together in some way to decide what the media will look like. Parliament, the Sejm, but also the Senate, which you are asking for here, has chosen the National Council of Radio and Television, and in this case there has never been such a legal guarantee that also the opposition... Because, ladies and gentlemen, today you are looking at it through the prism of today's arrangement, but this is a deal that will change, one day it will change. Today we rule, you are in opposition, but maybe someday there will be some other governing arrangement. After all, we cannot give you any more. On the 5 representatives you have 3 people who represent or will represent the opposition in this council. And, as I stress, I do not know of another law which would legally guarantee the opposition such privileges. And finally, I agree with one statement made by Senator Fedorovich... [[Oh! Yes?]] ...at the very beginning, that means we don't trust each other. And that's the truth. Every bill, every major law that is passed in this term of office, you question it. You're calling into question every bill. For the first time, it seems, it was clearly stated during the work on the anti-terrorism bill, when the Senators of the Civic Platform said directly: we are against Even though some of the records are correct Because we don't trust that power. Ladies and gentlemen, it is a problem that after twenty years of this democracy... And today it is particularly painful in the Senate, where you once were in one political party. Yes? Mr. Borusewicz was recommended by Law and Justice, many of you were in AWS, and then somehow they parted ways. And today, every decision of law and justice, the majority that won the election. And so is the country that you've won twice, and you're questioning it. Thank you. [[I'm the one who has to correct this.]] [[The meeting is chaired by Deputy Marshal Grzegorz Czelej]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-23-senat-21-1.u197	Thank you very much. [[Because I've been replaced.]] Mr. Senator, there's no such thing as... [[Please... one word, but nothing wrong.]] [[Joy in the Chamber]] But...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-23-senat-21-1.u198	I mean, Mr. Senator, I didn't tell you that we politicians don't trust each other. I said that we people in Poland don't trust each other. Not politicians. Because the fact that we don't trust each other is for sure. [[Senator Jan Maria Jackowski: Aren't we people in Poland?)]] I know, but I didn't say that...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-23-senat-21-1.u199	I'm sorry, but let's not drive... Please take the floor of Senator Grodzki. Come on in.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-23-senat-21-1.u200	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! Minister! I'm not a media specialist, and I'm not gonna take up much of your time. I'm gonna focus on cutting this bill, and I'm not gonna refuse to argue with Senator Mrroze. Because I was recently, as a representative of the Senate, in Kazakhstan, to observe the so-called. free elections. It was a ceremony, the outcome of which was preconceived. And, as it has been said many times here, whether it's going to be 0:5, or 3:2, it doesn't really change anything. So let's not talk about that root flower anymore. And you asked why we are misconstrued by the national adjective. I'm gonna answer you because a fellow senator is a little younger, I'm, unfortunately, older. I'm familiar with the Front of Unity of the Nation, I'm associated with the Voivodeship National Council, but I think of two things as bad as the Front of Unity of the Nation. The Military Council of National Savings and National Socialism with a shortcut from WRON. A national adjective is a feature of authoritarian and dictatorial systems. And it's really worth considering before that noble word is used. And I have a request for a colleague of Senator Jackowski's. I think it is necessary to remove from this list the bachelor of the Order of the White Eagle, Mr. Bronisław Wildstein, because, if I remember correctly, President Kaczyński dismissed him. But I might be wrong. [[You're not wrong.]] I would like to make one last point, which is particularly sensitive in this House, where we are looking for a national community in which we are looking for an agreement. I have a question for Senator Jackowski. The point is to make one argument. We promised ourselves that we would argue on the arguments, which is the highest form of discussion. What argument is there in this House that we should not move one member from the three members elected by the Sejm to the Senate? Two Seyms, one Senate. [[And he's right.]] I strongly support Senator Flork's amendment, because if we show no respect for ourselves, no one will. He's not gonna show us that respect. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-23-senat-21-1.u201	Thank you very much. Please take the floor of Senator Augustine.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-23-senat-21-1.u202	Mr. Marshal! Gentlemen of Ministers! Today is a sad and important day. This is serious. I once felt it very much as a great gratitude to the people of Solidarity that they brought us freedom, including freedom of the media. I got it as a gift. It's always a little embarrassing, like people say thank you to themselves. I'd like to start by thanking you. Today it's obvious that it's an ugly bill, not even the key to staff changes, it's just a rude trick. But I'm wondering why, why is this supposed to lead, what is the real purpose? Because this exchange is just a means, I think we all feel good, regardless of which side we're sitting here on. And today we have to compare this change with many others to see today's law in the process, in the process of many changes that have raised huge controversy here about the Constitutional Court Act, the Public Prosecutor's Office Act, the Police Act, recently the Anti-Terrorism Act. They all pose a threat to fundamental rights in democracy. This is not just the opinion of a single senator, it is not the opinion of the opposition club, but more and more important international bodies, including those we belong to. You have to admit that those who say that the Platform has not put the public media system in order. Personally, inside the party, I've been very critical of that. I think it's a serious mistake, which is now revenge, not because you're pulling it out now, because it's not an argument, it's just an alibi. I remember a time when, when it was alleged that Socialist Poland was not democratic at the time, it was said that black people were being beaten there, that unemployment was there, that workers were slowing down, that there were strikes there. That's what they said, but they weren't arguments, they were looking for an alibi. Don't look for an alibi. I am convinced that you are doing a great harm to Polish democracy, and many of you have built and fought for it. It seems to me that these two letters, which were read here, are completely incomparable: a list of shame which you read by Marshal Borusewicz, and a list to be explained by the courts. Only that this alleged surveillance was undertaken maybe in connection with ongoing proceedings. This needs to be properly explained, not used as an alibi. We need arguments. And, ladies and gentlemen, if it were so that, when you criticize the Platform, you propose to eliminate everything that you criticize, for example, every time there was a report by the National Radio and Television Council, it would be a real argument. However, nothing, literally nothing of the things you have requested, is realized by you. I am talking, of course, not about the whole program, but about the media issues that we are dealing with today. That is why I would like to conclude by saying the words of Donald Tusk, who once warned us when we had the urge to politically increase our influence in public media. He spoke to us in this way: remember, the one who will take over politically the media will be finished in Polish democracy. And... [[So the platform's over.]] [[Mr. Marshal!]] And with that kind of message, I'm leaving you with the moment you've prepared a law on the political ownership of public media. [[Applause]] [[And Minister Luft is who?]] [[Mr. Marshal, in correction mode.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-23-senat-21-1.u203	Well, don't be too long. But if you'll excuse me, Mr. Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-23-senat-21-1.u204	It'll be better from the platform. Two sentences. Mr. Marshal, I would like to correct the corroboration of Senator Grodzki's statement. He said that on this list, which I read, the lists of people released at the time when the Civic Platform was ruled in Poland, you found yourself editor Bronisław Wildstein. Well, I'd like to state that the editor of Wildstein was Yes, you're right. He was the president of the Polish Television until 2007, but in the years 2008 and 2010 he worked in the Polish Television and conducted the program "Shading of the Polish People's Republic." And this program was taken off the air, and he was fired, so as an employee... [[What year? What year?]] By 2010. [[And in 2010, who was the president?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-23-senat-21-1.u205	I'm sorry, but this isn't a discussion anymore. We're really crossing the line. Please take the floor of Senator Zdrojewska. [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[He said Kaczynski took...]] But, gentlemen of the senators, explain this in your clowns. [[I mean, Urbanski was the president.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-23-senat-21-1.u206	I'm still... That's what it's like: if there's someone like Senator Frost, it's just starting a discussion. [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[Gentlemen of the Senators, please...]] Please let me tell you, Senator Jackowski. Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, first of all, I would like to refer to Senator Mr. Frost's statement. Dear Senator, we do not criticize the word 'national'. There's nothing wrong with that. National things are not only in Poland, such names are also in other countries. However, we talked about the fact that there is no such thing as national media. If that name were for example. The National Council of Public Media, that would be much more meaningful and probably wouldn't bother anyone. Although I think it doesn't all have to be called national and we have too much... well, we're overusing that word a little bit. And it should only be used where we really are dealing with something extremely important, the only, unique, like. The National Philharmonic or something. So I think we're pretty close here... But that's what this was all about. And as far as the audiovisual fee is concerned, of course this law does not apply, but I have long been reminding you of our work on the previous law, which was introduced at the end of December, because then we had a promise that we would solve these problems. And it was supposed to be so easy. If we could just... If the Minister or the Members of the Law and Justice knew at the time that it was a very long process for the European Commission to be notified, they would not have promised in interviews that such a fee would be introduced in February or March. [[The paper doesn't read...]] Or they'd say it's gonna be in a couple of years. So that's all it's all about. But, ladies and gentlemen, you have also provoked me to this... I forgot to tell you earlier. This is one of the senators. I don't see him in the O.R. anymore. He said he liked the news and that he didn't... Well, I'd like to tell you because perhaps not all senators know what the TV situation is like right now. I say it's dramatic. This is the good change that happened on TV? Today's news is e.g. This: Jerzy Stuhr's ambitious TV Theatre is not going to happen because probably someone doesn't like Jerzy Stuhr on TV anymore. Polsat and TVN won in the spring. The TVP lost the most of it, which is the title. The whole spring was a 20% drop in ratings. And what do we do in this situation? We're accusing professionals who do this, and we're saying they're just miscounting it. Yeah, for 20 years, they counted this ratings well, and now suddenly they're miscounting? [[It's not like anyone's watching this dead body.]] Later, ladies and gentlemen, new programs have been introduced, e.g. It's a teleranek. Well, disaster. Only 240 thousand people, viewers, including only 14,000 children, followed the teleranka. These are Mr. Kurski's ideas. Opole's case was the smallest audience for 12 years and was a terrible voting application, unprepared. Why? Because we're kicking people off TV, they don't stay professional, and people who just don't get along with it. This is the new idea of Kurski's president. It's a complete failure, too. So that all these things... the flagship idea, the Pegaz, which was supposed to be an important cultural program, was supposed to be a failure, only 200 thousand spectators. That, gentlemen, is very little. Compared to what happened, what it looks like right now... Advertisements in front of the news that have danced are just à propos news in front of the news. This is a very objective meter. It's just that people don't pay because they know that the ratings have fallen, because the news doesn't like it. Maybe you like the senator, but this isn't TV. It's for the PiS only. Let's get this straight. Television has to have ratings, only this way it can hit... I'm not saying the ratings are something. God, but in this way television has the chance to reach as many viewers as possible and then it can fulfil these important tasks, i.e. teach, educate, teach patriotism, etc., etc. That's what you want, and that's what we'd probably want. So I'm paying attention to the fact that And that's what I'm talking about. This acquisition of public media and the last six months is absolute, complete failure, programme failure, etc. Kabaretov's Holiday Night didn't like it on TV anymore because they said something too much, Kabareton didn't go into Opole at all. And the Sacred Cabaret Night, as far as I'm concerned, took a different TV and... [[Polsat.]] Polsat took it and had great ratings. Take this into account. And that, among other things. Yeah, we did. And any audiovisual fee, whatever it is, whether it's a budget charge or something... any idea is needed and it was promised six months ago. I'm sorry I've been looking at your senator all this time, but it was about the various speeches that were coming down here. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-23-senat-21-1.u207	Thank you very much. Please take the floor of Senator Silence.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-23-senat-21-1.u208	Mr. Marshal! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! In fact, this law is a very small law, which deals only with certain issues which have so far been in the sphere of operation of the National Radio and Television Council. Well, if the council kind of takes over... I mean. It is not, in a sense, literally taking over some of the powers of the institution, it is worth considering whether the role of the Senate has actually been underestimated here. Since, when the National Council of Radio and Television is appointed, the Senate has the right to elect one of the members, the question arises as to why in this case we are deprived of this possibility and is the exclusive right of the Sejm to elect three members and the other two to appoint the President of the Republic. Therefore, to be honest, I agree with this conclusion, which is going in this direction, so that this power is granted to the Senate. I think if we don't do this ourselves, if we don't respect each other as Chambers, then nobody will. He won't appreciate us, we're going downhill, we're going to be treated as a completely secondary House. This one must be strongly opposed. And where we have the opportunity to participate in certain decisions of the system... This is an institution that is on the verge of a government institution, because of course there is no such character as the National Radio and Television Council, whose existence is provided for in the Constitution. But since this National Media Council is to have certain powers which so far have been the responsibility of the National Council, I believe that we should not deprive ourselves of this power, which for many, many years, as there is a system provided for in the 1992 Act to appoint members of this Constitutional National Radiophony and Television Council... This right should also be granted to the Senate. I still have a reservation. And that's what I'm putting under consideration by the state. . as regards the It is about where we have established requirements for persons who may be elected members of this National Media Council. Namely, there is a phrase here that can be chosen a person who stands out with knowledge and experience. Ladies and gentlemen, of course knowledge is knowledge. A student can acquire a very beautiful and extensive knowledge, which does not guarantee that he will function well when he pursues a certain profession. Therefore, in such cases, the legislator usually uses not so much the criterion of knowledge as the criterion of the acquis. Therefore, the word 'know' would be replaced by 'dorobek'. Then we will have a record that such a person is distinguished by the acquis and experience in matters related to the task and operation of the media, especially since, ladies and gentlemen, in a similar law, such already in the system, concerning the National Radio and Television Council, we have such references as members. programme councils. And there's a requirement that a person who becomes a member of the program board should stand out not knowing, but with an income. 'Cause what's the most common source, ladies and gentlemen, of what? Well, first, there's got to be knowledge. There's basically no accomplishment without knowledge, but the other way around... Well, that's a lot of things. Hence my offer. I'll report it as a minor amendment proposal. That's it. I don't take any more time because it's important to talk. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-23-senat-21-1.u209	Thank you very much. Please take the floor of Senator Czarnobaj.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-23-senat-21-1.u210	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I will briefly say two sentences to the High House, but especially to Senator Mr. Mr. Mr. Frost. Mr. Senator, I'd like you and the senator to understand that. I don't value social groups, especially people. I don't value that political representatives are people better than people of culture... That's not what I'm saying, and that's not what Senator Ryszka was talking about. Namely, I was talking about the fact that on this council there will be two representatives from the opposition and As Senator Ryszka said, I quote These two men will be able to scrutinize. Please read what it means to scout, who were the scouts, what they were trying to... [[Senator Wiesław Dobkowski: He misconstrued...]] I know he was wrong, but that's what he said, which is why I'd like to explain. And I'm not talking about scouts, Mr. Senator, and I'm not talking about choosing politicians first because they've worked hard and become senators. I just want to say one more time... If we look at the answer to the question which social groups have the greatest confidence, we'll see that politicians are in the final place, Mr. Senator. Therefore, let us not push politicians to this advice because they enjoy the least social trust. [[Oh, come on.]] I'm saying... [[But they're chosen...]] Mr. Senator Klein, this concerns you, too. And I would also like to say that this advice, when it is, let's say, a mixture of politicians and people from different backgrounds... Then they will be fulfilled... the elements that Minister Czabański spoke about, namely, this advice will be diverse in terms of discussion and decision-making. [[Voice from the room: That's great.]] And the last sentence about what Senator Frost said. Great... I wrote it down: we can't give you any more. Mr. Senator, I'd like to say again, please don't behave. Like Emperor Bokassa, who liked someone from culture, he gave more money for culture, and if he didn't like someone, he didn't give anything. I know you can't give anything else. I know that your powers end with you voting for and without any comments. I am talking, Mr. Senator, about not giving or giving to politicians, just so that politicians are one of the components of decisions made, where there are representatives of culture, people of sport, science, etc., etc. And I don't value that one group is better than the other, I just mean diversity. This isn't about giving to others. It is only about the element that Minister Czabański spoke about in the general sense, that only an element of cooperation and diversity will give independence and not involve the media in political action. And that's all I'd like to say. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-23-senat-21-1.u211	Thank you very much. Please take the floor of Senator Panczyk-Podniej. [[Voice from the room: No, Kleina.]] Oh, I'm sorry, Senator Kleina. [[Senator Maria Panczyk-Podziej: If the marshal will permit, then I will only say two sentences as correction.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-23-senat-21-1.u212	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I am pleased that this discussion is taking so long that it is clear that our voices, the voices of colleagues from the Civic Platform, but slowly, gradually also convince colleagues from the Law and Justice. Because you can see that already in part the speeches are voices that some solutions are worth supporting. Moreover, even the Senators of Law and Justice report similar amendments. I am referring mainly to this amendment, which states that the Senate should be valued and that it would have the right to elect its representative for the National Media Council. This is a very, very important issue, and it seems to me that this is also such a prestigious issue for our House. And I hope that these reasonable voices, including those of the Law and Justice, will be accepted by all of us, the senators. In the context of this discussion, which was also attended by Senator Jan Maria Jackowski, who paid attention to... I am referring to the polemics concerning the release of your editor, and earlier President of Wildstein from Polish Television. This issue needs to be clarified here. Senator Jan Maria Jackowski said that Mr Wildstein wasn't fired or that he was fired at another time. He was released in 2010 when Mr Romuald Eagle was president of the Polish Television. And that was the time, until 2011, when television was ruled by the Coalition of Law and Justice, the SLD and other partners. At that time, television presidents, especially during the end of time, changed quite often, were mainly performing their duties, after a few months, took wages, wages, were suspended, etc. It was an absolutely embarrassing situation. Then the TV... Somehow we managed to stabilise this situation, it was obviously not ideal, as the previous speakers pointed out here, but it was definitely better and everything was working much better than before, i.e. until 2011. So that the person who fired the editor of Wildstein was the president of Romuald Eagle. His brother's a very decent, involved Kashuba activist in Pomerania... [[And Farphal?]] Farfał was also a man of your company, I think the League of Polish Families... [[I'm sorry, but this isn't a discussion. Please return to your statement, Senator.]] So, ladies and gentlemen, the situation was indeed embarrassing. And I think that if we could bring about such consensus that the amendments that were and are tabled by both the Civic Platform and the Law and Justice were voted out, it would be for the sake of the bill and perhaps for the better functioning of television. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-23-senat-21-1.u213	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal... [[Talking in the O.R.]] Quiet, please. Get in the mike, please. Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-23-senat-21-1.u214	I'm gonna say a correction because what you're gonna say here in this room is gonna go into the world and you can't let false information get out of here. And Senator Ryszka accused me that the president I was asking for left the radio in debt to PLN 2.5 million. Well, I checked it out, and that's not true. This is not true, because this amount, i.e. PLN 2.5 million, is foreseen as a lack of budget for this year and this is to be specified by the current board, which is headed by the new president. So not the old president, the one I am asking for, left this advice because he left it in very good financial condition, but already the new president so determined the state of the budget that it would be necessary to indebt for PLN 2.5 million. I'd like to correct it, because you can't let false information get out of here. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-23-senat-21-1.u215	Thank you very much. Senator Rooster. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-23-senat-21-1.u216	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I listen very carefully to all the speeches and I wonder... because one attackes the other, but really some of them seem to have taken the amnesia and forgot what was happening behind their rule. Wasn't the National Radio and Television Council political advice? Mr. Senator Klein, that's what you mentioned. I'll trade you one. Mr. Dworak, a representative of President Komorowski. [[Representative.]] And President Komorowski was from the PiS or the Platform? [[He was the President of the Republic of Poland.]] Mr. Kleina, yes, supported by the Platform. [[Nation.]] Mr. Luft, who was that? [[Voice from the room: There it is. What was that?]] Ladies and gentlemen, who was that? I know it is. He was also a representative of the President. [[Yes, sir.]] Who was PSL? You were still making an alliance with the SLD. So let's not attack like that, because again, actually... What happened when the concession cases were discussed? Everyone got, and no Television Trwam and Radio Maryja had to go out on the street in protests... [[But they got...]] [[Voice from the room: We know it.]] Sorry, I didn't interrupt. [[This is not a discussion, Senator.]] ...to, my dear fellow, get a license. Dear Lords, really stop these attacks, because I have great respect for Minister Czabański as an oppositionist who was the first to fly off the radio with a bang, yes, the first to fall off the radio. And really speaking by people who actually... I bow to Marshal Borusewicz, in front of the people of Solidarity, because they fought for free Poland. But when they come out on the stand people who supported the Front of National Unity, the PRON, the WRON, and they're talking about democracy... Gentlemen, I'm sorry, let's think a little bit, really, let's think a little bit. They come out and say this bill is just like it was in the days of the WRONs, the PRONs... [[He knew what he was talking about.]] Ladies and gentlemen, he knew what he was talking about. I'm so glad you guys are talking about your friend that he knew what he was talking about. And whatever you do here, anarchy does Law and Justice, because it wants to sort things out. Here's what I'm gonna say. Finally, when you go to the voters, you don't sit in a smug senator's bench, and you go to people, downstairs, they say, "This TV is television." For us. Dear Mr. and Mrs. Dear Mr. and Mrs. Dear Mr. Dear Mr. and Mrs. Dear Mr. and Mrs. Dear Mr. and Mrs. Dear Mr. and Mrs. Dear Mr. Dear Mr. Detective, we are accused of mentioning who has been fired and we forget, Mr. Senator Klein, what agreements have been made by journalists on television. They had trash deals or they had to start their own business. And there were elites supported by the previous coalition, people who made a 150 grand contract for the program, wives made 80 grand each, and then everything was okay. [[It was very bad.]] Everything was okay, then no one was protesting. Ino's here... [[Voice from the room: It was...]] Yes, it was, and I speak loudly about it, that your governments were also so on the railroad, that future ATMs and they made so much money that five CEOs didn't have as much money as one CEO under PO and PSL. [[Voice from the room: But now they have...]] [[It was bad...]] Dear Mr and Mrs Klein, don't beat yourself up because you have a nature that if someone tells the truth, you have to attack them right away. And, ladies and gentlemen, let's not say... 'Cause I think cleaning needs to be done, and as you put in employment contracts for your editors or your editors, it was the right thing to do. I am delighted that Television Trwam has a choice, I have a choice, watch TV Trwam. I'm so happy for you. I'm not telling you to listen to Radio Maryja, but I'm listening. I was at the protests myself when you had to fight because you said no, no, and you really didn't. And I appeal, Dear Lords, for real common sense. Because some, when attacking Minister Czabański, are really not worthy to attack this man. The first one got fired, like I said, with a bang. I agree with you because among 21 postulates, Mr. Marshal Borusewicz, there was one about freedom of the media at Gdańsk Shipyard. Are the media in danger now? No. Do Mr Czabański and Mr Law and Justice seek to get the People's Tribune back in Poland, the PZPR authority, the Soldier of Liberty, the WSI body and all the services, or the Green Flag, then the ZSL authority? It's not like anybody's trying to do that right now. What's the swing here? Dear Lords, in your governments, they've been monitoring and monitoring politicians, some of them. I'm not gonna tell who. The Minister of Corruption sent 23 checks, herring pulled out... And that's how we can... [[Cod.]] Cod. And that's how we can get things out of each other, because I can talk about a lot of other things. But what good is that gonna do you? The amendments are justified, the laws enter into force. They also insisted on Mr. Kurski's ratings of Opole. Well, I remember when there was a soldier's song in Kołobrzeg, there was a Soviet song, and there was a 100% ratings. 'Cause all the troops from Kolobrzeg had to go to a concert after Peerelu. We live in a free country. I don't like Opole going to the concert, so I'm not going. I'm fine with going to Euros, like a game of beloved representation, so I'm going. You could go on like this, Mr. and Mrs. Senators. And how they made contracts, for example. For transmissions? Why even now it's the Euro... Senator Florek is right... I was a football player, too. [[Did you dig?]] And why did they conclude contracts so that now Television Poland must buy rights from commercial television? And that's how it was done. Dear Ladies and Gentlemen, Now you're saying that there should be actors there. Were the actors on this board under your rule? They weren't there. There was no one like that, there were no athletes, and everything was fine. And now there's a really frontal attack on the fact that there are five members. I do not speak, Dear Members, that the composition is small or large. But whatever was done, you would attack. If it was 80, it'd be an attack, why it's not 102. [[Or five.]] And if there were 100, you'd ask why there's no 1000 on the board. [[What do you mean, why?]] Yes, sir... I'm not going to argue because I really have an opinion about this. I remember, because like I said, I'm the fourth term, I know what was going on, and now everyone's saying... Well, listen, show me how many amendments that the Law and Justice had tabled, as was the opposition, were voted out. I don't think so. [[Oh, no.]] Buddy, none, unless you made a mistake and voted one out. And really, Mr and Mrs Dear, if you look at it now, a lot of things are voted out. [[What?]] There it is. And glory for the fact that the name is national. Because you can do national councils, voivodship national councils, but eventually Poles are a nation. And we should really be proud that we are defending this word as a national one. Other countries can defend their national words, and we are just ashamed. And really, Minister Czabański, I bow to you as an oppositionist, as a minister for the fact that you are working hard to make certain changes in Polish media I'm not attacking anyone. What happened? I remember Prime Minister Tusk acting after he won Law and Justice. What? You're gonna pay your subscription? Total mutiny. And then, after he was Prime Minister of the Republic, yes. The point was to make it pay. They've all forgotten. Well, let's not have amnesia. [[I'll straighten it all out in a minute.]] I'm sorry, I know you can straighten yourself out, Mr. Senator. Because the truth stings in the eyes. [[But I'm gonna straighten it out.]] And you can straighten things out. What? Was it different? That's what happened. There was an appeal for people not to pay their subscription. There was an appeal for national rebellion, a national rebellion. [[But I'm gonna straighten it out.]] Good. We can straighten things out. I still have five minutes of time, and after your speech, I can correct it. [[Sign up right away.]] No, I'm not signing up because I respect the discussion. And the fact that somebody thinks they're... Gentlemen, a little humility... I direct this to Senator Fedorovich: a little humility. For pride has led to the fact that, in fact, thanks to God, Law and Justice rule. Because the previous coalition seemed like nothing, just us, us, and again us. And the voters were really sick of it. A little humility. [[But not with a finger.]] Excuse me, a little humility. And I have said this to myself many times, because I am a humble man, and I lack humility. Yummy loses. Yes, thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-23-senat-21-1.u217	Thank you very much. Please take the floor of Senator Mr. Frost. [[I clapped.]] [[Thank you.]] [[But just so you don't talk anymore.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-23-senat-21-1.u218	Mr. Marshal... [[Quiet, please.]] ...High Izbo! I did not expect my speech to arouse such a revival and even some would be encouraged to discuss it. I'm more of a corrigendum... It is a pity that Senator Grodzki is not here because he was talking about a national word, that he is associated with national socialism, with WRON, with some national council. I am associated with the National Library, with the national economy, with the National Bank of Poland. It didn't occur to me at all, because of course you can be against this law, criticize some of her records. That even the national word, or name, can be criticised. If someone in the United States criticized the functioning of the National Guard just because it has a national name... I only agree with one word from Senator Grodzki, who said it was a very noble word. So much for that. Now to Senator Zdrojewska, who talked about the fact that it is the Platform that is not against the audiovisual fee and criticizes only that it is not in this bill. Then look at what Mrs Iwona Śledzińska-Catarasinska or Mr Wojciech Król said a few weeks ago. It's on Google. You can google how you criticized it when the idea of an audiovisual fee just came up. But I'm glad that once we get past the notification of this target law, I'm holding Senator Zdrojewska's word. It will not be against the audiovisual fee. And, in fact, the final corrigendum, by Senator Leszek Czarnobaj, who said that I had missed out on saying that we couldn't give you any more. Ladies and gentlemen, I am surprised that you are criticizing this particular element of the state, as I said, perhaps the first legislative element, which guarantees that the opposition will have its representatives in the representative body... [[Thank you very much, benefactor!]] It's not a question of charity, it's a question of sharing responsibility. [[With an opposition.]] Today, representatives of the IPN were elected in the Sejm and you were very critical of the fact that all representatives were from the PiS. That was bad, too. When we give you in another law the opportunity to share, you also criticize it. That's more or less... Whatever we offer, you'll criticize. If we give you a thousand zlotys, you will also criticize. And, ladies and gentlemen, there is one more point of my speech. And to Senator Czarnobaj, who said that we have the right to vote in favour. If I wanted to be mean, I could say that you, in turn, have the right to vote against. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-23-senat-21-1.u219	Thank you very much. Please take the floor of Senator Fedorovich.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-23-senat-21-1.u220	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I'm very short. Mr. Senator Staszku Rooster... [[Joy in the Chamber]] ...from Małopolska, I love you, as you know, for years. We're friends, but I want you to remember 2005. The PiS includes power and you eliminate immediately, at night, the National Radio and Television Council. In my presence, Mr Kurski is resummating the vote. The guy who wrote the protocol almost fainted because he accused him of miscounting. I'm talking about how he did it. [[Voice from the room: Yes, it was.]] Second thing. It's 2010, we've been in power for three years. Who's in charge of TV? Please? Who's in charge of TV? Has the Civic Platform changed television and management? She didn't because she doesn't do things like that. I'm not even talking about 2015, when you take over on New Year's Eve, in the dark and quietly, you change the television boards. That's the truth. And that's all I said. And pride is an absolute stranger to me, Mr. Buddy. [[Voice from the room: But...]] What, I'm not telling the truth?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-23-senat-21-1.u221	Senator Rooster. Please take the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-23-senat-21-1.u222	Ladies and gentlemen, I will tell you the sacred truth. Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! Minister! Dear Senator of Małopolska, Jurku Fedorovich! Let's remember what happened. Why didn't you then exchange the National Radio and Television Council? Because the great President Lech Kaczyński was blocking everything. Dear Member States, when a huge tragedy happened in 2010, an avalanche went down. I don't want to get into a discussion, but that was the truth. [[In 2011...]] I'm sorry. But that was the truth. I remember Lech Kaczyński's sacred memory blocking everything. You wanted to change, but then there was no way, and after 2010 there was an avalanche... Let us not draw anything out now, and let each vote as his conscience dictates. If we start doing the math... Senator Zdrojewska says this program is good, this program is bad. I will intervene, what I am saying publicly, at Mr. Kurski's, why the program of integration was removed from the antenna. Me, for example. I have a weakness for people with disabilities, and I think this program should be. He has been removed and 6 million people with disabilities in the Republic of Poland, in my beloved homeland, there is no programme. I'll go with a letter to Mr. Kurski for immediate restoration... I watched Mr. Pawłowski's disabled conduct this integration himself. Mr. Libicki, our disabled senator, performed in Integration and spoke there. You may say, Mr and Mrs, that this has been cut, it has been... I have a lot of sentiment for you, and I won't argue because I don't have any calculations, whether it was like this or not. Dear Lords, Dear Jurk, we don't remember how the war was, how was the distribution of advertising money? Hasn't it been said how much commercial television they charge for commercials? It was spoken. It was, it was... I'm off because I don't want to heat up the atmosphere. I don't make any calculations of who's been under surveillance. Well, a lot of people were under surveillance, a lot of people. And what I was talking about was blocking the sacred memory of Lech Kaczyński. I remember these things because I've been a senator since 2005 and I know how this happened. I'm not stalling and I'm not attacking anyone. Thank you. [[The voice from the hall: But to the night shifts, you didn't.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-23-senat-21-1.u223	Mr. Marshal Borusewicz, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-23-senat-21-1.u224	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Even the best intentions built so hastily by the law will lead to a problem. What I'm trying to say is that I'm the one who likes this solution for two opposition candidates. Even if the PiS says it's gonna be two from Kukiz, I like it. But the rush with which you are running this bill causes that, although we are pointing out some possible problems, it cannot be changed because tomorrow you want to adopt this law. Of course, if we were discussing it, if we had a week, then we'd try to get... I mean, we'd try to make this bill a little bit better. And right now, we have information and we're making an evaluation. And I have an assessment that you want to vote this out without any adjustments. I'll vote no. Why? That's because there's no Senate rep. [[That's an argument. That's an argument.]] It's not just a mistake that we senators should be going through here in the Senate. If you had passed this bill a week earlier, the PiS Senators would have supported this amendment as well, and at the moment it will probably be that only the Platform will support such an amendment. So this is the first case. I'm not saying that this bill compared to promises is just a fragment, a small fragment. Let's see how this solution works. It'll come out in the laundry. Let's see how this works. However, I am an incorrect optimist and I am not looking at what PiS voted today in the Sejm on the IPN College There will be no opposition there. Tomorrow we'll vote on it here. We introduced two really good candidates. Well, we'll see how you vote. This is also a matter of the National Radio and Television Council. This body, which this law is about to establish, has less competence than the National Radio and Television Council. Smaller. And will it be within the National Council, which has more competence, anyone from the opposition, or will it be... It's not written, of course, depends on the good will of the government majority. I'm afraid not. Yeah, but I'm, like I say, an incorrigible optimist. And now two brief things. As I said, the mode of this bill here in the Senate is that we really can't make any movement. Well, we have to vote against and we will vote against. However, also the Senators of the PiS have no possibility to make any other movement They're going to vote in favour because the deadline is coming up. etc. We can't do anything, we won't have another Senate meeting. Now it's a matter of being ejected, under surveillance, etc., etc. I condemn surveillance, and I think there should be an investigation. There's probably an investigation. You have all the legal elements and structures in your hand. Explain! So I condemn the surveillance of journalists, unless, of course, she had any legal grounds. I repeat, some legal reasons. And I expect that the senator of two names, Jackowski, will also condemn the expulsion of journalists, because it is simply not an advertisement of a democratic and law-abiding state, if it is thrown out or forced to throw out more than 170 journalists. And this list is certainly incomplete, because I don't know everything. So I also look forward to some reflection here. And I expect you to stop it. Because some reflection is needed. Who's gonna be there, on this TV and on the radio? Mr. Senator, I'm not gonna mention by name so I don't make any corrections, but let me put it this way: you're very happy to watch TV. I stand and listen to Radio Maryja. I didn't watch it, but now I'm watching it on public television. I see these people... And I know Claudius Aftershock, he's from my parish. I see what they do, how they comment, I see others, and I see the content. At the moment, it's not very different from Trwam Television. But I'd like to have a choice. I'm afraid I don't have that choice. And that's actually what I want to end with. So appeal, also to the Minister: stop this firing people. It's really... On this list... Of course, there's probably a lot of people out there. But there are outstanding journalists out there. It's a shame public television lost those people. Of course, the atmosphere is that... 150 or 170 people were fired, of course, so that... the rest of them are scared, it's completely understandable. Everyone else is scared, he doesn't call, he breaks his contacts. That's the atmosphere there. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-23-senat-21-1.u225	Thank you very much. I now cast my vote as an invited guest, Mr. Krzysztof Luft, representative of the National Radio and Television Council.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-23-senat-21-1.u226	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal, I'll try to be brief. I think if you can say something less, it's better than longer. There was such a justification for this law, Senator Ryszka spoke about it, namely the separation of supervisory and regulatory functions, as if the removal from the competence of the National Council of this part, which concerns supervisory issues with regard to public media and the separation of the regulatory part. Well, you could even say that it would be an idea that could be discussed at any rate. Although, in fact, as far as the provision in the Constitution is concerned, there is also some discomfort here. But, above all, it is not so because this law removes only part of the supervisory powers of the National Radio and Television Council. A very important part, namely the appointment of the authorities of these companies. However, it does not exclude from the remit of the National Radio and Television Council those concerning the second, equally important area, namely the allocation of funds, the determination of the use of these funds and the accounting of the use of these funds. Programming and financial plans remain within the remit of the National Radio and Television Council. So we do not have the situation that the supervisory functions in relation to public media have been received by the National Radio and Television Council. They're still largely there. So this is a highly inconsistent situation. I must refer to what Senator Jackowski was talking about, because in some way, it is very much about our activities as well. I'm thinking about the release list. journalists. But these are two completely different letters. First of all, the vast majority of the names you mentioned to Senator Jackowski are the names of the people who actually left, mostly from public television... Perhaps there was also a radio. But in any case, they left, as Senator Kleina said here, at a time when public television and public radio were managed by persons selected by the previous National Council of Radio and Television and the arrangement that operated there until 2011. It has already been mentioned here about President Wildstein, who actually had his program later, and this program has actually been removed. But that was in October 2010. Juliusz Braun came in March 2011. Krzysztof Skowronski The second, let's say, significant name among those mentioned He was indeed fired from Polish Radio, where he was the Director of the Programme on February 3, 25. Well, it wasn't the responsibility of the National Council, it was just an arrangement that had been in place since 2005. And what is happening right now, or actually since the beginning of the year, has caused great concern to the National Radio and Television Council. We presented several positions and communications on this issue, immediately at the beginning, still in January 2016, when many, several dozen people were actually released. What was particularly important and worrying, and what we pointed out, was that there were people among them, who by their names had repeatedly pointed out earlier politicians publicly announcing the release in the media. Well, this is a situation that really deviates from any standards. I know what I'm talking about. When I talk about political influences in public media, I know what I'm talking about, because I'm also fired from public television for political reasons. In 1998 by President Kwiatkowski, who was then associated with the left. But everything is gradual. From the fact that there will always be a political element, as Senator Frost said, it is not necessary to draw the wrong conclusion that, therefore, nothing can be done and, as a matter of fact, decreed that this is the case. Well, these influences can be smaller and bigger, and you have to try to make them as small as possible. And for them to be as small as possible, two things are needed. First of all, there is a custom that we have slowly, slowly, over these 25 years, and secondly, certain procedures that actually create barriers between the media world and the political world. Senator Czarnobaj spoke of these barriers very beautifully here. And for that, I'd like to thank the senator. It's actually me who should quote these data, they're familiar to me. In fact, this is what it looks like in these countries. It is easy to say that somewhere the Prime Minister is calling, but it is not that he is calling his own discretionary decision, only this is the outcome, the finale of a long procedure in which politicians from different backgrounds also participate, but these procedures are ultimately a buffer between the world of politics and the world of the media. Well, unfortunately, this bill doesn't fix the situation that arose after the December amendment. She too, let's say, doesn't make it worse, because the situation, when the treasure minister calls the public media authorities in a completely discreet way, is at all some kind of psychic, unprecedented in European countries. So this solution is certainly not worse, but it also does not introduce an absolutely new quality here and, so to speak, does not separate politics from the media. Well, that's actually what I wanted to say. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-23-senat-21-1.u227	Thank you very much. [[Applause]] I inform you that the list of speakers has been exhausted. For the record, Senator Mammoth has made his speech in the minutes. I would like to inform you that the legislative proposals have been submitted in writing by Senator Fedorowicz, Senator Zdrojewska, Senator Borys-Damięcka, Senator Rulewski and Senator Czarnobaj and Senator Komarnicki, Senator Rotnicka, Senator Florek and Senator Cichoń. I've listed all the people who were on the list. The discussion is closed. Does a government representative want to respond to the proposals put forward? Come on in, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-23-senat-21-1.u228	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Of course, I will not comment or comment on all the comments that have been made here, or answer them, because our conversation lasted for hours and we are all tired. First of all, I would like to thank you for this conversation, because there are some arguments or comments here and some proposals that I think are worth considering when we are building a large media law that is really going to bring about the recovery of public media. And for all the comments Whether or not they were engulfed in the phraseology of such a political theatre, whether they were engulfed in malice or not Thank you. And all these comments we will try to take a fair look at and learn from them. If you don't mind, I have to address one thing very strongly, namely what Marshal Borusewicz presented. This is misleading the public. This is misleading, systematically done by the media, which sympathize with the current opposition. This is done by parties that sympathize with the Platform whether they are in one line with the Platform, because the majority, the vast majority of those names that you presented, are the names of those who left the workplace either at your request or at the agreement of the parties. They weren't fired. I'll give you an example, I'll use a specific example, he's already down, so let me just... Actually, there are two examples. First: Magda Jethon, the director of Program 3 of Polish Radio, left, resigned from this function at her own request, and this request was taken into account by the previous Board of Polish Radio and by the previous President. About this president I said that he came from the function which he gave him the Platform layout in Warsaw, and on the same function after leaving the radio he returned, that was his impartiality and journalistic independence. Similarly, Mrs Magda Jethon, who, after leaving the Triple at her own request, now, as it turns out, is creating an online portal for the Committee for the Defence of Democracy, which is on the front line of political engagement. And that's how it is... This is another example of the impartiality of journalists that you are so eager to talk about, journalists from public media, who have been running these media over the last few years. That's what it looks like. As for Tomasz Zimoch, because someone has claimed to be Tomasz Zimoch, the great sports rapporteur, and I fully support this opinion. First of all, Tomasz Zimoch was not fired from the Polish Radio, but was suspended to explain his case and left on his own... He resigned as a result of this suspension. But what was he suspended for, ladies and gentlemen? Not for the opinion of the Constitutional Court, as some have tried to say. He was suspended for saying that in the Polish Radio, that is, in the place where he has been working for years, whose journalist is or rather was for years, the situation is worse than in the Polish Radio at war. We do not have to tell each other what happened on Polish Radio and in those media in the state of war. And now imagine that any TVN journalist, Polsatu or any commercial station or newspaper talks about their workplace like that. Wait a second. And he's not here. Wait a second. And he's not working. So let's talk in substance, use arguments. And let's not make propaganda noise about things that don't deserve it. Don't defend... Mr. Marshal, don't defend people who don't deserve this. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-23-senat-21-1.u229	Thank you very much. As legislative proposals have been made, I ask the Committee on Culture and Communications to respond to the proposals put forward and to prepare a report. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. Please read the messages.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-23-senat-21-1.u230	The meeting of the Committee on Culture and Media will be held tomorrow, on Friday, 24 June, at 11 a.m. in room 182. [[Voice from the room: What time?]] 11:00. [[Voice from the room: 'Cause there's still gonna be a break and...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-23-senat-21-1.u231	Thank you very much. I'm declaring a recess until 9:00 tomorrow. [[Adjournment at 21 minutes 15]]
