ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-15-senat-20-1.u1	I open the 20th session of the Senate of the Republic of Poland IX term of office. [[Marshal hits Marshal's staff three times.]] I appoint Senator Rafał Ambrozik and Senator Jerzy Wcisła to be the secretaries of the sitting. The list of speakers will be led by Senator Rafał Ambrozik. I would like to inform you that at its 20th meeting of 8, 9 and 10 June 2016 the Sejm adopted all the amendments of the Senate: to the Act amending the Act on registration and protection of the names and designations of agricultural products and foodstuffs and on traditional products and certain other laws; to the Act amending the Act on Export Insurance Guaranteed by the State Treasury and certain other laws; to the Act on the Bank Guarantee Fund, the Deposit Guarantee Scheme and the Forced Restructuring; to the Act on Posting of Workers in the framework of the provision of services. In addition, the Sejm at the same meeting rejected all the amendments of the Senate to the Act amending the Act on Horse Races. In the absence of objections to the minutes of the 15th and 16th meetings, I state that the minutes of these meetings have been adopted. I would like to inform you that the minutes of the 17th Senate meeting, in accordance with the Senate's Rules of Procedure, are prepared to make available to the senators... [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[Mr. Marshal...]] Excuse me? [[Mr. Marshal, there's a huge request that we hear what the Marshal says.]] But it is a condition that the senators no longer speak. That's a condition. And then you'll hear the senator. Because, as I understand it, you can't hear very well from your place now. So I'm asking you to keep your conversations quiet and concentrate on what we're talking about. I would like to inform you that the minutes of the 17th Senate meeting, in accordance with the Senate's Rules of Procedure, are prepared to be made available to the senators. If no one of your senators raises objections to it, it will be adopted at the next sitting. High Senate, I inform you that on 28 April 2016, the President of the Council of Ministers passed to the Senate a document on the state of road safety and the activities carried out in this area in 2015. It is contained in print No 155. On 9 May 2016, I addressed this document to the Committee on Human Rights, Rule of Law and Petitions, the Committee on Infrastructure and the Committee on Territorial Government and State Administration. The committees at their meeting on 14 June 2016 took note of this document and informed the Senate Marshal. Mr and Mrs Senators, the draft agenda has been placed on senators' benches. The draft agenda, which was sent to the State by electronic means, contained a law amending the Act on Professional and Social Rehabilitation and employment of persons with disabilities and certain other laws. Since this law has not been passed by the Sejm, it will not be the subject of this sitting. I propose that points four, five, six, seven and eight of the draft agenda be considered, even though the committee's reports on these laws have been submitted at a later date than set out in Article. Article 34 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 2 Senate Rules of Procedure. If I do not hear the opposition, I will find that the High House has accepted the proposal. In the absence of any votes against, I find that the Senate has accepted the proposal. Would any of your senators like to speak on the agenda? I don't see any volunteers. I state that the Senate approved the agenda for the 20th Senate meeting of the Republic of Poland IX term. I would like to inform you that in case of failure to submit proposals of a legislative nature to the draft resolution on the 75th anniversary of the death of Ignacy Jan Paderewski, the vote on this matter will be held immediately after consideration of this point, the first point. I would also like to inform you that the remaining votes will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. At 12.00 a half-hour break will be arranged for the opening of the exhibition by Jan Paderewski (Ignacy Jan Paderewski). Pole, European, statesman and artist. In addition, a one-and-a-half hour adjournment will be announced at 3 p.m. Tomorrow's session starts at 9.00 a.m. at a point concerning information of the President of the Institute of National Remembrance. We proceed with the examination of the item on the first agenda: the second reading of the draft resolution on the 75th anniversary of the death of Ignacy Jan Paderewski. I would like to welcome Mr Wiesław Mazur, Consul General of the Republic of Poland in Lviv, and Mr Alvin Marcus Fountain II, Consul of Honor of the Republic of Poland for the state of North Carolina. I would also like to welcome representatives of local authorities, foreign Polish organizations and national cultural and scientific institutions related to the work of Ignacy Jan Paderewski. The draft resolution under consideration was introduced by a group of senators and is included in print No 81 and the committee's report In print No 81 S. I would like to ask the rapporteur of the Legislative Commission, Marshal Maria Koc, to present the committee's report on the draft resolution.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-15-senat-20-1.u2	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen, guests of today's meeting, representatives of institutions and organizations that popularize the works of Ignacy Jan Paderewski's life in Poland and abroad! Ladies and gentlemen! In a few days, June 29th, the 75th anniversary of the death of Ignacy Jan Paderewski, musical genius, outstanding virtuoso, composer, world-famous artist. Already artistic achievements would be enough to give Paderewski a permanent place in the pantheon of great Poles. However, we know that Ignacy Jan Paderewski is not only an outstanding artist, but also a great statesman, co-creator of Polish independence, that as such he also signed up on the pages of Polish history. Ladies and gentlemen, Ignacy Jan Paderewski was born on 6 November 1860 in a noble family, not wealthy, very patriotic. He was a few months old when his mother died, and a few years old when his father was arrested and imprisoned for helping the January insurgents. At the age of 3 he began to learn to play the instrument, but it was not a piano, it was a violin. At the age of 12, he began to learn piano. He didn't go to any school at his youthful age to study at home, his father employed good teachers for him, and among these teachers was Michał Bobiński, a veteran of the November Uprising who instilled love for history and hot patriotism in a young boy. Ignacy Jan Paderewski takes up his studies at the Music Institute in Warsaw at the age of several years. He finishes this institute, gets a patent, even becomes a teacher at this school, but realizes that the knowledge and skills he acquired there are far insufficient to become an outstanding virtuoso. And that's his dream. He has a feeling that music is his destiny. At the age of 20, he marries Antonina Korsakovna. The young wife dies less than a year after the marriage, after the birth of her son, and her last will is that the money she brought into this marriage should be used by Paderewski to educate his musical talent abroad. Paderewski's going to Berlin, and soon after that he's going to Vienna. I want to study with the most outstanding teacher, the great teacher of pianist virtuosoes of that time. Professor Theodor Leschetsky. She is leaving for Vienna thanks to Helena Modrzejewska's help. After listening to Ignacy Jan Paderewski, Theodor Lescheticki laments: such a musical genius, and arrives so late, too late to develop the appropriate piano technique to acquire the right habits. Nevertheless, thanks to the titanium work of Ignacy Jan Paderewski he managed to achieve the peaks of virtuosity after a few years of teaching in Leschetyki. After a few years he will write about Ignacy Jan Paderewski: he is a great heart, a great head and an immeasurable fortitude; he will be a brilliant artist for the rest of his life, because he has character, because apart from work he knew not to see, not to know other goals. Ignacy Jan Paderewski himself will say that he achieved success thanks to 1% Your talent, 9% happiness and 90% hard work. In 1888 there was a breakthrough in his career, he gives concerts in Vienna and Paris. The audience is stunned by his virtuosoism, his musical interpretation and his charisma. It achieves great success, becomes a star of international fame, conquers the whole of Europe. At that time, he's getting married a second time. With Helena from Rosen's house, Primo Voto Górska, a well-known social activist who, until her death in 1934, will support her spouse in his artistic activities, but above all social and political activities. At 31, Ignacy Jan Paderewski leaves for the United States. He's gonna go there 18 more times. Each time he's touring and achieving stunning successes. In the United States, after a few concerts at Carnegie Hall, you can say, he throws America at his feet. He gives concerts to over 200 thousand people, there are many concerts. A dazzling American audience, people from faraway towns come to his concerts. Of course, it also conquers the hearts of a large Polish nation in the United States, who is proud of her countryman and sees him as his spiritual leader. On a wave of success he also goes to Australia, New Zealand, South America with concerts. He has a lot of concerts in Europe. Ignacy Jan Paderewski gains recognition as an artist, but does not stop there. For him, Polish matters are as important as his music career. He never forgets that he is the son of a enslaved nation. He is also aware that as a man known and admired, he can do a lot for Poland. He's becoming an informal ambassador to his people. Through his musical career he paves the way to the world of politics in order to promote Poland's regaining independence. He is very involved in activities in the country, he is undertaking great works which aim to raise the spirit of patriotism in the Polish nation, the reintegration of the Polish nation, so important in the context of what will happen in Europe and in the world in a few years. These great works are among others. co-founding the Warsaw Philharmonic, the inauguration of which takes place in 1901, is also the celebration of the anniversary of the 500th anniversary of the Battle of Grunwald. To celebrate this anniversary Paderewski manages to encourage Poles in all 3 partitions. When 15 July 1910 the central ceremony in Krakow takes place, 150 thousand Poles from 3 partitions arrive at this ceremony. The choir of 1 thousand 500 singers also sings for the first time from 3 partitions, and the monument of the victorious King Władysław Jagiełła is revealed, and the monument is written to the The brothers are comforted. Paderewski gives a fiery speech, which of course meets with a huge ovation. He is becoming a spiritual leader of Poles in Poland and abroad. Poles relate to his activities, not only artistic, but above all political, great hopes. He supports all patriotic actions in the country, he's a generous philanthropist. He's involved in various charities. He is a composer, of course, but in 1910 he ceases to compose. There's no time for that. Piano activities, numerous concerts, as well as political activities absorb it so much that there is no time to compose. He is the author of one symphony, opera Manru, concerts and piano miniatures. He's an excellent composer. Władysław Żeleński spoke about Paderewski: as a pianist, he has a great future, but as a composer, he has an even greater future. When the war breaks out in 1914, he goes to the United States, rightly predicting that the United States will play a leading role in shaping the new political order after the end of the war. There he gives more than 340 concerts, during which he talks about the Polish matter, about Poles' aspirations for independence. He also talks about the great misfortunes that Poles are facing, about Poland being a war zone, and Poles were incarcerated into three different armies that fight against each other, a brother has to stand up against his brother. He collects funds for the aid committee for the victims of the war in Poland, which he founded earlier with Henryk Sienkiewicz in Switzerland. He's making friends with President Wilson. He is the author of the memorial about Poland, about its history and about the validity of Poland's independence with access to the sea. President Wilson uses this memorial by drawing up the thirteenth point of his message and entering this point in the peace treaty. 11 November 1918 Paderewski's going back to the country. He is enthusiastically welcomed in Gdańsk, Poznań, Warsaw. On the last day of this year, 300 thousand people greet him. From the balcony of the Bristol Paderewski hotel he speaks to his fellow countrymen, among others. With these words: I did not come after dignity, fame, honor, but to serve, but not some partiality. I respect all the parties, but I won't belong to any of them. The website should be one: Poland. And I will serve this one to the death. Free Poland is born. Paderewski becomes the first Prime Minister of the Polish Government. This is also the will of Roman Dmowski, Józef Piłsudski. Everyone realizes that the political scene is divided into the right and left, and these deep divisions are only able to stand up to a man of great authority, Ignacy. Jan Paderewski. It has a function of less than a year, but it must be said that in the first 16 days of government action, the government meets 27 times. Everything is to be done, we need a new law, we need to take care of the economy, the treasure, building an army, education. Great challenges facing the new Polish state are facing at that time. When Paderewski ceases to be Prime Minister, he leaves for Switzerland, gives his music, concerts, conducts master classes for young pianists. When World War II breaks out, he goes to New York to pursue the affairs of his homeland again. He dies on June 29, 1941 in New York. He's buried at a cemetery in Arlington. His ashes return to free Poland in 1992, he is buried in the underground of the Warsaw archicathedral. Yesterday, on behalf of the Senate, together with Senator Budner, Senator Orzechowska and Senator Senator, we placed flowers on the grave of Ignacy Jan Paderewski. As an outstanding artist, Ignacy Jan Paderewski also became a great statesman. He used his art as a weapon in the fight for freedom and independence of Poland. By becoming the spiritual leader of the enslaved nation, he led to his victory. The great personality, the great Pole, is still an inspiration for many institutions, organizations, individuals who carry out artistic, social, charitable, patriotic activities and popularize the works of Ignacy Jan Paderewski's life. Thank you very much to all of these people. I have the honour to present on behalf of the applicants and the Legislative Commission a draft resolution commemorating the 75th anniversary of the death of Ignacy Jan Paderewski in the following wording. On June 29, 1941, he died in New York City, Ignacy. Jan Paderewski, outstanding Polish pianist and composer of world fame, statesman, co-founder of Polish independence, Prime Minister of the Republic of Poland. On the 75th anniversary of the death of the great Pole, the artist and the politician of the Senate of the Republic of Poland honors His memory. Ignacy Jan Paderewski was born in 1860 in a small village Kurylówka on Podol. Ever since he was a kid, he's had an extraordinary musical talent. He gained his education at the best music dorms in Europe. As a virtuoso and composer, he quickly gained fame and recognition worldwide. Concerting and composing excellent musical works, he never forgot Polish aspirations of independence, as evidenced by his patronage of the 500th anniversary of the Battle of Grunwald. Raised in a patriotic family, he put matters of the Homeland above others. The breakthrough in Paderewski's political activity was in 1915, when the composer went to the United States, where he quickly became the ideal leader of the American Polonia and the hottest advocate of Polish affairs overseas. It was thanks to Ignace Jan Paderewski that US President Woodrow Wilson learned about Poland's situation under partitions and drama of enslaved Poles. The composer's activity and the respect he raised convinced President Wilson that it was necessary to create an independent Polish country with access to the sea. Poland's right to independence became one of 14 points of President Woodrow Wilson's peace program. This programme became the basis of the Treaty of Versailles closing And world war. After returning to Poland, Ignacy Jan Paderewski was welcomed as a hero and symbol of the rebirth of his Homeland. His arrival in Poznań became an excuse for the outbreak of the Greater Poland Uprising. In the free Homeland Paderewski became Prime Minister of the Government and, on behalf of Poland, together with Roman Dmowski, signed the Treaty of Versailles. After resigning from his role as Prime Minister, he left for Switzerland, where Front Morges was established under his auspices in 1936. For the rest of his life, he promoted Poland's interests in the world, becoming its informal ambassador. After the outbreak of World War II he headed the National Council of the Republic of Poland in London. In 1940, he went to the United States to seek support for his homeland again. He died in New York on 29 June 1941. He was buried at a cemetery in Arlington near Washington. After more than 50 years, on June 29, 1992, his ashes were brought to Poland and laid down in the crypt of St. Jana in Warsaw. Ignacy Jan Paderewski was an outstanding virtuoso and composer. In his 50-year artistic career, he performed around the world in the most famous concert halls, in the presence of crowned heads. As a composer, he created works with outstanding artistic qualities. He was one of the greatest personalities of the world of culture and politics in the first half of the last century not only in Poland, but also in the world. The resolution is published in the Official Journal of the Republic of Poland. I ask the High House to adopt this draft resolution without amendments. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-15-senat-20-1.u3	Thank you very much. Currently, senators may submit a maximum of one minute's query to the rapporteur of the committee, who is also an authorised representative of the applicants. Would any of you like to ask such a question? No. I'm opening a discussion. The voice-overs are... Mr. Jan Żaryn, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-15-senat-20-1.u4	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I am very, very sorry, the text of the draft resolution is very good, but unfortunately there is a substantive error. I feel accomplice myself, too, because I was at some stage of the procession, but I didn't notice this mistake before. It is small, but important. Of course, it's the name of the President of the United States. The president of the United States was Thomas Woodrow Wilson, not Woodrow Wilson. I therefore propose that we make such an amendment quickly so that we can resume the discussion immediately after the meeting of the committee concerned. I propose that you now announce a 15-minute break so that we can introduce this amendment to the committee. That is my conclusion and request to your marshal.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-15-senat-20-1.u5	I'm asking for an amendment. Mr. Senator, I'm so sorry, it needs to be signed. Oh, thank you very much, Senator. Senator Mieczysław Augustyn will now speak. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-15-senat-20-1.u6	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! Delightful guests! I'm sorry about the trip. It seems that the figure of Ignacy Jan Paderewski does not arouse the slightest controversy. He is a world famous musician, Polish ambassador at a time when we did not have formal ambassadors, a great intercessor of Polishness, born in Podol, buried in the United States and then here in Warsaw. And yet I would like to tell you here that we in Wielkopolska consider Paderewski a great Wielkopolska. And I would like to remind you that when Poland regained independence, Wielkopolski was not within its borders. In Wielkopolska, we still remember this wonderful day when Paderewski came to Poznań by the road from Gdansk, through his Piła. Like here in Warsaw, he was greeted by crowds, immeasurable crowds. Crowds who could not accept the fact that Wielkopolska is not in Poland. Wonderful, patriotic, beautiful, passionate speech was a spark that triggered armed action and started the Greater Poland Uprising. The only one we are so proud of, the only winning and joining the cradle of Polishness to our homeland. That's why... It is not because Paderewski has been to Greater Poland so many times and performed there before regaining independence, not because he is an honorary citizen of Poznań, but because he is the person who actually launched the Warsaw Uprising, we consider him one of the most important... [[Wielkopolska!]] [[Voices from the hall: Wielkopolskie, Wielkopolskie!]] Yes, the Greater Poland Uprising. ... To one of the most important Greatpolans. And I'd like to remind you of that. When he came here for the meeting that your marshal was talking about, where he was greeted by the crowds, he reminded me of what was before. He said that he was coming from the royal castle, Poznań: "I return to you from a distance through our Gdansk and our Poznan. I can tell you that the great spirit reigns in Wielkopolska. There is strength, self - sacrifice and the ability to deny oneself to the country. Even as Prime Minister of the Uprising, the Greater Poland troops are sent east to secure the borders of the Republic and from that side. This is a beautiful moment today, important for the inhabitants of Poland, for all Poles in Poland and abroad, but for Wielkopolska, please forgive, in some very special way. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-15-senat-20-1.u7	Thank you very much, Senator. Senator Jackowski will speak now. You're welcome, Senator. [[Talking in the O.R.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-15-senat-20-1.u8	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Dear guests! This is a very elevated moment, because we will honor one of the most outstanding Poles of the 20th century, which played a very important role in Poland's regaining independence after 123 years of partitions. I would like to thank you very warmly, Marshal Koc, the initiator of the resolution, for having led the work to the finals and several days before the anniversary of death. Because it was 29 June 1941 we can adopt this resolution. I would like to add two more important details. Namely, Paderewski's family was a family that originated in Podlasie, from the land of Drohicka, i.e. from the territory already of the Grand Duchy of Lithuania, in historical terms. And in the 18th century, like many families from Mazowsze or Podlasie, she followed the bread to Kresa, because there was a breakdown of huge years of magnate foundations and there was a possibility of obtaining leases, access to some property. Or a fortune, and that's how you make sure you're alive. That's why so many families from central Poland or from Podlasie just in Kresów, Volhyń, Podol, in Kiev region lived later, in times of captivity, and issued outstanding patriots, outstanding people of pen, culture, literature, economy or politics. Ignacy Jan Paderewski should also be seen in this context. I would like to draw your attention to one more thing. Namely, if it were not for the huge authority of Ignacy Jan Paderewski in the United States, where he was known for his artistic, pianistic, composer's activities, it would probably not have happened to be known to Colonel Edward Mandell House, who was a very influential advisor to President Thomas Woodrow Wilson, that is to say, a person with great influence in Washington. He was an international advisor. Thanks to his contacts with this advisor, Ignacy Jan Paderewski was able to provide information about the situation in Poland through Colonel House. And it's based on this information. Your Marshal raised this in her speech and this mention is also in the text of the resolution One of the fourteen points of Woodrow Wilson's peace programme was formulated, a point that was a milestone in Poland's regaining independence. Let us recall: this was in 1917, so when America entered World War I. This point, the thirteenth point, was: the creation of free and independent Poland with access to the sea. Here is a very important phrase with access to the sea. And the second major episode in Paderewski's political life, of rank, I would say, historical and fundamental: in the atmosphere prevailing in the autumn of 1918, at the turn of 1918 and 1919, Paderewski played a huge role, because he was able to combine the turbulent political camps But also other environments. The great authority of Paderewski led to the fact that Poland could somehow prepare itself for this terrible impact which later came from the East, and to conflicts which were in the East. Because let us remember that in 1919 there were also fights related to the eastern borders of the Second Republic, and then there was a Bolshevik attack. Thus, the role of Ignacy Jan Paderewski is outstanding and can be boldly counted among the three fathers of Polish independence in 1918. Next to Józef Piłsudski and Roman Dmowski is Ignacy Jan Paderewski. Of course, there were other prominent statesmen and politicians, but the role of these three people is special. Finally, I would like to point out that Colonel House, who is a forgotten figure today, has a monument in Skaryszewski Park in Warsaw. He died in 1938, the founder of this monument, which can be admired in Warsaw's South Prague in Skaryszewski Park, founded by the President of Starzyński, is nobody else but Ignacy. Jan Paderewski. He's the one who funded the statue. Mrs. Marshal, I would like to express my appreciation and gratitude. I hope that the amendment will be dealt with quickly so that we can adopt this resolution today. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-15-senat-20-1.u9	Thank you very much, Senator. Senator Żaryn now. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-15-senat-20-1.u10	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Two lines. Luckily, the Legislative Bureau gave us a solution to the problem: this is a typographical error, not a mistake that requires an additional committee meeting. [[Applause]] Thank you very much. Thanks to this, I can withdraw the proposal and at the same time in the text will, of course, be the real name of Thomas Woodrow Wilson, President of the United States. But since I am already at the vote, I would also like to say a few words about the hero of our resolution, Ignacy Janie Paderewski. Very many issues have already been raised, certainly others They're gonna say a lot... I would like to draw attention to one aspect only, and I do not hide that he is formulated by me on purpose, because he refers to us, i.e. politicians who rule Poland in 2016. On the one hand, there is no doubt that this outstanding artist, an outstanding pianist, but also a recognized composer in the world, which is less often said about, was a man who gave his talent, his skills and his authority to the Polish cause, because he was a Polish patriot, i.e. he felt that the gift he had and his place in the world at that time were now to serve, to serve the Polish cause. And this service of the Polish cause combined with determination has resulted in incredible effectiveness. This effectiveness of Polish politics is a very important feature, which is also worth cultivating today. One example of this effectiveness was mentioned here: an attempt to achieve In addition, it is effective to compromise between two very important camps, i.e. the Pisudczyk camp and the national camp. And this is the huge success of Ignacy Jan Paderewski as Prime Minister of the First Government of the Republic since January 1919. But please start your imagination and think how effective it must have been from the moment it appeared in the United States, since within one year in the state and in the offices of President Thomas Woodrow Wilson it was as if it had brought Poland out of its total existence in terms of the point of view of the American elites at that time, and it led to a situation where, as part of the objectives of the war, the 13th point of the war, there was information about the creation of independent Poland. Well, this road during this one year with a piece, this road, in terms of effectiveness, from existence to recognition the creation of Poland as the goal of war, is a road which among others. This shows that Paderewski first took care of, following the footsteps of Henryk Sienkiewicz, a very important concrete action, a charity campaign for Poles and Polish lands, which were subjected to an exceptional pressure of history. I mean, the Poles fought in armies against each other and died, and in the back of the fighting armies, both of them, there was an economic granary, or Polish lands, and the Poles did not have any. Not colloquially speaking, but literally. What's to eat? And committees that were created on Polish lands, or by Bishop Sapieha, or by other authorities, e.g. Zdzisław Lubomirski in Warsaw wouldn't have existed if it hadn't been for this American help. And the second very fast action by Paderewski in the United States, again very specific, which made Americans aware that it is worth fighting for, is the creation, as we know today, of the so-called. The Blue Army. Imagine what must have happened in Thomas Woodrow Wilson's head that Ignacy Jan Paderewski could have convinced him... Because the United States, which joins the army in the war, agrees to create an army from among their citizens, which will not be subject to the American army, and it will be Poles. This is a phenomenon in a situation where we do not have a state, we have no power, and the future Prime Minister of Poland manages to make such diplomatic masterpieces to create an army that does not fall under the American army, even though it is made up of American citizens. I wish I had such political talent as Ignacy Jan Paderewski. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-15-senat-20-1.u11	Thank you very much, Senator. Senator Andrzej Bear. You're welcome. Senator Żaryn has already withdrawn the amendment, right? She's been withdrawn, she's gone, so we're looking at it as a typing error. Good.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-15-senat-20-1.u12	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! In my speech, I do not want to refer to the draft resolution, which, I believe, is very well written and refers to really one of the most outstanding Poles and patriots. I would like to address one point, because my Silesian heart does not allow me not to correct a certain awkwardness of Senator Augustine. The Greater Poland Uprising was not the only victorious Uprising. At the same time there was the Silesian Uprising, in principle 3 of the Uprising, which also led to the connection of parts of Silesia to Poland. [[Bravo!]] [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-15-senat-20-1.u13	He spoke well because he was talking about Silesian... He was talking about the Greater Poland Uprising, and it was the only... Good. Senator Fedorovich. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-15-senat-20-1.u14	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! It's a big day. Very beautiful in history Polish is that the artist was the prime minister. I would like to say that I was moved by Mr Augustin's speech... [[Mr. Senator.]] ...Senator Augustine. We as Krakow are most grateful for the Grunwald Memorial. It was 1908... [[1910.]] [[Voices from the room: 1910.]] In 1908 it was paid, and in 1910... my mother was there. [[And my grandfather.]] [[But it does matter when it was exposed, not when it was paid.]] Good. There is one more thing I would like to remind you of. In the Lesser Poland Voivodeship in the village Kąśna Dolna is the only... [[Doughy Dolna?]] In the village of Kąśna Dolna... (Senator Stanisław Rooster: Circle of Heavy?) ...near Towarowice, there is Paderewski's court, where artists are often present. Really very cordially everyone in this court Welcome. And I want to remind you that there is a foundation that organizes the Paderewski International Festival, this foundation is called Ave Arte. Two international festivals have already been held. Mr. Dąbrowski, president of this foundation, is with us today. The next festival will be held this year. I would also like to add that the 100th anniversary of independence is coming up, and I hope very much, in fact, that this 100th anniversary will be honoured with wonderful songs and concerts of our outstanding composer and pianist, and politics. Excuse me, I'm a little nervous. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-15-senat-20-1.u15	Thank you very much, Senator. Senator Kazimierz Wind. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-15-senat-20-1.u16	Mr. Marshal! Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! Thank you very much, Marshal, for the very extensive presentation of Ignacy Jan Paderewski, undoubtedly a great statesman, but also a figure associated with Tarnów soil, which I represent in the Senate. The only preserved property of Ignacy Jan Paderewski, purchased in 1897, is in Kąśna Dolna, which the senator was just talking about. I may add to the senator's statement that the court was purchased and arranged in Kąśna Dolna, but Ignacy Jan Paderewski never lived there, chose a different location. Nevertheless, this place is important. There is not only a concert hall, but there are also museum rooms. And it must be said that the memory of Ignacy Jan Paderewski on Tarnowski's land is extremely alive, there are many schools, many associations and there are many projects connected with this character during the year. I would also like to talk about the second point. Since the senator spoke here about the Grunwald Memorial and the anniversary, I would like to say that this event is also stored in my family's memory, I have been told the memories of my parents and grandparents. It has to be said that in this large, 150 thousand people gathered from all three partitions there was a large delegation of the Falcons who snuck across the border in civilian, so to speak, clothes, and then changed them to official ones. It reminds me a little bit of scouts going to the Holy Father's house in war. A year later, in 1911, there was a Boy Scouting that was close to all of us, and the Commands of the Falcon became a rock... which basically gave the legal basis for the Boy Scouting. There is no doubt that this 1910 event has contributed to many further important actions. And when this monument was rebuilt many years after World War II, there were discussions about whether another place would be better, but happily respected tradition and this souvenir. And I think it's an expression of respect for Ignatius Jan Paderewski, the great statesman. Thank you so much for this resolution. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-15-senat-20-1.u17	Thank you very much, Senator. I inform you that the list of speakers has been exhausted. The discussion is closed. Ladies and gentlemen, Senator Żaryn has withdrawn his amendment, and we have agreed together that we are treating the absence of a first name as a typographical error, and where the second name is mentioned, the first one will also be entered: Thomas. I will sign this resolution, and we are aware of what we are voting on. Is there an objection? There isn't. We proceed to the vote on the draft resolution on the 75th anniversary of the death of Ignacy Jan Paderewski. Who among the senators is in favour of him? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 74 senators voted, all voted in favour. [[Voting No 1]] [[Applause]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate adopted a resolution on the 75th anniversary of the death of Ignacy Jan Paderewski. I hereby announce a recess until 12:30, and at 12:00, I invite all of you to open the exhibition. Thank you. [[Adjournment from 11 minutes 51 to 12 minutes 31]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-15-senat-20-1.u18	I'm reopening the session. High Izbo, I propose to supplement the agenda with a point: second reading of the draft resolution amending the resolution on amending the Rules of Procedure and consider it as the item on the last agenda. If I do not hear the opposition, I will find that the High House has accepted the proposal. Mr. Marshal Borusewicz. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-15-senat-20-1.u19	Objection. This amendment of the Rules of Procedure eliminates the 14-day period for submitting applications to the IPN college. [[I see. In a relationship...]] So... I think this is a bad situation, that this period can freely determine the marshal.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-15-senat-20-1.u20	I'm not gonna argue, but I don't think he's eliminating it. I'm calling a 10-minute break. Then there will be a vote on my proposal. [[Adjournment from 12 minutes 32 to 12 minutes 43]] Please take your seats. High Izbo, I have tabled a proposal to complete the agenda and to vote against my motion to extend the agenda to a point: second reading of the draft resolution amending the resolution amending the Rules of Procedure and consider it as the item on the last agenda. I'm declaring a vote. Who's in favour of my offer? Who's against it? Who's holding back? [[Talking in the O.R.]] Please take your seats. We vote, gentlemen of the Senators. Please state the results of the vote. 62 senators voted, 44 votes against, 17 against and 1 abstention. [[Voting No 2]] My proposal has been accepted. We proceed with the review of the second agenda: the Law on the amendment of the Hunting Law. The text of the Act is contained in print 185 and the report of the Commission In print No 185 A. I ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development and the Committee on the Environment, Senator Przemysław Błaszczyk, to submit a report to the committee. [[Talking in the O.R.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-15-senat-20-1.u21	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. High Senate! I have the honour to present on behalf of the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development and... [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[Quiet, please.]] ...the Environment Commission's report on the meeting of the committee held on 7 June 2016 related to the Act amending the Law on Hunting Law. The amendment of the law was expected for a long time, it was one of the demands of farmers reported during the demonstrations that year. It relates primarily to hunting damage. In fact, the law obliges... or holds the State Treasury responsible for these damages. Farmers were mostly talking about the damage caused by wild boars, because they do the most devastation in agricultural crops, but the law also applies to moose, deer, dandelions and deer. So far, hunting wheels have been responsible for the damage. The main leading body responsible for estimating these damages and paying compensation to farmers was the hunting wheel. This raised a lot of doubts because the hunting wheel was actually a judge on its own case. For a long time, over recent years, we have not been able to regulate this issue and fellow Members Because it is a parliamentary project, they have decided to take an initiative in this matter. The amendment leads to the fact that, in accordance with the amending act, the estimation of hunting damages and the compensation payment will be dealt with by the voivode, his representative. The Act sets out in detail the rules for the estimation of damage, the deadlines for the reporting of damage by farmers, the time limits for intervention or the way in which the committee evaluates it, and the deadline for the final decision of your voivodeship on the amount of compensation. I think the deadlines are so shortened that the time is as short as possible, because we know that it is very important for the farmer that the damage is estimated as soon as possible so that he can make changes if possible. Sieving or crop changes But this is also related to the farmer's compensation being paid as soon as possible. The Act establishes the Compensation Fund, which will consist of funds of the State Treasury, but also means of hunting circles. Fishing circles will be required to contribute to this fund the amounts established on the basis of the hunting plan adopted in the respective circle. The stakes that the wheels will pay are dependent on the game they've collected. And so: 600 zł from one piece of elk, 350 zł from one piece of deer, 135 zł from one piece of dwarf, 105 zł from one piece of deer and 85 zł from one piece of wild boar... This is a proposal... a consensus with the hunters and the Polish Hunting Union. The previous proposal was slightly different, but many comments were made that this could lead to bankruptcy of weaker wheels, which do not have fat game, therefore As far as I'm concerned, The fellow Members listened to these arguments and accepted such a solution. The Act also refers to the important role of agricultural chambers whose representatives will be able to participate, as a social factor, in the estimation of losses. The agricultural chambers will also deal with the appointment, operation of persons who, in the event of disagreement between the representative of the voivode, tenants or agricultural owners, will be able to appeal to the experts on the lists which will be kept by the agricultural chambers. The Act shall enter into force on 1 January 2017. The Commission has adopted 3 amendments to the law, regulatory amendments, legislative amendments. On behalf of the joint committees, Mr Marshal, the High Senate, I request that this law be adopted together with the amendments resulting from the amendments.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-15-senat-20-1.u22	Thank you very much. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the rapporteur's senator. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? Senator Rotnick was the first to report. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-15-senat-20-1.u23	Thank you very much. I attended a committee meeting. It was a joint meeting of the Committee on the Environment and the Committee on Agriculture, in short. And I can say that the bill seemed well prepared. After the committee meeting, I received a letter from one of the municipalities in Podpoznań, which concerns compensation for the damage caused in urban areas. Cities located near large forest areas, etc. They also have a similar problem. It's about compensation for the loss that a person has suffered. Art. I think 50 in point 1 says that the State Treasury is paying compensation for damage to crops and agricultural fetuses. The whole argument is that in the areas of the city these are not agricultural crops and they are not crops, but for example. garden or, for example, strawberry cultivation. I don't really know how it's defined... [[Voice from the hall: The guns.]] Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, Therefore, my question is whether it would be possible to introduce an amendment that would regulate it so that the victims in urban areas I'm already overlooking the security issue and other matters would be satisfied and could be compensated? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-15-senat-20-1.u24	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-15-senat-20-1.u25	Thank you, Senator. I think the question is more to the Minister, because I... [[I'll ask the Minister.]] Senator, High Senate, this is the first attempt to solve the problem. We do not know exactly what amounts we will be moving within, because for now this is a theoretical assumption. We're predicting that over 80 million people will be affected by this fund. The remainder will have to secure the Treasury. There are proposals for a wider change of hunting law, and this, as I say, is the beginning, the first attempt. I think it's an important test. We committed ourselves to it in the election campaign as Law and Justice. We know about the hunting damage caused by the game, mostly by the wild, because the deer's game doesn't seem to reach the cities, although it's different now. There are fewer problems when it comes to farming, more problems when it comes to forestry. Like the senator said, this bill doesn't provide for compensation for damage to cities.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-15-senat-20-1.u26	Thank you very much. Please take the floor of Senator Rybicki.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-15-senat-20-1.u27	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Mr. Senator, in general, these are changes in the right direction towards the empowerment of farmers, landowners. I wasn't at the committee meeting that was discussing this project. Has the debate raised a question of rent for hunting circuits, which at the moment the circles pay to the local government or the voivodship? These measures do not go to landowners of farmers, State Forests or other entities used by hunting wheels. They are not beneficiaries, they do not benefit from the fact that they are owners of land on which hunting is ongoing.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-15-senat-20-1.u28	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-15-senat-20-1.u29	Thank you, Senator, for the question. Mr. Marshal! High Senate! As far as the fees are concerned, it can be said that farmers are partly using them, because these payments go to the local government, and we know that the local government represents farmers and residents. There's a problem. We know about the Court's ruling. There's a problem with how to settle this. There was no discussion of rent at the committee meeting, but suggestions were made that farmers would like a greater ownership of their land. We certainly have a big challenge to regulate this, but also not to destroy what we have been able to create over the decades, this model of hunting in some way linked to agriculture and belonging to agriculture. The same goes for game. We know there's too much of it. This is the main problem, as well as the cause of the damage. We also know that farmers have changed the crop system. There is a lot of corn that provides some kind of feed security, including some kind of cover for wild game and its functioning. That's why this growth is big. I think the Ministry, the Minister, will tell us more, tell us what the reduction plans are. It also depends a lot, because we will not impose administrative decisions on hunters and their involvement. And that's a lot of things. In some wheels hunters act more dynamicly, engage more closely, obtain animals more intensively, in other wheels it is worse. It's really very different. That is why I think that any major change will require a lot of discussion, a lot of work to preserve biodiversity and to do so in some agreement with farmers, with owners, to take into account their claims, because we are mainly talking about that. The senator was talking about urban areas. This is not an easy problem. I'm sure there's a big challenge to this before the government and, at some point, ahead of us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-15-senat-20-1.u30	Thank you very much. Senator Ambrozik's question, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-15-senat-20-1.u31	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Mr. Senator, I have a question as to whether there is any way to appeal against the voivode's decision to grant compensation or the amount of compensation.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-15-senat-20-1.u32	Yes, after this procedure has been exhausted, which is the responsibility of the voivode, it is possible to appeal to the court.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-15-senat-20-1.u33	Thank you very much. Senator Florek. Ask me a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-15-senat-20-1.u34	Mr. Marshal! Mr. Senator! Animals in their single state are, of course, the property of the State Treasury. Hunting damage often happens. This bill, the amendment of the bill, is generally about hunting damage, as you said. I have a question for you. So far it has been divided, part paid by the manager, the tenant, part paid by the voivod. The latter part concerned animals protected by law. As for the landlord and the tenant, it is in their interest that these losses should be as small as possible. They made sure to make sure that there was no loss, no damage. Now there's a change that makes the hunting wheels according to that taxi driver we have, as you said. E.g. 600 PLN for one moose... When the wheels do an annual hunting plan, they will determine that so many and so many elks, etc., multiply by the price, times 600 PLN, it will be the amount they have to contribute to the Compensation Fund, and then from this Compensation Fund this part will be paid. If I remember correctly, the marshal pays his money for some losses. The question is this. Wouldn't this change cause the hunting wheels not to be interested, pay the money according to the table and say, "We're okay with what the rest of us care, right now the Treasury has to pay for it, please go to the voivodeship, the voivode has money for it and pays it?" Was there any mention at the committee meeting that this might have an opposite effect from what was planned? And if that wasn't the case at the committee meeting, I'll possibly ask the minister for an answer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-15-senat-20-1.u35	We didn't bring this up at the committee meeting. The obligation to shoot off and reduce the head is the hunting plan that the wheel lays down and accepts the uncle or the mayor and accepts the soundtrack, and this hunting plan must be carried out. As far as I remember, if it's not done, it's going to increase from the percentage of default. It's supposed to mobilize. It's a danger that there might be a problem here, but I think the ministry... If we keep an eye on how this works... Like I said, it's not an easy bill, and we're gonna watch it work. As far as moose is concerned, it's a game of prey, but it's temporary under protection. I'm sure this won't be a problem.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-15-senat-20-1.u36	Thank you very much. Senator Hare. Ask me a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-15-senat-20-1.u37	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have had two meetings with hunters, at their request, in the Chelm district and I must say that they are looking at this matter, the bill very carefully. They know the contents of the bill perfectly, and after the first meeting I had to learn myself, because I had a bit of a crush on them with my ignorance. But I'm better now. I've been returned... Well, maybe I'll just say it in general first. Well, their general opinion on the bill, after longer discussions, is quite positive and I think the law will be well adopted. I have two questions. First. As proposed in the Article. 1 point 2 examines and estimates the damage for which the State Treasury is responsible shall be carried out by the representative of the voivode responsible for the place where the damage occurred. I would therefore like to ask what criteria will be taken into account when selecting this representative. As I understand it, the salary of the representative of the voivodship will be covered by the voivodship budget. Will it therefore be an employee of the Voivodship office, who is going as part of the delegation to some very remote places in the voivodship, or is it considered the option of another distribution of cases related to the valuation of damages? Second question. An analysis of the rules shows that damage cases cover only specified species of game: elk, deer, daniel, deer, boar It's just as we've been given here. And here's the question: is it considered to extend the animal catalog, for example, to beavers that we know about, from the Janów forest, that they can do incredible damage, as excellent surveyors, can flood a few hectares of meadows with a small amount of work. These are very serious damage. According to the proposed provisions, the amount of the premium is the product of the number of game, calculated in the annual hunting plan for the year concerned, and the flat-rate contributions. What solution is proposed if the hunting plan fails? And one more question: is there a reduction in the amount of the contribution envisaged? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-15-senat-20-1.u38	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-15-senat-20-1.u39	A few questions have been asked, maybe I'll start at the end. I don't know if there's gonna be any change in the amount of the contribution. I think after a year, we'll see how it goes. According to the bill, it's also valued for the GUS factor, but, as I say, we'll see how it starts to work, how it works. As far as beavers are concerned, we already have the Nature Protection Act. Because the beavers are protected. We have also had a problem with cormorans for many years, and there are also demands on it by those who manage the ponds. The issue of beavers is also reported, but this is already another law and other solutions. I think it'll be soon. It is my opinion that we should lean on it, because the increase in the population of beaver or cormorant is huge and these animals do great damage to water management. They've even reached ponds that aren't connected to the rivers. As far as jobs and the functioning of people who will estimate losses are concerned, it is clear from my memory that the Act states that they must have agricultural education and at least one year's practice in estimating losses or evaluating... [[But the farm's higher, I'm sure.]] Yeah, yeah, yeah. As I recall... Unless I make a mistake, you'll make it up to the Minister. Over 380 jobs are planned, as far as I know. The discussion shows that it will not be year-round jobs, I think, because we know that the damage is increasing over a certain period of time. There are periods when they don't exist, and there are periods when they occur. And here, I'm sure there'll be a little problem with how to organize it all. As I have said and said all the time, we have not been able to solve this problem over the years, not only us, but also those who sat in this House and in the Sejm, and also ruled at an earlier time. We, summoned by our fellow Members, and also... sign in here today, Minister... Also today, in the Senate, we are trying to find a solution. It's not gonna be easy, and we don't really know the end of that either. will suffer whether the State Treasury will have to commit itself or whether these contributions will be adequate to the amount of compensation. We know it worked a little differently. In fact, as far as I'm concerned, there were 60,000 protocols. Part of the compensation was paid by the wheel on the basis of a settlement with the hosts. It didn't always end in protocol. It's hard to really tell how it's gonna work right now. Every such change is a big one. As far as records are concerned, it does not contain a lot of pages, but it is a big change and a big responsibility that the government and the Treasury take on.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-15-senat-20-1.u40	Thank you very much. Senator Kleina's question, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-15-senat-20-1.u41	Mr Marshal, Senator rapporteur, I tabled an amendment in writing concerning the article. 46. This article deals with people who will be able to estimate hunting damage. And the law provides that those who will be able to do so are those who have a higher agricultural education. Have you considered, at the committee meeting, extending the group of people who could estimate these damages to those who have forestry education or postgraduate studies in the field of estimation of hunting damage? Don't you think... Or maybe this case has been discussed. If it has been discussed, please answer that question. And if I didn't, I would have asked the Minister if it was possible to expand. Because this is the extent of my amendment to the mentioned group about people who have a higher education in forestry or postgraduate studies in the field of estimation of hunting damage. That's one question. And the second question is more general. The rapporteur here said that, as you estimate, as a result of the implementation of this law, employment in the administration will increase by several hundred people. Well, the coalition was accusing... [[It's not about work...]] Please? [[It's really about jobs.]] Jobs, yes, jobs. Employment will increase by around 400 people. You have accused, perhaps rightly, although I do not fully agree, that during the reign of the Civic Platform and PSL the administration grew quite substantially. And now, on the occasion of every bill, the rapporteur also says that there will be several hundred more people employed in connection with these laws. In view of 500+, employment in the administration was expected to increase by several thousand. Did you, at the committee meeting, draw attention to such a problem that this law causes further growth in the administration? But, as I say, this is a more general matter. The first problem is for me, at this stage of the bill process, more important.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-15-senat-20-1.u42	I'm asking for an answer.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-15-senat-20-1.u43	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. As for the first question, we did not discuss this at the committee meeting. But when it comes to foresters and postgraduate studies related to the estimation of forest losses, I think there's a bit of a discrepancy here. 'Cause the foresters aren't exactly... As far as forest losses are concerned, yes, but as far as agricultural losses are concerned, I would rather lean in such a way that people who have agricultural education or experience and some practice in agriculture rather than forestry are needed. But we didn't discuss it. And the second question, more so... I see the senator has asked a political question. If we're taking on some kind of commitment and we're trying to solve something, there's really no other way. If the assessments are to be made by outsiders, those who are valuers and will assess these losses, then we must... [[There's no way out.]] ...the stasis of such men. You've been there. A little bit different, because actually the tasks and solutions to important problems... well, I don't want to say that there was very little, but the increase in administration was huge. I don't think you've made as many decisions as 500+ or even a revision of the Hunting Law Act concerning the acquisition of damages. If you want to do something, I think there's got to be some cost. Let's see how this works in practice. 'Cause no one's doing this bill to increase their jobs, and I don't think anybody's ever had it as a major goal. The main goal is to solve this problem. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-15-senat-20-1.u44	Thank you very much. Please ask Senator Alicia the Hare.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-15-senat-20-1.u45	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Mr Senator, rapporteur! It is very important that experts are competent and know what tasks they are called for. Many farmers are reported to my office, who have their farms within the forest areas and who suffer enormous damage each year, and the amount of compensation granted and the treatment of these farmers leave much to be desired. Let me give you one example: a superhectare forest meadow completely destroyed, which simply had to be sown again. The farmer only got grass seeds, which was inadequate for the loss suffered, because it took a great deal of work of machines, people, etc., to bring this meadow to the state in which it was originally. I'd like to ask... For as far as the experts are concerned, there are two kinds of calling. Some are appointed by the tenants and managers of the hunting circuit and the other by the voivode. Is that so, or am I wrong? [[Not really.]] If so, will there be a permanent list, or will it simply be completed, or will it be created on an ad hoc basis? Because there are also complaints about the length of these proceedings. There have often been cases where people have been given unfulfilled minutes to sign and they have been told: sign here and then this will be completed. Such things should not happen in the event of compensation. I think it's going in the right direction and that all these changes will be satisfactory for these people. Because it's hard to be happy that you have some damage, and then for weeks or months, you have the compensation you deserve. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-15-senat-20-1.u46	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-15-senat-20-1.u47	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Senator, it's been a lot of different times. There were circles where it really worked pretty well, hunters got along with farmers and there was no problem. Well, maybe there was some more understanding. But there were also circles where what should be said with regret The hunters took farmers seriously and ended up like the senator said they didn't want to pay anything or were actually symbolic. That's why it was outrageous in recent years and before. And that's why this change has to be regulated. As far as valuers are concerned, they actually appear in this model of appeal, in which agricultural chambers are to draw up a list of valuers. If either side Whether it's a farmer or a tenant He won't agree, he can appeal to the valuer. His opinion will be taken into account by your voivode. And to estimate the losses, there will actually be people appointed by your voivodeship. We can call them valuers. They will represent the Treasury and will be appointed in accordance with the terms and conditions of the Act. So that they must also be prepared in agricultural terms, they must be professionals. The point is, none of the sides Mostly a farmer. She did not question their opinion that these appeals should be as small as possible, because we do not care that this should last for a long time. These deadlines are very short, because the point is that it ends as soon as possible and the farmer gets compensation.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-15-senat-20-1.u48	Thank you very much. Senator Grubski's question, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-15-senat-20-1.u49	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. There are 2 7-day time limits in the Act, i.e. the deadline for determining the injury and the time limit for appeal. In the event of an appeal, the injured party may benefit from the assistance of the Agricultural Chamber and the expert, the expert appointed by the Chamber. Do we know how many experts are operating around a particular chamber, and is this really a powerful system, so that within 7 days it is possible to invite such a person to correct the possible incompatibility that exists between the valuer of the voivode and the victim? And do these experts actually have such a number on the market that they are able to meet the deadline of 7 days? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-15-senat-20-1.u50	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-15-senat-20-1.u51	Thank you. As regards experts, part of the law on this issue will enter into force 14 days after the adoption of the law, so it will be six months for agricultural chambers to carry out verification and recruitment, to create such lists. It's hard for me to say what it's going to look like in quantitative terms, and what kind of resources we have right now, people with powers that can be listed on that list. As I recall, there will be a regulation to determine what conditions these people are to meet. I don't think there's gonna be that much appeal, and it's gonna be pretty smooth... But if these appeals are, then they will, and the assessors will have to assess it. As I said, this is to be taken into account as an opinion, it is not a binding decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-15-senat-20-1.u52	Thank you very much. Senator Ambrozik's question, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-15-senat-20-1.u53	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Mr. Senator, the voivodeship representative shall examine immediately, but not later than 7 days from the date of receipt of the request. And the voivode has to make a decision by what date?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-15-senat-20-1.u54	If there is no cancellation, then also immediately, if after these 7 days after examination there is a protocol, then probably within 7 days the decision of the voivode to pay compensation... [[There's no precise deadline, I understand. Yes?]] As far as I know... [[There's an administrative deadline.]] Maybe so, here's the senator telling me that the administrative deadline...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-15-senat-20-1.u55	Thank you very much. Senator Flork's question, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-15-senat-20-1.u56	Mr. Marshal, Mr. Senator, I'm reading about the 30-day payday deadline right now, that's what you were just talking about. I'd like to say that when it comes to a compensation decision, it's issued by a voivode. He's got his employee or his employees to do it. And if there isn't, then of course he can make some kind of deal. And they will prepare for him this compensation decision. You can file a complaint against this compensation decision, that's what we were talking about. When it comes to complaints, these are the people who are supposed to be valuers, that's what it's called... We have the idea of a property expert, once there was a list of experts of the voivodship, as you remember... And here we have a new concept of a valuer, and this valuer is supposed to meet certain conditions, higher education, etc. The list of these experts is to be kept by agricultural chambers. While I recall the issues of the agricultural chambers and the elections in the agricultural chambers, it is usually 34%. the people who participate in these elections, so for me, this list will not be very representative if they lead it. Therefore, should it not have been regulated in some other way, even if it had been possible to involve property experts? They are not mentioned, and yet they can value all the damage, including damage to agricultural fetuses. Wouldn't that be the direction? 'Cause I think it's a location, making a separate list, keeping an eye on that list... We're probably gonna be discussing right now, and why can't the forester be on this list and so on? And in a moment, this list will be extended quite a bit. Is this the right direction? After all, when such a reservation will be And you can expect that there will be a lot of reservations. It's only then that the voivode will consider them, and if she thinks it was right, she will even pay for that opinion, which was made by the expert, and then she will issue a decision that is final, because there is no further appeal. So this valuer has a very important function to perform. And he was just placed in the farmhouse. Did you talk about it? Is this correct, or shouldn't you be looking for another solution?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-15-senat-20-1.u57	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-15-senat-20-1.u58	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. We did not discuss this at the joint committee meeting. Agricultural chambers as a social factor... Well, we regret it. Me and, I think, many people involved in agriculture In fact, chambers have a small mandate to trust in elections, but it's no longer up to us. And like I said, I think the assessors... I would argue that valuers are somehow derived from this environment or from a group of professionals who are linked to agriculture. Because to be honest, when it comes to property experts, their assessment is specific... Besides, I once had the opportunity to experience this as a person who is a co-owner of the farm. Namely, an assessor appeared on behalf of the insurer, who estimated damage to agricultural crops and was a specialist in construction. I think it's in the regulation that's going to be defined... As I said, agricultural chambers are treated as a social factor, as an independent institution, hence such a proposal. That is my opinion, because we did not discuss this more extensively at the committee meeting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-15-senat-20-1.u59	Thank you very much. Senator Comfort. Ask me a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-15-senat-20-1.u60	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Mr. Senator, I have a question for you. Has it been estimated how many such administrative proceedings can be generated after the adoption of this law? Has the opinion been consulted on how this will affect the administrative judiciary? Was this subject even discussed? That's one thing. Secondly, since compensation is taken over by the State Treasury and the voivode is responsible for it, what was the reason for allowing the administrative tenants or managers of the hunting circuit to do so? Because we have such dualism here that the State Treasury is responsible for the damage caused by the game, but for the damage caused during the hunting, here is the old-fashioned liability of the tenant or... You can agree with such a concept or disagree, that is another matter. But why were the tenants and managers of the hunting circuit allowed into this administrative process? and whether or not there has been any mention of this If they're not the parties that are potentially financially responsible here? [[They are, in part they're...]] The admission of another party will cause problems related to the complaint by another entity.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-15-senat-20-1.u61	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-15-senat-20-1.u62	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. In a way, they are, I mean. They're parties, because the side is the farmer, and the hunting wheel. The hunting wheel is a party, because for the fund, I think, payments from hunting circles represent a significant share. And like I said, they're gonna co-finance... and they're gonna be financially responsible for the damage. Therefore, these two interested parties are involved and they are provided for in the protocol, and whether they agree or disagree, this will be recorded. Anyway, that's what the bill says. As far as the number of cases is concerned, how many court cases will be, it is difficult to predict at this stage. As I said, so far it has been estimated that there have been about 60,000 protocols from inspections and withdrawals... They didn't always end in protocol. We don't know what the number of such cases could be in the future, whether it's going to be much bigger or smaller, how it's going to really look like. We didn't talk about it at the committee meeting. I think that in the future we will know how many of these things will be, and this will be the result of our experience in this area. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-15-senat-20-1.u63	Thank you very much. Your Marshal, Mr. Underneath. Ask me a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-15-senat-20-1.u64	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. I have a question on behalf of a group of neighbors where I live. Although I live in Silesia, I live literally in the woods, specifically over Little Panwa. Beavers have shown great activity in recent years, as Senator Hare has already said. And that's why people living on the so-called. floodplain areas are often double-harmed because these beavers cause damage, through which floods in these areas are more frequent. And these people are asking whether, in connection with this solution, they will be able to benefit from compensation when it comes to damage caused by beavers.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-15-senat-20-1.u65	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-15-senat-20-1.u66	This law does not provide for this, but they may benefit from compensation, because, in fact, when it comes to damage caused by an animal that is protected, it is paid compensation, but in a different way, not provided for in this law. This law does not apply to this case.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-15-senat-20-1.u67	Senator Hare, you're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-15-senat-20-1.u68	I have a very short question. So it's not just bad about valuers... I have another question, I would say, pro. In Article 2, paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: 46d paragraph. The second point is that, where a voivode is concerned, the decision referred to in paragraph shall be taken. 1. i.e. the decision to compensate for the damage proposed in the opinion of the assessor, owner or landlord, or the hunter's district manager, shall be entitled to reimbursement of the costs of remuneration for the opinion. And in the event that the voivode gives a negative decision, that is, he will not recognize this damage and that compensation, will the assessors not receive payment at all? It's unclear to me.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-15-senat-20-1.u69	Well, then the cost of the expert's opinion is borne by the party, in such a situation there is no refund. [[So people are gonna have to think about some small things.]] Yeah, yeah. Well, that's also the solution, so it's not really...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-15-senat-20-1.u70	Mr. Senator Silence. I'm asking you a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-15-senat-20-1.u71	I would like to refer to the senator, my previous speaker, to the question. Namely art. 46d paragraph. 2 is basically based on a zero-one system: the voivode makes a decision on either protocol or expert opinion. Does this mean that the voivode cannot choose the intermediate version and say: the protocol shows that the damage is, for example, 10,000, from the expert's opinion that 15,000 and I think it is 12,000? And what then, who in such a situation covers the costs of the expert's expertise? Analogous regulation in tax proceedings provides that if the discrepancy between the expert's opinion and the tax office's position exceeds 30%, the costs incurred by the taxable person to draw up the opinion concerned shall be reimbursed by the tax office. Shouldn't this be a solution?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-15-senat-20-1.u72	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-15-senat-20-1.u73	Well, that question is about legal matters, and I don't feel up to it... I think if the voivode chose an indirect sum, without carrying out any inspection, he'd probably actually estimate the damage himself. Well, it seems to me that he has to go through a follow-up protocol prepared by someone who has the authority to do it, or an expert protocol, who is also a competent person. Well, if the voivode himself added something or subtracted from the sum indicated in the protocol or in the opinion of the assessor, it would, I think, be a little more than possible... Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-15-senat-20-1.u74	Thank you very much. No further questions. Thank you, Senator rapporteur. The draft law was introduced by Members. Does a government representative wish to speak on the bill under consideration? I would like to warmly welcome Minister Andrzej Necessary, Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Environment. Would you like to speak? [[Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Environment Andrzej Necessary: If there are any questions, I will be happy to answer.]] There are questions, so please come to the podium. [[Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Environment Andrzej Necessary: Mr. Marshal, can I answer from the seat? I've got a lot of materials...]] Okay, of course, please. [[Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Environment Andrzej Necessary: Thank you.]] You're the first Senator Klein to report. I'd like to ask you a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-15-senat-20-1.u75	Mr. Marshal! Minister! I already asked the question about the article. 46 and the question of experts to the rapporteur. And here my suggestion is to expand the catalogue of people who could be valuers. This is so that it can be not only those with agricultural education but also those with forestry education or qualifications acquired through post-graduate studies in assessing the damage to hunting and forestry, and of course all the other competences that arise from this point. Do you not think that the Minister could possibly extend this range of people who could be valuers, just those who, as I say, have the appropriate experience and all the qualifications mentioned in this point? I have already tabled such an amendment in writing and I think it would be a good change, but I am interested in the opinion of the Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-15-senat-20-1.u76	You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-15-senat-20-1.u77	Mr. Marshal! Mr. Senator! Thank you so much for the substantive question. I would like to say that, at the stage, social opinion and participation in the formulation of these rules were, of course, strongly involved farmers, farmers' representatives, agricultural organisations, especially the National Council of Agricultural Chambers. It was at the request that the valuer be the person with an agricultural education, that the wording of the provision was adopted. However, I share your opinion, and I agree with that. 'Cause it's a substantive approach. That those who have a higher education or have completed postgraduate studies in the estimation of hunting damage... It would also be appropriate to include such records.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-15-senat-20-1.u78	Thank you very much. Senator Rybicki's question, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-15-senat-20-1.u79	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Minister, the bill we're investigating right now is an accident. It is heading in the right direction, but there are many more fundamental shortcomings in the hunting law. There are laws in it that many consider unconstitutional. I'll mention two such issues. I have a question: are the Ministry still... Is the Ministry planning a comprehensive reform of this field of life, hunting law? I'm talking about two issues relating to property rights. First of all, it's about the use of hunting wheels by hunters of other people's property without the permission of the owner. Hunters can enter without the owner's consent and do their work there, hunt. This is certainly against the right of ownership guaranteed by the Constitution. The second question is the question I asked the Senator of the rapporteur earlier. Namely, the point is that the landlord is not the beneficiary of the lease which the lease wheels, including private land, pay to the local government, rather than to the farmer or other landowner. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-15-senat-20-1.u80	Please answer me.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-15-senat-20-1.u81	Mr. Marshal! Mr. Senator! Thank you very much for this substantive question. I agree with you. As you know, on 22 January this year, the 18-month time limit which the Constitutional Tribunal has given the legislator to adapt the contested provisions has passed. It is precisely about covering private land with boundaries of hunting circuits. Therefore, in the previous term, there were two projects for this purpose: the government project and the parliamentary project. - which were joined at the committee meeting. Due to the principle of discounting, these works have simply been completed. However, at present such work is obviously ongoing, there has been an appropriate listing of the work in the Chancellery of the President of the Council of Ministers, it has been declared to start the process of adapting the rules, and those under appeal, and those which have a blankity in the issue of implementing rules. We're working on these duties right now.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-15-senat-20-1.u82	Thank you very much. Senator Lyczak's question, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-15-senat-20-1.u83	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Minister, hunters have some concerns about the cost of handling damage valuations. My question is this: will the representative of the voivodeship who will participate in the inspection and assessment of damage be the person who already works in the voivodeship office, or will it be a newly employed person, or will it have a business car? How high will the costs associated with the expert's work be? Is there anything we can learn about this today? The next question concerns the Compensation Fund. We know that it will consist of annual contributions, donations and entries, subsidies from the state budget and other revenue. My question: can we today determine how high the state budget subsidies will be? Here's another thing. Many wheels, especially those in which small game dominates, are full of fear, because so far in these wheels the damage represented a very small percentage, were low. Well, there may have been deer, but deer doesn't cause damage. It is expected that if these wheels now have to pay for the deer, then small wheels. And I was at a meeting at a place where the perimeter is about 9,000 ha They will have to add about 10,000 to this fund, and they are concerned that if members do not contribute themselves to these contributions, the wheels may fall. And one last thing... Anyway, I'm not gonna say it again. I wanted to ask you a question similar to that of Senator Rybicki. But the answer has already been answered, so thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-15-senat-20-1.u84	You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-15-senat-20-1.u85	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. Mr. Senator, I'll try to answer, but there's been quite a lot of information, questions, content. As far as the assessment of damage is concerned, the representative of the voivode shall carry out it, in accordance with the wording of the rules. Of course, this may be, as the rapporteur said, a part-time employee, as well as those obligations, if the level of damage is not high in the region concerned, may be passed on to another person. In my opinion, there is nothing to prevent the voivode from commissioning such tasks in the context of tasks commissioned by his representative. It doesn't exactly have to be a part-time or full-time employee. As far as compensation is concerned, the amount of the contribution is currently more than 84% throughout Poland Hunting circuits are weak and very weak circuits. This means that, in preparing analyses based on the original parliamentary project, which assumed the joint payment of 0.10 of the quintal of rye per hectare... This would lead to bankruptcy very quickly. That's exactly what the senator's talking about. Hey, hey, The hunting circles and at the same time to be abandoned by these circuits are weak and very poor land use. It's on one side. On the other hand, lack of management It was particularly evident from the explosion of wild boar populations in eastern Poland, and especially in the Podlaskie voivodship, and this must be said, to the definitely massive development of wild boar populations. Remediation efforts have been made in relation to the fight against ASF. We did an analysis, one analysis was based on the originally proposed quintal equivalent of rye per hectare, and the second analysis was such a simulation of contributions paid as flat-rates in relation to the number of game planned in the hunting plan. In the opinion of the interested parties, this model binding the total amount of the contribution paid with the planned number of game, which results from the size of the stocked game in the area, turned out to be, you can say, fairer. Therefore, such solutions have been adopted. If the senator had told me what question I didn't answer... [[That's enough for me. Thank you very much.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-15-senat-20-1.u86	Thank you very much. Senator Florek, ask me a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-15-senat-20-1.u87	Mr. Marshal! Minister! The governor shall determine the amount of compensation by administrative decision, taking into account the findings in the minutes or the opinion of the assessor if it has been made. I'm getting back to the subject. So we have the findings and the opinion of the valuer. The voivodeship expert who made it... Like you said, it could be a voivodship worker, and there might be a job here. We have a discrepancy... The deadlines are very short, practically 7-day. The liability of the valuer's list in the case of an opinion he makes is none in my opinion. Can the voivode in this situation... Well, there's no time for negotiations, and the bill doesn't provide for them. But maybe it'd be good to negotiate, meet in the middle. But there's no such thing as the voivode's taking into account either what his valuer did or what the valuer in the farmhouse did. And that's it. Well, it involves compensation for the expert's opinion... Isn't there a gap here? It's either that or it is. And in the event of discrepancies, there is no way to negotiate, to establish some indirect amount of compensation. This is the first case. The second case, Senator Rotnicka, referred to this matter. It concerns damage caused by hunting animals, i.e. those which run slowly, owned by the State Treasury, in areas which do not belong to the hunting circuit. Senator Rotnicka gave an example of a home garden destroyed in this way. In this situation, who should pay for the damage caused by hunting animals? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-15-senat-20-1.u88	Thank you. I'm asking for answers.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-15-senat-20-1.u89	Mr. Marshal! Dear Senator, The introduction of these rules, as well as, I would say, a very strong reduction in deadlines was expected and very strongly emphasised at meetings of all committees, both for agriculture and rural development and for environmental protection. Farmers straightaway... That's, I'd say, going towards their expectations. We are obliged to do so. Yeah, I think so. To listen to the voice of society. Speaking very diplomatically: farmers insisted that this should be done quickly, on the basis that it is a pity, there is a quick arrival and a quick inspection. Let's say we have damage to the ripe oat just before the harvest. Waiting causes... There'll be a storm or a hailstorm, and the damage will be blurry. In addition, the farmer will suffer additional, excessive and severe damage, and there is no title to pay him the funds because there have been no prior examination and assessment of the damage. This is the position of agricultural organisations, including mainly the National Council of Agricultural Chambers. The second question concerned the division of Poland into hunting circuits. With the exception of 11% the whole area of Poland is divided. In an area which does not cover the boundaries of the hunting circuit, the provisions of this law shall not apply. Currently, applications can be addressed to the Marshal of the voivodship.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-15-senat-20-1.u90	Thank you. Senator Shark. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-15-senat-20-1.u91	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. Minister, I have a question. During our previous term of office, we worked quite a long time on changes in hunting law, which also resulted from the judgment of the Constitutional Tribunal. Unfortunately, as we know, the hunting lobby is cross-party and even the eternal head of the Polish Hunting Union is not an obstacle to any party, regardless of which side it represents. I have a question: is the resort you represent planning a comprehensive work on changes in hunting law? I'm asking because we're patching things up, but the hunting laws, I'm so worried, we're not gonna change them again. That's my question. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-15-senat-20-1.u92	Thank you. I'm asking for an answer.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-15-senat-20-1.u93	Mr. Marshal! Dear Senator, As I said earlier, at the moment, it is crucial for you in this House to comply with the judgment of the Constitutional Tribunal. In January, 22 January of this year, it was 18 months, that is, the time that the Court pointed out to the execution of this judgment. Unfortunately, it couldn't be done. That's what I leave without my opinion. At the moment, there is an entry in the list of works. We are working to regulate the issues arising from the Constitutional Court's judgment. I agree with the senator that this law dates back to 1995 and requires modernisation. Here I do not have to and do not have to hide that so-called. a law on axes, an act on environmental impact assessments, information to the public, etc. Allows non-governmental organisations to appear on the rights of the party in all stages of the creation of law on the wider environment as regards proceedings and generally opinions. Therefore, this process is likely to last for quite a long time, because social resistance in terms of hunting is quite important. We're all gonna try to deal with this, and we're gonna get these laws modernised. There's a need, I confirm, and that's ahead of us. [[Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-15-senat-20-1.u94	Thank you very much. I'm asking you to ask Senator Hare... Excuse me, senator hare now. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-15-senat-20-1.u95	Yes. Thank you very much. Looking at the forestman's uniform that the Minister's wearing, I want to go back to the question of agricultural education. After all, forestry is today the direction of agricultural universities, previously the General School of Farming Rural or agricultural academy. This is one of the fields of agricultural education. It seems to me that foresters who have completed higher education should be included in the definition of agricultural education. After all, no one who knows the role, who does not know the crop, who does not know all the principles of earth's biology, will become a forester. I do not know why it is believed that only a farmer who will complete the course of agriculture, for example. The agronomists, or some other... [[Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Environment Andrzej Necessary: But both... Excuse me, Mr. Marshal.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-15-senat-20-1.u96	Well, well, of course.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-15-senat-20-1.u97	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Senator, of course, agricultural education also includes mechanization of agriculture, the direction of mechanization of agriculture... [[But a forester doesn't?]] No. So, in agreement with the Senator's interpretation, of course, that is understandable, but that is the will of the Higher House.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-15-senat-20-1.u98	If you don't mind, I'll fill it in. Why am I digging this? If anyone disagrees with this opinion, the voivode shall have the right to appeal within one month of the decision to the court. Then he goes to the court and challenges: this judgment was not given by the farmer; it was given by the farmer. And then he's gonna say A forester, an agronomist or someone else. Shouldn't this be clarified somehow, so that we just know that they're e.g. Graduates of agricultural universities? I'm asking because this case isn't clear. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-15-senat-20-1.u99	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-15-senat-20-1.u100	Mr. Marshal! Senator! Such a proposal for writing has already been made here today. [[Senator Kleina called her in, and I totally support her.]] Yeah, yeah. I agree, but, Mr. Marshal, we've been analyzing... Because very often we see such a view of the situation, that suddenly there will be an uprising. Mr Senator, the rapporteur was also asked this question. It's a lot of disputes. [[I know...]] We have looked at the procedures and cases of compensation in recent years, and we know that the percentage of cases brought to court was 0.17%. So there's no big threat here. [[Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-15-senat-20-1.u101	That says a lot. Thank you very much. Senator Rotnicka's question, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-15-senat-20-1.u102	Mr. Marshal, Minister, I would like to share this information with you on the basis of my question and a conversation with the Minister later. Assuming that carrying out a complete novel of hunting law can take a long time, the solution to the problem I asked about, i.e. compensation in areas not covered by hunting circuits, could be a special law, the lex specialis law on this issue. And if it were the will of the Committee on the Environment and, above all, the will of the government to work together on such a project, the Senate could take such a legislative initiative. I would like to ask the Minister whether such a way would be right and possible in order to settle this matter relatively quickly.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-15-senat-20-1.u103	Senator, Professor, Mr. Marshal, I'm just a little beetle here... If that is the will of the House, I am at your disposal. [[Good. The Minister is at your disposal, which means you could do something like this. Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-15-senat-20-1.u104	Thank you very much. I don't see any more questions. Thank you very much, Minister. I'm opening a discussion. I would like to inform you that none of your senators have signed up. I would also like to inform you that you have submitted proposals of a legislative nature in writing to Senator Klein. The discussion is closed. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of... [[Voice from the hall: Yet the minister...]] Oh, yeah, yeah, sorry. Would a government representative like to comment on the proposal? But I think the Minister was talking about Senator Kleina's amendment. [[Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Environment Andrzej Necessary: Thank you very much.]] As legislative proposals have been made, I ask the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development and the Environment to respond to the proposals put forward and to prepare a joint report. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. We proceed with the examination of the third item of the agenda: the law on amending the Family Benefits Act and the Law on determining and paying benefits for carers. The text of the Act is contained in print No 182 and the report of the Commission In print No 182 A. I would like to ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Family, Senior and Social Policy, Senator Alexander Swede, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-15-senat-20-1.u105	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour to present a report on the meeting of the Committee on Family, Senior and Social Policy, which on 2 June 2016 worked on the amendment of the Law on Family Benefits and the Law on the fixing and payment of welfare benefits No 182. The amendment is intended to bring our legal status into line with the judgment of the Constitutional Tribunal of 18 November 2014 declaring non-compliance with the Constitution of the Article. Article 17 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 Point 5 (4) of the Law of 28 November 2003 on family benefits in force until 13 October 2011. The proposed amendments give rise, in accordance with the Court's judgment, to the right to provide care to the parent, the actual guardian who resigns from employment or other employment in connection with the need to take care of the disabled child, including where the second parent has a fixed right to provide care for another child in the family. The proposed amendments would enter into force on 1 January 2017. The draft was a legislative initiative of the Senate, and the amendment of the Act in the current form of the Sejm adopted at its 19th meeting During the vote of 423 Members voted in favour, no one opposed, five Members abstained. At the meeting of the committee, the government party represented Deputy Minister Bartosz Marczuk, who stressed that the preliminary analyses showed that the estimated cost of the proposed changes was about PLN 30 million. The opinion of the Senate Legislative Office is positive and the committee adopted the proposed amendments unanimously. I therefore also recommend that the High House adopt the proposed amendments to the Family Benefits Act and the Law establishing and paying welfare benefits in the proposed form. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-15-senat-20-1.u106	Thank you very much. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the rapporteur's senator. Do any of you senators wish to ask such questions? No. Thank you very much, Senator. The bill was filed by the Senate. Does a government representative wish to speak on the bill under consideration? Welcome to Minister Marczuk. Minister, do you wish to speak? No. Thank you. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of questioning to a government representative related to this item on the agenda. Would any of you like to ask such questions? No. I'm opening a discussion. Please take the floor of Marshal Borowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-15-senat-20-1.u107	Mr. Marshal! High Senate! As a matter of fact, when this Senate initiative was launched, I was appointed as a rapporteur both here in the Senate and later in the Sejm. Of course, this law did not raise any controversy, it carried out the judgment of the Court, and during our work there was an additional problem. Namely, the law took into account the situation of full families in which there are two or more children with disabilities And so far, only one benefit has been available. The second parent was able to benefit from the second witness, but there was a problem: what about part families? So it was a situation where only a mother or father raises two or more children with disabilities. These are not common situations, but they happen. I therefore tabled an amendment that solved this problem. That is, it simply allowed the payment of a second benefit to a member of the family belonging to a group of family members indicated in the Act as one whose member may receive such benefits when, for example, it is possible. Parents cannot raise children for different reasons. This amendment, quite obvious, would seem to have gained full support at the committee meeting. I remember Senator Rooster, who was involved in supporting such families, such children, convinced her that she needed to be accepted. And they all voted in favour. But in plenary, unfortunately, the majority rejected this amendment. And this is due to the rather, not concealing, obscure argument of the government that the amendment is not precise and we will need to look at it. Ladies and gentlemen, the amendment is extremely precise; it really does not raise any legislative doubts. When I was in the Seym, I introduced her because before the government said: we will take care of it in the Seym, that we will clarify it there. So I presented this amendment to the Sejm, but the government was still not eager to acknowledge it. The effect is that the bill has returned to us, but the issue has not been resolved. I have to say, I'm just appalled because I don't know if this is some kind of obsession with the families of single mothers or single mothers. In the 500+ case, we had the same thing, just exceeded the relatively low income threshold, and there was no child allowance. In this case, we have exactly the same situation. If... then there was still an argument that the law enters into force within a year, the effects cannot be estimated, etc. The Sejm changed the date of entry into force This Act shall enter into force on 1 January 2017. So there is no concern that this year's budget will be shaken somehow. I'm already overlooking the fact that this is about money that doesn't matter. This issue is out of the question. We have heard here that the cost of the change, which is currently being implemented, is about PLN 30 million. So what's the cost when we're talking about an incomplete family and more than one disabled child? This is going to be some part of the mentioned 30 million zlotys, maybe a few million zlotys. So what are we talking about? How can we not solve this matter at one time and at the same time? I don't understand it completely, nor do I understand the resistance. And I don't think the Senate should give up. Because, as I stress, the committee was definitely in favour, and only succumbed to the Government's arguments that this matter needs to be refined at the level of the Sejm, and this was not done. So, Mr Marshal, I am once again proposing an amendment and I am asking the High House, and especially the majority in the High House, to consider this issue and to introduce the amendment I am talking about here, to this law. There's no timeline here. The date of entry into force is 1 January 2017, so there are no slightest problems to do so. Thank you. [[The meeting is chaired by Marshal Stanisław Karczewski]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-15-senat-20-1.u108	Thank you very much, Mr... Unfortunately, we have to sign the amendment, Senator, I apologize. That's the custom. I can borrow something to write. Who's next to speak? Senator Antoni Szymanski. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-15-senat-20-1.u109	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! Senator Borowski was appalled that his amendment, which had actually gained the support of the committee, was not accepted in the Sejm and that... this is probably also the case for the amendment... I would not like to use such a language that I am appalled, and yet I feel obliged to refer to the discussion we have been having for several months about the Constitutional Tribunal, respect for this institution and its judgments. I would like to point out that, in this point, we are talking about adopting certain solutions. And undoubtedly these solutions, which first the Senate and then the Sejm proposed, are implementing the ruling of the Court. But this ruling is dated 18 November 2014. And it could be very efficient, also because of the relatively low costs and the social importance of the solutions implemented in the last term of the Sejm. It didn't happen. I stress this not because I should mention it, but that the discussion of the institutions of the Constitutional Tribunal and respect for its judgments should be complete. It is also because, in the last few weeks, we are talking about the implementation of further judgments of the Court, often a few years ago. I will, for example, list a few decisions for which we are awaiting resolution, and indicate their dates. These issues should have been resolved a long time ago. E.g. Judgment of 14 February 2012 concerning the Housing Cooperatives Act and the signalling order of 14 February 2012. Subsequently, the judgment of 22 July 2014 concerning the Law of 1 July 2005 on the collection, storage and transplantation of cells, tissues and organs. Next, judgment of 26 November 2013 concerning the Law of 25 February 1964 on the Family and Care Code and the Law of 17 November 1964 on the Code of Civil Procedure. I could mention this for quite a long time, because unfortunately the list of unenforced judgments of the Court of Justice from previous years, and often, as you hear, early 2012, 2013, 2014 and 2015 should be carried out... I don't want to use the term "immediately," because that term would assume extraordinary urgency and very quick handling. But what I'm saying is that it was possible to make these changes rationally. It turns out that the previous term was expected for a long time. And we will soon receive another ruling from the Court concerning these family benefits. Which is important and worth noticing. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-15-senat-20-1.u110	Thank you very much, Senator. I inform you that the list of speakers has been exhausted. For the record, Senator Maciej Łuczak made his speech in the minutes. I would like to inform you that proposals of a legislative nature have been submitted in writing by Senator Marek Borowski. The discussion is closed. Does a government representative want to comment on a discussion or a legislative proposal? No. As legislative proposals have been made, I ask the Committee on Family, Senior and Social Policy to respond to the proposals put forward and to prepare a report. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. We proceed with the examination of the fourth item of the agenda: the Anti-Terrorism Act. The text of the Act is contained in print No 203 and the report of the Commission In print No 203 A. I would very much like to ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Human Rights, Rule of Law and Petitions, the Committee on Territorial Government and State Administration and the Committee on National Defence, Senator Robert Matemov, to present a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-15-senat-20-1.u111	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The Committee on Human Rights, Rule of Law and Petitions, the Committee on National Defence and the Committee on Local Government and State Administration discussed yesterday's draft law on anti-terrorist activities and on amending certain other laws of the Parliament Nos 516, 567, 567 A and Senate Prints No 203 and 203 A. The Act deals with strengthening mechanisms for coordinating the activities of services and bodies, clarifying their tasks and the principles of cooperation between them, ensuring that they can act effectively in the event of suspected terrorist offences, including in the field of investigations, ensuring mechanisms for responding to the risks involved and adapting criminal rules to new types of terrorist threats. The reasons and the need to introduce solutions in the proposed law. Terrorism is one of the biggest challenges in terms of ensuring security both from a global and regional or national perspective. As an international threat, it goes beyond the traditionally understood conflict and crisis situation. The rise in the level of terrorist threat observed in recent years, in particular in Western European countries, such as the attacks in France and Belgium, results in efforts by individual countries and by governments and international organisations of which Poland is a member to amend legislation to strengthen the capacity to identify, combat and combat possible terrorist threats. Although Poland has not yet been directly targeted by a terrorist attack, this does not mean that it remains completely free from this threat. Given Poland's participation in the international anti-terrorist coalition, as well as the fact that the territory of the Republic of Poland is indicated in materials distributed by terrorist organisations as a potential target of bombings, it is appropriate to take appropriate legislative action at the level of national law to improve security in relation to these threats. The variation of methods used by terrorists means that Poland must have appropriate instruments to properly identify and assess the threat and to effectively counter possible terrorist incidents. In the event of a terrorist attack, Poland must be prepared to take immediate and appropriate response measures, as well as to remove the effects. Achieving these objectives requires the provision of mechanisms for cooperation between all services, bodies and institutions involved in the broad sense of counter-terrorism, as well as local authorities, the private sector and society as a whole. The primary objective of the prepared regulation is to improve the effectiveness of the Polish anti-terrorism system and thus increase the security of all citizens of the Republic of Poland. I repeat that the main objective of the proposed regulation is to improve the effectiveness of the Polish anti-terrorist system and thus to increase the security of all citizens of the Republic of Poland by: strengthening the mechanisms for coordination of actions; clarifying the tasks of individual services and bodies and the principles of cooperation between them; ensuring the possibility of effective action in the event of suspected terrorist offences, including in the field of preparatory proceedings; ensuring mechanisms for responding to the type of threat occurring; adapting criminal rules to new types of terrorist threats. The proposed regulation integrates the activities of the Polish anti-terrorist system with a clear indication of responsibility in individual areas. The application of a systemic approach to terrorist threats in the law will allow the potential of all services, bodies and institutions with statutory powers to carry out counter-terrorism activities to be exploited. Regulation will also have a direct impact on the speed and regularity of the decision-making process at the strategic meeting. The introduced provisions integrating the activities of actors of anti-terrorist systems of the Republic of Poland will form part of the directional reforms of individual services and institutions aimed at strengthening coordination and supervisory capabilities in relation to their tasks. The Act introduces a universally applicable and customized system of four-stage alarms in the event of terrorist threats and alarms in the event of threats in cyberspace. The current system, in force under Order No 18 of the President of the Council of Ministers of 2 March 2016 on the list of projects and procedures of the crisis management system, covered only government administration. The system of alarms will be linked to the system of providing the necessary support from the Armed Forces of the Republic of Poland as a matter of urgency if police forces and means could not be sufficient to respond in the event of an assassination. The Act clearly assigns responsibility for the prevention of terrorism to the Internal Security Agency and provides this body with legal and organisational tools intended to enable these tasks to be effectively carried out. Specific provisions have also been drawn up on the conduct of investigations into terrorist offences. In particular, it is important to introduce in the Law of 6 June 1997 the Penal Code of Provisions defining new types of offences and responding to actions so called. foreign fighters related to the conflict in Syria and Iraq. In the case of the Act of 24 May 2002 on the Internal Security Agency and the Intelligence Agency, as well as the Act of 9 June 2006 on the Service of Military Counterwitter and Military Intelligence Service, the project provides for the introduction of the so-called institutions. an inverted spy that allows persons working for another country or organisation to be recruited for cooperation in relation to terrorist offences and espionage. In addition, it is envisaged, among others.: granting the Minister responsible for home affairs the power to decide on the temporary closure of certain border crossing points, deanonimisation of persons benefiting from the so-called. prepaid telephone cards and their obligation to provide their data to the telecommunications operator and to tighten the rules on expulsion of persons without Polish citizenship from the territory of the Republic of Poland. In addition, the regulation takes into account the responsibility of the Internal Security Agency in the area of cybersecurity risk prevention, and the ABW Competency Act introduces detailed solutions for cybersecurity protection. Mr Marshal, High Izbo, after a long and comprehensive discussion of the Committee on Human Rights, Rule of Law and Petitions, the Committee on National Defence and the Committee on Territorial Government and State Administration have adopted the draft and are requesting the adoption of a law without amendments.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-15-senat-20-1.u112	Thank you very much, Senator. Now I would very much like to ask the minority rapporteur of the Committee on Human Rights, the Rule of Law and Petitions, the Committee on Territorial Government and State Administration and the Committee on National Defence, Senator Bogdan Klich, to present a proposal for a minority of committees.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-15-senat-20-1.u113	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! A few months ago, many of the Senators of the Civic and Non-Associated Platform complied with the introduction of far-reaching regulations to increase the competence of the services in the Police Act and in the Service Act. We talked about the fact that the Constitutional Tribunal did not expect Parliament to introduce new regulations in terms of internet control. We reminded you that this is the political will of the majority of the PIS, both in the Seym and in the Senate. We respected, among others. before establishing rigid links, thanks to which services will be able to uncontrolledly download data from Internet service providers, not as it is at the moment, obtaining every consent, only automatically. We also talked about the lack of judicial review, because the audit that was written in that law is fictional control. We stressed that district courts receiving every six months from the police and statistical services reports on who has been subject to operational control in virtual space do not give sufficient guarantees to eliminate abuse or prevent any abuse that this control will not be realistic, that this control will be fictional. And we concluded at that time that the law, which was, unfortunately, accepted by the High House by a majority of the rights and justice, threatens to replace the Internet as an area of freedom with an area of domination of services. You thought that we were wrong that our reservations and doubts go too far, that we are often in the wrong interest of someone. Only that the independent European body, the Venice Commission, has ruled in recent days, considering this law, that indeed Internet surveillance through this law will be unlimited. He stressed that a catalogue of offences for which Internet surveillance can be used has not been presented. The Venice Commission also mentioned that there is not even a list of data that can be collected online and that the concept of this data is not fully defined. The Commission has recognised most of the reservations expressed by me and my colleagues from this speaker. I'll just mention two. The first is precisely the lack of judicial review: the committee considered that these general statistical reports would not be a sufficient means of limiting the services themselves. She also accepted our arguments regarding the automation of data collection from Internet service providers. Thus, this universal model of democracy set by the Venice Commission has been applied to Polish legislation also this time. Because it was not only in the case of the Constitutional Tribunal that it challenged the validity of the amendments. At this point, applicants are going even further. There is no doubt that anti-terrorism activity has become one of the main tasks of the State in recent years. There is no doubt that the international environment has deteriorated significantly in recent years, and the most obvious beginning in Europe was 2004, 2005 when we were faced with tragic attacks in London and Madrid, not to mention the recent events in Belgium or France. And there is no doubt that the services should better coordinate their activities, support each other and be tighter, i.e. There shouldn't be a rift to overlook an incident that could lead to a terrorist act. There is also no doubt that we need to improve our services in the pursuit of the tasks defined by law, namely to train them, train them, and train them again, that is to play these dozens of services and public institutions in mutual cooperation. Finally, there is no doubt that there should be regular work on raising public awareness, starting with young people in secondary and secondary schools. But we have doubts as to whether a new anti-terrorist law is needed for this. We have no doubt that there is a need to increase the competences of the various institutions. We have no doubt that these institutions need to be more efficient. We have no doubt that these institutions should have procedures that will be well rooted in the law in force and enable them to act more effectively. At the same time, however, we believe that an anti-terrorist law is not necessary, that it could have been And it is still possible to introduce into these dozens of laws describing our anti-terrorist system the necessary modifications to improve and improve the effectiveness of these institutions. A model like that would be acceptable to us. The second fundamental problem which the Civic Platform Club has with the bill submitted is the problem of a disturbed balance between institutions which are responsible for the security of the state, above all services and police, and those responsible for protecting citizens' rights, for all that is written as an essential part of the Constitution of the Republic of Poland, namely human rights and civil liberties. We believe that if the powers of these bodies, services and police are not strengthened, there will be a citizen who is not accompanied by adequate external control. It is the citizen and his authority who will suffer for this. That's why we're having second thoughts. as to the provisions of this law, because, as the government clearly states, it increases the competence of the services. The increased competence of the services should be accompanied by an increase in the powers of the control authorities. It is enough to remind us of what has happened in the Sejm in the last six months, like the Special Services Committee, which had a rotating presidency first customarily and for several years. also by the rules, has been deprived of this rotating conductor. And it can be said that the majority of the Sejm by means of this committee controls the government that has emerged. We have fundamental doubts about the lack of judicial control over the application of operational control to foreigners. We are convinced that two different solutions, in terms of Polish citizens and citizens of other countries, will be challenged in the international forum. This is a big flaw in these solutions. The Charter of Fundamental Rights has been ratified by our country. This is sufficient grounds to challenge such a solution to the European Court of Justice. Let us be honest that this is about citizens of other Member States of the European Union, who, according to the Charter, should enjoy in each Member State identical rights and freedoms as nationals of that country. We're having second thoughts... I'm going to name two out of a dozen now, joining the voice of our Legislative Office. Such doubts were also raised yesterday in a very precise manner by representatives of NGOs. Maybe I'll trade you one. We have doubts about the wide and uncontrolled access of services to personal data by any external institution. The Act lists which sets of personal data will have access to the services. It can be said that to all collections of public personal data, including the most sensitive data in the domain of the National Health Fund, i.e. patients, citizens who use medical services. Similarly, there may be doubts about the automatic access to the Social Insurance Institution's data due to the sensitivity of these data. This will be the broad-band access of services to the data set to be protected so far. I know there's an art in the A.B.W. Act to date, the Intelligence Agency. 34, which allows services both open and private access to these data, but is now to be done on the basis of data transmission, on the basis of electronic data transmission. Thus, this scope, the mode that introduces the new law, threatens to replace the details, threatens that the personal data of Polish citizens will not be sufficiently protected. These are the two reservations I wanted to say about, while identifying our reservations with reservations from our Legislative Office and with doubts, with most, not all, but most of the doubts raised by NGOs. This is a sufficient basis for applying for the rejection of this law in its entirety. We do not believe that the amendments tabled in this Chamber are capable of improving this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-15-senat-20-1.u114	At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the senators of the rapporteurs. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? Marshal Borusewicz wants to ask you a question. There you go. Which rapporteur? [[Mr. Senator, the rapporteur for the majority.]] Most of them. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-15-senat-20-1.u115	The Act introduces significant interference in the rights of foreigners who reside in our territory. Does this also apply to foreigners who have the Polish Charter? Polish foreigners have a Polish card, and You're like the senator. Knows The Senate takes care of our fellow countrymen abroad. What's that look like from this side?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-15-senat-20-1.u116	There you go, Mr. Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-15-senat-20-1.u117	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. After Senator Klich's speech, before I answer to the marshal, I have to say one sentence, because that's something to do with it. I've read it twice, giving you a reason. The draft Anti-Terrorism Act is designed to ensure that Polish society, Polish citizens are not afraid of what can happen and what has happened in France and Belgium. That's what this bill is for, that's what it's supposed to be for. This law mostly concerns foreigners, including those who have the Polish Charter. These are foreigners, although today they have the Polish Charter, okay, but they are foreigners. This law applies equally to all. If anyone in any way threatens the safety of our citizens, then the service is to x-ray, secure, so that nothing happens to us, to our society. For this is the service and whether it is a French citizen or a Belarusian citizen with the Polish Charter, they are to treat it the same way.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-15-senat-20-1.u118	Thank you very much, Senator. Mr. Senator George Wright. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-15-senat-20-1.u119	I, too, have a question for the Senator Rapporteur, Senator Mammothov. Here's the question. I'm talking about the notion of a terrorist crime. Wasn't there a discussion during the committee's work about whether this concept was too broad and whether it could cause fragmentation of anti-terrorist services or, worse still, whether it could be used by these services as a pretext for non-compliant anti-terrorist actions and considered anti-terrorist actions? I mean using the bill as an excuse for different actions.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-15-senat-20-1.u120	Thank you. You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-15-senat-20-1.u121	You know, I would like to point out that there is no terrorism of less importance and greater importance. Terrorism is generally defined in such a way that it is the fight against society by all means. That's a general statement. And there's no distinction between that and saying that there's some minor terrorist activity, less important, that maybe the agency couldn't handle it. No. Terrorism is terrorism. What he is, we have recently seen, as I said, in Belgium and France. We really need to do everything we can to protect our citizens from such a possible situation.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-15-senat-20-1.u122	Thank you very much. Senator Leszek Czarnobaj... Would you like to ask? [[Yes.]] You're welcome. Just a second, I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-15-senat-20-1.u123	I didn't mean whether terrorism could be on a larger or smaller scale, but situations where terrorism can be considered a terrorist action that isn't really a terrorist. Because the broad concept of terrorism can cause that, for example. insulting the president somewhere in the pages... [[No...]] ...may result in a terrorist charge. And this has nothing to do with terrorism.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-15-senat-20-1.u124	This is where the service will decide. I think they're so competent, they're gonna draw the line.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-15-senat-20-1.u125	Senator Blackbay.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-15-senat-20-1.u126	Mr. Marshal, I'm here to see the Senator of the rapporteur. I'm gonna change the order because... [[And you, Brutus, against me?]] No, absolutely, Robert, come on. [[Joy in the Chamber]] I just want to... I'm going to change the order because... the senator said here that this bill is going to make Poles less afraid of terrorism. Very cool, very cool. As I understand it, the senator knows that the same, maybe not the same, but similar laws were and are in France and Belgium. [[Turkey.]] In Turkey... [[Russia.]] [[Belgium.]] ...in Russia... Therefore, please tell me what the perfection of the above law is about in relation to other laws, since as Poles we will be less afraid. So, in two sentences, tell me what the superiority of this law is about, which causes us to fear terrorism less than people in other countries.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-15-senat-20-1.u127	Thank you. I don't know... [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[Okay, but... no... the question was for your rapporteur, not Senator Ryszka, Senator. Senator Mammoths.]] I do not know the laws that apply in France, Belgium or Russia. Let me tell you, Mr. Senator, this is the only way: there is a month in France in a row of the declared state of emergency. Sir, there's... They're all being eavesdropped there. And there's not a single protest. People are being stopped in the streets and there's not a single protest that it's not... People don't rebel against it. The safety of citizens above all else. Thank you. If even... Sorry, I didn't say that last night. Ladies and gentlemen, if even what we are talking about here is to be a partial restriction of fundamental rights, then consider whether it is better that we save a few dozen, and sometimes several hundred or even a few thousand. As it was in America, human beings, than we'd just let them... take care of... I mean what Senator Klich said all the time, which pierced his statement: that human rights are more important... more important are the rights of a terrorist than the rights of a Polish citizen. That's how I understood it.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-15-senat-20-1.u128	Thank you very much. Senator Barbara Zdrojewska asks a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-15-senat-20-1.u129	Maybe I will, Mr. Chairman, this thread. You're the committee's rapporteur, who, among other things, is the Human Rights Committee. And there's a reason why human rights are at the top of the line. In your report, you focused on the authority of the service and the threat. And tell me about your approach, but also the approach of the majority, precisely to human rights. How do you want to secure human rights, of course, with the necessary fight against terrorism at the same time. Thank you very much. [[Ownership is the first human right. And the right to live.]] [[The right to safety is the first right. And the right to live.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-15-senat-20-1.u130	Thank you very much. Senator Mammoths.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-15-senat-20-1.u131	Senator, of course... Let me put it this way: the fundamental human right is the right to life and freedom. It's a basic law. And that's the basic issue. And the right to safety. A man must feel safe in his own country. It's a basic issue. And that's why there's this bill. And as for my personal... Ma'am, as I said before, even if it would be at the expense of some damage to fundamental human rights, I'm simply accepting it. I agree that such a terrorist situation as Senator Klich said earlier would not have happened in England, Spain, the United States, France and Belgium recently. And that's why there's this bill. And that's why this law by state can somehow restrict fundamental rights... Although when I read it, I made sure there was nothing like it. There is a review of the court and the appropriate services to this called. [[All honest people agree to it.]] [[I'm just gonna ask you one more question.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-15-senat-20-1.u132	Mr. Senator, we're not discussing this from the spot. Please: question and answer, question and answer. [[I'm just gonna ask, 'cause...]] Questioning is an unacceptable formula. But you're welcome. [[But you allowed the marshal?]] But I do. Yes. [[Thank you.]] Extra-regime. [[Thank you very much.]] [[And what form of question is extra-regular?]] Questioning is an out-of-the-box formula.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-15-senat-20-1.u133	I would just like to ask if I understood the rapporteur correctly. I mean, you're here with such a philosophy that it's obvious that security is always above freedom. I don't want to dwell on it... [[You don't have to separate it...]] Just tell me if that's what you think.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-15-senat-20-1.u134	No, no. Absolutely not. [[Is that the rule you followed?]] We just have... [[Talking in the O.R.]] Senator, we have a specific situation. Right? Why are we talking about this bill today? Because you can see what's happening in Europe. By the way, we have two very important political and one ecclesiastical events in the country. And we have to do everything we can to secure those events. Because, ma'am, what does that mean: the human rights of a guy who wears a belt goes into a crowd of young people and blows himself up? What about his human rights, how do a few dozens and hundreds of young people die? Therefore, as I said and I will say again, if there was such a situation that some way we would have to reduce fundamental rights for the safety of society, I am in favour.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-15-senat-20-1.u135	Thank you very much, Senator. Senator Jan Maria Jackowski. [[Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. I have a question for Senator Klich, representative of the minority.]] And that's allowed. You're welcome. [[Yes, sir. It's by the book.]] Yes. [[According to the rules...]] It's by the book. [[...and under the rules of procedure.]] I invite Senator Klich. [[Voice from the hall: And with human rights.]] [[And human rights.]] We follow the rules here. First of all, the rules must be respected. There you go, Mr. Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-15-senat-20-1.u136	Mr. Senator, I have a question for you. I do not really understand the motion to reject this law in its entirety because, in my deep conviction, your political environment is guided by full hypocrisy. For 8 years, having full power in Poland, you have not prepared the Polish State adequately for these challenges. I would like to remind you of the 2014 Court judgment, which was not implemented and had to be done at the beginning of this term of office so-called. Police Act. I will also remind you that the provisions that you are currently questioning in this Act, in a much harsher form, the representatives of your administration proposed in the residual solutions at various stages of the work on the Anti-Terrorism Act since 2008. Because such work was done during the time when Grzegorz Schetyna was Minister of Home Affairs, in the days of his successors, and also at the time when General Rapacki, the vice-minister of Home Affairs, who proposed, among others, was the vice-minister of Home Affairs. introduction of prepaid card identification. So now those crocodile tears that you're pouring out, speaking of supposedly threatened civil liberties and human rights, are just hypocritical for the simple reason that you didn't do it yourself. If this were reported by a person... [[Mr. Senator, you've been asking for over a minute...]] That's why I'd like you to... [[There's no question.]] ...you explained... [[Question.]] ...motivation of this proposal. Because this proposal is purely political, not substantive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-15-senat-20-1.u137	I'm so glad the senator asked. In the first case, however, I am referring to the reading and suggest that we gather more knowledge on this subject, because I assume that your question is simply due to ignorance. In 2008, an integrated system for responding to terrorist threats was introduced. As you may have heard, maybe you haven't heard The established special cell, which is such an integrator of activities and many services, and many institutions. There are dozens of these institutions. This cell is called the Counter-Terror Center, in short the CAT, notabene is located in the Internal Security Agency, so it is also, Mr. Senator, to strengthen the role of the ABW in preventing and combating terrorist threats. Every 2 years it is prepared and accepted by the government Last, if I remember correctly, in December or November 2014. The rolling improvement programme, as I was just saying, is a combination of all the institutions and all the services that are involved in this integrated anti-terrorist system. This program sets out tasks, this program describes how to improve individual services and is focused on coordinating the work of individual components of this system. Is this system good, Senator? Let me remind you that Germany has left at some point such a pyramidal system where one institution was responsible for the prevention of terrorism, but today's terrorist threats are of a net nature... Here I refer to reading the famous text, then Simon and Benjamin's book, who distinguished the old terrorism from the new terrorism and found that one of the features distinguishing the new terrorism is its online character. We have therefore recognised that only a network mechanism, flexible, is able to respond better to network threats from those who are leading terrorism. This program As I said, the last one, probably from the end of 2014, puts forward for the next two years, for that time, such tasks which will allow for the improvement of the mechanisms of this system. In addition, Poland is a member of the European Union and, as you may know, has cooperated in the creation of a European counter-terrorism strategy, has supported the appointment of an anti-terrorist representative. I personally believe that this is not enough on the ground of the European Union. If there were votes in this Chamber on what needs to be done in the European Union on the prevention and fight against terrorism... I believe that the Union should have more competence in this area than merely coordinating competences. So I would like to mention these three aspects by answering the first part of your question about what has been done. In my opinion, a lot has been done, but I'll remind you of the part of my speech that you heard, as I saw, with attention. It's never too much. The current solutions need to be improved, the current system needs to be improved, and I have made this clear because it is simply necessary to improve these solutions. But there's no need for an anti-terrorism bill for that, because a larger part of this bill, as the senator probably noticed, is my assumption. In reading its draft, it is devoted to changes in legislation in other laws, and only a part, about 2/3, is devoted to these new solutions, which are not only a modification of existing solutions. Therefore, the first reason I mentioned in my speech was the lack of need for a new law at a time when existing solutions could be improved. Second, the senator asked me... [[18 months was...]] [[Talking in the O.R.]] But now there'll be one sentence. What was the previous work on the law at the level of government administration? Yes, they were, but there's no senate print or seym print. In the proper order: first the Seym and then the Senate Which would prove that anything in this regard has been addressed to Parliament in previous terms. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-15-senat-20-1.u138	Thank you very much. Senator Florek.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-15-senat-20-1.u139	Mr. Marshal, I have a question for Senator Mammoth. I'm talking about the operation of the Internal Security Agency, which will now be given very broad powers. It certainly does not enjoy the greatest trust. So I have a question because I didn't read it in the articles of the bill. Who's actually gonna oversee the operation of the Homeland Security Agency? It's hard to find in this bill. The second question concerns the date of entry into force of the Act. Is that the term that's expected... After all, the bill will return to the Sejm, then there will eventually be some days for it to enter into force... Whether what you are saying is that these solutions are to be implemented before the World Youth Day, or even before the NATO Summit in Warsaw, is related to the fact that the aim is to introduce this law before the deadline... 'Cause there were a lot of parties, too. Not to mention the Euro 2012 and other events that also required some preparation and such preparations lasted for a very long time. The question is therefore: is it possible to implement these new rules at that time, in July or August? And if it is not possible to implement them, then why is this law so quickly processed? It may be appropriate to draw up a law relating to a certain period of time, to the period when these events will take place, rather than to make an unlimited law which will cover all other very important and binding issues relating to citizens' freedom for the future. Two questions, for starters. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-15-senat-20-1.u140	There you go, Mr. Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-15-senat-20-1.u141	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Ladies and gentlemen, there was almost an entire Civic Platform club at the 3rd committee meeting yesterday. And I was so happy... I said, "Damn, they're not gonna ask a lot of questions because they were all in committee, so they're gonna know everything. Well, unfortunately, it's not... And you were at the committee meeting, too. I'm answering your question. Mr. Senator, first of all, nothing changes when it comes to supervising the services, and second of all... Excuse me, what was the second question? [[I asked for supervision and that the date of entry into force of the Act is not changing, and there are new tasks.]] [[It was about the date of entry...]] As far as supervision is concerned, nothing will change. As far as the deadline is concerned, a normal deadline has been introduced here. After all, last week the law was passed by the Sejm. All week long, you've been able to... And if anybody was interested, he could have watched the Seym work on this bill before. So I don't see any rush here, it's normal procedure.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-15-senat-20-1.u142	Thank you. Senator Rybicki. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-15-senat-20-1.u143	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. I have a question for the Member... Excuse me, the Senator of the rapporteur. It is probably a total coincidence that during the parliamentary work on the law in Poland, which is one of the safest countries in the world in terms of terrorist threats, I ignore the existing criminal terror, because this is actually a challenge, there has been an attempt to blow up the bus in Wrocław, anarchists attacking police cars in Warsaw, and there has been the liquidation of a four-person group planning the assassination. And, thank God, all the service activities have been made using existing tools, thanks to existing regulations that give special services tools to, as it turns out, effective action. During the debate and parliamentary work, have there been any valid arguments that have determined that new tools, new legislation, even though those that were in force, have been used quite effectively? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-15-senat-20-1.u144	Thank you. There you go, Mr. Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-15-senat-20-1.u145	Sir, it's a good thing you just brought up the case with Wroclaw, because thanks to the Police Act that Senator Klich so criticized, the perpetrators of the assassination were able to catch it so quickly. I'm gonna keep saying that I don't know what you're looking for through your questions, what you're looking for. After all, this is such an obvious issue as the Anti-Terrorism Act, it acts in the defence of the citizens, in the defence of our society, that... And of course I'm gonna say it because that's the truth, that's what the bill was made for. Ladies and gentlemen, if you really had reservations, such specific ones, you would have said this yesterday: we are making an amendment like this because this law can be improved. And Senator Klich started, asked for the first vote because he had to leave, and immediately said in the first words: we reject this bill and do not want to talk about it. [[Voice from the room: Total opposition.]] As for the amendments proposed by the Legislative Office, I agree with them in part, only that these are legislative amendments, not bringing anything as far as the content of the law is concerned. [[Voice from the room: No...]] That's what the legislator said. [[Talking in the O.R.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-15-senat-20-1.u146	Who said it wasn't? [[Voice from the room: What, hands down?]] [[Voice from the room: May I?]] You can, you can, yeah. The Legal Office will be dealing with matters of substance? That's new. Senator Rusiecki. You're welcome. [[Voice from the room: New...]] Yeah, that's new to me. It's new.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-15-senat-20-1.u147	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have a question for the rapporteur, Senator Mammothov, Mr Marshal. Mr. Senator, I have this kind of question: was there any information during the committee's work about the need for such a bill? And what did it look like at the time when information about such a need began to be presented? And Senator Klich here said a little bit about 2008, so maybe the senator would be kind enough to say what the assumptions are. That's when they were born. Besides, I will have the same question for the Minister at a later time. And here's my comment, ladies and gentlemen: we must consider at this time and in the present context when we have to consider the right to life, the right to security and the protection of freedom for the human being, which we must protect first. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-15-senat-20-1.u148	Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-15-senat-20-1.u149	Thank you very much. Mr President, that is a very good question. This is what I'm going to tell you right now: it's the Civic Platform, it seems, in 2008, if I remember correctly. I will then ask the Minister to correct me if he has proposed and pointed out the need to adopt such a law. This law, if I remember correctly, in 2015. Yes, in 2015 this anti-terrorist law was adopted by the Sejm... [[Voice from the hall: Through the government.]] Sorry, the project was accepted by the government and even went to the Sejm. [[Senator Bogdan Klich: He missed.]] Did he miss it? Okay, well, I'm not gonna argue because I'm not sure. But the fact that the government has drawn up such a bill will not deny it, because it was, it is you who have already drafted such a law. And today you say that... not much of this, the vast majority of the articles of the present law are consistent with those that you have developed. And today you don't want to talk about it. I don't get it.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-15-senat-20-1.u150	Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, I'm announcing a recess until 4:30 p.m.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-15-senat-20-1.u151	The meeting of the Committee on Family, Senior and Social Policy on the examination of applications for the Law amending the Law on Family Benefits and the Law on the fixing and payment of welfare benefits will be held today at the end of the meeting at 16.15 in room 182. Message number two. The meeting of the Committee on the Environment and the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development will take place in Room 176 immediately after adjournment. [[Adjournment from 15 minutes 00 to 16 minutes 32]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-15-senat-20-1.u152	I'm reopening the session. [[Voice from the hall: I think we need to wait for the rapporteurs. Senator Mammy is, but Senator Klich isn't here.]] [[Talking in the O.R.]] We are returning to the fourth item of the agenda: the Anti-Terrorism Act. We continue to ask questions to the rapporteurs of the committee. You ask Senator Tomasz Grodzki a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-15-senat-20-1.u153	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! Minister! [[Vice-Marshal Bogdan Borusewicz: Which rapporteur are you asking the question to?]] My esteemed colleague, Senator Mammothov. Mr. Senator, the tragedy at a club in Orlando, Florida, was caused by an American citizen who legally owned a gun, was double-checked in 2007 and 2013, and reported to the police himself that he didn't like gay clubs. This example shows that we are always behind terrorists, despite increasing efforts. I don't want to raise the question here: what's more important, personal freedom or lack of it? Is a white bear happier in a cage or in the Arctic? I have a specific question. Did the committee discuss the subject of the European Football Championship? It was a huge party that went smoothly and without this anti-terrorist act, even though I'm going to talk about it because maybe not everyone knows it. The gates at the National Stadium picked up radioisotopes and raised such an alarm as if someone was carrying an atomic bomb. And it turned out that there was just a man there freshly after he finished radiotherapy at the oncology institute, but the system worked and alerted. Was it discussed that a huge party involving dangerous groups of fans... And we see what's going on in France, where there's an anti-terrorism bill. Did something dramatic happen during the European Championship without such a strict law?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-15-senat-20-1.u154	There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-15-senat-20-1.u155	Mr. Senator, not yet, but I think you'll admit that what else is a fight between fans? Even when it comes to this tragedy in the case of an English fan, And what else is a terrorist attack that was recently in France. Well, you know, that's it. That's what security is for. [[Voice from the room: The day before yesterday was an assassination...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-15-senat-20-1.u156	Thank you, Senator. You ask Senator Bogdan Klich questions.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-15-senat-20-1.u157	Mr Marshal, I have come forward to correct what the Senator rapporteur has asked me to say in relation to my previous statement, so I would like to ask you to correct this procedure. Senator Mammoth said I quote: The interests of a man, a terrorist, are more important; so I understood Senator Klich's statement. Well, I'm informing the senator that you misunderstood that statement... [[It's a good thing I misunderstood.]] I hope none of us in this room even thought that the terrorist's business was more important than any other citizen of our country. The reason for my entire statement, the justification for the motion to reject this law It's simple. First of all, I don't think a special anti-terrorism bill is necessary. The legislation could be improved by changing the various provisions in the laws that form the basis of our anti-terrorism mechanism. Secondly, I believe that the danger of this law lies in a imbalance between those institutions that provide security, police and services, and those institutions that are supposed to protect respect for human rights and citizens in Poland, i.e. the shortage and sometimes the lack of external control over the activities of these first institutions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-15-senat-20-1.u158	Thank you. Senator Arthur Warzocha.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-15-senat-20-1.u159	Mr. Marshal, I have a question for Senator Bogdan Klich. [[Me too.]] By listening, both yesterday and today, to your argument, and at the same time all the time, given that you have submitted a motion to reject the bill in its entirety, I would like to ask you a question. Do you really believe that you can obtain an effective legal tool to fight terrorism on the basis of rules that are scattered in many laws, and that only in laws such as the Crisis Management Act, the Foreigners Act, the Police Act, the Military Counterintelligence Service Act, the Border Guard Act, the Medical Activity Act or the Telecommunications Law? Because it seems to me that, in all this argument from your side, there has been a loop that you did not want to get. Mr Senator has also spoken in this Chamber today, recalling the history of the work on the rules that were to fight terrorism, even during the times of the state of government, that you were then taking action at European Union level, but these actions at Union level are insufficient. On the one hand, you see a certain fiction, you see that these laws do not really provide an effective tool, but at the same time you do not allow today... Otherwise, your actions could potentially lead to the fact that this single act, which will be the anti-terrorism law, will not enter into force. Because, of course, it is theoretically possible to assume that the Senate will reject the bill, then it will go to the Sejm and it may not be accepted there either. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-15-senat-20-1.u160	Thank you. There you go, Mr. Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-15-senat-20-1.u161	We believe, Senator, that in what you have called scattered legislation, it is possible to make these good changes that you are proposing, some of these changes. There are, for example, 2 of them: firstly, the so-called question. The shooting of a special, special use of weapons, and secondly, the possibility of destroying illegal drones. This is possible by amending the relevant laws without creating a special anti-terrorist law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-15-senat-20-1.u162	Thank you, Senator. Senator Jan Maria Jackowski... [[Voice from the room: absent.]] He's not here. Senator Anna Shark.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-15-senat-20-1.u163	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. I'm here to see the senator... He's on his way, Senator rapporteur's on his way. Senator, in connection with such a provision, that the ABW may obtain information in the computers of companies, offices, institutions, private individuals, while this law also gives the ABW the opportunity to download all data without any objective external control, there is also a lack of judicial control or control. GIODO... Do blocking pages Who and what filters will be used and what are the mechanisms to control this penetration operation? And second question. The Act introduces the possibility of 14-day temporary detention. Polish law therefore becomes even more stringent in this matter. Since filing charges will be based on classified information, please tell me how the law that any suspect, the defendant, or the right of defence, is entitled to... How will the defense defend the suspect if the charges are based on classified information? And the third question. We have a return to the surgical and cognitive activities of eavesdropping on phones without judicial review. It reminds me of so-called. a war-controlled conversation. Remember, there was this stop that was picking up that phone and saying, controlled conversation, controlled conversation. Don't you at least foresee some form, that we might, for example. Could they interrupt the conversations we're having, and so we know these conversations are controlled? And the third... [[Four.]] And one last question at a time. It's said here that foreigners can be stopped or their conversations can be overheard. Therefore, please tell me: when we have a conversation with a foreigner, do we also stand on the same level as the other side, so to speak? And what are our defenses then? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-15-senat-20-1.u164	Thank you very much. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-15-senat-20-1.u165	Senator, as far as I know, the bill doesn't give the service any such powers as you mentioned in the first part of your questions. Second thing. I'd really like to... Because, of course, we can joke, but if you're joking about a conversation controlled from that time, I'm very sorry, I won't answer such questions. And when it comes to eavesdropping on aliens and a coincidence, when it is recorded by an ordinary citizen, so to speak, it is mostly about decrypting the eavesdropper, who is this foreigner. So it's the others that don't matter about the case.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-15-senat-20-1.u166	Thank you. Now I'm going to ask the senator a question, and it concerns the introduction of the so-called anti-terrorist issue into this right. inverted agents and necessity... [[Mr. Marshal, may I have a request? It's more like a question for...]] I know, it's special, but I'll ask it for you. [[You're welcome.]] [[And I'll answer myself.]] Then you may answer me, Senator Ryszka, because you are a specialist in everything. I want to ask you. Then I'll ask the Minister... [[Good.]] The so-called case. Reverse agents, reverse terrorists. Putting this in this anti-terrorist bill... As far as I'm concerned, the services are already doing this kind of thing. This is one of the basic activities of the service. An attempt to reverse an agent. On what basis is this being done or done at the moment? [[Secretary of State at the Chancellery of the Prime Minister Maciej Wąsik: The Act gives...]] It's been done so far... It's basically a canon in the service business. I understand you're handing that question over to the Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-15-senat-20-1.u167	Yes. I'm very sorry, Mr. Marshal, but... [[The marshal always asks what he knows exactly.]] [[Voice from the room: Comments some strange...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-15-senat-20-1.u168	Now Senator Mieczysław Augustyn.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-15-senat-20-1.u169	Mr. Senator, I'm not on the committee. [[But you were at the meeting.]] Yeah, yeah. I was part of it. I wasn't at first, I wasn't at the end. I have two questions. Firstly, did the Ministry provide the senators with any data that would indicate an increase in the threat of terrorism in Poland recently? Because this is justified by the need for stronger protection, the insufficiency of existing measures. I understand that this is supported by some facts. Were they presented? That's my first question. If they were, what did it look like? And second question. Unfortunately, I had to leave the committee when the Ombudsman took the floor. Would you mind saying... [[Secretary of State at the Chancellery of the Prime Minister Maciej Wąsik: There was no spokesman.]] ...what's the Ombudsman's attitude towards this bill? This is very important to us.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-15-senat-20-1.u170	Thank you, Senator. There you go, Senator rapporteur.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-15-senat-20-1.u171	First question. Mr. Senator, I suggest you take a look at today's press. You'll see that there's already news today that about 500 terrorists are headed for France and Belgium, and they're definitely going to make an assassination attempt. These are the official positions of the Secret Service in France... [[But I'm asking about Poland.]] But you're gonna listen... I didn't bother you. You're welcome. That's the information from these countries. Sir, examples. You know the bombings in France, the bombings in Belgium. You know about the previous ones, too. That's what this bill is for, not to let that happen. This is the third or fourth time I've answered that question. Ladies and gentlemen, this is primarily a security against terrorism. We have two big celebrations in the near future, parties that need to be secured in some way. And this bill will be working for the purposes of these events. [[Thank you...]] [[I've asked two questions, Mr. Marshal.]] Yeah, I'm sorry. It was about the spokesperson. The Ombudsman was not at the committee meeting. [[But there was a representative.]] There was a representative, yes. His assessment, generally speaking, was negative. [[Thank you, Senator...]] Of course it's... Excuse me, Mr. Marshal. [[You're welcome. Anything you want to add?]] Here's what I said today about Senator Klich's statement. Exactly the same arguments: that fundamental rights and human rights are in the first place. We believe that we must guarantee the safety of Polish citizens. As I said, even if this means restricting some part of fundamental rights, we must guarantee the security of our citizens.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-15-senat-20-1.u172	Thank you, Senator. Senator Leszek Czarnobaj.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-15-senat-20-1.u173	Mr Marshal, Senator rapporteur, I have a question about the appeal of social organisations. At the same time, I would like to point out that our questions are not, like you, Senator, trying to prove here, an expression of disapproval for the direction of protecting Poles from terrorism. Our questions seek to be answered by social organisations. Please, we can be accused of being very negative about what the senator is reporting to us here about the bill. But do you think that the social organizations of 8 organisations They're also negative for... [[Senator Robert Mammothow: Yes, because these are...)]] Minister, I'll ask you that question, too. Don't tell me. [[Joy in the Chamber]] I'll ask the same question. [[Secretary of State at the Chancellery of the Prime Minister Maciej Wąsik: But I am not telling you, I am talking to the President.]] [[Relax, sir. Ask me, Senator.]] That's one question. And the other one, related to it. Mr. Senator, did you at the committee meeting ask me because I wasn't there when you considered this appeal? After all, these organisations are not asking for the repeal of the entire law, they are asking for some changes. Did you consider at the committee meeting this call, these five points relevant to civil rights, points that will not be aggravated in any way in the assessment of these organisations And I'm signing off on it, too. Possibility to protect Poles from terrorism?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-15-senat-20-1.u174	Thank you. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-15-senat-20-1.u175	Senator, don't you feel like you asked the exact same question you just asked Augustine in another way? Exactly the same thing, really. Believe me, we've been taking advice, helping, the opinions of various non-governmental associations, but we don't agree with all of them. It's just that we have this basic goal all the time, which I've been talking about for about an hour. Basic objective: securing the Polish society. That's the primary goal of all of this. If you believe that this law is so badly designed at some point in an article that it violates fundamental civil rights completely, say, make amendments. I'll take that. You're absolutely... Senator Czarnobaj said something... Well, you have the right. Just like we did when we were in opposition and asking questions to the pain. I respect that because that's what the opposition is for. That's the way it's supposed to Only at this point, I'm sorry, but if someone listened... I've already answered the same question four times, but it's a different question. [[Mr. Marshal...]] [[Whoa, whoa, whoa.]] But I can still answer, I don't see any problem.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-15-senat-20-1.u176	Well, unfortunately, that is the role of the rapporteur. [[Yes, of course.]] In pain. If your legs hurt, give me a signal. [[Okay.]] A chair or something... we're gonna save you. [[Good.]] Because there's quite a lot of questions, and there's quite a lot of questions. [[Mr. Marshal!]] Yes? [[Can I ask you a question?]] Mr. Senator... [[Voice from the room: In the next round.]] ...in the next round. [[But the senator will forget what I asked.]] It's important that you don't forget. [[Oh!]] It's important that you don't forget that question, Senator. Write it down. Senator Rybicki.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-15-senat-20-1.u177	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. I have a question for Senator Bogdan Klich. Even before submitting a draft law on anti-terrorist actions to the Polish Sejm, the German Constitutional Court considered that in the European Union, which is really fighting terrorism, even terrorism alone is not enough to justify excessive interference in privacy. The Constitutional Court of the Federal Republic of Germany made the possibility of eavesdropping and downloading sensitive data conditional on independent judicial review of their use. Was there an attempt during parliamentary work to carry out a comparative analysis of how the operational activities of the services are controlled not only in Germany but also in other countries of the European Union?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-15-senat-20-1.u178	I'm afraid not, Senator. [[Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-15-senat-20-1.u179	Thank you very much. Senator Jerzy Fedorovich. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-15-senat-20-1.u180	I'm sorry, I... [[Who do you have a question for?]] Mr. Marshal, to see Senator Mammoth... [[Voice from the room: Mammy.]] [[Mama's.]] Mama's. I'm so sorry. [[There you go.]] I would like to ask, Senator, that we take our debate very seriously today. And I ask all my colleagues to do that, too, because we are talking about fundamental issues concerning civil liberties. This civil freedom is not only violated by the service, but is also violated at every step by Internet portals or because of the possibility of eavesdropping. The public, which I represent, is concerned that this law is intended to serve surveillance, and it is a very serious surveillance, among others. opposition, as we have often had examples. Answer me... I will then have a speech, which I think the Minister will want to hear, because I am talking about very serious matters. I'm just gonna ask you one question for now. There is an opinion that the regulations of this law will not be implemented until the delegation arrives at the NATO Summit and until the start of the World Youth Days, which we care about safety. What's the crazy rush to bring this bill in? Because we don't understand it and the public She doesn't get it either. I also refer here to the position of Amnesty International, the Helsinki Foundation and people who understand citizens' freedom slightly differently than the party who prepared this bill. If I'm wrong, correct me.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-15-senat-20-1.u181	Thank you. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-15-senat-20-1.u182	I'm so sorry... Where does the senator see this rush? [[Please, Senator, don't answer the question with a question, because it's not elegant.]] No... But you're asking a question, Mr. Senator, saying there's a rush. [[But you don't answer a question with a question. You can answer that you don't see the rush.]] [[Mr. Senator, I understand.]] I'll answer with all due respect to you as I see it. It's the right thing to do, not the way you want it. I answer... [[Answer me.]] I answer, Senator, that I do not see this haste, and you say that you see this haste. That's why I'm asking. [[But you didn't answer my question...]] [[Voices from the room: No.]] [[Talking in the O.R.]] I answered. [[The senator said he didn't see the rush.]] Yeah, I don't see...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-15-senat-20-1.u183	So he answered. Senator Czesław Ryszka, please. [[Thank you, Mr. Marshal. I wanted to ask Senator Klich a question, as if to deepen what Senator Warzocha was asking. But hearing his maws...]] Then I'll ask Senator Klich... [[...no answer, I'm giving up the question. These answers are, so to speak, irresponsible.]] Thank you, Senator. And I'll have Mieczysław Augustyn.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-15-senat-20-1.u184	Of course, I'm not a specialist in these matters, I'm just a social politician. My question is for the Senator of the rapporteur. You have worked in committee, so you know that whenever we have introduced some new laws, we have tried, according to what is in force in the European Union, because of the general principle of free movement of citizens within the European Union. That all these rights applicable to the citizens of the Republic of Poland, even though this is not imposed, should be the participation of the citizens of the European Union. However, as far as I can understand, we apply special standards to certain countries outside our circle, outside the European Union, but I am a little concerned that there is no distinction between citizens of the European Union and citizens of other countries. After all, there are so many people from abroad today in Poland, within the Union, that I can't even imagine what it would be like if, for example. The French or Germans adopted such a law as ours and if Poles, as foreigners, were included in the group of those who can be checked, monitored and for whom it is possible to carry out activities without control for 3 months. I think it's... In my opinion, what we are talking about requires some special justification and perhaps a separate treatment. In another place, perhaps in the explanatory memorandum in one of the annexes, you say that this is about countries with special terrorist risks. But these are also the countries of the European Union. So if it were the case that, yes, it was, for example. some countries of the European Union, countries of special risk... But unfortunately this applies to all countries, including those where there is no special risk. So we're going to treat Lithuanians, Czechs and Slovaks as well as those from France, where the senator here speaks for media that can be trusted or not. 500 terrorists are on their way. I think that's what the ombudsman meant, too, when he talked about a certain lack of proportionality of resources to the real threat. And that is why I would like to ask you if you raised this question at the committee meeting. Because I'm sure we'll be asked that within the Union. [[Secretary of State at the Chancellery of the Prime Minister Maciej Wąsik: Yes, we raised.]] Today in Warsaw, in Kraków Przedmieście, there are several thousand people from the European Union. So they're all going to be, as I understand it, under the bill that's being discussed here? [[Yes.]] This is some, I'm sorry, but far-reaching mistrust that requires special justification. [[Secretary of State at the Chancellery of the Prime Minister Maciej Wąsik: I agree.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-15-senat-20-1.u185	Thank you very much. Mr. Senator, just because the bill covers a circle of people interested doesn't mean that the services are all interested. The law allows it, but the servants aren't all interested. You can't take all this shit like you did. We at the committee meeting did not discuss what countries citizens could be covered by this law. No, we didn't go into that kind of detail. Ladies and gentlemen, I will quote one statement. I don't remember if the boss said that... I think it was the Venetian Commission spokesperson. He said about our police bill. Which, notabene, I was also rapporteur That the Polish Government has submitted citizens' rights to security and freedom over human rights. And now, as you can see, it's up to us, which is more important. We have gone in the first direction, that the security and freedom of citizens are more important. And fundamental rights and human rights are not so limited in this law that we have to worry about it. That's it. Thank you. [[The meeting is chaired by Vice-Marshal Maria Koc]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-15-senat-20-1.u186	Thank you very much. You're asking Senator Jerzy Czerwinski a question. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-15-senat-20-1.u187	Mrs. Marshal, High Izbo, I have a question for Senator Bogdan Klich, representative of the minority. [[You're welcome.]] [[Talking in the O.R.]] We'll wait for full concentration. Mr. Senator, I actually have two questions. One: explain to me, logically, why do you think 'Cause that's how you put it on behalf of the minority, the minority application applicants. More purposeful, more efficient and more logical is putting anti-terrorist laws in many laws in a distributed way, and putting the same rules... And they are to be as effective as I understand it. And putting the same provisions in a single law, in a single legal act is supposed to be a worse solution? Why is that? And question two. Let's say I'm an ordinary, ordinary citizen, I'm not in terrorist action, I'm not in contact with terrorists. At least that's what I think. How does this law counter my civil rights, my freedoms or reduce the degree of protection of these freedoms? And I would ask you not to say that all rights, many, etc. I would ask you to quote two specific articles that show that my rights as an average citizen have been denied in this law. [[Thank you very much...]] Not terrorists' rights.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-15-senat-20-1.u188	You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-15-senat-20-1.u189	Thank you so much for these questions. As for the first case, I didn't say that some model of anti-terrorist law is better or worse. I was talking about the fact that this law is unnecessary because it is possible to stick to the current legislative model, i.e. to modify the existing rules scattered in different laws. Such codification is not necessary to achieve the effect referred to in the explanatory memorandum, i.e. to increase the efficiency of the services. That's one thing. Secondly, I would be happy to take care of one restriction of your freedom, specifically the freedom of the senator, the freedom of assembly, because there was little talk about it in this courtroom. If you'd like to attend a public assembly... [[Senator Bogdan Borusewicz: Ad hoc.]] ...there is a danger that, without sufficient judicial review, the Minister of the Interior, after declaring a third degree of alert, according to the provision in that Act, may prohibit such a meeting from being held on grounds of reasonable information on the possibility of a terrorist threat. In particular, this is a provision that the Home Minister can introduce a third degree alert if the services provide him with a credible record, and I quote it from memory. Information about the possibility of a terrorist threat either on the site of the facility or in the area. And now, on the pretext of caring for your safety, Senator, you may be deprived of the right to gather in some area to carry out, so to speak, a public gathering. Well, I guess that's enough. [[I'm sorry, if you don't mind...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-15-senat-20-1.u190	Second question. Yes?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-15-senat-20-1.u191	I'm gonna quote that article. This will explain to us what we are talking about, how far we differ in interpretations from the content of this law. After the introduction of the third or fourth stage of the alert, the Minister responsible, etc. may prohibit mass gatherings or events in an area or in an emergency facility for the duration of such a degree, if necessary for the protection of human life and health... [[In the area.]] So you're saying this was the recipe? So we can understand each other. [[Yes.]] So you're saying, Mr. Senator, that I'm gonna go someplace special after I've been told that maybe there's a bomb going off to do an ad hoc assembly? Yes? [[No. I...]] You know, if you're so low on our fellow citizens, I feel sorry for the opposition, really.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-15-senat-20-1.u192	No, I'm not suggesting you're an unreasonable man, Senator... [[Gentlemen!]] I consider you to be a reasonable man, but the ambiguity of the concept of the area is clear here for anyone who reads this provision. The area may be the area around the object itself, or a region with a radius of a dozen or several dozen kilometers. And you didn't mention what I referred to, which is the condition of introducing this third stage alarm. The condition is to have reliable information from the services. And the servants, as we know, are very often wrong. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-15-senat-20-1.u193	You're welcome. Thank you, Senator rapporteur. You ask Senator Piotr Wach a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-15-senat-20-1.u194	Thank you very much. I'm asking Senator Mammoth's question. In conjunction with the article. The 6th Act can be included in the list that is led by the head of the ABW, for four reasons, inter alia if you are a person suspected of acting in favour of a terrorist organisation. I would like to ask: what is a terrorist organization? There's a dictionary in the first chapter of the bill, but that definition isn't there. Maybe it's in a different bill. Maybe it was discussed at the committee meeting. I understand that a terrorist organization can be both a legal and an illegal organisation. Well, for example. an association may carry out terrorist activities Why not? It may not be mentioned in the statutes, but it is likely that it can carry on such an activity. Conversely, a terrorist organization probably doesn't register in a court of law. So, in short, you'd have to know what a terrorist organization is, so that you could possibly include the right people in those lists.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-15-senat-20-1.u195	Please, Mr. Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-15-senat-20-1.u196	As you said yourself, Senator, these organizations don't register. But we know that organisations that identify with the Islamic State, which clearly say that they are to destroy Western, European culture, are terrorist organisations. Is Hamas a terrorist organization or not? Well, you know, some say yes, others say no. But those who plant bombs and those who die know that this is a terrorist organization. Maybe I'm wrong because I don't know very well, so I won't give you an interpretation, but I'll ask the Minister to complete my answer. [[Or, for example, Caritas at some parish could be a terrorist organization?]] [[Senator Alice Hare: No, that's too much.)]] Excuse me, sir, but this is beyond... [[Can't it be?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-15-senat-20-1.u197	Mr. Senator, I'm so sorry. [[And I think he might be, under certain conditions.]] Excuse me, Mr. Senator, I'm repealing this question. [[Secretary of State at the Chancellery of the Prime Minister Maciej Wąsik: No, no, how can you do that?)]] [[Senator Piotr Wach: What, you cannot ask?]] [[Excuse me, Miss Marshal, I protest such questions!]] Thank you very much, senator, for answering my question. Here you go, now you're asking the senator... [[But, sir, this should be discussed at the committee meeting. It depends on practical activity, not what's in the statue...]] Mr. Senator, I didn't give you the floor. Now you ask Senator Leszek Czarnobaj. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-15-senat-20-1.u198	Mr. Senator, I almost forgot what I wanted... First, to unload the tension, I would like to remind you, à speaking of the definition of terrorist organizations, Professor, that in the film Iron Man is the definition of a terrorist organization. That band that was playing to Birkut when he threw a brick... [[Well, anything can be brought to absurdity.]] [[The senator doesn't comply with Senator Fedorovich's appeal.]] Speaking of which, Mr. Senator, the question you asked Senator Mieczysław... That question was quite different, he asked about issues concerning the Ombudsman. And I'd like to ask you one more time... Mr. Senator, you have declared the senator's willingness to amend the bill if amendments are tabled. [[There was a motion to accept without amendment...]] But, as far as I know, at the committee meeting, the senator made a motion to adopt the bill without amendment. Has anything changed since then? That's the first question. [[First, there was a motion for rejection...]] And the second question I'd like to ask. During the parliamentary debate, a request for a public hearing was made and this request was rejected. There was also an appeal from social organisations, which also, as a result of the senator's request to adopt a law without amendments, was rejected. Does the senator see the opportunity to take into account these five suggestions of the organization regarding the changes to this bill, so not to reject it in its entirety, not to accept it without amendments, but to work on it and correct it, so that the wolf is full and the sheep are whole, and in Poland it is safer?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-15-senat-20-1.u199	Thank you very much. I'm asking the Senator rapporteur for an answer.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-15-senat-20-1.u200	Mr Senator, most of the three committees have adopted a position in which they recommend that the High House adopt a law without amendments, and I have passed it. [[But the senator asked another question...]] If you ask me personally whether I, Senator Robert Mammoth, would possibly be in favour of the amendments, then of course I will say yes. Yes, I would. But we all have to agree here that it's the majority that decides. If you don't understand, I'm sorry. [[You have to explain this because I don't understand.]] [[Thank you very much...]] Come on in for a conversation later.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-15-senat-20-1.u201	Thank you very much. And I ask you to ask Senator Piotr Flork's question. Mr. Senator, you're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-15-senat-20-1.u202	Mrs. Marshal, Mr. Senator, I'm afraid... So that you don't tell me right now, Senator rapporteur, that I am defending terrorists, let's say right away that we all have one goal, but the methods of reaching this goal are, of course, different. I'd like to ask you about the alert levels. Because we talked about the first, second, third or fourth alert level in the event of a threat. The rules aren't precise enough. I'm talking about canceling the alert stage. How's that gonna happen? Because it's the Homeland Security Agency, as I recall, and I think the Home Office, and the Prime Minister is possibly calling attention to the cancellation of the alert level. Why am I asking this? Because the state of emergency in France has been going on for a long time. I remind you that in Poland there was once a martial law, from 13 December, as I remember, until 31 December 1982. Then he was suspended until July 22, 1983. So it lasted a long time. And my concern at the moment is this: if there's an emergency level, it's not sometimes that this emergency level will last six months or a year. Because it will always be possible to justify that there is a terrorist threat that you are defending your citizens from terrorists, and that must take a long time. Was there a discussion about this? So, what's the emergency clearance case?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-15-senat-20-1.u203	Thank you very much. I'd like to see the Senator rapporteur.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-15-senat-20-1.u204	Senator, as you said, with the example of France, the state of emergency has been there for so long. If this were the case in our country A weapon, God, before that happens. It's the one, sir, who's calling the alarm state, who's calling it off, too. And if there's a need for an extension, it's... I don't understand why you're asking me these questions. This is a special situation. After all, if the bill comes into force in a month, no one will come out and declare a third degree terrorist threat because someone's gonna see something coming. Well, let's have a little faith in our institutions, in our services, that things like this won't be... [[Voice from the room: Well, not really...]] You can shake your head, ladies and gentlemen, but I only have one request: let's respect each other. Let's really respect each other. 'Cause saying the things he said . notabene himself very sympathetic Senator Wach or my colleague Brutus Leszek Czarnobaj... Well, you can't do that. You're making a little joke, and you're being serious. That way you can't... [[I was just asking because of the definition...]] ...to talk about the bill. Because you can say things, but if you're comparing Caritas to some organization, that's all, you know, except for any criticism. [[But the rules don't indicate...]] You can't even ask me that. [[But...]] I would've... I never would have thought of asking you that way. It's just unimaginable for me. [[Okay, very...]] And that's why I'm just asking you, let's just talk. Ask me, I'm here to answer. But let's have some respect for each other.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-15-senat-20-1.u205	Thank you very much. You're asking Senator Jan Maria Jackowski a question. You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-15-senat-20-1.u206	Thank you very much. I have a question for Senator Klich, the rapporteur for the minority proposal. With regard to my first question, which I referred to the senator and in which I accused the applicants of rejecting this bill of hypocrisy, and the fact that they had done nothing for eight years to increase the security of the state, at least on the statutory road, Minister Klich confirmed that there was no printing. And to the second part of my statement, he tried to answer, without answering the essence of the question, namely the charge of hypocrisy, because at the moment the accusations are being made against this bill, which we are putting forward, on which we are proceeding... There aren't even some of the records that you were in charge of when you were Minister of National Defence, and I'm talking about 2008. And Grzegorz Schetyna was Minister of the Interior, you proposed. I have here proposals made by the then Deputy Minister of Interior, General Rapacki. It was an anti-terrorist act that would allow the services to freely monitor and detain suspects without a court ruling for at least 72 hours, i.e. 24 hours longer than the Constitution of the Republic of Poland says. We read here: "Although he will not allow torture, this will probably allow the transfer of suspects to countries such as Egypt, where torture can be used in interrogation. Those were ideas from 2008. [[Question, Mr. Senator.]] In turn in 2012... [[Question.]] Wait a minute. In 2012 the head of the then CBA, Mr Wojtunik, said this: "In Poland 99% Criminals use phones like this because it makes it easier to run illegal business. There are no cases where such people use their subscription phones. When a criminal comes to Poland from abroad, the first thing he does is buy at the airport. That's what he said... [[Question, Mr. Senator. Mr. Senator, ask me a question.]] My question is: why don't you admit, Senator, that this is hypocrisy? The direction of the actions you have proposed and the solutions that you have confirmed... [[Mr. Senator...]] ...not included in the print... The allegations you're making at the moment are hypocritical. Why... It's better to put it straight... [[Mr. Senator...]] ...that politically it pays off... [[Mr. Senator...]] ...and now you're smoking to this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-15-senat-20-1.u207	Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! The senator is asking the same questions he's asked before. I understand it's about keeping them fixed. Well, I'll answer you the same way I answered you earlier. Also so that the senator can keep this up. First thing. Once again, the anti-terrorist system, thanks to which Poland is currently a country protected from international terrorism, was de facto integrated in 2008 by the creation of an Anti-Terrorist Centre located in the Internal Security Agency. This is due to the first government of PO-PSL and Prime Minister Tusk and the then composition of this government. That decision was then made. Not before and not later, just then. You can set your watch, that time is 0 o'clock. Yes? The duration of the integrated system of protection against terrorist incidents is important in Poland. There's no point in talking about it anymore. Of course, I can talk about how they were prepared, how they were trained for the various services, how they were integrated into these activities. But it's normal. It seems to me that any reasonable government would do the same if it saw that, as I said, the increasing level of terrorist threat in the world. Thanks to the first government Okay, I'll do it again. And Prime Minister Tusk is that this system has been integrated. Since then, in accordance with the provisions of this system, every service and institution in the light of applicable law knows what to do. Yes? Unlike this bill that could cause... I will tell you more: it is very likely that just before the two key events of the NATO summit on 8 and 9 July, i.e. in the next three weeks, and the World Youth Days, will not be If this law is passed, don't give it to God. Translated into the language of practice the entries which are proposed in this Act. In order to translate them into the language of practice, regulations have to be issued. There's still work to be done. This is one of the examples I'm going to mention. The regulation, which is a catalogue of terrorist incidents as some of the entries in this catalogue are curiosable. Simply such a catalogue adopted in extenso as it was submitted to the Sejm... Mr. Senator probably read this catalog because it's hard to imagine you saying what you're saying without reading this catalog. We need to work on it, and before we work on it, it's gonna take some time. There must be a regulation on this matter. Moreover, they must be issued and implemented Please note: issued and implemented There are several procedures according to which individual services and institutions are to operate. According to these new procedures, these services and these institutions should be ripped off. It's impossible. It is simply physically impossible in such a short time as it remained for one and the other big party. So I believe that this law now in force is a risk. I'm not saying any more. The Polish anti-terrorist system will be less prepared to handle these two events than it is now. Because now the regulations are, the procedures are known, the ripping in recent years has been carried out according to these regulations, these schemes and these procedures, and everyone knows what to do. And that's the problem. The second question will be answered as I have already answered, and I will repeat my answer. There was no Parliamentary printing, and planning, as you perfectly do... as you should know, Senator, is also done on such a principle that here are various ideas and only when they are adopted by the Sejm, by the Senate, signed by the President, become the law in force. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-15-senat-20-1.u208	Thank you very much, Senator. [[Voice from the room: Yet...]] Mr. Senator, maybe the next round, okay? Mr. Senator George Wright. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-15-senat-20-1.u209	I have a question for Mr Robert Mammetov, the rapporteur. The senator has repeatedly, answering questions, complained that the senators are asking questions... [[I didn't complain. Please don't say such things.]] Can I ask you a question? [[Tell me the truth.]] ...that the questions may have been asked during the process of this law, that it is not true that there was some accelerated procedure for the process of this law. On the other hand, we are informed that social organisations and institutions such as the Ombudsman or the GIODO have not had the opportunity to express themselves in the process of proceding this law. So, what's it like? Is this law being processed in normal mode or in special mode? And how do these modes differ when different institutions and organisations say that it was not possible to participate in the process of consulting and proceding this law?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-15-senat-20-1.u210	You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-15-senat-20-1.u211	Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators, let me say this: just now, in front of me, there was a senator rapporteur of the minority who spoke a lot, he got some single applause, but he didn't say anything against this bill, but in general he said how he felt. He did not say: this paragraph of this law is wrong, this paragraph in this law is unacceptable. Such statements have not been made at all. Talking all the time... You can, of course... We can sit here till morning, you know. What's the point? [[There was a question.]] [[Then answer the question, will you...]] I will answer as I think, Senator, and you will not tell me how to do it. [[Then we'll ask that question.]] Okay, okay. That's why I said we can sit till morning... [[Talking in the O.R.]] ...just for what? [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[Quiet, please.]] Sir, I answer... [[The question is, the senator answers.]] I answer the senator's question... Senator Wczylo... [[It's tight! It's ……]] Tight, tight, okay. ...Mr. Jerzy Wczeł: this bill was processed in normal mode. What you're saying... I don't know how you got that information. [[And the consultations were held with all the institutions that came forward for the committee meeting.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-15-senat-20-1.u212	Thank you very much... [[And I received a proper thank-you from Senator Klich at the very beginning of the session.]] Thank you very much to the chairman of the committee for saying so, but avoid it. Senator Arthur Warzocha's question, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-15-senat-20-1.u213	Mrs. Marshal, I have a question for Senator Bogdan Klich. I would like to return to our rather turbulent joint meeting of the three committees yesterday. I listened very carefully to the argument that the Senators of the Civic Platform, including Senator Klich, presented, and I would now like to focus on the topic of action on the web that they are tasked with countering terrorism. Of course, the problem was described there, and you know what it is, so I'm not going to repeat it. About the time those threads were moved... And let me remind you that the Senators of the Civic Platform supported representatives of various social institutions and organisations, who expressed their opinions and these opinions were also maintained in this spirit, in total, that this meant that, for example. such activities on the network, which will be able to block a website, will constitute a violation of civil rights. At the same time, I was tracking information on the Internet and global agencies reported that NATO would consider cyberspace to be a sphere where conflicts can take place, as on land, in air and at sea. That's what NATO's chief Jens Stoltenberg said. Of course, I know exactly what cyberspace is, and I know what it is. I know that this is about protecting the cybernetic defence systems and the command systems that NATO has, but nevertheless, these are actions that have a common denominator. This NATO decision, according to press reports, is to be announced at the NATO Summit in Warsaw, it can be said that in the coming days. [[Question, Mr. Senator, please.]] The question is this. Since there is such a specialization among terrorists, among the hackers acting on their behalf, who are capable of attacking cybernetic systems and, of course, operating on a widely understood network, do you not think that raising such arguments today with regard to the operation of special services at the operational level just on the network to block, destroy such intentions something that could lead to some kind of misfortune. It's just hypocritical, isn't it? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-15-senat-20-1.u214	It's not. I need to say a few words about the two threads that the senator picked up. Not since the Warsaw Summit, not since today, but since the Lisbon Summit in November 2010, cyberspace has been recognised as an area of potential threats and NATO has accepted, in its strategic concept of November 2010, a commitment to respond jointly to threats against any Member State. So this phenomenon, and this declaration, has been happening for six years now. For 6 years, such a risk assessment and such a commitment have been in place. Our club is well aware of the activities of current terrorist groups, e.g. at the level of recruitment. Yes? About 1 000 200 German citizens This is data from a few years ago, two or three years ago, joined Daeshu and fought in the Islamic State. In Europe at that time I think two years ago, this is the data from two years ago, there have already been about 6 000 European citizens who fought on the side of the Islamic State. These people are not foreigners in countries belonging to the European Union, these are Belgians, these are French, these are Germany, these are Swedes, etc. We are aware of these threats. But in this thread that you said the senator was talking about, I mean. in the case of blocking access to websites, we consider judicial review to be insufficient, simply insufficient. [[Voice from the room: What do you mean?]] Better, faster... And that's the only reason this thread came out yesterday. In this case, ex post judicial review is, in exceptional cases. Ex post is. A ex ante Without saying so, the extraordinaryness of the event. That's what two laws say. In exceptional situations, ex post control is, but there should be immediate judicial review. We believe that this time, which the legislator gives for judicial review, is too long, should be much shorter. This is another example of the fact that judicial review, external review Because she may be court-martial or non-courtal, she is insufficient in this law to safeguard civil rights and freedoms.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-15-senat-20-1.u215	Thank you very much, Senator. Senator Mieczysław Augustyn's question, please. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-15-senat-20-1.u216	Mr Senator, the Foreigners Act defines that foreigners are not citizens of the European Union. This law amends certain provisions of the Foreigners Act, but not this definition. I would like to ask just one question: did you have analyses or analyses at the committee's meeting, or did this law in respect of the citizens of the European Union not violate the rules that bind us as a Republic? I am referring to the Convention on the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms, the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and the Charter of Fundamental Rights of the European Union. And did you analyze? For this is the whole rich case law of the Constitutional Tribunal with regard to the citizens of the European Union and their rights, as regards whether or not the law infringes the rights of foreigners which they enjoy in accordance with those acts which I have invoked?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-15-senat-20-1.u217	Thank you very much. Please, Senator Rapporteur.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-15-senat-20-1.u218	No, Mr. Senator, there was no talk about it at the committee meeting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-15-senat-20-1.u219	Thank you very much. You're asking Senator Grażyna Sztark a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-15-senat-20-1.u220	Thank you very much, Marshal. In view of the fact that the senator questioned the existence of such a provision, I would like to quote an article in the Act which states that, should a terrorist offence be suspected, the order for the statement of objections can be drawn up on the basis of information obtained as a result of classified operational and exploratory activities ordered on the basis of the article. 9 Act by the head of the ABW towards a person who is not a citizen of the Republic of Poland. In such a case, the court, at the request of the prosecutor, will be able to apply a temporary arrest for a period of not more than 14 days, and the primary condition for the application of the provisional detention will be to make a presumption of Temporary arrest may be extended under the rules laid down in the Code of Criminal Procedure. My question at the time was: based on what regulations... Because it's collected in the context of classified surgical and cognitive activities, how will the defendant or suspect be able to act in this situation? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-15-senat-20-1.u221	Thank you, Senator. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-15-senat-20-1.u222	That's a very specific question, I'll tell you this... [[Maybe I'll redirect them to the Minister...]] I'm almost done. You yourself said in your question that the court is involved in these activities. You said it, you read it clearly that... [[It's about the defense attorney. It's about the defense attorney. How is he supposed to have access to material if it's material that's been collected as part of a classified surgical and reconnaissance operation?]] [[But it wasn't until after the explosion, after the bombing...]] No, I understand, Senator... [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[Quiet, please.]] It's really too detailed. I'm not gonna answer you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-15-senat-20-1.u223	Good. I see. Thank you very much. And you ask Senator Piotr Florek a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-15-senat-20-1.u224	Thank you, Mrs. Marshal. Senator Mammoth again or the Minister. I'm still referring to the cancellation of the alert stage. I'll quote you an article. Article 16 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1: The alarms shall introduce, amend and revoke, by order, depending on the type of threat to a terrorist event, the President of the Council of Ministers, after consulting the Minister responsible for Home Affairs and the Head of the ABW and, in cases of urgency, the Minister competent for Home Affairs, after having received the opinion of the Head of the ABW, shall immediately inform the President of the Council of Ministers. And now my question is this: if the alarm state of the first, second, third and fourth degree is introduced, it will be possible to perform e.g. parliamentary elections or local elections? As far as the third and fourth degrees are concerned, conventions cannot be held. Because that's not explained anywhere, it's regulated anywhere, and we know who's bringing it in and who's calling it off... As you said yourself, it takes a long time in France. And there may be such a situation of terrorist threat in Poland, to knock on the door so that it doesn't happen. I think we're a pretty safe country for now, but you never know. Such events will certainly take place, and we can also give examples of threats that were in Poland, e.g. in stadiums, etc. They're all the time and I'm sure they will be. Therefore, the question is: how will it even look regionally, in individual counties, in voivodships, if it was not a whole country, but a region? What would it look like then? Because in my opinion, this is not regulated by these rules.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-15-senat-20-1.u225	Thank you very much. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-15-senat-20-1.u226	Mr. Senator, I told you earlier that the person who brought him in was withdrawing this condition. You said that now. And as for the election, sir, in case of a third and fourth degree threat, no one makes the election. If they're supposed to be, they're suspended. This is an obvious matter. And in the case of the first and second degree, there is no problem, because there is no ban on assembly and election. There isn't. [[Thank you very much...]] And if there is the highest degree of threat, the third or fourth, then simply the assemblies are suspended.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-15-senat-20-1.u227	Thank you very much. And you ask Senator Jarosław Oremski a question. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-15-senat-20-1.u228	Senator Mammoth. Mr. Augustine inspired me to ask that question. Namely, there is indeed a problem of equality of rights between Polish citizens and foreigners who are citizens of the European Union. But if we were to suspend this matter and try to think only in terms of the security of Polish citizens, I would ask for an answer to the question: were these the most famous terrorist attacks that have occurred in the European Union, the case of Je suis Charlie in Paris, Brussels, the earlier attacks carried out by citizens outside the European Union, or citizens with European Union passports? 'Cause I think it's crucial for further proceding.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-15-senat-20-1.u229	Thank you very much. Please, Mr. Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-15-senat-20-1.u230	In the vast majority they were citizens of the country concerned. Of course, there were also bombings involving recent immigrants, but in the vast majority... I'll set an example for England. As I recall, 90% of the bombers were British citizens there. It was the same in Paris.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-15-senat-20-1.u231	Thank you very much, Senator. You're asking Senator Robert Dowhan. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-15-senat-20-1.u232	Thank you, Mrs. Marshal. I have a question for the senator of the rapporteur, my name-girl. There's a lot of talk here about prepaids, registrations, and that it's necessary, and practice shows that so far the services are doing great, and I'm talking about bomb alarms. Every now and then we hear that jokers are trying to evacuate schools, courts, hospitals. And without having to register these cards The servants are doing very well today. It is impossible that they catch those who are trying to disguise themselves in some way very quickly. And it masks in a way, it seems, effective, by buying old cameras somewhere at auction, by buying cards in different places... But catching them gets the job done. Is it therefore necessary today to move so far as to register these cards? That's my first question. And second question. Has it been thought of older people who also use such cards have a doctor's call written down, they have a call to the services they need... Are those people who, at least because of age, will not be able to register cards or even know that they need to be registered, will be cut off at some point, can you say, from the world? Does this bill somehow secure these people or not?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-15-senat-20-1.u233	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-15-senat-20-1.u234	Mr. Senator, my name man, as you said, believe me, all those bombing alarms that the unsubs were detected with were just phone calls. About the other thing, the older people... We approach this law in such a way that it may include a very wide circle of people who are subject to this law. No, this bill will concern specific individuals, specific ones. And that doesn't mean a grandmother who's 60 or 70 and has a card like that. What I don't really want to believe, but let's just say he's got a card like that. It will soon be covered by this law, the ABW and the Intelligence Agency will be interested in it. No, sir. This is in case you announce a higher degree of threat, for a period of time, taking a resolution of the Sejm... the head of the ABW that because of the threat you need to control these cards. And then they have to be recorded.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-15-senat-20-1.u235	With all due respect, that's not what I asked. These cards will simply be turned off if they are not registered. And then what? That's what I'm asking. I'm not asking if Grandma's gonna be under surveillance or not, that's not what my question is.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-15-senat-20-1.u236	Okay, but I'm explaining that if there's a state of emergency, they're gonna shut everyone down, no one's gonna wonder if it poses any threat or not.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-15-senat-20-1.u237	Okay, thank you very much. And I ask you a question of Senator Jan Maria Jackowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-15-senat-20-1.u238	Thank you very much. I have a question for Senator Klich, representative of the minority. In relation to our dialogue, I would like to ask you a simple question: do you deny that in 2008 work on the Anti-Terrorism Act continued? Second question: do you deny that in 2012 work continued, preparation for the introduction of prepaid registrations, as mentioned among others. Mr Marek Biernacki of the Civic Platform?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-15-senat-20-1.u239	I'm not denying it, but I'm going to repeat for the third time, so that you can finally see that as long as there's no Seym printing, there's no bill for so long, and that's why there hasn't been a bill. And for the fourth time, I don't think you're gonna ask me that because you're an intelligent man. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-15-senat-20-1.u240	Thank you. And here's the question you're asking Senator Przemysław Terminski. [[Talking in the O.R.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-15-senat-20-1.u241	Question for Senator Mammoth. Mr. Senator, I'm trying to maintain a far-reaching kindness towards this bill, believing deeply in the need to pass it. But you've just shaken my confidence a little bit. Tell me, because I've spent a lot of time reading this bill, from which point did you conclude that elections in Poland are suspended in the event of the introduction of the third or fourth degree of alarm? Because that's what you used to say, that the election will be suspended. Where does that come from? [[Talking in the O.R.]] No, I'm sorry, elections and assemblies are two different institutions. I don't see any threat to the election here. Besides, if there is a terrorist threat occurring, say, in the area of a slag stadium in Toruń, I see no reason to suspend elections in Katowice. [[Same in Bydgoszcz.]] That's the question to the senator: where did you come up with this conclusion? Because this is a very far-reaching conclusion. And this is a very serious warning to society, as can be used in practice by this law.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-15-senat-20-1.u242	Thank you. Please respond to the rapporteur's senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-15-senat-20-1.u243	Sir, I served... One of you asked me what would happen if there was an election? And I said clearly: who is holding the elections during the national security threat, when even the third degree is announced... I didn't say anything about what you said. I answered the question that when the third and fourth degree of threat is announced, no state will announce the election. That's it. And don't put it in my mouth... Don't tell me I made up a recipe here because I didn't make it up. You asked: and, for example, There's gonna be an election... Like I said, if there's a state emergency, everything hangs. Everything. Well, that's what it looks like. There's not much to it: it's the state that announces the election, and the state can suspend it...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-15-senat-20-1.u244	Thank you very much. Are there any more questions... [[...without even considering this bill.]] [[State Election Commission.]] Are there any more questions? Senator Piotr Florek. [[The state... and the state... isn't it the same?]] [[Talking in the O.R.]] Senator Piotr Florek. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-15-senat-20-1.u245	I still have a question for Senator Mammothov. Mr Wąsik said yesterday at the committee meeting that he would consider the amendments proposed by the Legislative Bureau. I'm talking about art. Article 10 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1, which says that ABW officers, Police officers, Border Guards are entitled to download fingerprint images, facial image preservation, etc., etc., where: point 1 is in doubt as to the identity of a person... we discussed point 1 yesterday; point 2 is suspected of crossing the border of the Republic of Poland; point 3 is suspected of being illegally present in the territory of the Republic of Poland; point 4 is suspected of having a relationship with a terrorist event. It's only point 4 that talks about it. I, point 5, may have participated in terrorist training. In fact, only point 4 and point 5 refer to the Terrorist Threats Act and point 1, point 2 and point 3 actually have nothing to do with it. The minister said he'd either turn to the senators so he could make some kind of change here... Then I have a question: is there anything in connection with this item that the Minister expects? Will someone report an amendment? Well, now that you're the rapporteur... The Minister said he'd think about it tomorrow. I mean, today, he's gonna pass on the information. Do we have any information on this? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-15-senat-20-1.u246	Thank you. You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-15-senat-20-1.u247	I don't remember the Minister saying anything like that... But if that's what he said, ask him if he comes, ask him that question.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-15-senat-20-1.u248	Thank you very much. And once again, you ask Senator Przemysław Terminski.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-15-senat-20-1.u249	That's what the Minister said. I heard it myself. I'll get back to my question. To be honest, Mr. Senator, I'm surprised at the content of your answer and your rather nonchalant approach to the word. I draw your attention to the fact that according to the article. Article 16 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 point 1 can of course be introduced throughout the territory of the Republic of Poland. I imagine that maybe a nuclear attack would be the reason for such a degree. But all other cases involve very pointy, very individual events. And you say quite arbitraryly that no one will make an election at this time or that if you make an election, the state can annul it. I mean, between you and the State Election Commission is... [[Suspend. There's a difference.]] That's all the more reason to suspend the election. Are you convinced that this is how you will apply the law that follows this law?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-15-senat-20-1.u250	We're talking abstraction. I'm sorry, I'm not gonna answer that question because I just answered it, and you're still asking the same question. I said if state security is at risk of terrorist attacks, you know that, the government knows that, the services know that, no one in good health at this time... no one will make a reasonable announcement. Well, that's what it looks like, and that's what I said. What if... Because you asked me what would happen if there were an election. I personally believe that in this case the state committee Senator Augustine, as you wish. It calls for these elections not to be held because of the terrorist threat. I don't know how to explain it...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-15-senat-20-1.u251	Good. Thank you very much... [[Mr. Senator, I'm sorry. Ad vocem, Mrs. Marshal.]] Ad vocem. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-15-senat-20-1.u252	I don't want to go into polemics too much, but there's a significant difference between the announcement of elections, the holding of elections and the cancellation of elections. I draw your attention to the fact that these events usually divide months. If you're saying today that there's not going to be an election because there's going to be a terrorist threat that we're going to see in six months, it looks really bad.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-15-senat-20-1.u253	But there's no election in six months. [[Okay...]] Don't dig into a subject you don't have. You create fiction, Senator. [[I don't create fiction, it's you...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-15-senat-20-1.u254	I understand the senator has already answered that question. [[Thank you.]] Thank you very much. Does anyone else have a question for any of the senators of the rapporteurs? I don't see any volunteers. Thank you very much. [[Thank you.]] Thank you, Senators rapporteurs. The bill was filed by the government. The Minister, a member of the Council of Ministers, Mr Mariusz Kaminski, was authorised to present the position of the Government during parliamentary work, but today the Chancellery of the President of the Council of Ministers is represented by the Secretary of State at the Registry, Minister Maciej Wąsik. Would the Minister like to speak on the bill under consideration and present the position of the government? You're welcome, Minister. And then there'll be questions. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-15-senat-20-1.u255	Thank you very much, Mrs. Marshal. High Senate! Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! Let me refer in a few words to some arguments and events that took place in this discussion. For starters, I would like to tell you that it is important that we know the truth. The truth is, among other things. Thanks to the work of the Senate and the vote for the Police Act, a lot of good has happened. I'm starting with the Police Act because my adversary, as I feel, Minister Klich also started with the Police Act. I would like to tell you that the exact opinion of the Venice Commission on what you have worked out is well known. I will remind you that this bill allowed for example to capture a bomber in Wrocław, this law allowed to find and capture in Malta a murderer who cut off a woman's head in Warsaw. It was only through the arrangements that could be made through this law that it could be done. If this law did not enter into force on 7 February, the Polish services would not have, for example, the ability to collect online data on the basis of which this killer was identified. And I am pleased that the Law and Justice of this project, contrary to the hysterical reaction of the opposition, has passed through And you remember the natural debates that took place on this project. What does the Venice Commission say about this law in paragraph 130? The opinion clearly indicates that the efforts of the Polish legislator to implement the judgment of the Constitutional Tribunal of 30 July 2014 should be assessed positively. This amendment takes into account a number of recommendations contained in the judgments. The opinion states that the Polish right to the ideal in terms of protection of human rights and a certain balance, but this law on police, which was adopted by the High Senate, goes in the right direction. The earlier law, applied for 8 years, was a lot of pennies And let me remind you that you have threatened that we are introducing a system that will allow surveillance. No! The Police Act provided better control. You'll read the Venetian Commission's opinion, you'll make up your mind. And it was right here on this side of the room. We need to be clear about this today. This is the first case. Second thing. There is an analogy, because Minister Klich, speaking, said that there is no need for an anti-terrorism bill. I would have taken that opinion if it had not been said by a government representative who, for eight years in various government documents, pointed to the need to adopt anti-terrorism law. I have these documents, you can read them. After the events in Madrid, after the events in London in 2006, a team was formed at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, who worked on terrorist threats. This team tried to create an anti-terrorist law in 2008. Senator Jackowski quoted here the press releases that appeared in the media following the statements of Minister Rapacki A competent person in the fight against crime, a senior official of the government of Donald Tusk That anti-terrorist law is needed. But the Minister of Home Affairs has changed, there have been changes in the government in general, there have been new elections, and the state as Civic Platform has continued to talk about this, including Minister Klich as Minister for National Defence. I have here a report on the work of the task force, which was attended by a representative of the then Minister of National Defence, Minister Klich. In this report... This is the report of the Task Force on the systematicisation of national legislation and legal solutions to counter terrorism. This report states that those involved in the team's work... They suggest that most members are willing to opt for a comprehensive law regulating the issue of terrorism, of course. This government document is from 2008, it refers to regulations in many areas, but it was not translated into law. It doesn't have to be postponed until now. We have benefited from the experience of professionals who have been working on solutions for 8 years, in fact for 10 years since 2006. We used what you didn't translate into the language of the laws. In 2015, Minister Piotrowska commissioned urgent work on guidelines for anti-terrorist law. I have these guidelines, I can show them to you, I can tell you what it says. Well, there are laws that we have included in the Anti-Terrorism Act. And as I now hear Minister Klich say, who says it is unnecessary, I wonder how I should refer to it. I think the terms Senator Jackowski used are correct, but I don't want to raise the temperature of this discussion. [[You just lowered it...]] No, no, we have to refer to some of the untruths that have fallen here, Senator. I'm referring to the truth. I realize that someone may be against certain solutions and I respect your opinion, but don't say that you haven't considered such solutions. Don't tell me anti-terrorist law is unnecessary and you don't say As Mr. Klich said, and I wrote it down. It is important to raise the public awareness of middle school students and young people. Senator Mammoths has already quoted some information here, but I specifically printed today's media reports. It's based on Reuters' dispatch... The titles are: The terrorists sail to Europe, the media revealed an internal police note, and the targets of the attacks are listed. According to these media reports, the Belgian police have leaked material about the Syrian fighters who are planning attacks in Western Europe sailing across the Mediterranean. These attacks are doomed. I will remind you that there is still a third degree of terrorist threat in Belgium. Three. There are four. If I hear from Minister Klich that public awareness needs to be raised, I apologize, but I think this is inadequate, Minister. I don't agree with you. Not with these methods... This isn't the time anymore. Europe is holes, Europe is letting in environments that pose a threat to it, not only terrorism, but also a completely different threat. And we all know that. Poland is still free of this because of its demographic, national and social structure. And thanks to the fact that there is still an idea in Poland. But that's not what I wanted to debate. To be honest, when we started the debate on the Anti-Terrorism Act, I was hoping for a common language, for a compromise to be found, for understanding, which obviously does not mean that we should agree on everything. But when the only reaction of the Senate Civic Platform Club is the motion to reject the entire bill... I find this irresponsible, Senator. I believe, Mr Senator, that this is irresponsible also in the context of the documents that were created in the government of Donald Tusk, also in the context of the documents that were created in the government of Mrs Kopacz. I believe that the adoption of the proposal made by Mr Klich will make Poles vulnerable to certain threats. However, I hope that we will agree on some matters. I'm glad Mr. Fedorowicz came into the room. He's the person I value. And I'd like to tell him something. [[Thank you very much.]] Very serious words have been made here regarding operational control without the court's consent. Yes, that is also our view in the context of the data provided by Minister Klich. About 5 000 people from the European Union are fighting on the other side. I repeat: 5 000 people from the European Union. Are we supposed to pretend they're not here? And one more thing. Therefore, Minister, I am most appalled. You said there was no government draft anti-terrorism bill. That's right, there hasn't been such a project for eight years of your government, but Minister Sienkiewicz, however he judged it in the context of the tape scandal, tried to do something and wrote a new law on the Internal Security Agency. There was therefore an attempt to reform the services. I have a draft of this bill here, so if you'd like to look at it, I'm serving as my copy. There are also legal opinions here, which I would very much like to present to you. Well, Minister Sienkiewicz presented this bill at a meeting of the government. The government accepted him and sent him to the Sejm. The first reading was started and a committee report was adopted, a positive report. I would like to quote to you the provisions of this draft law on the application of operational control, i.e. wiretapping. Art. 21... I need to find... [[But did she come into force or did she not?]] I'm gonna answer that question right now, I'm gonna answer it. The operational control may, first, be ordered by a court by order at the written request of the Head of the ABW, after obtaining the written consent of the Prosecutor-General where the control is to be applied to the citizen of the Republic of Poland. Secondly, the head of the ABW in cases other than those referred to in point 1. And there are no time restrictions here, there are no restrictions on the scope of counter-terrorism. In all cases, even in the case of the theft of a bicycle, the head of the ABW against a foreigner from both the Union and from outside the Union could have ordered operational control for up to 3 years and put a wiretap on it. Mr. Senator, before you interrupt me, I'd like to... [[I won't interrupt. But the D.A. wasn't a politician back then...]] Right now. You interrupted me. [[Excuse me.]] [[Quiet, please.]] I mean, let's not be hypocrites. [[Yes, sir.]] We did not criticize these regulations because we saw the need to introduce them. [[Can I interrupt now?]] We are now introducing similar regulations, Mr. Senator, but to a lesser extent, because we limit the control of those who are about to arrive by boat across the Mediterranean Sea. And it's all about terrorism, it's about terrorism. So? And we've been subjected by you, just because of you, who have made such solutions, total criticism. I can't agree with such hypocrisy! [[Can I do it now?]] No. There will be time, Senator... [[Good.]] [[Gentlemen...]] ...you'll ask me questions. [[I'm just gonna say that when this bill was written, the Attorney General wasn't a politician.]] [[Mr. Senator, I didn't give you the floor. You're the minister now.]] [[Excuse me. Thank you. I'm not talking anymore.]] Mr. Senator, head of the ABW in cases other than those referred to in point 1... I already hear here some remarks about pathology that will be in the services that were in the service, concerning the fact that the service is not controlled. Some are given, others are not given. When there's strong control over the services, when there's bold leadership, the services aren't a problem. I would like to tell you that only a safe man can exercise his right to freedom. And we want it to be safe in Poland. We want to extend the powers of the services, because this is about extending the powers of the services. Let's call it... [[Unlimited.]] No, limited. You have to read, Senator, laws, not press articles. [[Yes?]] [[We're reading the bill.]] You have to read laws or draft laws. We want this set of regulations to ensure the safety of Poland and Poles. We are not isolated in the fact that we are creating anti-terrorist law, that we are creating solutions that are being adopted. At the moment, services in France without the consent of the court may carry out operational control on the so-called. the selected area, can turn on a device listening to all phones that are intentionally or accidentally located in this area. Let me tell you: the French have adopted this law almost unanimously. I am glad that we are still arguing, because if there were a serious terrorist attack in Poland, we would all adopt this law and you would say that solutions are too... [[...liberal.]] ...liberal. [[That's what we're here for.]] Unity will be when the assassination takes place. We don't want this unity, we don't want this to happen. We want to do everything... And we take responsibility for those regulations. Mrs. Marshal, High Izbo, I believe that the Anti-Terrorism Act involves not a choice between human rights and security, but security and freedom that can be implemented in a safe country. What is freedom in France, although France is a democratic country? There's psychosis, there's fear. The president wants a ban on demonstrations. I will refer here only to a certain ban that Minister Klich mentioned. I agree, this is a certain restriction on civil liberties, but it is to secure the state. When there's information about the assassination threat, can we picket cats? Oh, no. When there was an assassination in Brussels, all the European institutions were shut down, they could not be left. We don't want this to happen. But pay attention and be honest, Minister... There is judicial review and the content of the statement on judicial review is exactly what your colleague, Mr Michał Wójcik, Member of the Civic Platform proposed. We offered another one to appeal to the court. He said, no, this record should be different, we have to appeal to the laws. We've accepted this amendment. We thought she was smart. It was probably the only Member of the Civic Platform who was working on this law in substance. We've accepted his two amendments. [[Voice from the hall: Marek Wójcik, not Michael.]] Marcus, of course. I'm sorry. If the amendments were constructive, we could talk. But there's one thing we're talking about: trouble, we're throwing out the bill, we don't need it. Contrary to what you've been saying for eight years... [[Senator Mieczysław Augustyn: We have not finished the procession yet, Minister.]] ...and you were afraid to do it. Mrs. Marshal, High Izbo, please make a positive reference to this project and accept by the High Senate the solutions proposed by the government.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-15-senat-20-1.u256	Thank you very much, Minister. At present, senators may submit no longer than a minute's request to a government representative related to this item on the agenda... [[Senator Bogdan Klich: In correction mode...)]] Senator in corrigendum mode. Okay, here you go. We'll be asking questions in a minute.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-15-senat-20-1.u257	I have to use this authority. I will not refer to the Minister's individual trips, I will refer to the accusation of an unconstructive approach of the Civic Platform club. If Senator Robert Mammytov makes a motion to adopt a law without amendments at the committee meeting, we have the right to presume that the amendments that will be tabled will be rejected. That's one thing. Secondly, it is a law as sensitive as a few fundamental laws that we have dealt with in the last six months. I am referring to the Constitutional Court Act, the Police and Service Act, the Public Prosecutor's Office Act, the Law banning... whether it is actually possible to use the fruit of the forbidden tree and the Land Act in the proceedings, if I remember correctly, for which no amendments tabled by the opposition were accepted. Therefore, because this is a law from the same category, we assume with great probability that there will be no such will. But still... [[Secretary of State at the Chancellery of the Prime Minister Maciej Wąsik: If I may refer...]] [[But briefly.]] ...Senators of the Civic Platform will report amendments. And this will be the best test of the Senate's will, whether these amendments will be taken into account or not. We're gonna have to move a father-in-law like that, Minister. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-15-senat-20-1.u258	Thank you very much. Yes, but so briefly, Minister. Because I wouldn't want you guys to go into polemics.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-15-senat-20-1.u259	I would like to say that these amendments by the Members of the Civic Platform, which were constructive, were adopted during the parliamentary work... If the amendments move forward, we will certainly accept them, but as I know life, there will be an amendment to the deletion of the article, this and that... [[They'll all be constructive.]] Of course...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-15-senat-20-1.u260	Thank you very much. You have enlisted senators to ask questions. And as the Minister's first question, you are asked by Senator Barbara Zdrojewska.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-15-senat-20-1.u261	Thank you very much, Marshal. Minister, don't be nervous, don't be emotional, because I'm going to ask very specific questions and ask for specific answers to these questions. The first question is: It was raining here, but I didn't hear a precise answer. or to the extent that the Article proposes to be covered by secret operational control. Article 9 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 project, e.g. citizens of the European Union are compatible with international law? Did you check it out? And second question. Will foreigners entering Poland be informed that they can be subjected to such democratic procedures? Here's another question about alien surveillance. Here these questions have already been asked and there have been no answers Who will contact Polish citizens. We have such a situation that you will introduce some observation of a foreigner who contacts a Polish citizen, and we have two different legal conditions regarding the surveillance of a Polish citizen and a foreigner. What law will you apply then? What, for example? When you're wearing a wiretap? And the third question. What happens when you're in the area... We pointed out that the definition of the area is not precise. And you're talking about the area. What if there are legally protected facilities in the area covered by the search order, e.g. embassies, consulates, please give me a specific answer. As well as newspaper editors, law firms, notaries, etc.? What do you do then? Can you search a place like this, too? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-15-senat-20-1.u262	Thank you. Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-15-senat-20-1.u263	I answer, starting from the end. There's going to be a code of criminal proceedings that says... We do not change the whole code of criminal proceedings regarding searches, but as far as I know, cafés are not legally protected, they are public places. [[What? Why are you talking about cafes?]] Because you were talking about cafes. [[No. Please answer the question precisely. I said...]] I replied: the Code of Criminal Procedure will be applied. [[I mean, like, you know, like, you know, like, you know, like, you know, you know, like, you know, you know, like, you know, ……]] The Code of Criminal Procedure and the prohibition of evidence listed in this Code will be applied. As regards compliance with European law, I would like to say that this project is in line with this law, as the Ministry of Foreign Affairs said. In fact, I would like to inform you that this draft of your law on the ABW, which gave the possibility of long-term absolutely in all cases, even the theft of a bicycle, listening to foreigners, including from the European Union, was also in line with European law in the assessment of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs at that time. I would like to talk more about these wirets, about what will happen if the Pole gets up, so to speak, on the phone of a foreigner. Then it will be used... [[They're gonna talk...]] Excuse me? [[They're just gonna talk, it's normal.]] Yes. [[Very often there are conversations between foreigners or...]] Excellent, that's what I was gonna say, they're just gonna talk. [[What law, what rules will then be applied?]] Anti-terrorist laws. And I'm sorry, to what extent It's the law... [[You know very well that for example...]] Senator, I don't really understand the question. When someone calls someone on that eavesdropper phone, it'll be recorded. It's not like that. It's not like someone's talking to themselves. It's true, isn't it? If another foreigner calls, this conversation will be recorded if a foreigner suspected of terrorism is called by a Pole, this conversation will also be recorded. [[And the foreigner...]] I've already answered that question. (Senator Mieczysław Augustyn: No foreigner...)
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-15-senat-20-1.u264	Good. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-15-senat-20-1.u265	Excuse me, Mrs. Marshal, sorry, just one more thing. Please answer the question whether from now on foreigners entering the territory of the Polish State will be informed about what procedures they may be subject to. I'm asking because most people are gonna think they're going to... most of them might not know about the changes we're making here.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-15-senat-20-1.u266	You know what? That's the question you think is good. I think that's the wrong question. [[But I'm not asking for an assessment of my questions, I'm asking for an answer.]] You know what? Let me put it this way: these are really serious topics. I wouldn't trivialize here, I wouldn't slobber, I wouldn't bring Barei up because we're talking about serious things. [[Did I say anything about Barei?]] [[Good. Ladies and gentlemen...]] [[Please answer the question whether they will be informed. Yes or no?]] If a Pole enters France, he is not informed that his phone calls can be eavesdropped.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-15-senat-20-1.u267	Good. Thank you very much. Now you're asking Senator Jerzy Wcisla.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-15-senat-20-1.u268	Minister, my questions are partly provoked by the answer, or rather the lack of it by Senator Mammothov, who, instead of referring to the provisions of the law we are discussing, relied on common sense. Well, you may find what I say trivial, but if common sense ruled the world, there would be no need for an anti-terrorism bill, ministers, the Senate or the Sejm, people would be well organized. But we know it's not. That's why I'm gonna ask you this question, which Mr. Mammets didn't answer in any way. Does the introduction of a third degree of threat automatically result in a ban on mass events and public gatherings, or does it only give the Home Minister, the Home Minister, the Home Minister, the possibility of introducing a ban? Does this apply to all mass events and public gatherings, or does the Minister have the opportunity to give a literal indication of which events must not be held or of what nature of events must not be organised? Or, for example, Soccer league league league matches will be able to take place, or will they not be able to take place in the third degree of threat? Will the rallies be able to take place, or will they not be able to take place? Will there not be elections or election assemblies in any place throughout the country, or will they be allowed to take place? What does it depend on, and is it written in the bill?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-15-senat-20-1.u269	Thank you. Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-15-senat-20-1.u270	In answer to this question, I will say this: literally, the statement states that the Minister of the Interior may, maybe, not necessarily, have no obligation here. Perhaps there will be a situation in which such a provision will not be introduced. I'm happy to ask you this because I forgot to say one thing, and I think you need to hear it. For example, the convention bill now gives us the option of canceling the convention. But to whom? Mayor, mayor, city president, warlord. How do they know about the threat? In fact, it's a transfer of responsibility to the person who has information about the threat. It's basically It's just a transfer of responsibility. We're not afraid of this responsibility and we're not avoiding it. [[I'm still...]] [[The senator wants to ask. Yes?]] [[Minister, you didn't exactly answer. Can the Minister ban...]] In my opinion, she can't make a selection, indicate that this one can, this one can, and this one can't... The ban is a ban. It's clear. In a given area or in the whole country, because it is specified there. He can't make a selection.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-15-senat-20-1.u271	Thank you, Minister. And here you are, now you're asking Senator Jan Maria Jackowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-15-senat-20-1.u272	Thank you very much. Minister, I have a question for you... Since there is a discussion and there are different opinions in public space, I have this question: do we not, in your opinion, deal with the situation that, under the pretext of criticism of the solutions contained in this draft law... that there may also be an interest or even act of influence agents who are interested in weakening the Polish state against threats that may potentially affect the Polish state? This could be indicated indirectly by the tone of comments, appeals and the context in which these opinions are expressed by different environments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-15-senat-20-1.u273	Thank you. Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-15-senat-20-1.u274	Of course, I don't have any evidence for the truth of the thesis that Senator Jackowski has put in place, but I don't rule out that... as you know, there are countries that have very strong agents in control. These agents operate and try in different ways, for example through discussions in Internet forums, to arouse social emotions. We know that very well. And maybe there's this kind of force here, too, although I'll admit I have no proof of that. But we know that there are countries that spend a lot of money on this type of action.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-15-senat-20-1.u275	Thank you very much, Minister. Senator Piotr Wach would like to ask you a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-15-senat-20-1.u276	Thank you very much. I will repeat the question I asked the senator of the rapporteur. Art, actually. 6 as if it shows in item 1, how to create a blacklist, i.e. a list of persons who are associated with possible terrorist activities. And there is a listed activity for terrorist organizations. I would like to ask what these organizations are and if there is a definition of terrorist organisations. Because a terrorist crime is defined in the code. If we assume that a terrorist organization is one of those activities involving crimes of a nature... Except it's just butter butter. In short, how would a terrorist organization be defined?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-15-senat-20-1.u277	Mr. Senator, maybe I'll answer right away. There's an international list of terrorist organisations. [[So there's just a list, right?]] Yeah, it's international, created by international services, a list of organizations that organize terrorist attacks. They're on that list. [[But there's no appeal.]] [[Thank you very much. Marshal Bogdan Borusewicz, please...]] Hamas was on that list until recently, and I'd like to say... but I think it's going to be because of the recent events he's going to return to her. [[We recognize this list... Is it recognized by default, or is it actually mentioned somewhere that it is, just like it fits into the interpretation of this law?]] The Polish state uses these solutions, including international ones.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-15-senat-20-1.u278	Thank you very much. You ask the question, Marshal Borusewicz.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-15-senat-20-1.u279	I have a whole series of questions, but I'm only gonna ask one question for now. [[Secretary of State at the Chancellery of the Prime Minister Maciej Wąsik: I know what, Mr. Marshal.]] No, I'll ask the others. [[Secretary of State at the Chancellery of the Prime Minister Maciej Wąsik: Ah!]] [[Joy in the Chamber]] Easier, easier to ask. But first, I have a brief appeal to the Minister. Don't shift responsibility for this bill to someone else, to another government, just take responsibility for this bill. This is the government's bill. But it's just an appeal. Now, here's the question. Why was this bill not submitted for opinion by the General Data Protection Officer? It is clear in his opinion that the draft has not been submitted for an opinion of an institution which is important in the context of the evaluation of that law.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-15-senat-20-1.u280	You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-15-senat-20-1.u281	I'd like to say that when it comes to law enforcement, and anti-terrorist laws actually treat law... The services are not subject to the protection law and the General Data Protection Officer does not have access to data that is collected by the services. The only exception is the Central Corruption Bureau, where the security attorney is. In the case of Homeland Security, there are no such solutions. That's why we don't see the need.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-15-senat-20-1.u282	This is about an opinion on the bill. The government institution informs GIODO that it has not received an opinion on the government project. It's a government project. I'm not talking about accessing data. I know he doesn't have access.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-15-senat-20-1.u283	I mean, I don't really understand. I don't think there's any obligation for the government to reach for GIODO's opinion on such matters.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-15-senat-20-1.u284	Thank you very much. And the question you're asking is Senator Grażyna Shark.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-15-senat-20-1.u285	Thank you very much, Marshal. Minister, because you referred to Mr Mark Wójcik from the Civic Platform, who, objectively speaking, was very well in your memory. That's good. [[That's worse, worse.]] Then maybe I'll quote it, too. Because I'm prepared, too. Because you quoted it, I'll quote it too. Okay? There has been no debate with security experts and human rights institutions. During the work, the opposition requested a public hearing, but PiS rejected our requests. The pace of work prevented a significant improvement of the bill. The scenes of yesterday's committee meeting are symbolic, where the Minister presented important amendments, and at exactly the same time the content of these amendments was provided to Members. The detailed solutions proposed in the government's draft law raised many concerns about the opposition and human rights institutions. During the work of the subcommittee, the Minister agreed to a number of amendments, which were mainly minor amendments. The Government has agreed in exchange for an increase in sanctions in the event of a crime of participation in terrorist training up to 5 years to give up the changes in the Article. 115 criminal code, i.e. in an article defining a terrorist offence. Indeed, the adoption of this amendment removes doubts about the very wide scope of this law, and I thank the Minister for that. However, the bill still carries a lot of dangers... [[Question.]] ...my colleague Mr Krzysztof Brejza will be talking about these dangers in a moment. [[The voice from the room: Is it Uncle?]] [[Question, Senator.]] That's what Mr. Uncle said. Quote for quote. If I can't ask a question anymore... [[Secretary of State at the Chancellery of the Prime Minister Maciej Wąsik: Perhaps you can quote Brejeza...]] Please? [[Senator, I'd like to ask you a question.]] I'm gonna ask the question I asked Senator Mammy. All this time, I'm talking about the suspicion of a terrorist offence. A statement of objections can be drawn up. I'm quoting you. On the basis of the information obtained as a result of the operational and exploratory activities ordered pursuant to Article. 9 Act by the head of the ABW towards a person who is not a citizen of the Republic of Poland. It is further said that, at the request of the prosecutor, the court will be able to apply a temporary arrest for a period not exceeding 14 days, and this arrest may be extended for a longer period. My question is this way: if these are materials collected in the context of classified operations of operations and diagnosis, on what basis will this exemplary citizen, of course not a citizen of the Republic of Poland, be able to benefit from the legal assistance he has? For the lawyer will not have access to these materials, for these are classified materials. [[The meeting is chaired by Deputy Marshal Grzegorz Czelej]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-15-senat-20-1.u286	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-15-senat-20-1.u287	Mrs. Senator, in court proceedings, the defendant and his attorney have access to classified material, even without a security clearance. These rights in the Polish legal system operate and are available to any person who has been accused, e.g. He's in custody. But I would like to stress here that this is an arrest hearing. This court will make decisions, not anyone else, because in the proceedings... In the Seym debate that you quoted in such an extensive passage, there were a lot of irregularities, there were words about the service being able to arrest people for 14 days... that's not true. Let me remind you: this court will make such a decision, an independent court which will weigh all the factors. Here's what I'm going to say: I'm actually happy with this question, and I'm glad to be able to bring it up here. But often the service receives information that a person with such a name will cross the Polish border in order to... or appear in Europe to organize a terrorist attack. Such information is obtained by services, for example from partner services, that is operational information. When taking into account the current level of need for evidence, there is no reason to charge such a person. We are lowering this level consciously, but only in terrorist matters. It is known that for 48 hours of service they will not be able to deepen this information and get evidence. If the court finds that this is information, believable or giving rise to arrest, this arrest will be applied. If not, the Act gives an instrument in the form of a transfer of such a person from Poland immediately to the country from which it came. That's important, too. We have to protect ourselves from these situations. These are the Belgian experiences, Senator, where there were no solutions. The Belgians regret it very much. [[Thank you very much...]] [[It's the lawyer who's gonna have...]] The lawyer will have access to all the material collected in the case.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-15-senat-20-1.u288	The following senators are included in the questions: Augustine, Rybicki, Czarnobaj, Terminski, Dowhan, Florek, Wach. I ask you to ask Senator Augustine's question.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-15-senat-20-1.u289	Minister, first I'd like to say that I'm sure you'll agree with this. It's not a question, it's a statement. Half the truth, however, is not true, and even worse. Well, you said that the Venice Commission, as regards the Police Act, said that the judgments of the Constitutional Tribunal were implemented. But at the same time, she strongly pointed out that the powers that were granted to the Secret Service and the Police were too large and that control over these powers was too small. And that is the truth of this opinion, which was critical, not positive. I would also ask you not to use the phrase "a foreigner" in relation to this law, because it refers to the law on foreigners, without changing the definition of a foreigner, and the foreigner within the meaning of this law is not a citizen of the European Union, whereas this law concerns citizens of the European Union. And in this context, the question. Have you examined in this respect the compatibility of the Act with the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, with the signed conventions, with the decisions of the Constitutional Tribunal, with the Charter of Fundamental Rights of the European Union? Because it seems that, at least with regard to the citizens of the European Union, this law does not respect these documents and does not respect those judgments of the Court. Then I'd like to ask you because you want us to work really hard... Very interesting and important amendments were proposed by the Legislative Bureau... [[Mr. Senator, let me remind you that we are asking questions that last no more than a minute.]] I'm almost done, Mr. Marshal. I would like to ask, because the Minister declared that they should be considered: have you considered and supported these amendments?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-15-senat-20-1.u290	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-15-senat-20-1.u291	We have considered, we do not support the amendments. As regards your question, I answer: yes, we have examined the compatibility of the provisions of this law with the various acts of European law. I think I've said this once today, and it's said that the law is in line with them. You have that opinion of the Foreign Minister in your papers, so I'm surprised to hear that question. But let me repeat again: Donald Tusk's government law of 2014... I have this project here. [[There was no bill. It was a project.]] He also obtained an opinion of compatibility when you wanted to eavesdrop on all aliens in all cases for an indefinite period of time without the consent of the court.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-15-senat-20-1.u292	Thank you very much. Senator Rybicki. Ask me a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-15-senat-20-1.u293	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. I have two specific questions. The law aims to simplify the chain of command and establish methods of coordination, but does not facilitate these procedures at all, at least not in every case. I have a question, for example. a provision that does not indicate who is in charge of counter-terrorist action when the purpose of the assassination is an airport used for both civilian and military purposes, or an embassy in which the military attachate is located. That's the first question. And the second question concerns a debatable procedure for special use of weapons, a sniper shot. This is an important, expected procedure. But would it be thought through? The duty to give an order will rest on the counter-terrorism leader. The problem is that the commander doesn't have to have a better judgment than a marksman watching terrorists from the best possible point and acting in a higher state of need. That's the second problem I'm raising. Did the Ministry take into account the complexity of this procedure? And what were the reasons why this provision was so formulated?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-15-senat-20-1.u294	I answer the first question: if there is any doubt, then... I'm sending it back to the rule that the head of the Home Office is going to create a staff. There will be a decision at this staff in case of doubt. And these doubts will be settled. Of course, you can multiply these kinds of situations, that there's a line between this and this. But I answer: there will be a staff organized by the head of the ABW and this staff will resolve such situations. And as far as the sniper shot rule is concerned, he's been postulated by the service for a long time. Besides, in many Western countries, such a solution has been introduced that protects the lives of hostages, innocent hostages, sacrificing the life of a terrorist who is willing to kill them or blow himself up, or a man who acts in an extremely cruel way. When we built this recipe, we considered, first of all, people from anti-terrorist groups, that is, people who maybe Let's hope this doesn't happen. They'll do it. The sniper who shoots is not to think about the state of higher necessity at all. At the moment in Polish law is taken into account the state of higher necessity, but an officer who will shoot and kill a terrorist will have to explain himself to the court whether it was really a state of higher necessity or not. It's gonna be a hell of a thing. We take the responsibility off him. He's only supposed to be the man who saves the hostages' lives. Responsibility lies with an experienced policeman It may be military, but in most situations it will be a policeman appointed by the Chief Chief of Police, who will be able to make such a decision if necessary, which will have a cool view of the action. He won't have to think whether to shoot one way or another at what point. And I will admit that also Members of the Civic Platform in the debate acknowledged to us that such a solution is better, that it is not the sniper who makes the decision. He's supposed to be just a tool doing this very important, life-saving tool for many people. 'Cause that's how I like to talk about it. It's not the sniper's decision to make, but his superior who takes responsibility. And we take responsibility, Mr. Marshal. We are not afraid of this responsibility. This law is our law, although we are not ashamed of the fact that we have been taking advantage of the experience gained for the last 8 or 10 years. Because there is nothing wrong with us taking advantage of these experiences and the knowledge of people who have worked on these regulations for 10 years, who also feel disappointed that someone denies the need for such regulations.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-15-senat-20-1.u295	Thank you very much. I'd like to ask Senator Blackbay's question.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-15-senat-20-1.u296	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Mr. Minister, the last sentence you've expanded so much... I've been wanting to commend you, but I'm going to say two sentences about what you're saying. Minister, first of all, if the Minister believes that many elements of the projects of the predecessors are used in this bill, then I see nothing wrong with this. [[Secretary of State at the Chancellery of the Prime Minister Maciej Wąsik: Neither do I.]] But this is a thing that's natural, so please don't remind us of it, just say it: it's our bill, we've used these and these elements. And okay, no one here is gonna blame you for taking advantage of this. We didn't approve of it for all sorts of reasons. You have made your amendments and your wisdom, your experience, and you are proposing the same bill. And this is the bill. I'll take a shortcut. You, Minister, Government and Law and Justice, so don't involve us in being co-authors of this bill. That's one thing. Secondly, before I ask questions, I would like to explain something briefly. Minister, if we ask questions, it does not mean that we should be placed in a row with those who are against this law or who do not want to fight terrorism at all. Don't make such a categorization. And now I'm gonna get to the questions. First of all, Minister, I would like to ask for your statement on the Venice Commission and the Police Act... This opinion on this law Like you said, because I don't know that opinion. As I understand it, it is, you can say, positive. Yes? That's the first question. The second question concerns what Senator Zdrojewska asked. Again, Minister. If a foreign person is suspected of terrorism, anyone who contacts him by telephone, e-mail, etc. shall be subject to any review of the court of normal registration, surveillance, record, etc. That's the second question: is that it? And the third question concerns the call of social organisations. Minister. Senator Jackowski asked if you didn't think that a lot of organizations that would want this bill not to enter into force inspire a discussion on Internet forums. I understand that the appeal of these 8 organizations... that you do not include these organizations on the list of entities that want to prevent this bill from being adopted. Yes? That's one question. And another question: why was none of these appeals taken into account by you during your work on this bill? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-15-senat-20-1.u297	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-15-senat-20-1.u298	I will answer, Senator: because we rule and we take responsibility for the rules we introduce. [[Voices from the hall: Oh!]] [[That's the truth!]] And that's the truth. And we're not afraid of that responsibility. If she runs the Panoptykon Foundation, she'll take responsibility. And no Panoptycon Foundation can protect you from terrorists... That's what I'm talking about, Mr. Senator. Second thing. The operational control will be carried out in exactly the same way as it has been carried out over the last eight years at least. And if, for example, Homeland Security's gonna bug a person, and that's all the people that I'm gonna say in the service language are gonna sign up for that person. It'll be exactly like when the Homeland Security Agency eavesdropped on my wife for three months, extorting the court's consent, stating that this is my phone. I'm able to understand that you wanted to eavesdrop on me because I had access to classified documents while I was at the CBA. [[That's insulting!]] State or Civic Platform. Do you take responsibility or do you not take responsibility for this? [[The Court of Justice shall rule on liability.]] Because I'm taking responsibility for what's going on right now, so you guys take... [[Senator Mieczysław Augustyn: Mr. Minister, the court rules on liability.]] ...the responsibility for what you've been doing for eight years. Take responsibility for this! [[I'm sorry, but right now...]] All conversations... [[Mr. Marshal...]] [[I didn't give you the senator's voice. I'm sorry. You're welcome.]] All the calls my wife had for three months... [[Mr. Marshal, I'm on a formal issue.]] ...with their family, they were registered, all the conversations with their family, with their colleagues, with their friends, they were recorded. That's exactly how it's gonna be done. Operational control is carried out in such a way that not only one person's statements are recorded, but also the person who calls her at least. It's obvious.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-15-senat-20-1.u299	About the formal? I'm listening.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-15-senat-20-1.u300	Mr. Marshal, I would like to apply for a 10-minute break for the Minister, so that the Minister would cool off and, first of all, not tell us about his life adventures, because I didn't ask you that question, and secondly, he didn't yell at us. I want to say that I will take responsibility for what I have done in my life, but I do not take responsibility for what anyone has done to you. And if I have an indirect interest in this, I'd like to tell you: I'm sorry. Minister... [[Secretary of State at the Chancellery of the Prime Minister Maciej Wąsik: Thank you very much, Senator.]] Excuse me, but I have a heartfelt request for you. First of all, don't yell at us, have some respect, and second of all, don't tell us your adventures, because they're not very interesting... [[Secretary of State at the Chancellery of the Prime Minister Maciej Wąsik: If you believe that illegal operational control of a family member is an adventure, we will never agree here, Senator. This isn't an adventure.]] [[But that's not what we're talking about, Minister.]] Minister, I... [[Minister, I'm sorry, but I gave the floor...]] Exactly. [[...senator.]] [[Secretary of State at the Chancellery of the Prime Minister Maciej Wąsik: Sorry, Mr. Marshal.]] Don't raise the temperature of the debate. We ask for reliable, calm... And I'm asking you to take a 10-minute break so that the Minister can cool off and we can continue the deliberations in a calm atmosphere. We'll be asking questions, and you'll answer, Minister. [[Secretary of State at the Chancellery of the Prime Minister Maciej Wąsik: I, Mr. Marshal, do not need a break.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-15-senat-20-1.u301	Ladies and gentlemen, please take the floor when I give it. [[Voice from the room: Yes, sir.]] Let's start with this. [[Mr. Marshal, I...]] One at a time. First of all, Minister, I'd like to ask for the temperature of a conversation that corresponds to the seriousness of the Senate. Secondly, please don't ask for a break not for yourself. If the Minister asks for a break, I'll think about it. If you are Marshal Shark on a formal matter, then I listen, and if you ask me a question, then I follow the order of those who have asked questions. Or on a formal matter? [[Yes.]] There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-15-senat-20-1.u302	About the heat rise, the atmosphere. Minister, I would ask you very much... [[Mrs. Marshal, but this is not a formal conclusion.]] No, but... you're Deputy Chief of Homeland Security. I'd like to draw your attention... [[Secretary of State at the Chancellery of the Prime Minister Maciej Wąsik: No, sorry, I do not perform this function.]] Excuse me. [[Secretary of State at the Chancellery of the Prime Minister Maciej Wąsik: I did not.]] Okay, you've been... [[Secretary of State at the Chancellery of the Prime Minister Maciej Wąsik: I never did.]] But... [[Whoa, whoa, whoa. Stop!]] But don't interrupt me. You're talking about extortion from the court. Minister, I would ask you very carefully to offer such sentences. You can't say things like that, and you should know that. If you're talking about extortion, direct the case, you know the procedure... [[Secretary of State at the Chancellery of the Prime Minister Maciej Wąsik: I have already directed.]] So... Well, we can't allow that kind of formulation as senators. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-15-senat-20-1.u303	Mr. Marshal Bogdan Borusewicz... [[But you're provoking the state, and then you're looking for the guilty.]] Again, I didn't speak. Ladies and gentlemen... Mr. Marshal Borusewicz. You're welcome. [[I have a voice, right?]] Yes. [[Can I ask you a question?]] No, I'm sorry. Mr. Marshal came to the question, didn't he? [[I've been asking a long time, but right now, I'm against my colleague's proposal.]] But, Mr. Marshal, I didn't put him to the vote at all. I'm writing you down for the question. In order to read the saved persons Senator Terminski's question, please... [[Mr. Marshal, I'd like an answer to my questions. 'Cause the minister went too far with his family and didn't answer my questions.]] Please turn on the microphone... [[Mr. Marshal, I'm sorry, I asked you a question, and the Minister has gone overboard with his family history and hasn't answered any questions.]] Good. So... [[And that's not provoking? What do you mean he's gone too far? What do you mean he's gone too far?]] [[Robert, you Brutus!]] But don't answer for the Minister. Minister, you are hereby voted in. [[You can't do that!]] [[Talking in the O.R.]] Quiet, please! I'm asking you to answer Senator Blackbay's question.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-15-senat-20-1.u304	I think I answered the senator's questions. If there's any aspect of your question I've forgotten, remind me. [[Minister, you haven't responded to any of these, but since the temperature has risen, I'm giving up these answers.]] I answered the question of how the operational control will be carried out. [[One question.]] I answered, so I didn't say it again. [[One question.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-15-senat-20-1.u305	I see. I'd like to ask the senator's question. Terminian.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-15-senat-20-1.u306	The Minister spoke with such an emphase about this law that it is difficult not to support it. I will try to ask a calm question, so that we no longer provoke the development of this delicate dispute which arose in the Chamber. Minister... And here's the information for Senator Jackowski: I'm no influence agent, really these are my thoughts and my questions. Minister, in Poland, according to the information I was able to obtain today, in the media, mainly electronics, about 30 million prepaid cards have been issued until now. It is estimated that about 8 and 10 million cards have never been activated, i.e. these bars are somewhere. Well, it is obvious that within the next month or two after the entry into force of this law, i.e. to the World Youth Days, to the NATO Summit, these cards will not be registered, so during these two biggest events the record of prepaid card registration will be a dead record. And my question. The first question because I have three is: how do you want to make the registration of those cards that have already been issued? What will it look like on the technical, actual side? Will they be cancelled, cancelled? That's the first question. The second question concerns blocking content that appears on the Internet. On the assumption At least that's how I understand the entry in the Act, the list of these blocked content is supposed to be a secret list, which means that there is no possibility of external verification of correctness, verification which data has been blocked correctly and which is incorrectly. And here's the question: who's gonna verify the list? I'm not talking about content anymore, I'm not talking about a particular page. According to which we will define which content we will potentially block? That would be the second question. The third question concerns a situation where, as a result of the application of the Anti-Terrorism Act, you enter into possession of information which is not related to terrorist activities, e.g. You're going to have information that someone illegally downloads music files. This is being prosecuted by a private prosecution, but it is a violation of intellectual property rights. Of course, we can imagine more complicated situations. And now my question is, will the Homeland Security Agency direct this kind of thing? It's kind of on other tracks. Not terrorist Or will she close it, leaving it in her memory, not further developing this thread? That was my third question. Oh, sorry, four more. Now that I'm here, I'm gonna ask you the fourth question, the last one. Minister, yesterday at the committee meeting, a representative of the Legislative Office presented a number of proposals for amendments. I heard with one ear the answer that you all, en block, reject. As far as I understand, you can reject the amendment for which it was a question of logic related to the article. Article 10 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1, but I cannot understand why the remaining 17 legal proposals were rejected. These would be mainly editorial and regulatory amendments under the legal system. So I will report these amendments again during the debate. And I appeal to the Minister to think about it, because it may be worthwhile, however, to adopt amendments which do not diminish this law in any way and will lead to a reduction in the grey zone as regards the functioning of this law. That's it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-15-senat-20-1.u307	Thank you. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-15-senat-20-1.u308	I'll answer the senator's questions from the end. If you don't mind, sir. Indeed, I have said that because we have examined these proposed amendments with our lawyers and we have considered that they are not necessary to apply the provisions of this law. That is why we asked the Senate to reject or rather not accept these amendments. As for other crimes that will be detected under the Anti-Terrorism Act, we will have to apply the principle of legalism and the provisions of the Code of Criminal Procedure. It's obvious. Blocking content on the Internet. Well, the catalogue of all these cases will have a court and the court will decide which content should be blocked and which not and what is the list... It's obvious. In accordance with the procedure laid down in the Act, the court will decide and keep a register of all provisions issued in this regard. Moreover, the service will also, of course, have to keep such a register for control purposes. How will prepaid cards be registered? Well, they are already registered in a certain way, these procedures are already being implemented by some operators. There are at least two or three methods of registering in a way that is reliable over the Internet, and this can be done in person at customer service points or, for example, through your bank account, from which, for example. Pays or recharges the prepaid, doesn't it? As we did with the 500+ program, it was done quickly and well. The operators are prepared for this and have 8 months to do so. It's not like after the bill comes into force, all prepaid cards will stop working. No, until February 1st, there will be time for all these activities to be done. In my opinion, there are 8 and 10 million prepaid cards in the Polish system. 8 months is enough time to make these registrations.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-15-senat-20-1.u309	Thank you very much. Senator Dowhan. Ask me a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-15-senat-20-1.u310	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Minister, you started your speech with the commendation of the Police Act because thanks to this bill you managed to catch a bomber or that criminal in Malta. And if there wasn't a bill, then what? Would the police or the police work differently? [[Secretary of State at the Chancellery of the Prime Minister Maciej Wąsik: Yes, exactly so.]] So far, I haven't felt threatened by the absence of this law on police. This debate today on the Anti-Terrorism Act is, as if a continuation of... I didn't feel threatened when that bill didn't work. There hasn't been any terrorist attacks, nor has there been any crimes the police wouldn't be able to prosecute. I'm a little surprised to hear your introduction... [[I'm asking you a question, Senator.]] Should we not feel safe today if this bill is not adopted? Is Poland so threatened that there could be blood attacks?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-15-senat-20-1.u311	Mr. Marshal, Mr. Senator, let me put it this way: the service would work differently, they wouldn't have eyes and ears if we hadn't adopted the Police Act. If we had listened to you and voted against this bill, no one would have known where that criminal was, who was then caught in Malta. There wouldn't be any way of establishing that kind of thing, believe me. The service wouldn't have the instruments for that. The instruments that the Constitutional Tribunal has challenged, claiming that they do not give adequate guarantees... We introduced these guarantees and introduced these instruments into the bill. And you've been told, Senator, that this is a surveillance bill. You've been deceived, Mr. Senator. You should have listened to us, we were right, and it's proven. Second thing. Mr. Senator, it's better to blow away and lie to a wise Pole after harm. There are Western experiences in the field of terrorist attacks. We do not want Warsaw or other Polish cities to experience the things that have happened in Madrid, London, Paris or Brussels. I think it's obvious. We believe that it is our duty to adopt these rules, especially when Europe is flooded with immigrants, especially when there are 1.5 million visitors from the Middle East, North Africa, in the neighbouring country. We need to be prepared that there are people among them who have bad intentions. As you know, sir. All you have to do is read web sites or newspapers, watch TV. The participants in the bombings in Brussels or Paris were not native French or settled in France. Some of them were people who came from Syria. And we have to be prepared for this. This law prepares for this Polish legal system, Polish services, Polish government. It'll make us safer. I would not like to call psychosis, I would not like to say that we are at risk and that someone is about to bomb, but I remind you: behind the Polish western border, and together with the Germans we are in the Schengen area, there are 1.5 million visitors from countries... no, Islamic. Does that calm you down? No, it's not. Right? These are new challenges. We want to be smarter before the damage doesn't happen. This bill gives the service instruments... That is why we place this emphasis on people who are not Polish citizens. We're aware of where the threat is coming from. With a single bomber of Polish service, having the Police Act, they will manage. Although, you know, if that bomb worked well, it would be unfortunate. But at least we caught him fast. The police behaved well with operating instruments. If it wasn't for the Police Act, those instruments for the operation of the Police wouldn't be there.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-15-senat-20-1.u312	Thank you very much. Senator Florek. Ask me a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-15-senat-20-1.u313	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Minister, the Venice Commission is accusing us of the lack of an independent control body. Surely, with regard to this bill we are prosecuting, it is to be expected that the charges will be the same. You said yesterday that you knew everything, of course. You know everything very well. Only good in the case of Article. Article 10 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 You've raised your doubts, and I'll be right back. But, Minister, correct legislation means that once something is regulated, it is not regulated again. And you can say that, of course, we will adopt this law without amendments, and actually our discussion makes no sense, because you already know that you will adopt this law without amendments. We will, of course, make these amendments, but so what? Mr. Minister, art. Article 10 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 We talked about this yesterday. You said you'd think about it and maybe you'll answer today. This is an article about the fact that ABW officers, police officers and guards can download fingerprint lines, facial image, DNA, if this applies to people who are not nationals of the Republic of Poland. And there are points 1, 2 and 3... And the first doubt was already about point 1, namely this record when there is doubt as to the identity of the person concerned. We do not know if it is a citizen of the Republic of Poland. ..and this could be the case. If it is not a citizen of the Republic of Poland. The same is true in points 2 and 3. Only point 4 says when there is a suspicion of a person's relationship with an incident of a terrorist nature. And in point 5, something similar is said, namely, when a person could participate in terrorist training. Thus, these 2 points concern the Anti-Terrorism Act, while the rest are already regulated in the Police and Border Guard Acts. And we're rewriting the same thing in the procedated bill. For example, from the point of view of correct legislation, I will say that such mistakes are not made, Minister. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-15-senat-20-1.u314	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-15-senat-20-1.u315	Mr. Senator, if you had followed the course of yesterday's committee meeting closely, you'd have noticed two things. First of all, I never said I knew everything. That's not true, that's just not true. And the second thing: yesterday, my position on this provision was different. We think it's not like the service has the full ability to download data in certain situations. But this provision in our assessment is needed, also in the context of the collection of DNA material, which is not mentioned in other laws. So that we insist that this provision in this form be in this bill. He is very much needed by Polish services Police, Homeland Security and Border Guard probably the most.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-15-senat-20-1.u316	Thank you very much. Senator Wach. Ask me a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-15-senat-20-1.u317	Thank you very much. My question concerns Art. Article 6 (6) (a) Point 1 (3). Please kindly state which persons may act to commit a terrorist offence. I don't know. And there's a distinction that needs to be made. So which one can they drive?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-15-senat-20-1.u318	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-15-senat-20-1.u319	For example, the ones that come to us in boats across the Mediterranean Sea, Mr. Senator. If you want me to answer briefly, yes. Really, Mr. Senator, it's about those people we have any information about. And here's any information... [[This article is about putting them on the list. It means that when these people are in the boats, it's a technical difficulty to put them on that list.]] Mr. Senator, let me put it this way: if we're getting information that a person who is a terrorist is in contact with 50 people, they're in doubt. - Yeah? - Mm-hmm. It shows that among them there might be a person who works... [[No. That's a reasonable suspicion.]] No, that's not a reasonable suspicion. [[That's a reasonable suspicion.]] No, no, no. [[And which can and can't? Well, either they all can, except for some disability, or they can't.]] No, that's not a reasonable suspicion. [[That's the wrong wording.]] That's not a reasonable suspicion. [[That's the wrong wording.]] If I'm calling you, and I'm a criminal, it's not reasonable to think you're a criminal. There's a possibility, somewhere further away. And that's what I'm talking about. [[Marshal Borusewicz, please ask...]] Here's what I'm gonna say: in all countries... Excuse me, Mr. Marshal, if you'll excuse me, I'll have a word with you. In all countries where the fight against terrorism is seriously thought about, such letters are created. Because a person like that can't. obtain the pilot's licence. We are simply forced to keep such a list.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-15-senat-20-1.u320	The list is okay. It's just that it can't be written. Because everyone can. Anyone can if they're not locked up in prison. In short, it should be led rather than can. Because before that... I think so. I think I'm gonna make an amendment like that. It's misconstrued.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-15-senat-20-1.u321	In my view, this is correctly formulated, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-15-senat-20-1.u322	Ladies and gentlemen, this is a discussion, not a question. Technically... That's why I'm not interfering... [[I'm sorry. I'm sorry.]] Mr. Marshal Borusewicz. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-15-senat-20-1.u323	Minister, we are using the opinion of the Venice Commission on the Police Act, in principle on a similar scope as the Act. Do you know this opinion of the Venice Commission?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-15-senat-20-1.u324	I know some of the records of this opinion. One of them I quoted, Mr. Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-15-senat-20-1.u325	Thank you very much. Unfortunately, I do not know the above-mentioned opinion of the Venice Commission. I'd like to ask the senators to share this opinion with me. If you can't do it right now, in writing, at my request.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-15-senat-20-1.u326	As far as I know, Senator, she's not fully translated yet, and that's probably why you don't have it. When it's translated, I'm sure the government will share... [[But I'm asking for the one in English, I'm sure. We'll translate.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-15-senat-20-1.u327	We're back to asking questions. Senator Komarnicki. Ask me a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-15-senat-20-1.u328	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Minister, can I ask you a question? Because the Minister is busy with gestures. [[Secretary of State at the Chancellery of the Prime Minister Maciej Wąsik: I am not busy.]] The Act does not specify how the content on the pages will be blocked, whether by disabling the whole page or just individual entries. In view of the fact that the blockage without the court's consent can be made for 5 days and with its consent the content can be blocked for 30 days or longer, the proposed limitation of freedom of expression may lead to the emergence of an autocensor phenomenon in fear of potential blockage of content or adversely affect the activities of the Internet press and the Internet service industry. The exclusion of a website or a fragment thereof for up to 5 days may make it necessary to terminate the activity. Are you, Mr. Minister? It's a precise question. Aren't you worried about the need to quit?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-15-senat-20-1.u329	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-15-senat-20-1.u330	I'm not afraid. The Act does not give the possibility to block Internet services. The Act gives the possibility of blocking with the permission of the court And I'm gonna say it over here. The content on the Internet. If it turns out that a video on YouTube will appear, which is instructions on how to make a bomb, then we will block this video, not the entire service. It's obvious. And it's gonna be a court decision. A proposal will be drawn up accordingly. And it must be precise, there is no doubt about that. No, I'm not afraid. I would like to remind you that there is an EU directive on certain IT issues and that in every country it must be defined how to block illegal content on the Internet. There is a contact point in Poland, it is created. It hasn't been created for many years, but it is now. And there is an exchange of information on these issues in Europe. The solution in question is not new in the system of European law. [[Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-15-senat-20-1.u331	Thank you very much. Marshal Shark, please ask me a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-15-senat-20-1.u332	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. Minister, of course, hypothetically there is the possibility of misinterpreting threats, including, for example, banning gatherings with no ties to terrorist activities. For example, anti-government demonstrations. Is there a possibility of cancellation... Of course, there's a possibility of appealing... [[Secretary of State at the Chancellery of the Prime Minister Maciej Wąsik: Yes, in the Act...]] ...from this decision to the district court. But, Minister, it's not clear, it's precise or it's clear whether there's a possibility... It is about time limits for appeal against a possible decision of the district court. Whether it's code terms or...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-15-senat-20-1.u333	It's legal. [[It's legal, isn't it?]] These are the statutory terms that the Assembly Act provides for... [[I see.]] ...and the mass event bill. [[Thank you.]] And these modes are valid, in accordance with the amendment that Mr Wójcik has tabled, considering that the appeal to the district court is not enough. These are the modes... I would remind you that the court may request classified information from the government that imposed the ban. If this classified information is not provided, the court will, as I understand it, issue a decision contrary to the intention of the government, i.e. consent to such gatherings. [[Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-15-senat-20-1.u334	Senator Frost. Ask me a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-15-senat-20-1.u335	Minister, there are very many questions from colleagues from the Civic Platform, so to speak, almost to every point. I have a general question, Minister. After yesterday's very long discussion at the meeting of the Joint Committees, among others. I, but also the Minister to a narrow extent We said that this law or various provisions of this law are the result of different experiences from different countries. Minister, could you say how many countries of the European Union and, say, Western countries have similar anti-terrorist solutions? Because sometimes, when I listen to this, I feel like we're adopting something that doesn't work anywhere. And as far as I'm concerned... I was giving an example of France, and I believe Senator Florek said: but most of the bombings were there after the bill was passed. But we don't know one more thing: how many assassinations in France have been thwarted because that's not what we're talking about. By such legislation. So I would very much, Minister, ask you to tell me if it's something that we're opening up to a whole new reality, or this type of legislation. This is a standard in Western countries. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-15-senat-20-1.u336	You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-15-senat-20-1.u337	Mr. Senator, thank you very much for this question. Indeed, I have not proved that many Western countries have adopted or are working on anti-terrorism laws. That's not enough. It's better than that. The Germans are tightening up the anti-terror laws. Similar laws work... [[France several times.]] Yes, France several times. Similar laws exist, for example, in France, Spain or Germany, namely in the leading countries of Western democracy. I would also like to point out that the French introduce e.g. also a law, which they do not call counter-terrorism, a law on security in communication, which gives very broad powers to services operating in communication. The British have introduced laws that allow arrest without the court's consent for 30 days in terrorism cases because they believe that 30 days of their services are needed to gather appropriate evidence. We're not going that far. We don't want to go this far, perhaps because we didn't have an assassination like London. But we're giving the court the opportunity to arrest so the servants can gather evidence. Finally, I would like to say one more thing: I hope that these regulations will not really be possible... that many of these regulations, such as the shooting of a sniper, such as the special use of weapons, will not be applied in Poland, because there will be no need for such regulations. But for this prevention is needed, for this we need the various instruments we have introduced and which have been developed for many, many years.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-15-senat-20-1.u338	Thank you very much. Marshal Borusewicz came forward. Yes, Mr. Marshal?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-15-senat-20-1.u339	Yes. Minister, I'm sure you know what a John Doe is, a wiretap... [[Voice from the room: He doesn't know.]] ..on NN. It was, unfortunately, a method used by the servants. A person was qualified as an Jane Doe with an unknown name and was eavesdropped for a few days because it was the rules and regulations. Aren't you afraid that extending the extension to a month will make these NN cases more common? [[Secretary of State at the Chancellery of the Prime Minister Maciej Wąsik: Mr. Marshal, what extension to the month?]] Eavesdropping.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-15-senat-20-1.u340	Eavesdropping possibilities. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-15-senat-20-1.u341	There's no such rule in this bill. That's not enough. Basically, the bill will eliminate Jane Doe if there are no anonymous prepaids. NN was a natural consequence of the anonymity of prepaids on the Internet. There was a person who, for example... [[Talking in the O.R.]] But, Mr. Marshal, if there are no anonymous prepaids, every phone number will be assigned to a person, to a person with a PESEL number, and there will be no Jane Doe requests. It's actually a bill that eliminates Jane Doe. I'd still like you to clarify. 'Cause maybe I didn't notice something in this bill 'which we're extending to a month? We're not changing the operating control mode. There's no extension for a month here, Mr. Marshal. [[I'm sorry, Art. 9. Not even for a month, right?]] This is a law on application without the consent of the court of operational control against foreigners in matters of terrorism. We told you, Mr. Marshal, an hour on the subject.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-15-senat-20-1.u342	Minister, you say that the Jane Doe was only used for so-called telephones. prepaid. No, it's not, because also for other phones, normal cell phones. You bury yourself in your memory, and then you... [[Secretary of State at the Chancellery of the Prime Minister Maciej Wąsik: Mr. Marshal...]] If we suspect... In other words, the Art Act. Article 9 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 point 1... [[Secretary of State at the Chancellery of the Prime Minister Maciej Wąsik: Ust. Nine, right?]] Art. 9. The Head of the ABW may order a person who is not a citizen of the Republic of Poland who is concerned about the possibility of carrying out terrorist activities, for a maximum period of three months, to conduct secret activities consisting in obtaining and maintaining the content of the talks. If this is the case, if the services use this method, they have the possibility to eavesdrop on NN for 3 months. Yes or no?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-15-senat-20-1.u343	But, Mr. Marshal, if we're talking about foreigners in terrorism cases, I'm reminding you that it doesn't matter if it's an NN or if it's Abdul Mohamed... [[I understand...]] Mr. Marshal... [[Minister, I would like to remind you that these methods were used by the service when they were eavesdropping on Jane Doe...]] My wife, for example. [[I don't know...]] I do. [[So is there such a danger here?]] Mr. Marshal, the possibility of pathology in the service is always there. There was no anti-terrorism law and a pathology in the Internal Security Agency was very serious, very serious. The case has already been opened by the D.A.'s office. Just what I'm talking about has aroused my emotions and yours. But let's not run away from it. And there will be no consent for pathology. There will be no consent for pathology. This bill isn't for pathology. Theoretically, you can imagine that without the court's permission, they're gonna turn on the wiretap of how many people. But there's no way, because they're gonna answer for it. The Head of the ABW takes responsibility for this, takes responsibility for the use of operational control. And we're not afraid of that responsibility, Mr. Marshal. I would like to point out that it is precisely the elimination of anonymous prepaids that will in principle prevent, at least against Polish citizens... Because of course you can imagine that a foreigner will come to Poland with a prepaid. But these problems will be much less than 8 or 10 million prepaids, which in theory may be in the possession of someone among those involved in bad things. I repeat: it is precisely the elimination of anonymous prepaids that will reduce the possibility of using such pathological things that you are talking about, like the case with the NN for no reason. Of course, there are also situations where the services really have reason to turn the wire on the NN, because they do not really know the identity of the person who plans to commit a dangerous crime. As for this, I think we agree, Mr. Marshal, that where there is a reason for bugging John Doe, the courts in Poland should give permission to bug John Doe. But I'm talking about one thing all the time, Mr. Marshal. I'm in a situation of uncomfortableness when you criticize this record, just this record, Mr. Marshal. Because I keep quoting the government project you supported as a Senate marshal. It's obvious that you supported this government, and I have no objection to you. This government has prepared a record of the possibility of eavesdropping for three months, based on the decision of the head of the ABW, Mr. Marshal, of all foreigners in all matters. And I'm not going to criticize this government. I believe that this is a far-reaching measure, perhaps too far, but I understand the intention of Minister Sienkiewicz. There's this recipe here, and I was quoting it: art. Article 21 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 4. [[No, no, Minister...]] In the case of stealing a bike in Prague, it was possible for foreigners to... [[Because once again, you're throwing responsibility on someone else...]] I don't pass on responsibility... [[...I want to tell you...]] ...I'm just saying, Mr. Marshal, we have never criticized you for this record. [[Minister, if this entry were to come here, I would vote against it, I assure you. Then don't hold me responsible.]] [[Mr. Marshal, but we're entering a hypothetical discussion, what if.]] I don't hold you responsible, because I would support that. He went very far, you took responsibility for him, but I would support him. [[I'd be against it.]] I am convinced that the terrorist threat, which is really dangerous for Poland, is coming from abroad. We do not have a terrorist tradition in Poland, so it comes from abroad. We all know that it's either the ISIS countries or the ISIS fighters who settled in Western Europe. There's no doubt about it. They were behind the bombings in Paris or Brussels.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-15-senat-20-1.u344	Mr. Marshal. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-15-senat-20-1.u345	You forgot the East, Minister. [[Secretary of State at the Chancellery of the Prime Minister Maciej Wąsik: Hello?]] You forgot the East. [[Secretary of State at the Chancellery of the Prime Minister Maciej Wąsik: Yes, it is true.]] You've concentrated in the Middle East. [[Secretary of State at the Chancellery of the Prime Minister Maciej Wąsik: But these are also Chechens from Kiev...]] [[But I'm sorry, Minister. Mr. Marshal, ask me a question.]] I ask a question, I repeat that question that I asked the Senator of the rapporteur. The services have reversed or sought to reverse agents. It's clear. The first rule in the service is that after the agent is taken or after the spy activity is revealed, there is an attempt to reverse the agents. And that kind of action was used. If you need to write about it in this law, what legal basis was it used before?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-15-senat-20-1.u346	Mr. Marshal, do you take responsibility for the last eight years or not? Do you take it? You should know that very well on what legal basis it was applied. We believe that the service should have a countertype, and this countertype we introduce into this law. But the last eight years... Please don't ask me about the last eight years, on which basis it was applied. [[But, Minister, you're the minister, you're in charge of the services...]] But, Mr. Marshal, you know, and I do. You know perfectly well how, and I know perfectly well how. Isn't that right, Mr. Marshal? [[No, I don't know, I wouldn't ask, I never...]] That's what you were asking. [[Yeah, I'm asking you...]] Then why did you ask? You know that, and I do. I think you need a countertype for that.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-15-senat-20-1.u347	Thank you so much for your answer... [[Secretary of State at the Chancellery of the Prime Minister Maciej Wąsik: Disclaimer.]] Thank you so much for your answer. I would like to inform you that a government representative has undertaken to answer in writing the questions asked by the honourable senators: Czarnobaj, Terminski, Dowhan, Flork, Wach, Augustyn, Rybicki and Marshal Grażyna Sztark. Thank you very much. [[Secretary of State at the Chancellery of the Prime Minister Maciej Wąsik: I have committed myself? Yes? I think I answered the questions.]] [[Voice from the room: Okay, it's okay.]] That's how I put it here... [[Secretary of State at the Chancellery of the Prime Minister Maciej Wąsik: I think I have answered all the questions of the senators. Didn't I answer a question and have to sit on a written answer tonight?]] [[Mr. Marshal...]] Mr. Marshal, please... [[I asked...]] [[I see you've taken it seriously...]] No, no, I'm sorry, I wasn't in session and I wasn't... [[May I remind you...]] [[Secretary of State at the Chancellery of the Prime Minister Maciej Wąsik: I do not know what question...]] Mr. Marshal, you're welcome. [[I asked for an answer on the opinion of the Venice Commission.]] I'm sorry, my predecessor probably put a list of people here to ask questions. I'm opening a discussion. Please take the floor, sir... [[Secretary of State at the Chancellery of the Prime Minister Maciej Wąsik: Thank you very much.]] Thank you very much, Minister. [[Talking in the O.R.]] ...Mr. Senator Ryszka.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-15-senat-20-1.u348	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. [[Talking in the O.R.]] Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Well, indeed, a heated discussion, full of hypocrisy on the one hand and the truth on the other, but I won't get involved. Is Polish security in any way at risk? This is a rhetorical question, after all, everyone knows what stands at our gates, how many hundreds of people sneak across Poland towards the west. Here's the answer: how are we supposed to feel safe if there are reports of terrorist attacks from other countries in the European Union? In fact, recently it seemed that Europe was safe because it had been a long time since the bloody bombings: trains in Madrid for 12 years, London metro and bus for 11 years. A total of 243 people were killed and more than 2,000 500 were injured. Well, unfortunately, in recent months there have been two powerful bombings in the heart of Europe. In the November assassination in Paris, 137 people were killed and over 30 people were killed in Brussels in March, not counting the wounded. And since then, there has been a state of emergency in Belgium and France. Somehow the Venice Commission is completely silent about this. It has already been recalled that in the near future we will have great events, NATO summit in Warsaw, World Youth Days, the visit of Pope Francis to Krakow and Czestochowa. Are we well prepared to secure these events? But I think that's not the only reason why we're making an anti-terrorism bill. The main reason is what Senator Mamoń and the Minister have already said many times here, the main reason is to ensure security... [[Voice from the room: Mammy.]] I'm sorry, Mammy. [[Joy in the Chamber]] I have a friend, Mummy. That's why I'm so... [[Talking in the O.R.]] ...Senator Mammoths, and the Minister also said that the main reason is to ensure the safety of our citizens against the wave that threatens us. Let's not be afraid to say that to Islamist terrorism. Let us not hide behind political correctness, let us tell Poles openly that that is what this is all about, and it is as if external reasons for adopting this law. But what's important is the causes, let's call them internal. It is simply the task of ordering the competences of the services. What we'd do in a dozen bills What Senator Klich called for here was a dozen laws, that is, a dozen times to meet committees, etc. We want to do this in a single law so that the powers of the services can be organized. Let there be a clear and clear division of roles between the services, the head of the Home Office and the Minister of Home Affairs. In other words, one is designed to prevent terrorist events, the other is to react in the event of such an incident and to remove its effects. So the question is whether we need this bill, in other words, is whether we hope or not to trust that nothing will happen in Poland. It is clear to me that, in the face of the threats of Islamic extremism and terrorism, the law rightly extends the scope of these new tools, instruments of operational control. And I will add that it mainly concerns foreigners, regardless of what country they are from, whether it is the European Union... but suspected of terrorism. This is very strongly said: suspected of terrorism. I don't see anything unusual about the fact that Homeland Security can either arrest a foreigner suspected of terrorism for up to three months or immediately expel him from the country. This is the right defence of security in Poland. This also applies to the situation of an increased level of alertness, as many Senators of the Civic Platform have said with such doubts. Such an alert will lead to solutions such as temporary border closures, suspension of mass events, public gatherings. It's natural. The services will be able to search, arrest people suspected of terrorist activity 24 hours a day and not, as they are now, between 6.00 and 22.00. The arrest of Polish citizens suspected of terrorism will be possible for 14 days, but only with the permission of the court. I would like to stress that there is no operational control instrument in this law that would be used without the consent of the court. Of course, some are with the consent of the successor. The Act gives police anti-terrorists the right to shoot a sniper, which even Senator Klich praised here. They can also immobilize or shoot down the drone, which was also emphasized here as a correct solution. Sanctions are also tightened in the event of a conviction for the offence of triggering a false alarm. This is very important. Especially now, because of these different bombardiers. At the time of the conviction of a person who commits such a crime, the court will be forced to rule on a claim, a cash benefit, etc. The most protests of the opposition are prohibited from buying prepaid mobile phone cards anonymously, i.e. so-called. Prepaids. Since prepaids, thanks to the anonymity they provide, are most commonly used by terrorists... Well, we have to choose between civil freedom and security. We don't ban them from buying them. Their purchase will be possible with the presentation of an ID card and after the seller has provided the operator with the data of this new network subscriber. I'm guessing Senator Mammothov said he stopped this so-called one in Wroclaw. The bombardier was possible by tracking his cell phone, checking where he was from and who he was talking to. It is right, therefore, that our law gives service and police many new instruments of operational control, such as: access Even though it's already there. . to banking secrecy with the permission of the court. Reaching through the service over phone records... It's already there, too, except in this bill it's calculated. Online network controls, protecting this so-called. Cyberspace... All this, I stress, will be done with the permission of the court. Mr. Marshal, ladies and gentlemen, in the Seym debate, as well as in our senate debate, much more gentle than in the Seym... In the Seym the opposition did not leave a dry thread on this bill, in almost every statement demanding its rejection and accusing the PiS of it was not here, for which I thank you A desire for martial law. It was argued that the law threatens all freedoms and civil liberties, that the citizens of our country who use the phone or the Internet will have a guardian appointed by the PiS, and that he will listen to what we talk about on the phone 24 hours a day, check what we read, what we write on the Internet. It is easy to terrify such a vision of Poles, especially if you add that it is Jarosław Kaczyński who will personally read all our emails. I will not recall any other foolishness which... the main civil right is the right to security, but how are we to feel safer about the activities of the Islamic State, the terrorism that Europe is currently experiencing? The Polish government and parliament cannot pretend that they do not see it. This bill is necessary. It is good that we give Polish services and police real tools to prevent and combat terrorist offences. However, as has been said many times here, the same regulations do not threaten civil liberties in the United Kingdom, France or the United States. But what I'm trying to say is, in these countries, it's only when, on its own... [[Time's up.]] I'm almost done. ...It was only after the attacks of 11 September 2001 or later in other countries that they found out what terrorism was. Whether in Poland we are to wait for a terrorist bombing to find out that there is a real war in the world and in Europe so-called. The Islamic State with Western civilization? Let's be smarter than that. And a word at the end. I am convinced that if this law were introduced by the Civic Platform a year ago or earlier, it would have been perfect. Everything that introduces the PiS is a threat to Polish democracy and human rights. If I had been able to give power to the Platform in time for the adoption of this one law, I would have agreed to it; but I cannot do it because the nation decided differently, i.e. it chose the Law and Justice to rule. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-15-senat-20-1.u349	Thank you very much. Please take the floor of Senator Rybicki.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-15-senat-20-1.u350	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Anti-terrorist bill or anti-democratic law? Such a question is asked by political publicists and commentators today, and such a question should be put here, in the Higher House of the Polish Parliament, in the Senate, during the ongoing discussion. Let us look at some of the provisions of this controversial law. Namely, the service to protect citizens from terrorism is the Internal Security Agency, other services are to cooperate with it. However, the provisions of the Act make the ABW practically out of control. The ABW will have extensive powers in the field of surveillance and online access to citizens' databases, e.g. ministerial, local, ZUS, or registers subordinate to ministers of energy, work, health or the environment without the consent of the court. Night searches and arrests can be more frequent. Homeland Security won't only get the right to do this in urgent situations. No more cards bought anonymously. Every citizen will have to provide his/her data when he/she acquires it. The Agency will be able to block servers for 30 days with the consent of the prosecutor if it considers it to be used, and in case of emergency it may block them itself and only subsequently obtain permission from the court within 5 days. The ABW will be able to monitor foreigners for 3 months and will not require permission from the court. Moreover, if the agency interrupts within 3 months, it can start again, and the process can last almost forever. The bill will allow for the collection of biometric data, photographs, iris patterns, DNA, fingerprints from practically every foreigner. If they go to the directory of suspected terrorists, they will remain there forever, even if suspicions of terrorism are wrong. Finally, the fact that the Prime Minister or the Head of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs may announce the degree of terrorist threat and that the highest two allow the introduction of a convention ban. According to the law, this can happen when there is concern about the preparation of a terrorist event. The catalogue of terrorist events, i.e. possible behaviours, possible events, sets out a regulation of the Minister of Home Affairs, which will be an annex to the Act. The services will be required to inform the head of the ABW about these events and such items can be found in this catalogue: loss or theft of Polish identity documents abroad, theft or disappearance of service clothes related to the operation and protection of critical infrastructure, the intention of a foreigner from the country to take an increased risk of scientific internship or studies, the dissemination of content calling for acts of violence, violation of the law against racial, religious, national, ethnic, political background. The High Izbo, according to this record, according to its simple interpretation, could be the loss of a terrorist event by a Polish tourist e.g. in Croatia, the identity card; it may be missing work clothes or lost by a worker, e.g. by an important gas pipeline. The French citizen's application for admission to studies in Poland, as well as the call for civil disobedience on one of the portals of organizations criticizing the government, will be considered such an event. Each of these events may be the reason for initiating proceedings during which it is permitted: night searches, detention for 14 days without process verification of operational information, blocking of the website for 3 months, taking sensitive data, including medical data, about each person without any independent control. I am aware, High Senate, that, in principle, the possibilities of various forms of surveillance cannot be questioned, because I am aware of the growing terrorist threat, but actions aimed at protecting the security of citizens cannot interfere in an unlimited manner, without judicial review, with citizens' rights to privacy, and the provisions of the Anti-Terrorism Act should be assessed in close connection with the earlier laws on the Police, the Public Prosecutor's Office and the Code of Criminal Procedure adopted by Parliament. All these laws were brought before the Constitutional Tribunal by the Ombudsman. He pointed out in his speeches that a politician, a member of the government acting as Attorney General, may issue orders to prosecutors concerning the investigation and that the information gathered in the investigation may reveal to the media. The Code of Criminal Procedure also allows evidence obtained illegally to be used in court. It is complemented by a legal act that abolishes judicial control over the activities of the special forces. High Senate, the key issue in assessing this law is the question of trust in the state, to the power that receives tools that give the right, in fact, to surveillance of citizens. The current government camp quite ostensibly disregards the constitutional guarantees of citizens' rights and freedoms. There are cases of misrepresentation of courts which, in a democratic state of law, are an undisputed guardian of civil liberties in conflict with power, including special services. I think that, in the event of a possible threat, citizens will be ready to sacrifice and sacrifice also concerning their freedoms, their right to privacy, their freedom to communicate or their ease of movement. But it must be accompanied by trust in the politicians who rule, their aims and intentions, and their attachment to democratic values. Citizens must also feel that they are living in a democratic state of law and that, in the event of any suspicion of abuse by the authorities of its tools, they will be able to turn to an independent court, including the Constitutional Tribunal, and the authorities will respect those judgments. Mr. Marshal, High Senate, at the end of this personal historical reflection: on the night of 18 to 19 April 1979 in Nowa Huta there was an attempt to blow up the monument to Lenin. The trial was only partially successful, but to this day historians argue whether it was an act of desperate person who had patriotic motivations or provocation of service. This case was used by the communist authorities to carry out several dozen reviews throughout the country in the apartments of the democratic opposition then, including in my apartment, my family's apartment. I assure you, they weren't looking for explosives. From my apartment and many others, there have been removals of debitless materials, anti-communist flyers, replicators, typewriters. It was obviously an abuse of power by the security services of the Polish People's Republic. There were much more similar abuses. I am not looking for any analogy, I am saying this to the caution of the current authority and to all the other authorities: the lack of democratic mechanisms for judicial control over the operation of special services is not a democratic standard, and the contested law unfortunately eliminates this control in fact. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-15-senat-20-1.u351	Thank you very much. Senator Zdrojewska, please take the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-15-senat-20-1.u352	Dear Marshal, Ladies and gentlemen, senators! First of all, I would like to thank you for the day and not the night. Thank you very much for that. The discussion is long, but it seems to me that there are a lot of important questions and substantive speeches by the senators. I would first like to refer to the honourable minister who here used terms such as the hysterical reaction of the opposition, or the truth on this side of the room, pointing to this side of the room. I suggest, Minister, that you remember your role, that you are not here as a party officer, but that you are acting as a minister of the Republic of Poland. And please don't divide us into hysterical and less hysterical, because today I think it was in your speech that there was a lot of emotion that we could see. I ask Senator Ryszka to point out that the emotions were on the Minister's side today, and we were mostly asking questions like I asked specific questions to the Minister, and I heard comments. [[You're rejecting this bill, how are you supposed to...]] But all you had to do was answer. Someone asks a very specific question, and it is best to answer that question, not to comment on it, etc. I don't think that's the minister's role, especially since, Minister It's not like you're here for the first time. We here, in the Senate, have a little bit of different rules. I'm sorry for this personal tour, but you've allowed yourself to express your opinions about my questions instead of answering them. Now I'm going to move on to the bill. Ladies and gentlemen, no one here, Mr. Senator, I address Senator Ryszka. He doesn't take anybody's good intentions. I think that most people in this case, and certainly most of them here in this room, had good intentions. But that's the way it is with the services that they always want very big... So it is with the services that they will always apply for an extension of their powers, because it is simply easier for them to do so. Our role in the Senate is different. We should weigh this and maybe increase these powers sometimes, but we should also remember that we are upholding the Constitution and that we should make sure that citizens also have rights, and that we do not give anyone too much privileges or powers, especially in terms of services. I am absolutely convinced that this procedure was rushed. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that you did not agree to a public hearing. The hearing took place, but it was just a citizen's hearing. You didn't want to allow this hearing, which could cause doubting for intent, Senator. Because if you have good intentions, you manage a public hearing and discuss with citizens about the bill. The important thing in this law is that it really gives very broad powers to the head of the ABW and the prosecutor general, of course, without sufficient judicial review. So that we can't appeal everywhere, we can't always know that we've been under surveillance in any way. And these are what I'm paying attention to, called... At the moment, we no longer have an independent Attorney General, but this is a member of the government appointed... Don't get it wrong, but it's just a party nominate, a ruling party. What I really don't like about this bill is the attitude towards a foreigner. We have here an enemy alien, someone who's a threat, and terrorists or people who are prone to terrorism. Here as if we include in the general... we include the concept of a foreigner, which is the same threat for us both the citizen of Europe or for example. Japanese, for example. a South African citizen, as well as a terrorist coming from or associated with the Islamic State. It's waking up... I don't know, I was wondering if it wouldn't be necessary to simply list those countries from which people arriving will be subject to specific control. We said that so far in Poland, when we were dealing with terrorist acts or with suspicions of such acts, Polish citizens did so. This was the case in the case of an attempted terrorist attack on the Sejm, and so it was recently in Wrocław, on the bus. They were Polish citizens, not foreigners. What we didn't talk about. Or maybe it was moved when I left for a while. This is a decision to use the armed forces. Some may be concerned that such a decision is taken by the head of the MON at the request of the competent head of the MMA and that the president is only informed of such a decision. Too wide blank standards is the standard in this bill. And that's the thing, maybe... Two positions were drawn up: one position on the fact that the existing laws could change and improve the security of the country, and the second position on the need to write a new law and improve everything with it. Don't argue with any of these either, though. Whether it's a new law or an improvement of the old law everywhere should be given the right to appeal, to review the court, etc. And I think it's the charge of applying too wide a standard of blanks in this law that's the most common charge. Not only with senators, but also with citizens. And yet this law deals with the right to assembly, gives the right to unlimited access to public databases, gives the possibility of monitoring ICT systems. Let me remind you once again: it is the services that have written this law, and it is our duty, the Sejm and the Senate, to look at the servants' hands, especially if in some cases it is not possible to appeal to the court. The law should be. I also pay attention to this. It's not safe. It's not safe. It's not safe. I think she's been tilted... In particular, listening to the Minister's speech, we had the impression that we were living in the country most at risk of terrorism in Europe, and fortunately this is not the case. Services are given broad powers which, unfortunately, can also be used in a bad case, not only in a good case, in the fight against terrorism, but also in a bad case, for example. against the opposition. And you should think about why there is so little confidence in the services of this government and those who are most entitled to make decisions in this government, because it's either that or that. To test senator Mammoth's good intentions, I will report three amendments. Maybe I won't discuss them. I'll just tell you what's going on. E.g. in Article 4, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 2 pkt 7 I propose to replace the words 'there is a suspicion' by'reasonable suspicion'. It's just... This is used in the law of the wording which forces the applicant to apply some sanctions to justify his request. It can also be used later if someone tries to appeal against it or complains about it. In Article 2, paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: Article 9 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 in the introduction to the calculation, the words "Supervisory Court in Warsaw' shall be replaced by the words "Supervisory Court in Warsaw'. So that I call for a court to be brought into the proceedings, so that not only the prosecutor and the head of the ABW, the court, which is independent, which is a different authority. In Article 2, paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: 38 (6) in Article. 32c paragraph. This is the ABW Act, and we are talking about the complaint that is due to the complaint, and I suggest you include the wording that the complaint is entitled to an electronic service provider, to an entity whose IT data has been blocked, because at the moment it is only about the prosecutor and about the ABW. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-15-senat-20-1.u353	Thank you very much. Please take the floor of Marshal Borusewicz.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-15-senat-20-1.u354	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! We are in such a situation that we must weigh two fundamental values: on the one hand security, on the other hand freedom, civil rights, in general everything that belongs to the area of human freedom. Of course, we face this dilemma all the time, but in this case we must act very carefully and carefully, because the shift from security to freedom and freedom to security has serious consequences. I think this bill is putting the burden on safety. This bill is written by the servants. I can see the language, I can see the wording. She is written by the service, therefore she was not sent for opinion, among others. to the Chief Data Protection Officer who oversees this part Read: Freedoms and safeguards of civil rights, human rights as regards personal data. It was an informed decision, and it was deliberately not sent to this institution, which is, after all, a state institution, but at the same time an independent institution. This is another law in this geography of the laws that we are discussing in this term of office. It's another bill like that. The D.A.'s law gave a significant authority to the prosecutor general, combining his function with the function of Minister of Justice, or politics, gave a whole range of powers that the prosecutor didn't even have in this system. This is interference in the investigation, making decisions on the lowest level with regard to prosecutors on how to conduct an investigation, whether to file an indictment or not, including those responsible for this investigation. Then a whole series of other laws, such as the Police Act, which the Minister says has absolutely nothing to do with surveillance, that it cannot be called surveillance. However, it introduces such opportunities, a significant possibility to control the Internet, although in the ruling of the Constitutional Tribunal, which the government is constantly calling for, there was no such obligation. And it was possible in a calm, prudent way to discuss and make a good bill. I'm not saying it's a bill that violates the rules of procedure that she's left behind. made very quickly. But it was done too quickly, unnecessaryly fast. This bill would still have to be worked on. It contains a whole range of indefinables, contradictions, which will certainly come out during its operation. There was no need, and there is no need for this bill to be introduced so quickly. The justification that we have two huge celebrations, the World Youth Days and the NATO Summit, cannot withstand criticism. It's not just because this bill won't come in, it won't work... so you could say it had to be quicker. No. We have already examined the three safety laws of these meetings and of the World Youth Days for which we have introduced a whole range of safeguards and have given additional powers, as well as the NATO Summit In March, we passed two laws on this subject. Just a week ago, we adopted a bill on the NATO Summit, an incident that gives additional powers to the BOR. There we even gave the possibility to record and document through the SOK, the Railway Guard. I'm surprised the police aren't criticizing this kind of thing. Because I remember every once in a while General SOK, all in different yellow lamps, wanted some extra police clearance, wanted to be the police. All right, we've passed three laws that secure the World Youth Days and the NATO Summit. So what's the point of this bill right now? This bill is a hasty bill and I'll say it's dangerous. Why? Because it's not just about records, it's about trust. If the Heads of Service were not politically given, if they were indicated by consensus, then yes, then there would be some security. Then there'd be some kind of security. So it is also a matter of trust, not just statutory provisions. [[Secretary of State at the Chancellery of the Prime Minister Maciej Wąsik: Great idea.]] I would also like to say that this law is very far-reaching and does not apply only to a small group of foreigners. Prepaids are a few million, so it can't be said that this applies to a small group. I also want to tell you that if you look at the dictionary in detail or what we call it... [[Time's up, Mr. Marshal.]] Yes. If you look at the catalogue of terrorist events in detail, you can see that there's something like this... You can see it was the servants. There is a record in this catalogue of threats to Western countries or international institutions and structures, to which Poland belongs, i.e. Poland... And if someone says that the PiS government needs to be overthrown, how will that be qualified? [[Secretary of State at the Chancellery of the Prime Minister Maciej Wąsik: Ad vocem, okay? Shortly ad vocem.]] How will this be qualified? These aren't the only reservations I have. I repeat: these are not my only objections. I believe that if this law were in force in the times of the Polish People's Republic, we would not have overthrown communism. This is really a dangerous bill. [[Secretary of State at the Chancellery of the Prime Minister Maciej Wąsik: Ad vocem, okay? Ad vocem, Mr. Marshal.]] [[Later.]] Finally: I, of course, make amendments. I think this catalog needs to be refined. Because he's underdeveloped. He's underdeveloped, even if... Well, I'm not gonna get into this anymore. I'm not gonna bully you. But he should be defined and refined. I would like to say that I disagree and make an amendment so that under the action of this law, which specially treats foreign citizens, disables people with the Polish Charter. We invite these people, we give them a card, and we include them in this bill. I also want to say that I propose in the article. Article 10 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 delete point 1. That's what she offered... [[Three minutes late.]] I'm almost done. And I also think that... in art. 20, which speaks of the entry or use of real estate or the mobility of services in such situations as are dangerous, I want to introduce a security that says it will be applied for the time necessary and to the extent necessary. Because there are no reservations about time and scope. You can enter someone's house under the pretext of anti-terrorist actions and be there, act, etc. Indeterminate time. I therefore make such 3 amendments. And I think this bill is very dangerous.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-15-senat-20-1.u355	Mr. Marshal, four minutes late. [[I know. I'm sorry.]] Minister, there's no such way. I'll ask you... [[Secretary of State at the Chancellery of the Prime Minister Maciej Wąsik: Ad vocem is not present?]] There isn't, there isn't. Really, I consulted with the legislators. I will ask the Minister to respond to the discussion after it has been concluded. Mr. Marshal, I would just like to remind you that at the previous sitting you turned off the microphone to one of our senators. I don't want to do this. I ask you to comply with the time regime. Please take the floor of Senator Wczyła.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-15-senat-20-1.u356	Mr. Marshal! High Senate! Minister! The bill on anti-terrorist activities is characterised by far-reaching voluntaryism. This means that for the legislator, the stated intentions are more important than the legal provisions. It's a bad and dangerous rule. The law should be created so that even the evil will of the entity who uses the law will not allow it to be used contrary to the intention of the legislator. And it is the senators who should be the guardians of such law-making that it cannot be used contrary to the intentions of the legislator. Unfortunately, in the case of a draft law on anti-terrorist activities, situations in which the law will be used contrary to these intentions can be imagined very much. The very definition of a terrorist offence makes it possible to consider many events that have nothing to do with terrorism. You can be considered a terrorist, for example. the person who insults the President of the State. This can be considered as an essential prerequisite for launching the whole anti-terrorist procedure. ABW officers will be granted the right to almost unlimited use of public databases, as well as the ZUS registers or tax offices, and the Minister responsible for Home Affairs may prohibit the organisation of a public assembly or mass event without being able to verify this decision. In order to use these tools, all we have to do is rely on the anti-terrorist bill. The Act practically does not introduce any effective and verifiable external verification of the appropriateness of applying these mechanisms or how to exploit the effects of such actions, i.e. de facto recognises that the principle of voluntarism prevails here. Of course, High Senate, no one is stupid enough to engage anti-terrorist services in such trivial matters as these, but this is also voluntary. Even if we believe that this will be the case, the biggest threat is, unfortunately, not stupidity, but the conscious use of loopholes in the law, in a procedated law for purposes entirely different than intended. Given the experience of the near past, or actually of the present, and the presence on the political stage of actors with outstanding achievements in the exploitation of the principle of voluntarism, it may be suspected that an important element of the bill is the removal of actions from external control and the use of them for purposes that do not exist in the concept of combating terrorism. The events that will take place this year, the World Youth Days, the visit of Pope Francis, the NATO summit, are a convenient pretext for introducing such a constructed law. In this situation, as a person who takes the task of creating good law seriously, I will vote against the adoption by the Senate of a law in which, I suspect, voluntaryism is deliberately glorified instead of strict legal rules. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-15-senat-20-1.u357	Thank you very much. Please take the floor of Marshal Borowski. [[There's no...]] I don't see Mr. Marshal in the courtroom. I therefore ask that you take the floor of Senator Komarnicki. High Izbo, I inform you that if the list of speakers does not change, the end of this point will be around 10:15 p.m. We are therefore predicting this point to end today so that a committee meeting can be held tomorrow morning. These are plans for now. You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-15-senat-20-1.u358	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Dear Senators! Today's emotional speech by the Minister, one can say, has made us a little afraid that there are hordes on the border and 1.5 million people are about to be poured into Poland. Minister, I'd like to tell you that nothing like this is going to happen. I have a habit of getting ready for something I don't really know, and I consult people who know about it. I had the pleasure and opportunity to consult with, among others. with border services. Minister, I would like to reassure you: most of these refugees have cartels in their pockets, where they are first written by Germany, second by the Netherlands and third by the Netherlands. Belgium, Sweden, France. None of the cartels that were discovered during a personal search, Minister, were written anywhere in Poland. That's the good news I wanted to give you. Mr. Marshal, dear... By the way, I like young people who talk passionately, and I've received your emotional speech. Mr. Marshal, Dear Senators, today we are debating a law noisyly called anti-terrorist, and actually, in fact, a law that violates a number of guaranteed civil rights in the Constitution. I am well aware that our present times require of us And that's where I agree with the Minister. We're going to modify the law as far as terrorist threats are concerned. It is clear to me, Dear Senators, and it is not open to discussion that we must ensure safety first of all for citizens. But at the same time, the new law cannot be used for surveillance of all citizens without exception. It's a violation of the rights enshrined in the Constitution. Once again, unfortunately, associations, the social side and human rights institutions were omitted during the work on the law. For God's sake, I'm now addressing the Senators of the PiS. You must be aware that the law is to be created for citizens, not against them. The question is whether this is an anti-terrorism bill or rather an anti-democratic law. At the expense of the citizens, the government introduces a law that gives them the right to interfere in their private lives. Let me briefly mention just a few records that actually give ABW unlimited access to the lives of citizens. The service to protect citizens from terrorism is the Internal Security Agency. Other services are with her in this regard Just cooperate closely. In this situation, the records cause that the ABW is practically out of control. The ABW will have extensive powers in the field of surveillance and access to citizens' databases, e.g. ministerial, local, ZUS or Ministry of Energy, Work, Health or Environment, without the permission of the court. No more phone cards bought anonymously. Every citizen will have to provide his/her data when they are acquired. This also applies to those who already have these cards. You spoke very widely about this, Minister. ABW will test the security of ICT networks, among others. hacking into devices connected to them, e.g. for private computers, phones or the Internet in companies. It will be prohibited to use the information obtained by this way to perform other tasks and to have them destroyed without delay, but no one can control it. ABW will be able to monitor foreigners for 3 months, e.g. eavesdrop on phone calls, read their e-mails, and wear e-mails in non-public places as well. This will not require the court's approval as requested by the opposition. What's more, if the ABW interrupts by 3 months, it can start again, the process can continue indefinitely. The Act will also allow for the collection of biometric data, photo, fingerprint, iris scan or DNA from practically every foreigner. If they go to the list of suspected terrorists, they'll stay there forever, even if their suspicions are wrong. Ladies and gentlemen, perhaps it would be better if the provisions on the prevention of terrorism were included in the service-specific law rather than the creation of a super-law on which there are a number of doubts. The government of this bill creates a monster that can devour a number of innocent people. Today no one knows and can't know what the consequences are. He'll bring us this bill. One thing is certain: a few people in this country will be able to do with anything they want, without control and without consequences. And finally, that's the point. I think that these amendments, which are made here by most of my fellow senators, should be considered. I'm not saying all of them, but most of them are thoughtful, discussed. And I wish that these amendments were voted out by you, maybe for the first time, yes. If we agree that these are amendments that can only help us in the future so that we do not make another resolution law. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-15-senat-20-1.u359	Thank you very much. Please take the floor of Senator Hare.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-15-senat-20-1.u360	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Senate! Let me get out of this general thought: when you see the world today, you can conclude that people seem to be bored with living in peace. In addition, in many countries, the constitutions are obsessed with them. They're looking for some emotion and they're starting a riot. Now, let's get to the point. It's been a long time. ♪ Or never happened to me at all ♪ Something like that, in connection with some bill, I've got so many voters. Because I didn't count from the beginning, my secretary said she thought there were over 60 of them. And my territory is a very special area and sensitive to security issues. It's Chełmszczyzna and Pogórze. At the end of the war, various events went on until the mid - 1950's. 'Cause I think in 1954, he was the last one to be pulled out of the woods. And these people, contrary to what we may think, are perfectly aware of the contents of this bill. I'll admit I've had some mistakes, because some of the incoming were more familiar than me. I finally sat down and studied a little. They came with different thoughts, but they all came with anxiety. Because some of them... And let me add that most of them are older people, those who remember the 1950s, and they know what was then, what they could expect from the special forces. One of the farmers told me that he recently plowed a grave in the field he didn't know about. It's probably those special forces over there. I'm sorry I'm gonna use that term. This grave has been filled. And you really need to take into account those thoughts that I have allowed myself here in a few points to write down, the thoughts of those people. The first point is that everything that improves the safety of society is worth supporting, provided that this society is not given too high an account in the form of a deep violation of fundamental rights as well as normal harm. But that'll be the end of it. The second point that has been pointed out is that everything that has been said so far has always come from the Constitution, has always been based on the Constitution. Meanwhile, some recent times, not only in Poland, but elsewhere, also in other countries, are characterized by the fact that the constitution is beginning to tighten and is trying to handle it with some slalom, it's one way, it's the other way, doing something special every now and then. In fact, if we were to gather all these special regulations, we would have to say, well, hell, why do we need this constitution, why do we need the institutions that represent the constitution, let the services rule the country. And I'm afraid we can come to that. As far as the constitution is concerned, there are reservations. First of all, what do I sign? We have quite a large degree of shortcomings in the rules that we are adopting here. I am one of those who are very sensitive even to the grammar of what we adopt. I am no longer talking about the correctness of content or logic. Her rules, I think, both chambers break like nobody in the country. This results in the need to do these bypasses, because interpretations are involved. And if there's something wrong, then let's change and change. Once this type of data was reported, that for a year the Swedes passed about 16 laws, and we reached 250. This is what I believe to be due to the imperfections of the law that has been passed. I'd like to make a few more arguments here. But maybe one day, at the committee meeting, what we should do to avoid such a thing. The very poor substantive value of the laws was pointed out. Then there are some exceptions that usually result from shortcuts. What's the conclusion? Well, society is starting to fear both terrorists. I'm also signing here that, for now, it's potential. As well as the special forces. Especially those who remember the former special forces, those who remember And history tells a lot about it, too. The Russian service operating here after the war and during the German war. But we also have a bad post-war history of American services as well as Polish services. These people have a lot of experience. That's why I ran out of what I said yesterday. The fact that, together with the proposal for a law, statistics are presented on the extent to which we are at risk of individual terrorist acts, e.g. what is the expected number of people we can suspect of terrorism. And now what can happen? I've just started talking to the Minister about this. Well, over the past few months, I have had the opportunity to observe a series of events related to the operation of special forces. I must say, to this day From what I understand You could tell Hitchcock the whole story. It's about a novel. Because at the beginning of the event, a certain stage was staged by an accusation that resulted in more than 20 controls, repressive controls. That's what we do a lot of times, and I've personally experienced something like this. These checks have shown nothing, on the contrary. The conclusion of these checks was clear. What was the result? The fact is that a few people should be considered virtually destroyed. I wouldn't be surprised if one day I got information about the funeral... Listening to the conversations that some men of great power have with those who have been accused, I must say that these people have taken lessons somewhere very high and far from us... [[The meeting is chaired by Vice-Marshal Maria Koc]] [[Mr. Senator, time's up.]] Yeah, I'm almost done. Just one more little remark. I've lived for years in this world, I remember the beginning of the 1950s. We were considered family as so-called. I don't know what you're talking about. I remember three men in a civilian and one policeman intruding at night. After the entry into the door, the grandfather and father were placed under a tile oven and an interrogation took place: and why wheat was not given in the amount of such and such... [[Mr. Senator...]] ...when this should have been done until yesterday; and why... It took a few hours, and no one at home slept until morning. It's in my mind forever. I wouldn't want to go through it again, Minister. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-15-senat-20-1.u361	Thank you, Senator. We're sorry for your traumatic memories. Please take the floor of Senator Jan Maria Jackowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-15-senat-20-1.u362	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I think Senator Hare has gone a little overboard with the comparison he made here. I do not know if the High Chamber listened carefully, but comparing the actions of the Third Reich's violence apparatus or the Polish People's Republic and the services of the free Third Republic is a huge exaggeration. I hope the senator will reflect and somehow explain the intention of his speech. But that's by the way. High Izbo, I'd like to remind you of some facts. Well, on Friday 17 October 2008, at 18.25 p.m., the media stated that the MSWiA started working on the Anti-Terrorism Act. As journalist Adam Rapacki, vice-chief of the Ministry, has told journalists, during the week the team called to write it is to be assembled for the first time. The law contains regulations on the fight against terrorism. The bill is supposed to fill in the legal gaps... And now the statement of Deputy Minister Rapacki, which I will quote: "Crowning terrorist slogans, calling or participating in training camps preparing terrorists." it should already be states prohibited by law and criminal law. Next: The task and competence of the Counter-Terrorism Centre, which this month started operating at the Internal Security Agency, will also need to be recorded in the Act. In further press releases, we read that the new law will allow the services to monitor and apprehend suspects more freely without a court ruling for at least 72 hours, and I would remind you that the Constitution explicitly refers to 48 hours. Although it will not allow torture, it is likely that it will allow the transfer of suspects to countries such as: Egypt, where torture at hearings can be used. This happened at a time when Senator Klich was Minister of National Defence and Grzegorz Schetyn was Minister of Interior and direct superior of Deputy Minister General Rapacki, who, as it turns out, was right at the time because he proposed such solutions and spoke about them in a clear, powerful way, and it was about solutions that could eat our hair on our heads today. And this is where I address Senator Hare. If that bill came into force and one of your loved ones was dragged to Egypt for torture, I don't know. I'm sorry about that comparison, but I'm moving on. If that were the right thing to do, it would be the right thing to do. Let's move on. 2012, July 10th, press release, and here Paweł Wojtunik, head of the Central Anti-corruption Office: 99 percent in Poland Criminals use phones like that. It's about prepaid because it makes it easier to do illegal business. Actually, there are no cases where such people use their subscription phones. Also when a foreign criminal comes to Poland, the first thing he does is buy a starter at the airport. And then, Paul Wojtunik's position as Central Bura Anti-corruption translates graphically: "I am sure that if anyone criticizing the excessive authority of the service kidnapped a child, he would demand that the online police investigate the phone records that can lead to the perpetrators. He would not have considered that the rights and freedoms of his neighbors, friends and loved ones had been violated by checking their connections. I know it's unpopular. But the effective fight against crime, terrorism or corruption always takes place at the expense of restricting or interfering with part of civil rights and freedoms. End of the quote from Paul Wojtunik's statement of July 2012. And go on. On the other hand, Mr Biernacki, the head of the then internal affairs committee of the Polish Parliament, spoke about the idea of introducing such an amendment into the telecoms bill that prepaids must be registered First, however, it will be necessary to explain to the public the substance of this proposal. Without this, it is not even worth considering, because we are very sensitive to personal data issues. High Izbo, Minister Wąsik in his speech revealed to us and reminded us, because it actually happened that there was a law on the Internal Security Agency, submitted by Minister Sienkiewicz. Well, it wasn't a man connected to Law and Justice, it was a minister in Donald Tusk's government. He carried out a bill in which, as you quoted from the Minister, there was a record that the head of the Internal Security Agency could order a wiretap of foreigners without any control, without territorial restrictions, without time limits. And then none of the esteemed representatives, so concerned about the fate of the citizen, about the rights of the citizens, the Civic Platform. He didn't protest and say, "This is a scandal." [[Voice from the Chamber: Was it in this House?]] It was in the Seym, I'm talking about the Members of the Civic Platform. High Izbo, it must also be said that during the PO-PSL times the number of wirets increased dramatically. Let us remind you of the practices of Donald Tusk and Eve Kopacz's reign when people were under surveillance on a massive scale. For example, in 2011, i.e. in the days of the government of Donald Tusk, the prosecutor's office, police and services, but also the courts applied for phone records exactly 1 million 856 thousand 888 times. The groundbreaking year was 2009, i.e. the times of the Civic Platform government, because police, courts, prosecutors and servants gathered more than 1 million knowledge about Poles, which can be read from information about telephone calls, and already there was a record on the scale of the European Union. And now, in view of these facts... And if we add to that, as we hear, there are reports that journalists have been listening, entering the editorial board and other practices that have been applied. This was discussed during the audit in the Sejm, when government information was presented on what was happening in Poland in the years 2007 to 2015 and the surveillance of the pilgrims of Radio Maryja, surveillance of Catholic environments, independent journals, independent journalists... So we are dealing with a reality that is hard not to describe as hypocrisy. Because now there are these crocodile tears poured out over some supposed human rights attack, and that's when we're facing an unprecedented threat from the global side already, you have to say, terrorism. And now that the government is trying to make up for all the negligence that the Platform's eight years of government have been... Minister Klich proudly stated that there was no seym print. And that is the problem, that these laws were not carried out then, and even then they were needed, but it was left to us why as an unfinished matter. And the practice was like I said: citizens were being monitored on an industrial scale. This was the reality: seemingly liberal, sympathetic, human rights, etc., and in reality The collection of information on uncomfortable citizens or on uncomfortable environments. Now we hear that this law, which is very much needed and which finally gives the services, the state police, the public administration the instruments for the necessary actions, so as to respond in a proportionate manner to the degree of threat, the law that is being carried out, raises a great deal of concern at the moment, a great deal of dissatisfaction. One would like to say: why is this happening? Why is it so critical today? Why is such an argument raised? Unfortunately, it is a character action, I would say, distracting from these omissions, but also the practices that have taken place in the past. And in my opinion, it is also an attempt to raise political capital, especially on the issue of prepaid card registration, because they are usually used by young people; it is an attempt to gain, to raise political capital on the potential dissatisfaction of the group that uses this telecommunications service. And this is a cynical action, that is, acting at the expense of public security, social security, the security of the Polish state and playing with life. As a result, I am convinced that after this debate, after listening to this argument, the Civic Platform will not put its finger on the fact that the Polish State does not have the right instruments for preventive action in Europe at present, I stress: prevention. Because this is extremely necessary, especially in the face of terrorist threats. 'Cause then, after the explosion, after the bombing, after some act. terrorism can weep and flower, yes, weep for the victims. But it is better to prevent such tragic events from happening. And those events that took place in France, Belgium, other countries where acts of terror... [[Mr. Senator, time's up.]] ...they best show how important it is in this case to blow to the cold. I would like to thank the government for taking this initiative. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-15-senat-20-1.u363	Thank you very much, Senator. I'll ask Senator Jarosław Oremski to speak. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-15-senat-20-1.u364	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I'd like to start with a case like this. It seems to me that there was some unnecessary use of arguments to remind the former authority of some tardiness. And it's not just because times just change. I look at Euro 2012 in Poland, at Euro 2016 in France. In this context It is probably fair to say that, unfortunately, our Europe is not going in the right direction when it comes to reducing the terrorist threat. So it was a slightly different time. On the part of the Platform, however, some activities were undertaken which were not formalised, but which to a large extent went in a similar direction to what the government was proposing at the moment. But when I say that this is not necessary, it is mainly because, perhaps in such important matters, we should not close ourselves in the bubbles of thought: it is the PiS, it is the Platform. And when Mrs Barbara Zdrojewska lectures the Minister and talks about running away from emotion, I would like to say that I missed Mrs Zdrojewska very much in the previous term during the speeches by Mr Arłukowicz or Mr Rostowski. So I guess it's not like that... I'd like to live in a country where if the senator suspects, like Mr. Hare, that he was being eavesdropped, he'll have information about why, and reliable information, whether he was. I don't understand why Mrs. Shark says it doesn't matter if the Minister's wife was being eavesdropped or not. If that's not important, then why all this debate? That's the essence, the essence is when wiretaps are legal and when they're illegal. I appeal to the Platform's side to come out of the bubble of belief that there is some intricate plan being created, and each next act serves to ensure that there are no democratic elections in Poland anymore, that the PiS is only lurking to eavesdrop on politicians and journalists. I am not accusing you of projection, although Mr Jackowski was talking about the earlier scale of wiretapping, but I note that this is a natural trend, unfortunately, that when there is no control, there is an increase in the scope of the power of special services. It makes me laugh that those who are behind this law refer to examples of France and Denmark, and those who are against it speak of similar solutions in Russia and Turkey. It's just that terrorism doesn't just hit democratic states. Each of these countries is looking for a solution. In any case, even after the explosions in Istanbul, I am on the side of those who died and not those who fired this charge. This does not change the fact that there is a problem, I fully agree with the Minister. Europe has holes in its boundaries. Europe can't handle terrorism. We're gonna be living in a permanent crisis when there's gonna be terrorist attacks. We have a system of liberal democracy, which is also largely exploited by terrorists. Sometimes they have more rights than those who die because of them. The balance between security and freedom so far is changing. This is not the Europe from 30, 20, 10 or 5 years ago. I would like to point out that this change: more security at the expense of our freedom, throughout Europe, is done with the consent of the citizens. Because this fear exists and we can't escape it. Of course, one can ask whether human life is always the most important. I don't know, it reminds me at the moment of such a sad debate in the UN that they wanted to destroy the windows of life, because the right to know who the father and mother are is more important than the right to live. It seems to me that in the hierarchy of human rights, life is fundamental because without it all the rest makes no sense. However, there are, of course, situations where the state does not put citizens' lives at the highest. This is the case, for example. Defensive war or any such situation completely, completely unique. But every power has a duty of security. This is absolutely fundamental. I'm the one who can sometimes, using my rights, risking my life for other things, taking some risky action. But it's by using my rights. And it is your duty to ensure security. Therefore, the state often interferes, for example, with the speed of moving cars on our roads. Otherwise, please note, 3 years ago, after the riots on 11 November, there was a bill tabled by President Komorowski, and then, I remember, there was a horribly biting commentary by Senator Kutz, who said that this was a gift from our civil rights, a gift from the Platform for President Komorowski. I would not sign these words because I want to believe that the Platform, when it was in power, felt responsible for the safety of the Polish people. But I would point out that the change was caused not by a terrorist threat, but by the fact that there were always street fights on November 11th. So let's look at it in these categories. And for me, it is quite natural that NGOs and the Ombudsman are trying, in this discussion, to balance between security and freedom, to stand on the side of freedom; and perhaps this is partly the case, as if it were the duty of the opposition. I believe that we have a duty of respect for the past to hear words about this by Marshal Borusewicz or Sławomir Rybicki. Of course I do. And I would be surprised if the ombudsman thought in other categories in this position he is taking, because it allows for a certain balance to be sought. And even if the party who believes that this law should be relaxed is fully overruled, the discussion in the longer term serves to seek balance. I think that such a search, also in legal terms, is taking place throughout Europe. Please note that the English are losing some of the processes associated with anti-terrorist laws in the human rights court, which is actually a bit of a legal understanding of the battle. But I want to make it clear that the fact that they're losing in the Court doesn't mean that their parliament is wrong. I wouldn't dare say that. It's just that the human rights tribunal is going to have a slightly different accents. And one more thing. Senator Ryszka said that an honest man has nothing to fear in this bill. And that's something I agree with. I don't mind the fact that all the streets are being monitored, it doesn't even matter if someone gets in my mail, and so on. But sometimes there's something very delicate, e.g. If I were an investigative journalist, knowing that I could be fully controlled, like my e-mails, would be a limitation. When I'm a senator and I get information, for example. about large-scale corruption, it's the fact that I can be checked, it's also kind of an element that can reduce my effectiveness. Thus, the element of some concern that the authority of the service should not be increased is important. Now for the next element: context. Where do terrorists hit? Where it's loudest, somewhere near the Eiffel Tower or in Brussels or under Big Ben, but also where it's the least. I take it that the discussion about the Anti-Terrorism Act and the fact that Poland has an anti-Terrorism Act is the sending of a signal, we are prepared, this is an element that I think is reducing the likelihood of an attack. Please note: in the streets of Paris are scots, next to armed men. I can't imagine what it's like to protect myself from terrorists. Is it that these soldiers are going to hide in them, or are they going to drive them into a crowd where there's a bomb? No, it's creating certain psychological elements: we're safe and we're trying to control the situation. So I don't take these actions only in the real world, but also in the virtual world. And that's a little point. [[Mr. Senator, time is running out.]] I'm talking for nine minutes and 30 seconds, so I'll be able to tell you. It's an alien case. Of course there is a problem, although in this House our thinking is primarily focused on the safety of Poles. But let's stop fooling each other. When you're at airports, please pay attention to who's controlled when it comes to whether someone has a beard, what color, etc. It is not known why the service chooses one and does not choose another. But if we did a correlation, it would turn out that there's something far from political correctness. So let's stop fooling each other about some things here. And it's really the last thing. I agree with Senator Klich that greater powers for services mean the need to look for a bigger formula of control. It's not easy. Today we are all digging into our own views, but I would like to ask the Human Rights Committee to try to organise a conference on these issues, because this is a problem that is still present in Europe at the moment. It is about how to control when we really increase the competence of services across Europe. It's not easy to find an answer here, so at first I'm going to say this: I think it should be a seminal work. For now, let us send a signal to Poles that we care about them, that security is extremely important to us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-15-senat-20-1.u365	Thank you very much. Now please take the floor of Senator Leszek Czarnobaj.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-15-senat-20-1.u366	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I will begin by referring to Senator Oremski's speech. It can be said that I almost entirely agree with the thesis that Senator Jarek Oremski put here, because he presented the essence of the questions that fell in this room. But of course I wouldn't be me if I said I agreed with everything, Dear Jark. Namely, the statement that the honest have nothing to fear, always causes the marshal to shake hands, because it is a certain blackmail, because it is a thesis that brought much evil in the previous era. That's why I'd like to say If I haven't misunderstood that I disagree with the claim and the thesis that the honest have nothing to fear. We do not question certain elements related to the draft anti-terrorist law. Minister, all these questions... I particularly address Senator Jackowski and the Senators of Law and Justice... If someone asks questions, even the hardest ones, please do not take it so as to oppose the bill. I personally respond positively to the thesis and questions raised by Senator Oremski, concerning the safety of life, etc. I'm not going to repeat everything Senator Oremski said so well. We're asking different questions. We ask how the citizen is protected from the evil operation of the service. If history is a teacher of the future... There is a Polish film, one can say that it is a feature film, entitled "The Closed System," which shows what it means to a citizen towards a collusive prosecutor, special services and a state apparatus. If you remember... There's a scene where the lead actor in the last word says to his dog, "We're still gonna grow up." This shows the essence to which we should ask ourselves: what are the safeguards against excessive exploitation of the right against the citizen and against him, the wrongly accused citizen? Fundamental questions about existence relate to the spirit of freedom and the spirit of law. Well, the spirit of the law has already been largely killed by the Law and Justice in Poland, starting with the Constitutional Court... The spirit of the law, you can say, is in decline. And now such laws as the Police Act, the Law on the Public Prosecutor's Office and the elements of today's Act pose great threats to the killing of the spirit of freedom. I was reviewing the results of sociological studies conducted among Poles a month ago. Poles today may not yet feel the terrorist threat that has been mentioned from this stand, putting the spirit of freedom ahead of the spirit of security. So they think the wrong thing is to take freedom, that it's kind of a threat. And this law gives enormous powers to the service to use elements related to the management of wrong, to put it directly, of accusations against citizens in Poland. And that's one aspect. The other is what the Minister said. I wrote it down here on the cover: we're in charge and no organization will tell us what to do. You remember the speeches of the Senators of Law and Justice in the previous term: we listen to the voice of the organization, we listen to the voice of the citizens. If you've listened so far, now part of our concern is that you've stopped listening. And the appeal of eight organizations that talk about certain threats that are worth paying attention to, which are worth discussing-- these organizations are being sold by the minister, they're being sold by the members of the committee. An application for the adoption of a law without amendment shall be submitted. I'm not gonna quote the whole appeal. But if we are talking about blocking the Internet, too wide the powers of the services and restricting the freedom of assembly, we are talking about certain doubts that this law does not protect citizens from this kind of action. That is why we believe that the elements relating to the safeguarding of civil liberties are as important as ensuring the right to security and to life. You can't ask what's more important: security or freedom. These are elements that should go hand in hand. And this law poses enormous threats to the ability to exploit... and direct action against citizens. Polish services, according to the report, are not prone to subsidiarity, i.e. the use of wiretapping and surveillance at the end. This is the first, most important instrument that Polish services use. Unlimited access to information without judicial review, lack of judicial review in the case of foreigners, i.e. all these elements related to wholesale access to personal data. These are the issues that were raised during this debate. But before Senator Jackowski leaves... [[I'm going to my seat.]] Uh-huh. I would like to say two more sentences about your speech. Mr. Senator, you are a very experienced man in the Senate, and I would like to say this: first of all, as to what the Minister was talking about... A large proportion of these laws were based on the experience of those working in the service in previous terms. I don't see anything bad or good in it, it's just natural. The predecessors were creating something, the successors are enjoying it. Or they're rejecting and creating something whole. There is only a very important issue that you spoke about, Marshal Borusewicz. It is a law in its entirety, as you said the marshal, written by the service, for the service and for the use of the service, to the best extent possible, and in the case of evil or evil intentions. Sometimes, God forbid, against the citizen. That's one thing. Secondly, Mr. Senator, I'd like you to tell the difference between wiretap and phone records. Because I understand that someone who doesn't care about it can be wrong about what a wiretap is and what it is to ask for phone records. And I would like to inform you that Poland, when it comes to listening to 100,000 inhabitants, is not at all at the forefront. There are many countries in the European Union that have a much higher rate of wiretapping. I'm talking about those years that have passed. You're right, though, that the service has turned up, like, a million 800 thousand times about phone records. And here we are at the top of the line. What was the result? From what I was saying: the service, in the assessment of the report, followed the line of least resistance. What's that? It's best to start with phone records. And when the phone records show something, it's a wiretap. Such a method was criticised. And I'm asking you to distinguish the wiretap from the phone records. And now that we say that the predecessors, PO-PSL, have written a large part of this bill, you can have concerns. But I'm definitely starting to worry when a group that has a tendency to serve, a tendency to disbelieve citizens, a tendency to think that each one of us is a potential suspect... This raises concerns that such vague provisions in the Anti-Terrorism Act can be used by services against citizens. What's a police state? The police state is such a country, Senator and Dear State, in which the citizen becomes powerless against power. Look at the structure that PiS creates for a period of one year. I'm thinking like I said in one of the interviews today. After the departure of the Holy Father, the period of hard dictatorship will begin. This is the whole construction, starting with a prosecutor who can do anything, and ending with an anti-terrorist bill. A citizen, if anyone insists, is actually powerless. So this thesis: give me a man, and we'll find the right arguments for him, he's fantastically attached here. To conclude, I would like to say a few words to the Minister. Minister, why are we having so much doubt? We're talking about doubt not to make you nervous and lose your health, just to get you to listen to us. And sometimes he thought about it, 'cause maybe these people are right. I'm not saying that I, but Mr. Marshal Borusewicz has dealt with many services and knows what he says if he talks about the services or if Senator Rybicki. These are people who have experienced it on their own, know what instruments... Besides, today you said you've experienced it, too. But, Minister, today you... [[Time, Mr. Senator.]] Last sentence, Mrs. Marshal. [[You're welcome.]] I'm talking about the following event. Well, you said, Minister, that the Venice Commission highly commended, so I understood, or praised The law on the police no longer applies. That's how I figured it out. I'm the one who wants to tell you that apart from the two sentences you've read saying that yes, it's okay, it's different. I'll read them to you: this is unlimited surveillance. It is recommended that an independent control body be urgently established, that the surveillance authority should have the right to a complaint, that surveillance be limited and that it be better controlled, that there is no protection in Polish law against abuse of evidence acquired in the crime, etc. So the Venice Commission says you're going pretty well, but you've made such a mess that a citizen can be... [[Time, Mr. Senator.]] ...powerless against all that will be applied. Therefore, Minister, I would like to say this: I believe that what is needed in Poland regarding the Anti-Terrorism Act is necessary for a sense of security, but I would like you to listen to our doubts and listen to the doubts of those organizations which made appropriate observations. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-15-senat-20-1.u367	Thank you very much. Please, Mr. Mieczysław... [[I'm in corrigendum mode.]] In corrigendum mode. Please, Mr. Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-15-senat-20-1.u368	In corrigendum mode. I've got three minutes. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I would like to correct the information that you have just presented to Senator Leszek Czarnobaj about me. Well, I'm going to start by saying that I know exactly what the difference between wiretapping and phone records is, and I know perfectly well that at a time when the Civic Platform was running, when it comes to using phone records, there were virtually no limits. That's why the servants are unpunished... As you admitted, the services were actually not controlled by the government, and because of what you yourself said, there was more than 1 million 800 thousand billing checks. This is the simplest method. It did not require the consent of the court, I stress, it did not require, in contrast to wiretapping, for which it had to be presented in the proper procedure after 5 days. Besides, it was a very comfortable operating material. If someone wanted to find out who was talking to, how long the conversation lasted and where he was at the time, because through the BTS it could be very precise where the conversation was held, then even the content of the conversation is not so necessary for operational purposes. From this point of view, I thank the senator, thank you for admitting that at the time of the Civic Platform, they were not supervised and hence the 1 million 800 thousand checks. But, Senator Dear, I didn't say, repeat, I didn't talk about the record number of wirets, so don't impputate me that I said it was record-breaking, because here you're right that for 100,000 wirets... [[Talking in the O.R.]] There weren't that many of them, but they weren't needed, because it was the billing method that got the information. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-15-senat-20-1.u369	Okay, thank you, Senator. [[Mrs. Marshal, Mrs. Marshal, in correction mode.]] Mr. Senator, but... [[In corrigendum mode.]] ...you're going into polemics... [[But, Mrs. Marshal, one sentence, I can even get out of here.]] [[But in corrigendum mode...]] [[In corrigendum mode.]] Mr. Senator, that's one sentence, please, and we're finishing this argument because Senator Mieczysław Augustyn... [[...he's already nervous.]] ...waiting for his speech.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-15-senat-20-1.u370	Thank you, Marshal, one sentence. Senator, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to say again: I did not say that there was no supervision of the services under the PO-PSL regime, please do not draw such conclusions. I said that during these governments there were 1 million 800 thousand calls for phone records, and it was a big increase in relation to the situation from previous years. And I didn't say any surveillance. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-15-senat-20-1.u371	Okay, thank you very much. [[And you didn't say that the service on the line of least resistance...]] Thank you very much. Now Mr Mieczysław Augustyn. [[Talking in the O.R.]] Gentlemen of the Senators! [[Mrs. Marshal...]] Mr. Senator in what mode? [[References to the correction.]] And, Mr. Senator... Because I don't know what you're referring to... [[What Senator Blackbay said.]] [[Oh, no, no, no!]] Mr. Senator, why don't you... [[Cascading, right?]] Wait a minute, Mr. Senator. I suggest you exercise your right, you have another five minutes to speak, and maybe you'd like to speak later. Okay? We'll write that down. You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-15-senat-20-1.u372	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! A little bit about what was in the debate and about this law right away. The bill is supposed to be the answer to specific problems. What problems do we have in Poland? Recently, after the bombings in Paris, the prime minister at a meeting with the services says to us: "No problem, we are safe, we are secure." Then it turns out that the explanatory statement casts doubt on these words: we are not safe enough, we do not have enough authority, etc. There's absolutely no consequence. What's our problem? We have a problem, a problem of trust, and it's not just the authorities, it's the service. Senator Jackowski was just trying to prove what it was like during the Platform, whether the service was properly supervised, whether it worked... Unfortunately, the answers are negative. We've seen all kinds of manipulations, wiretappings that couldn't be mastered, absolutely. What was missing and what is absolutely not in this law is proper supervision. And as it was in your day, he ruled the court. If it wasn't for the pardon, the Minister knows, please don't take it to heart, but, well, otherwise you can't. After all, if it weren't for the questionable pardon of President Duda... the court found that there was abuse. Ladies and gentlemen, the people who lived in the previous system, like me, know that we should be distrustful of the services. That's the first rule. The services are distrustful of us, and we should be distrustful of the services. If we give them any authority, it's only in an absolutely emergency situation. I asked at the committee meeting, and I asked here, are there any figures? Are there any situations that indicate an increase in the terrorist threat in Poland? The Prime Minister says no. Her minister says so. Then what's to stay here? What's going on here? And not a word about supervision in the bill. And yet, when additional powers are given, it is in the interest of citizens' safety that supervision must follow. This is where the times have been recalled a few times... the Minister quoted, Senator Jackowski, what regulations were prepared during the Platform. Ladies and gentlemen, the service always wants more authority. Always. All of them. The ministers of the coordinators also demand this because they are on their side. But we in Parliament should watch as human rights are guaranteed, whether this is all going too far. And that's what we should pay the most attention to, the surveillance we lack here. I'll tell you what I think is most disturbing. I also talked about this at the committee meeting. The Minister said that the definition of a terrorist event is in the criminal code. Okay, but she's very general, and the bill doesn't specify her. There is not even a statement here that this will apply in the event of a reasonable suspicion of a suspicion. There is no indication of circumstances that would give rise to this suspicion. There is no procedure to be followed in this respect. Well, ladies and gentlemen, this definition can be used freely. There is no oversight, I stress: there is no oversight, and therefore human rights, civil rights are at stake. And that's what the Ombudsman says. The same is said by NGOs and I believe they are right. I have also raised the issue of attitude towards the citizens of the European Union. Ladies and gentlemen, the Foreigners Act refers to this And the Minister here spoke of foreigners, so I don't think he fully knows this law, that the foreigner is not a citizen of the European Union. And we in this area of the Foreigners Act do not change In other ranges we change, including not. However, in other regulations we say that, yes, we cover them with these strict rules. Well, in the opinion of the Ombudsman and myself, this is contrary to the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, it is contrary to the conventions we have signed, it is contrary to the Charter of Fundamental Rights and it is contrary to at least one judgment of the Constitutional Court of 2000, which ruled that citizens of the European Union cannot be deprived of rights and cannot be less, their protection cannot be less than that of Poles. Ladies and gentlemen, today there are thousands of foreigners in Warsaw, sitting at tables, and they do not know that they will soon be on the list of suspects that they will become citizens of another category here in Poland in the European Union. This is a situation that should not have happened, ladies and gentlemen. Perhaps this would be justified if we were deprived of the tools of selection from among those who come here, those who can bring terrorism to us. But it's not. I have made sure that our services have signed agreements with almost every country of the European Union, especially those in which terrorism has revealed itself and where there are people who could bring it to us. So that there's an exchange of information and we can stop these people right at the border. There is absolutely no need for all foreigners from the European Union to put in this bag. There's no need for that. I agree with the Prime Minister. There is no such threat, there is no increase in threat, there is no need for this law. But if she were to enter into force because we are powerless against the majority, let her be in line with the Foreign Act and not qualify those who are our fellow citizens in the European Union. We have the tools for those who could come to us with bad intentions, to sow from the others, so there is no need to do so. That is why I am making an appropriate amendment to the article. 9, Art. 10, thus denying what the Minister said The Platform, which has already tabled so many amendments, does not want to work on specific records. Now we'll see Mr. Minister comes in. How the Minister will respond to these amendments, and there is a whole lot of them. I would also like to add that I fully support the amendments These amendments were tabled and proposed by our Legislative Office. Mrs. Marshal, I am handing over an amendment that, in my opinion, could improve this bill. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-15-senat-20-1.u373	Thank you very much, Senator. And you will speak to Senator Piotr Florek.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-15-senat-20-1.u374	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Security and civil rights. Where's the line? She is, of course, difficult to determine, but you have to be very careful not to move her one way or the other. Security is important, but civil rights are also important. Senator Jackowski was saying, "What if?" He said what would happen if the bill, which didn't even go to committee, the Senate and the Sejm, had been introduced, etc. There's been a lot of different projects over the years. I myself had the opportunity to participate in preparations for Euro 2012, when security issues were a priority when we took various important actions. Ladies and gentlemen, I'll tell you what would have happened. If you know that soon, in a few months there will be a NATO and World Youth Day summit in Poland We knew that in advance. It's something to think about, Minister, when you make HR decisions... It must be remembered that there are experienced police officers, experienced firefighters, that both central and voivodship services have a lot of experience because they participated in various events where security was important. If you replace the staff... I can give many examples, from the district level to the voivodship level. My opinion is always that these servants Whether it's the police, whether it's the fire department or the customs service, it's not the political service. These are people who have a lot of experience and with this experience you need to enjoy. These are people who were often sent abroad, e.g. to the United States, for various types of training and have a lot of experience. And what does it turn out to be? That we have a lot of... Maybe that's the kind of statistics you need to create and see what it looks like. How many chiefs are there... I'm just going to mention Chief Maya, who made such rapid changes, probably very inconvenient. How many police chiefs are there, how many police chiefs in the county? I can quote the whole list. These are mostly young people, 50 or 50 years old. They're retiring, of course. They retired because the demotion from such a position... the posts they were offered were not adequate, and they were retiring. We're gonna be discussing a reduction in retirement age in a minute, about how much money it takes for pensioners... If you count it over the years, you can see how much our country costs to keep these pensioners. I think it's very important. We need to think about whether this is really the way it's supposed to be. It is also a matter of trust in you, in the service. I think that everyone, looking at these changes, perceives them as not so necessary, not so necessary in every way. NATO Summit and World Youth Days. This has already been mentioned, so I just want to signal briefly that we have adopted special laws for both the World Youth Days and the NATO Summit. We know what preparations look like. And now it turns out that an urgent additional law on anti-terrorist activities is still needed. As Senator Augustine just said, servants always want as much power as possible. It's normal. After all, this law is also preferred by the servants. And that's normal, but we have to take into account civil rights and freedoms. We can't cross that line. I don't want to repeat myself, but it could be mentioned: unlimited access by the ABW to many registers, the lack of an independent control body, i.e. external control... I'm not going to talk about relations with foreigners anymore, because here is actually a slogan: you're unwelcome in the country, be careful when you arrive, we'll control you and check you out. That will be the reaction of these changes. And the last thing you need to know is that there's a terrorist threat. These degrees are introduced and dismissed by the President of the Council of Ministers, as I recall, after consultation or at the request of the Head of the Home Affairs Department, and in cases of urgent urgency, the Minister responsible for Home Affairs. They make such decisions, but it works and the case of introduction, and in case of cancellation of this condition. It's also a danger here, even though we won't find out... But you said that, of course, there could be such causes... Because when it comes to gatherings, it's also voivodeship, mayor, mayor, maybe they can interfere when it comes to organizing associations... They can cancel, but in this case, we won't know what the threat is. It is a justification that this increased state is being introduced by order of the President of the Council of Ministers First, second, third or fourth And then you don't know when you're gonna appeal it. Maybe it'll be canceled in a month, maybe in six months or maybe it's been given an example of what it looks like in France. A year from now. In view of what I said, for example, when it comes to some choices that take place, whether it's local elections, it is important to consider whether, in this situation, when we have a limited... Although I won't say third degree, and fourth degree is probably too high, but third degree... Besides, I don't know if there's going to be the same limitations in the first and second degree. It's unexplainable, it's nowhere to be found, and we don't know anything about it. Bottom line, let me put it this way: so you don't say that we do. We support terrorism... 'Cause that's what they said, and so on. Of course, that is absolutely not true. Nobody wants any terrorist attacks in the country, and there are particularly tragic consequences. That is why I would like to make an amendment. My amendment is that this bill we're going to adopt... 'Cause you're probably gonna accept this bill, there's no discussion. And you're gonna accept it without any adjustments. With all of you here, I can accept the bet that there will be no amendments, no amendments. Then you will accept this bill. But if that is the case, should we not consider introducing it for a temporary, transitional period, and in the meantime... to give ourselves time for further consultations, to examine whether these civil rights will indeed be retained until the end? I'm making an amendment to this bill... I'm proposing an amendment like this. After Article 2 (1) (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013, the Commission shall adopt implementing acts in accordance with the examination procedure referred to in Article 4 of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013. The following Article shall be inserted: "The Act shall Because you say that the NATO Summit, that the World Youth Days, that these are so important events that this law is needed. With my experience, I'm sure this bill won't change anything anymore, but if you think she's really needed, then go ahead... There will be an entire August to draw conclusions after this law has been introduced. And to give myself some time, it's not until the end of July, but until the end of August... The point is to make this amendment to this law for a certain period of time. I'm calling for an amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-15-senat-20-1.u375	Thank you very much, Senator. Professor Michał Sewerynski. You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-15-senat-20-1.u376	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! There are two reasons for me to be brief: it's late, and besides, I'm a little cold. But I also have one reason to say something. I would like, ladies and gentlemen, to have a very narrow group. it will allow itself a little broader reflection, maybe without indirect reference to the bill, but in direct connection with this law. We all agree that we are living in civilization wars, one great war between two civilizations. The result of this clash of civilization that we did not want in Europe It has come to us from outside Europe, and it is an increase in terrorist threats and organised crime. Our vision of a democratic, legal state, our Christian axiology, all of this has been questioned and threatened. Then we must defend ourselves. And, unfortunately, this way of defence leads by limiting the standards of our European civilization, high, based on respect for man, for his life, for freedom. We have to deal with that. In this direction, we are going to counter this threat. This is the world trend. Moreover, we see, although with regret that this trend is accepted. Look, Gentlemen of the Senators, the examples are obvious. Isn't it that we've accepted fingerprints, biometric passports, the sniper who shoots without looking for a higher state of necessity? We're just getting to that now, somewhere else it's been adopted before, we've only seen it in movies before. And do these, let's face it, often for us demeaning forms of airport control, not interfere very brutally with our sense of privacy, personal freedom? We have accepted all of this, and there is a growing trend in this respect. The scope of our freedom and privacy is becoming increasingly thinner, because we see that a reasonable solution is just that. Let me give you an example, ladies and gentlemen. In May, in one of the very large European countries, with a very long and beautiful democratic tradition, one of the deputies, the left-wing party, submitted a bill to ensure that, in order to guarantee the security of the state, when this is required by security, one could even request from a lawyer and a doctor information about their clients and patients, who have so far been a legal and medical secret. A great country, a world power that teaches us democracy, how an opportunity is given. This is the direction determinant, this is the signum temporis. This bill has not yet been passed there, this is a project. Of course, he was highly criticized by the medical and legal community. Ladies and gentlemen, who of us had the opportunity to look at the Internet today, saw information, for example from our senate correspondent in Brussels, what is the message given by the French and Belgian police: that there are 2 Syrian commandos coming from the Islamic State for a specific purpose to France and Belgium that they are about to make appropriate attacks there. It's not invented. I read it an hour ago. Ladies and gentlemen, let's add to the fact that we are witnessing some paradoxical imbalance. We defend human rights And we're right to defend it. We try to limit the possibilities of public services, the state, so that they can interfere as little as possible in the sphere of our freedom. And what happens in the free market, in the information market, in security? It's okay. It's okay. It's okay. These forces are slowing down, they have more resources than the state is obliged to provide us with internal security and our protection. Can we accept such a disproportion? After all, today per fas et nefas can be bought on the market all the information about us and you can buy yourself a private army if someone thinks that the state police and other services are unable to defend us. Because such measures exist today. Private forces are more free than state security services. I'd like to risk a hypothesis. Maybe it's worth thinking about it. We're used to watching very much. I, as chairman of the Human Rights Committee, can only confirm this to what it is like. the case law of international human rights tribunals. We are concerned if the judgments against Poland, in which we have lost, are not executed in time, we are somehow trying to counter this with the government. But, ladies and gentlemen, my hypothesis goes in that direction that we are on the eve of a time when these tribunals will have to drop a little bit of the tone, from the level of defense and from the level of case law. I'm not saying it triumphantly. We are probably on the eve of something even bigger, we may have to revise our concept of human rights standards to which we are accustomed, which we consider to be expensive to ourselves, of which we are proud, because they are the expanse of our civilization, high, wonderful. We believe that we have an advantage in this regard, and we would be happy to give it to others. And it turns out that in contact with the forces of evil, with this alien, contrary to our values of civilization, we simply need to limit ourselves to our ideas of high standards of human rights that we respect in our country. I say it without triumph. And we all have to say that we agree whether we want to accept this limitation of our freedom and privacy with sadness, because it looks a bit like our vision of man, this great, wonderful, referring to the noble side of the human being, was losing with the primitive evil that this vision of man rejects. But we didn't find any other form of defense. We didn't find another form of defense. So let us not allow terrorists to gain an advantage over us, let us draw the right conclusions from these threats that are growing. And I don't hesitate to use those words: let's do everything and even pray that this threat doesn't come to us. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-15-senat-20-1.u377	Thank you very much, Senator. Now please take the floor of Senator Robert Dowhan.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-15-senat-20-1.u378	Thank you, Mrs. Marshal. High Izbo! Minister! It is true, Mr. Senator, that everything must be done to prevent such situations from happening. But are there so many laws that we are writing that are written today, like the one that we are discussing, in order to interfere so much in our private lives, in the lives of our citizens? I would like to believe in the good intentions of this law, Minister, because only good intentions and good will will will lead to the fact that it will actually carry out the intention that you have spoken of here. I don't want the emotions going on here, just like during your speech, the emotions coming from a family member's wiretap, because we don't know that... But I don't think it should be pulled out, because it arouses these bad emotions, and it might look like someone's trying the other way now to do anything to, I don't know, prove otherwise, or get revenge on someone... I wouldn't want that to happen. On the other hand, there was an example of the man who constructed the bomb. And the argument was made that thanks to the Police Act he had been detected. I think without that bill, everyone would have gotten on their heads, like they said, to detect this man. I know that all the services were involved, first of all, the media got involved very strongly too, showing at any time the figure of a man who was, of course, masked, but we know that everyone has a specific walk, sometimes clothes, sometimes an element that someone can see... I don't know exactly what that investigation looked like, but I don't think anyone was blocking it. And it won't block access to a private phone, to a private account. And without such a bill, you had the right to do anything to capture a man who was suspected of such a desperate move. Similarly, for the man who fled to Malta. I cannot believe that today in a European country, with a European law enforcement order... that this cannot be done within the borders of the Republic of Poland. It's a good thing those people were caught. No matter what the bill looks like, the escape routes of the people who committed the crime are really short today, because technology offers really great opportunities. I was very surprised to receive your conference a few months ago in the chief of police's office. After all, we can pride ourselves on the fact that our Police have good results, working on good equipment, and the Chief Chief is not sitting in a barn, but in a comfortable room where he can hold meetings, he can electronically connect with his subordinates and issue commands. You presented this as a kind of Byzantium, as something that should not be mentioned. I'm afraid these are two worlds. On the one hand, we are talking about a law like today, and on the other hand you are showing that something that was done by a former commander in good faith and for the good of the police is absurd. I would like to remind you, Minister, that there have already been large events in Poland, and such a law did not function. We had Euro 2012, two climate summits, a Polish Presidency in the EU. And it didn't happen, the servants were on full alert. The way the information flows, the monitoring of the internet and all the things related to these events have led to the fact that... I think that throwing passwords related to terrorism into the search engine with violence of the service reacts accordingly and does not require any law to do so. These big parties were organized. It must also be remembered that Poland is not France and not Belgium. Of course, we are on a threat map, just like any country, although I would like to believe that we are not. But we didn't conquer the world, we didn't have our colonies, we weren't politically involved, and above all culturally, as Senator Sewerinski said... Besides, we do not have many religions in Poland that could fight each other and lead to what is happening today in the Western world. So that we are very different from these countries. This law, as you said yourself, contains solutions that are applied in many countries. It is a bit so that we took some from one country, a little from the other and threw it into our Polish law, which you are very quickly proceding. I don't think any of us are bothering you. I don't know if I'm gonna do it myself. That in this way the oppressors, criminals, those who threaten the life or health of every citizen, not only Polish, will be prosecuted. And I think we all agree on that. I would like to believe in good intentions and I would like to believe that this law will not be used politically, will not be used to persecute people who have different religious, political and other opinions about what is happening around us. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-15-senat-20-1.u379	Thank you very much. And Senator Piotr Wach.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-15-senat-20-1.u380	Thank you very much, Marshal. High Izbo, being the 16th or 17th speaker, is difficult to be very original, but this is not about originality. My attitude, our attitude towards this law, is critical, but not because we do not want to take care of the security of citizens and the country. There are many reasons for this. Defects of this bill and various other symptoms that in this room... It's a permanent reference to the Civic Platform and to what she did or didn't do, it's like looking for an alibi. If you are convinced that a law in this form is needed for the present time, then you have to say: we did so and yes, because that is the reason. And this actually looks a little bit like looking for an alibi and polemics a bit historical in relation to previous governments. This law is primarily affected by a lack of trust. A number of records have flaws, and we point out that, but the lack of trust is that if you accept the intention and need to prevent terrorism and enter Poland, then a number of pulls of the current power in this six months that trust violated. First of all, the point is that the Attorney General, who also acts, maybe not in the key role, but in the act, is the Minister of Justice. It's only in our country. Now that we're talking about other countries, it's not like that anywhere else. Next issue: failure to function of the Constitutional Tribunal. In fact, there is no one to appeal to, the Court is and is supposed to function, but the term "paralysis" is justified. Next: the Police Act, which, to a large extent, in the opinion of the Venice Commission has been criticised or needs to be amended. All of this together results in a lack of trust and a certain suspicion about the possibility of applying this law a little further or much further than for the purposes for which it should serve and with which we agree above all. When it comes to criticism of any records, he'd say they're here. And it was all said. Far-reaching powers and without proper control. As far as what was being raised is concerned, it is very important for me, in the form of an amendment, that you brought Senator Augustine. 'Cause I think it's art. 9 and 10, in which special measures apply to non-nationals of the Republic of Poland, is so written, may cause a whole range of retortions and actions, because citizens of the European Union and countries which have the same transport and treatment powers, i.e. the Swiss Confederation, have two ways: they may challenge such a provision, such a potential course of action, as well as possible retorts. So that I consider this to be very important. Besides, a lot of records aren't precise. I have drawn attention to a few, they give enormous interpretation freedom, too far gone. If there was complete trust, one could say: well, it is either because of haste or difficulties in formulation, or I am wrong. But in an atmosphere of suspicion and disbelief with regard to authority that abuses power in the field of human rights and the massaging of independent offices or their paralysis, our suspicions and our criticism are justified in this respect. I'm going to say a few words about what Professor Sewerinski said. In fact, I agree with a number, first of all, that there is a degradation. I even agree with this far-reaching thesis that perhaps in terms of interpretation, or perhaps the provisions of the Convention on Human Rights, we will have to let go somewhere, i.e. There's such a threat. But we shouldn't be the leader, the country that committed... Certainly not us, since we're misusing it and it's being shown. So that this is a matter of longer debate, because you have raised very properly, Professor, very important and important phenomena that are taking place. They follow, they threaten us and unfortunately I am not an optimist here. Only we at the moment are actually discussing the provisions of the law that we consider necessary to some extent, but dangerous to another extent. These threats are justified because of the previous conduct of the authorities. As far as lack of precision is concerned, this is what I was referring to in my questions. In several places there are actually double conjecture modes, i.e. A reasonable suspicion and a reasonable suspicion can lead. Or in art. 9: There is concern. Fear is also... In short, fear depends on who's scared. I'm very scared, and I'm scared of almost everything. And I'm very scared of PiS. So it would be better to apply terms that are applied in law and which have in case law some history about which people know how to apply them. In this respect, I make two amendments, which are not very crucial, but should be adopted and are also a test of goodwill to cooperate with the opposition. But once again, I stress that the amendment that you tabled by Senator Augustine is very important from the point of view of the functioning of the Treaty of the European Union, Schengen. After all, there are certain mechanisms that allow borders to be closed, and the law also refers to them. But distinguishing... the treatment of the citizens of the European Union with whom we are, in a communication sense, in terms of human rights standards, in one country... They can't be put in the same bag with the whole world. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-15-senat-20-1.u381	Thank you very much. Please take the floor of Senator Krzysztof Mroz.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-15-senat-20-1.u382	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I am listening here to the statements of my colleagues from the Civic Platform and I am listening to many different accusations here. But I'd like to start with the title. This is the Anti-Terrorism Act, ladies and gentlemen. It's not a law that has, I don't know, a law against common crime. And certainly not the opposition. The Anti-Terrorism Act... I would like to mention one of the first definitions that can be found in literature: terrorism is a form of political violence involving the use of murders or destruction in order to create shock and extreme intimidation of individuals or social groups to enforce certain demands. And this law, which actually gives services a lot of powers, is intended to counter precisely what is referred to in the definition of terrorism mentioned, which is one of the worst forms of crime. If it's not the worst we can come across. Many senators, including Marshal Borusewicz, and perhaps Senator Dowhan... But I think you just said that, Senator Wach, my previous speaker. The fact that the State would better abolish the provisions of the Act in question, but you do not have confidence in the Law and Justice. You do not trust Minister Wąsik, Kaminski, Prime Minister Szydło and probably many others. Well, I can tell you that... it's rather difficult to convince you, because you're an opposition, but I'll tell you this: when I listen to your concerns, that this convention ban, which can be issued under many conditions, that the Platform or CODE will not be able to demonstrate... That's not the point, ladies and gentlemen. Do you think the military could be used... Well, when someone was in France, they saw the army on the streets. And what, there's no democracy in France? That's where the army was brought out and... I'm sure Minister Macierewicz won't lead the army. Well, Minister, since you're nodding your head right now, I can say this: the more you talk about such absurd things, the more you're going to fall in polls. Because you can say that PiS is a fascism that lives worse than in war, only those people who listen to it on TVN or read it in Wyborcza Gazeta, wake up in the morning in Jelenia Góra, Cracow, Warsaw, Limanowa and do not see these tanks, Ladies and gentlemen. You can talk about more and more ridiculous things. People go out on the street and want to feel safe. [[We have other experiences.]] Of course, Mr. Marshal, I do not have the experience you have had, but let us not compare the Stalinist period, the period of the Polish People's Republic to the current rule of law and justice, to the democratic state. Ladies and gentlemen, I will only say one thing. And I don't know if it'll convince you or not. I'm guessing from a political point of view, you're not gonna be able to convince that. Because all the time, the problem you're talking about is the lack of trust in law and justice. I don't think it's important what we do We can't convince you, either I or anyone else. But one thing, historical, is already empirical and verifiable. Law and Justice ruled between 2005 and 2007 and after the loss of majority in the Sejm, Prime Minister Jarosław Kaczyński, President of Law and Justice, democratically gave power. Minister, Minister Wąsik today, also served in the service at that time and also left. You've taken over for eight years. And in a democratic way, you gave up this power after the lost elections. And I assure you, Mr. Marshal and Senator Wach, who is so scared. If the Law and Justice lose the majority in Parliament or simply end their term of office, we will submit ourselves to democratic evaluation of voters. If we lose this election, you will be ruled by you modern, perhaps CODE, perhaps another political entity that will arise. However, if we continue to have the confidence of the voters, then we will continue, so to speak, to rule. Don't be afraid of it. Surely no anti-terrorism bill we're working on today will cause the Law and Justice, using... whether the Government of Law and Justice, or the service under the control of the Law and Justice, which are, as they were in your day... Well, it's hard for Prime Minister Beata Szydło not to call in the leadership of people she trusts. As you have ruled, you have also called people to whom you trusted, who wanted to pursue a political, organisational concept in terms of the functioning of services or states. So I hope that historically law and justice have proven that we are democratically capable of surrendering power. We lost some choices, and we didn't say that... we just waited for the voters to finally trust the Law and Justice. It was the first question, the question of trust. I don't know if perhaps you gentlemen of the senators. 'Cause you're the only ones who've been here. I've convinced you. But I think, Mr. Marshal, that... a beautiful story, you survived the Polish People's Republic, so you don't have to be afraid of the rule of law and justice today. I assure you, you're in no danger. This law, ladies and gentlemen, introduces a number of legal solutions that will facilitate the fight against terrorism. Ladies and gentlemen, these are not This was already mentioned by the Minister today and yesterday at the committee meeting, and I in a certain question to the Minister Some innovative solutions. Professor Seweryński talked about this in a very philosophical way, that we live in times where we have to take some kind of action and introduce solutions that increase safety. I agree with Marshal Borusewicz, who said that today in general we have to balance these two values: security and freedom. I'm sure it's not pleasant for anybody to say that, parade at the airport when you fly to the United States, in socks, but it's a security cost. When I get on a plane, I expect a high probability, I want to make sure I can feel safe. That's what I'm going to say, a certain cost we have to pay today. As Professor Sewerinski said, unfortunately, terrorism knows no boundaries, it does not know any rules, and it actually works on the principle that the more harm it will do, the more innocent the victims will be, the more it will intimidate everyone. Yesterday at the committee meeting you applied: we reject this law in its entirety. I am pleased that you have taken this a little more constructively today and that you have tabled amendments. Tomorrow we will consider these amendments. It's hard for me to relate to that. There is a minister who will analyze this. There was also a charge here that this bill was written by the servants. Probably in some way, yeah. It had to be written by professionals, people who know about it. It's hard for the laymen to write such a special act. And most of the legislation is written by specialists. There's one more thing, I'll suspect, if I'm not mistaken, then Senator... I do not remember which of the senators made such an amendment to this law until 31 August 2016. I can immediately say that such an amendment does not stand a chance, and I think you know it, because this law is not a law prepared for the World Youth Days or for the NATO Summit. This bill is an anti-terrorism bill. Of course, the World Youth Days or the NATO Summit increase certain terrorist threats, they are a temptation for terrorists, but after these events, in September, October or December... [[The meeting is chaired by Marshal Stanisław Karczewski]] [[Mr. Senator, I'm so sorry, it's just passing the time.]] Yeah, yeah, yeah. So that these threats will be. And the fact that we've already passed some laws, specializations, specialized laws regarding these 2 events, that's very good, but this is a law that's supposed to help fight terrorism, which unfortunately There's a possibility. It will also increase in Europe and in the world. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-15-senat-20-1.u383	Thank you very much, Senator. Senator Joseph the Hare. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-15-senat-20-1.u384	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Senate! In relation to Senator Jackowski's statement, I would like to say that I did not make any comparison between the current special services and the post-war Russian, American or even Polish services, because it was in a completely separate place. If that's the way someone feels about it, I'm really sorry. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-15-senat-20-1.u385	Thank you very much, Senator. Now, Mr. Marshal Borusewicz. You're welcome, Mr. Marshal.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-15-senat-20-1.u386	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I'll admit two things. I'll do it honestly, even though I'm a politician. First of all, I don't trust the services, I don't trust them, and I don't trust them. This also involved services as a closed formation, as a formation that deals with what it does. And we should talk about it, consider it, and control it. So I don't trust the services. And this does not apply to the services now present and their current management. I do not trust not for historical reasons, because they took care of me during the PRL period I've been taking care of them, too. But because I have some experience in building a democratic state. I have been to the Special Services Committee and I have seen the maneuvers they use, as they sometimes lie to Members. I've had this experience. And I haven't flown to the United States since that kind of control. Especially scanning... We forgot about that. I don't fly to the United States because it insults me as a man. And these are the two things I wanted to say. So it's not like we have to give in uncritically to all the procedures and accept everything that our services want to do for our safety. But I'm not a pessimist, absolutely not. There are further elements of control, because there are further dangers. But I'm not a pessimist, I don't think we should let ourselves be pushed down to Orwell, because for the next few things, we're finally going to be in the country that Orwell described in 1984. Terrorism is not today's invention. He was born at the end of the 19th century. And there were periods of his increase in Narodnaja Wola in Russia, anarchists in France, bombs, attacks and tightening. Then it went away, so I'm not a pessimist, just like some of us. Nor can I agree with the pessimistic vision of civilization war. It is a very simple vision, but it simplifies the situation. ♪ This vision ♪ The theory of the struggle of civilization, the theory of Felix Koneczny, our scholar It may be very interesting, but it does not describe these situations. After all, in the Middle East, Syria and Iraq, this is primarily the battle of the Sunni with the Shiites. It's where the Muslims that we're talking about are killing each other, and they're attacking the world, the Christian civilization. The most injured are, of course, the jazz, not the Christians. Christians have other facilities. Christians have Christian states, have a pope, etc. The Jażyds are the people most affected by these repressions and destructions. But I repeat: this is not a civilization war, there are two Muslim sects fighting each other, killing each other. These are primarily Sunni attacks on the Shiite, the Islamic States are Sunni. What I'm trying to say is it's not what we're talking about. And the last thing that makes me not a pessimist. After all, there is a state in the Middle East which is the most at risk, a democratic state which defends itself very effectively, a democratic state in which services make very difficult decisions about those who threaten them. But it is accepted because they are under control and to these services everyone has confidence. This country is Israel, who is doing great in this situation, would seem hopeless. And it's still a democratic state. So I do not think that we are in danger of being cornered and, as representatives of the democratic state, we will in principle have no movement. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-15-senat-20-1.u387	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. Senator Augustine. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-15-senat-20-1.u388	Mr. Marshal! Minister! Gentlemen of the Senators! I'd like some more... Maybe I'll go back to those last speeches and repeat them, highlight some of the things. The principle that should apply in this case, of course, is the principle of limited trust. The limited trust is in the service of citizens because they control, check, catch those who break the law. But we should also have limited confidence in the services. This is the sacred law of the opposition, not only with us, and that is why in most countries it is ensured important, if not leading, participation of the opposition in control of special services, discreet of course, covered by secrecy, but participation. Unfortunately, and this principle has been violated in this term of office at least. The Rules of Procedure of the Sejm, as you know, has been changed, the rotational management of the committee has been abolished, the head of the governing majority rules this committee, and the representative of PSL is not there at all. And one more thing. Minister, of course, we are concerned that there should be no terrorist act in Poland. But let us honestly say that regardless of what the laws will be, our safety will be determined first and foremost by the honesty and daily work of the services. The example of France has been shown here many times. The law was changed very much in 2006, a lot of powers were given, and the bombings followed. I would very much like the services under your direction not to experience this, not to have to intervene in the event of some huge tragedy. What's bothering me... [[So they don't leave.]] Well, what bothers me is that for various reasons, including material reasons and because of the announcements of various reorganisations, still a large number of officers want to leave the service, officers who have experience, who are valuable. And I think, Minister, that apart from all the other legal things that we are arguing about today, the most important thing is this practice, because the point is that we don't lose good professionals, so that they are directed towards actually fighting terrorism and not, God forbid, with opposition. With this bill, it's a little bit like with a shotgun that's among theater decorations. We know that if he's in there, it'll work out in the last act at the latest. Will this weapon that the government will get with this bill work? I wish it didn't have to work out in the direction of terrorists, and it was never used in the direction of opposition. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-15-senat-20-1.u389	Thank you very much, Senator. I would like to inform you that the list of speakers has been exhausted, for the sake of order, I would like to inform you that Senator Mątkow has made his speech in the discussion for the minutes. I would like to inform you that the legislative proposals have been submitted in writing by Senator Przemysław Terminski, Senator Barbara Zdrojewska, Marshal Bogdan Borusewicz, Senator Mieczysław Augustyn, Senator Piotr Florek and Senator Piotr Wach. The discussion is closed. Minister, do you wish to speak? [[Secretary of State at the Chancellery of the Prime Minister Maciej Wąsik: Yes, Mr Marshal.]] Possibly. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-15-senat-20-1.u390	If that is possible, I would like to sum it up briefly and address the statements of the ladies and gentlemen of the senators who died today and who I followed closely. Thank you very much for both positive and critical comments. I understand we can argue about the shape of a legal act. I understand that we may have a different opinion, a different view of things, and we can express it because there is democracy and freedom. But I would like to ask you once again for some honesty in what we say. We also use the intellectual achievements of teams that have worked for 8 years. It's a big piece of work. This is a matter of certain solutions. And you can't say that this bill is unnecessary. I would like to remind you that Minister Klich was the first to speak at the committee meeting yesterday and made a motion to reject this law in its entirety. I believe that this is a wrong way of putting the case, and even in an intellectually dishonest way. It's unfair, because for eight years we've heard in different media, in different authorities that we need such solutions. We have a duty and we want to bear this responsibility, Mr. Marshal, for the state. The words "trust" and "faith" often fell here. Let's start with another thing. Let's start with the truth. I have another part of the opinion of the Venice Commission. And let's go back to that debate where we really disagreed. It was a similar form of debate. We introduced a provision to which you were bound by the judgment of the Court, but you failed to introduce it, although, as I repeat, there are some merits of the Senate. But I'm talking about the political formation she ruled. The Venice Commission in paragraph 108... of course you will get that opinion. She was translated by my associates on an ongoing basis. The Venice Commission encourages the creation of a new body in Poland, which would be between law enforcement and court within its remit. However, given the time the legislator had, it is not surprising that he did not create such a body in December 2015. The Commission acknowledges that it was not possible in the shortest time that we were given to create a government-independent body that would control the services. I would like to remind you that the Constitutional Tribunal did not even require such a solution from the legislator. Today you are accusing us of lack of independent control over the services, that is, such an authority, but we could not create it. Yes, sir. Of course, Mr. Marshal will have the opportunity to translate whether he will get a translated opinion and the matter will be settled. But I repeat, this is a summary of that debate... [[But you're gonna do it?]] Mr. Marshal, when we're eight, just like you were, we're gonna do a lot more, don't worry. And after 12 years, you'll have confidence in us. [[Senator Piotr Wach: It brought optimism, in short.)]] I'm glad... [[Senator Krzysztof Mróz: Are you talking about 12 years? The Minister will shorten...]] [[Senator Kazimierz Kleina: Four years is all it takes.]] [[Joy in the Chamber]] But this, of course, is a margin. [[Let's not bid, gentlemen. Please proceed to the point.]] You, Mr. Marshal, have no confidence in the services and I, knowing your history, knowing your accomplishments, can understand that. It's just that you've only said it now. I haven't heard you say anything about it in eight years. I'm sorry. But the circumstances were different, Mr. Marshal. [[Senator Bogdan Borusewicz: Better now than ever.]] You're gonna get some trust, I'm sure. But that's by the way. Mr. Marshal, it is difficult to accept yesterday's declaration by Mr. Klich for a good coin of amendments made today, because it is only a tactic, Mr. Marshal. And especially... Finally, I will address one point. You declare your willingness to continue your work, declare your willingness to counter terrorism And perhaps some of the amendments you are making are really the result of this concern, and I do not want to deny it. But I know that one doesn't come from any concern, it's just irresponsible and absolutely reprehensible, in my opinion. This is Senator Flork's amendment. If the senator proposes that the bill work for two months, and he does it with a smile, that's it. Just irresponsible. This is irresponsible. I repeat: we may disagree, we may differ and argue, but we cannot make jokes about the legislative process. Mr Marshal, High Izbo, as a government, we will address all the amendments at the committee meeting. Thank you so much for today, I hope, an extremely fruitful day. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-15-senat-20-1.u391	Thank you very much, Minister. As legislative proposals have been made, I ask the Committee on Human Rights, Rule of Law and Petitions, the Committee on Territorial Government and State Administration and the Committee on National Defence to respond to the proposals presented and to prepare a joint report. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. I'd like an announcement, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-15-senat-20-1.u392	Communication: Joint meeting of the Committee on National Defence, the Committee on Territorial Government and State Administration and the Committee on Human Rights, the Rule of Law and Petitions on the handling of proposals submitted during the debate on the Anti-Terrorism Act will take place tomorrow, on 16 June, at 8.15 p.m. in room 217.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-15-senat-20-1.u393	Thank you very much, Senator. I'm declaring a recess until 9:00 tomorrow. [[Adjournment at the meeting at 22 minutes 28]]
