ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-10-senat-12-2.u1	High Izbo, the sitting is resumed. [[Talking in the O.R.]] We're recessing! Ladies and gentlemen, please... Ladies and gentlemen, please take your seats. Senators of the secretary's office, please take your seats at the president's table. [[Talking in the O.R.]] Ladies and gentlemen, please be quiet. We're reconvening. High Izbo! I propose to supplement the agenda with points: the Act amending the Payment Act under the direct support scheme and some other laws and consider it as item 5 of the agenda; changes in the membership of the Senate committees and consider it as item six of the agenda. If I do not hear any objection, I will find that the High House has accepted the proposal. Is there any objection to this proposal? I don't see any calls. In the absence of objection, I declare... In the absence of any objection, I find that the Senate has accepted the proposal. [[Senator Bogdan Klich.]] Please, Mr. Senator. I understand you're making a formal motion, yes?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-10-senat-12-2.u2	Yes, with a formal application on behalf of the Civic Platform Club. Ms Marshal, I would like to make a request to supplement the agenda with information from the government about the constitutional crisis in Poland. [[Part of the senators present a postcard with the inscription "POLLIK!"]] We are dealing with an unprecedented crisis that is getting worse. This spiral of crisis was opened yesterday, when Prime Minister Szydło made public information that she did not intend to fulfil her constitutional obligation to publish a ruling of the Constitutional Tribunal, a ruling signed by all those taking part in the Court's meeting. We believe that the situation is very serious, and it is our House's duty to counter the further development of this spiral of crisis. So that on the basis of the article. 48 (1) (a) Point 2 (8) requests that the agenda be supplemented by information from the Government on the constitutional crisis. Thank you very much, Marshal. [[In the next term.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-10-senat-12-2.u3	Thank you very much. Is there a vote against it? Senator Dobrzyński. You're welcome... [[Talking in the O.R.]] Wait a minute, Mr. Senator. Ladies and gentlemen... [[Dear Marshal...]] Excuse me, excuse me. I'll give you the floor in a moment, Senator. Ladies and gentlemen, let us not make such happenings in the Senate, please. Let's just leave it... [[Bravo, Mrs. Marshal.]] ...that kind of happening to the Sejm, that's where they're held. And I'm really asking you to be serious. Ladies and gentlemen, please put these cards away. [[Applause]] Let's be serious. The senator will speak in a moment, and then we will decide what is the formal proposal made by your President.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-10-senat-12-2.u4	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! I am opposed to such a proposal and such a debate. I would like to remind you to the senator of the applicant that it was the Civic Platform that shot this spiral of resentment and caused this whole mess by choosing... [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] [[Quiet, please! Quiet, please!]] [[Clever loses twice.]] That's right. ...choking five candidates for judges last year except, so to speak, the election deadline. The platform wanted to secure itself for a few years and have an advantage in the Court. Let us remember that the Constitutional Tribunal is in some sense a body whose members are elected as a result of political choices. We have to keep that in mind. I would also like to add that, twice by the government, the Prime Minister has made proposals for an agreement on this matter. Law and Justice wants to resolve the situation somehow, but there is no agreement from the Civic and Modern Platform. There's CODE, there's other formations... what the opposition is doing today is raging and irresponsible. [[Of course I do.]] I understand. I remember eight years of your government. That it's fun for you, for you, love of your homeland is an abstract thing. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] Mrs. Marshal, I am determined to oppose the Senator's motion. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-10-senat-12-2.u5	Thank you. [[Talking in the O.R.]] Professor, I'm not giving the floor. There's been a formal motion. We'll proceed with the vote. Ladies and gentlemen, who of you is in favour of Senator Klich's request to complete the agenda for information concerning the Constitutional Tribunal? Who's against it? Who abstained from voting? [[Only horse breeders are allowed to speak. Relationships are not allowed to speak.]] [[Applause]] Ladies and gentlemen, the results of the vote. 70 senators voted, 25 against, 44 against, 1 abstention. [[Voting No 1]] Senator Klich's motion was rejected by the Senate. [[Bravo!]] You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-10-senat-12-2.u6	Mrs. Marshal! I would like to ask Senator Dobrzyński to apologize to the entire Civic Platform Club for the last sentence your senator has said, in which Mr Dobrzyński refuses to love our country. I will quote Charles Wojtyla, then the Cardinal of Cracow who, during the celebration of the Divine Body, after the communists tried to change the constitution and changed it, adding a record of the leading political force... [[Mr. Senator...]] ...he said, "Don't let anyone account for our love for our country." [[Applause]] [[This is not a formal conclusion.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-10-senat-12-2.u7	Mr. Senator, I don't accept this motion. [[Mrs. Marshal...]] Mr. Senator... [[Mr. Klich came here without your permission. Why shouldn't I answer?]] [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] Mr. Senator, take your seat. [[I'm here about the apology, Mrs. Marshal.]] Mr. Senator, please... [[I'm maintaining what I said about the Civic Platform. I'm maintaining it.]] [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] Mr. Senator, please sit down! We proceed with the examination of item 5 of the agenda: the Act amending the Payment Act under direct support schemes and certain other laws. The text of the Act is contained in print No 98 and the report of the Commission In print No 98 A. I ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development, Senator Przemysław Błaszczyk, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-10-senat-12-2.u8	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! High Senate! The Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development discussed yesterday at its meeting a law amending the Payment Act under the direct support scheme and certain other laws. It was a parliamentary project. The Act concerns the unlawful use of agricultural land in the Treasury's Agricultural Property Resources and the collection of income from direct payments. The subject for us, members of the Senate and Parliament's agricultural committee, has been known for many years. We couldn't handle him. This subject was also addressed by the Supreme Audit Chamber in 2014, which identified irregularities. Last year, the problem concerned several thousand hectares of agricultural land in the Farm Property Agency's resources. In fact, this practice leads to the State Treasury losing, since the use in question is not linked to land lease agreements and users do not pay such charges. In addition, the agency has a problem with the marketing of these land. Therefore, the group of Members submitted a draft law requesting that, when submitting a payment application relating to land in the agricultural resources of the State Treasury, the title of the property be presented. What we think will solve the problem of these unfounded claims and the use of agency land. Ladies and gentlemen, the committee requests that the law be adopted without amendment. Thank you, Mrs. Marshal.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-10-senat-12-2.u9	Thank you very much, Senator. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the rapporteur's senator. Would any of your senators like to speak on this matter? No. [[Voices from the hall: No, they're...]] They're willing, right? [[Voice from the hall: Grabowski.]] You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-10-senat-12-2.u10	Mr. Senator, I have a question about whether during the committee's work... Did representatives of the Agency for Restructuring and Modernization of Agriculture participate in the committee meeting or not? Because the bill goes straight to... [[They weren't there. It was just the Minister...]] In that case, I have a question as to how this amendment of the law will affect the examination of applications. Will there not be differences in the processing of applications for private land and land held by the Treasury, the Agricultural Property Agency?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-10-senat-12-2.u11	The Act applies only to land owned by the Treasury, which is managed by the Agricultural Property Agency. It does not really concern private land, in private trade, because here there are no legal issues, and sometimes there is a problem with establishing the land owner, sometimes there are oral contracts. As regards the land belonging to the State Treasury, this issue is regulated. So this only applies to land that is owned by the State Treasury. [[Good. Thank you. Then I'll tell the minister...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-10-senat-12-2.u12	There's another question. Senator Czesław Ryszka.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-10-senat-12-2.u13	Thank you, Mrs. Marshal. Mr. Senator, here's the question: were those who leased the land, cultivated the land, were they dead souls, and were doing it just to take the money?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-10-senat-12-2.u14	The procedure was different. Because it was enough that one procedure was carried out on the ground and it was already possible to apply for payment. And mostly there were such abuses that the agricultural land was not fully used, the attitude was only to obtain income from direct payments. There were often even such absurdities that the Agricultural Property Agency rented out a security agency to protect the land so that it could be distributed, whether on the basis of lease or sale. There were also cases where the farmer would bring equipment on the lava, enter the field, do one cultivation procedure and apply for payment. There were even cases that the Minister presented to us that so that such a procedure could take place and that no one disturbed it, a dishonest farmer carried it out even on All Saints' Day.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-10-senat-12-2.u15	Thank you very much, Senator. You're asking Senator Komarnicki a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-10-senat-12-2.u16	Thank you, Mrs. Marshal. Dear Senator, rapporteur, I'd like to ask you a question. At the same time, I would ask for a broader comment, because this is a very important topic about our economy. As I'm sure you know, and I'm sure you were interested in special zones, there's a huge flywheel, mostly State Treasury land. How will it be today, Mr Senator, about the sale of this land as regards the interest in Western capital, which he will want to invest in the Republic of Poland in these zones?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-10-senat-12-2.u17	Mr. Senator, I have the impression that you misjudged the bill because this isn't about farming. This bill will only be discussed. This only applies to payments, payment regulations. That wasn't the case at our committee meeting. [[Or maybe, since I asked you that question, you'd expand it because you're sure you have knowledge?]] [[Today she's going to be procedated...]] The knowledge, I think, will soon be all of us, because the bill has already gone to the Sejm and then will be handed over to the Senate. Today it will be processed in the Seym. I invite the senator to listen to his first reading. [[Thank you.]] I do not wish to mislead you, to express your opinion here. I speak on behalf of the committee. [[Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-10-senat-12-2.u18	Thank you very much, Senator. Please ask the questions concerning the matter of the bill under investigation. The question is asked by Senator Jadwiga Rotnicka.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-10-senat-12-2.u19	(PL) Mr President, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I have a question because I don't understand the record. Art. 1 of that Act in point 2, which amends Article. 41a, states: Direct payment or non-tobacco payment has been granted, etc. What does non-smoking payment mean?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-10-senat-12-2.u20	Please, Mr. Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-10-senat-12-2.u21	This is extended, it is direct payment to land and there are also special payments, unrelated, for example. the cultivation of tobacco. If there's any further explanation, I think you'll give it to the Minister. [[That sounds weird.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-10-senat-12-2.u22	Thank you very much. You're asking Senator Mieczysław Golba.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-10-senat-12-2.u23	Mr. Senator, I would like to ask you if you are familiar with the cases, whether you have any knowledge of the quantities of land these pseudo-farmers leased once, of course, by collecting direct payments, but not being farmers, as I have pointed out, being pseudo-farmers. Was that five ha, ten ha? Was it big? The scale of this phenomenon? Were there many such farmers? The point is why we are proceeding on this bill, why today we are considering changing this entry in the Act.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-10-senat-12-2.u24	Like I said, the data from that year is about a few thousand hectares, about three thousand hectares. I know it also reached over 10,000 ha. It was estimated that only last year this concerned about 1 000 farmers. We know that the agency has a rather large share in its resources. If someone was doing this in some way, he was looking for larger areas, because it is known to involve subsidies per hectare, but there are small areas. I don't have very accurate data. The committee did not have a very long discussion on this project, and we did not discuss it so widely. We know the subject. We who are connected with agriculture, but probably also most of you, if you are interested in these matters, know that this activity was a problem, and it is quite large. In recent years, the fight has begun, following the NIK report, following our suggestions at the committee meeting, also from the Members' side, but we still have a problem with this.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-10-senat-12-2.u25	Thank you, Senator. I'm asking Senator Waldemar Sługocki for a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-10-senat-12-2.u26	Thank you very much, Mrs. Marshal. High Izbo! Mr. Senator! I have a question because I didn't fully understand, I think, your speech. You said that there was a business involving some people coming to the fields with equipment, trying to manage the land and forcing them to receive direct payments, as I understand it. How is that possible if there was no legal title? Is there any possibility that such an activity would generate direct payments? Shouldn't such a farmer, such a person, have a legal act which predestined him to receive these direct payments? Or am I the one who misunderstood what you said? If so, I'm sorry. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-10-senat-12-2.u27	Please, Mr. Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-10-senat-12-2.u28	As far as direct payment is concerned, this payment is paid to the farmer or the person who uses the land. We have therefore adopted a rule earlier, as we have already started here earlier programming and related payments, that this will be resolved in such a way, because for many parcels, for many land in Poland there is no regulated legal status. And it looked like if you were using a given plot, you're entitled to a payment. Not even on the basis of the owner. [[Is it in private resources or in the Treasury?]] Excuse me? Yes, so far, whether it's in private resources or in the Treasury's resources, that's how it's been. That's why the agency couldn't handle it. It was also so that the lease had already ended, but the farmer did not really return to the stock of the land that he had leased, but entered the plot, did cultivation and reported it for payment.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-10-senat-12-2.u29	Thank you. And again, Senator Mieczysław Golba.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-10-senat-12-2.u30	Mr. Senator, I'd like to ask you one more question. By going in, so to speak, did people who leased large quantities of land become farmers? Was it not such a practice to become a farmer and then to have additional benefits beyond the lease, apart from payments? Because we know there were additional subsidies, e.g. Union, from the RDPs, could be obtained for the purchase of various machinery, agricultural equipment, etc. Do you have any idea if this could have occurred?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-10-senat-12-2.u31	I don't have that kind of knowledge. As regards the part of the financing of the support related to the RDPs, it was necessary to indicate what the land stock is. That is ownership or lease. We also know that, on the occasion of modernization, the purchase of equipment was often related to the amount of land owned or produced. As far as I know, that's what it looked like. And I think... I don't know if it had any effect on the RDPs, on other tasks or on the opportunities offered by the common agricultural policy and the financing of agricultural holdings.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-10-senat-12-2.u32	Thank you. Does anyone else have any questions for the Senator of the rapporteur? Please, Mr. Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-10-senat-12-2.u33	Mrs. Marshal, Mr. Senator, I have a question about the consequences for people or companies who have engaged in the use of land without agreement and the collection of area payments. That's the first question. And question two. Since when does this thing take place? From the very beginning, when we entered the European Union, did this occur later? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-10-senat-12-2.u34	I haven't had that exact knowledge since. We know that this has increased in recent years. We know that at first it was certainly not on such a scale until people somehow realized that this is how they can function and make money. As far as penalties are concerned, these are the changes that led to the agency chasing those who used agricultural land illegally. There are court cases going on, but it's very difficult to enforce. As far as I'm concerned, we have a little bit of a lack of really strong protection for the property of the State Treasury and private property, and that even allows us to enter an unprotected plot. Punishments, as far as I know, are actually minimal. This is considered a misdemeanor, which is why one day in the future it would be worth working on such changes in the law to make this property more secure. [[Property shall be subject to constitutional protection.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-10-senat-12-2.u35	Thank you, Senator. Senator Przemysław Terminski.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-10-senat-12-2.u36	I have a question for you. In the second amendment, such a provision is made: direct payment or non-smoking payment. It's about...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-10-senat-12-2.u37	That question has already been asked. That's what the senator asked. I'm gonna ask the Minister to explain the matter thoroughly if he can... [[It's just about tobacco, isn't it?]] Yeah, yeah, yeah. [[I just wanted to make sure, thank you.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-10-senat-12-2.u38	Are there any more questions for the Senator of the rapporteur? I don't see any calls. Thank you, Senator. The draft law was introduced by Members. Does a government representative wish to speak on the bill under consideration? We have Minister Ryszard Zarudzki, Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development. Minister, do you wish to speak on this bill? You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-10-senat-12-2.u39	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! First of all, I would like to thank you for this parliamentary initiative on two issues: firstly, the limitation of the possibility of receiving direct payments and the payment of RDPs by unlawful persons, without agreement, of agricultural land forming part of the Treasury resource and, secondly, of reducing delays in the transfer of direct payments to larger farms. As far as the non-contractual use is concerned, the problem here concerns mainly those tenants who did not transfer the land of the agency after the lease was completed. And this problem continued until it became a major social issue and now concerns about 1 000 farmers and several thousand hectares. The second issue is the gray area, i.e., the invasions, which were to a lesser extent a problem, but they were a social problem and need to be resolved. So thank you very much for this initiative. This bill will sort things out. And I would also like to stress that it will not have a negative impact on the procedures for examining payment applications and will not lead to distortions in this campaign in 2016, from which it will apply. I would also like to address the issue of non-smoking payments briefly. It's just that this isn't about... Non-tobacco payments are a pool of 180 million national money that we can pay to tobacco producers by 2020, and they are as if they are not covered by these arrangements... These are national payments to tobacco producers under the national envelope. As part of the direct payment, we have EU funds, but after agreement with the Commission we also have the right to allocate some funds from the national budget under the national envelope. On my side, that's it. Thank you again, and I ask you to pass this bill. It will be in force from the 15th... It is important that the law be in force from 15 March in connection with the start of the 2016 call campaign. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-10-senat-12-2.u40	Thank you, Minister. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of questioning to a government representative related to this item on the agenda. Would any of you like to ask such a question to the Minister? Senator Grabowski, you're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-10-senat-12-2.u41	Minister, I have a technical question because for quite a long time my work has been connected with the implementation of this law. Well, maybe not quite this one, but the Direct Payments Act. I have some doubt here. As a general rule, the Agency for Restructuring and Modernisation of Agriculture shall examine applications on the basis of farmers' declarations without establishing the legal status of the land. Under the Direct Payments Act, payment is due to the land user. Therefore, I have a question as to whether it does not occur here... or whether a plea of non-compliance with the article may be raised. 32 constitutions, that is, unequal treatment. 'Cause if the tenant leases the land... Otherwise, when the application is submitted for land, the property of the Treasury, where the land is used by someone other than the tenant In practice, there are situations where someone has a signed lease agreement with the real estate agency and then does not use the land, another farmer who actually sowes the land and collects the collections, according to the law on direct payments to that farmer using the land, must be paid. By adopting this amendment, we distinguish between... we divide the farmers into two groups: those who operate on private land, where often there is a situation that the owner does not submit the application, without the owner's knowledge the application is submitted and in administrative proceedings the user receives the payment, in accordance with this law, in accordance with Union regulations... [[Question, Mr. Senator.]] I have a question: isn't it going to be here, so to speak, to differentiate farmers? The proposal in administrative proceedings should be dealt with in the same way whether it concerns real estate, agricultural land or private land. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-10-senat-12-2.u42	Thank you. Senator, the restructuring agency has been actively involved in the entire legislative process. Yesterday, at the Senate committee meeting, you were also Director Mantur with the management of the restructuring agency, which we also consulted with lawyers. The whole procedure. We don't think... In our opinion, the answer is "not," but I accept your attention, and as if I would take it especially under magnification, magnification, understanding your intentions. And one more thing. I'd like to talk about vacathio legis. I don't care... Under this law, we have a draft regulation, which will specify that, as far as farmers are concerned, statements will have to be delivered to the restructuring agency by 31 August. So not immediately, not in March, but there will be a certain period for the preparation of relevant documents confirming the legal act within this group of beneficiaries related to direct payments.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-10-senat-12-2.u43	Thank you, Minister. Senator Jerzy Czerwinski's question, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-10-senat-12-2.u44	Thank you. Minister, I have a question about the transitional provisions, that is, the article. 4. I understand it that way. I mean, maybe you could correct me. Here are some ambiguities about the purpose, or actually the order in which these articles are inserted... paragraphs in this article. The payments for which the procedure has not yet been initiated, i.e. those which will be initiated after 15 March this year, are not applicable, because those for which procedures have not yet been initiated are not... For those procedures that have already been initiated but have not ended That is, it must be those procedures that were initiated last year, possibly, I don't know, two years earlier, if the procedures are so long you insist on applying the existing rules, i.e. non-restrictive. On the other hand, as regards payments for which the award procedures have been completed, i.e. those payments are already granted, you are calling for restrictive rules to be applied, i.e. new ones. Isn't that kind of a contradiction? So in the case of processes that are still going on, you apply the old rules, you allow them to continue on the old track, and in the case of those that have already ended, you want to apply the new rules. And one more question à about those processes that have ended. Here it is written: "For the payments referred to in the Act as amended by Article. 1, granted before the date of entry into force of this Law, Article 1 shall apply. 41a of the amended act... The question is: for payments how many years before? 'Cause it's not really defined here. Please note that only to those that were granted in the year, I do not know, the previous or 2 years earlier, 3 years earlier... In line with this new proposal, will you be able to touch through this bill all payments possibly wrongly granted? Because that's all we're talking about.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-10-senat-12-2.u45	You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-10-senat-12-2.u46	Mr. Senator, thank you very much for this question. Of course, this is a legal language and a certain legal design of the solutions used. We discussed very intensively among experts and lawyers. Let me put it this way: the solution you have adopted in this part you are asking about because the law deals with two issues: They concern the reduction of delays for larger farms by at least one month, so to speak, during a very tight period when payments due to known circumstances... Well, they're paid on a statutory deadline, but there are expectations that they'll be paid in advance. So that we accelerate. And that was our idea. I do not wish to enter into legal diwags here, because I am not a lawyer, but in connection with our internal arrangements, I accept that all these legal safeguards operate in accordance with applicable law and do not violate anyone's good.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-10-senat-12-2.u47	Thank you, Minister. Please, Senator Jadwiga Rotnicka.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-10-senat-12-2.u48	My question concerns the question, I would say, a little deeper. I would like the Minister to explain to me whether the use of land for which there was no legal title was no lease Let's say she expired, and the farmer continued to use the land, sowed it, etc. and charged subsidies It does not state that, as I say, profits from assets that are not due and do not result in losses to the State. I mean, it's supposed to be leased. Right? I understand there's land that doesn't have a clear owner, and it's hard to figure out who owns it, but in a situation where it wasn't seen that the use was unconventional... Are the profits derived from this reasonable?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-10-senat-12-2.u49	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-10-senat-12-2.u50	Senator, I understand your intention, and I accept it. We wanted to block it. Now that we bring it in, you can, I think, go back to... about a thousand of these kind of... But we have to move one at a time, first stop, and then come back... I understand your intention. It's about verifying that it wasn't a pity and whether recovery procedures should be taken. The recovery procedure in the restructuring agency is a separate procedure. Thank you so much for the vote. I think that's where we're going. Anyway, we'll figure out how this procedure could be carried out.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-10-senat-12-2.u51	Thank you. And Senator Arkadiusz Grabowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-10-senat-12-2.u52	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! That's my last question, more of a technical nature. In connection with the administrative proceedings that are taking place, I have a question as to whether it has been considered... What will result in the amendment of this law? There's one more important thing here. Following the adoption of this novel in the case of direct payments applications for land from real estate agencies, in the case of land use without a legal title, the Agency will refuse these payments and, moreover, sanction applicants. Yes? [[Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development Ryszard Zarudzki: Yes.]] And in the case of operating on private land, if someone does not have a legal title, even an oral loan agreement, but in fact any, because different titles are, so to speak, allowed, a person who uses this land illegally will not be punished. I have a question as to whether this was the subject of a committee meeting, the subject of the Ministry's consideration in designing this novel. I'd like to ask... I understand that the entry into force of the Act on 15 March is required, because in connection with the launch of another campaign for the selection of proposals, the entry into force of the Act is simply necessary to limit, as the Minister says, the... I would ask for an answer if it was taken into account, and if it wasn't, I suggest you consider it, because once again farmers will be treated differently.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-10-senat-12-2.u53	Mr. Senator, thank you so much for this... This was not taken into account. We wanted to stop the crime that exists right now and block it during this campaign. I believe that these three months of the ministry's operation in this reality, in cooperation with Members and Senators, is a very good time to secure certain matters related to the use of unconventional. As far as individual farmers are concerned, I understand your intentions and accept them. We can approach this topic during the next campaign; it is our duty. I'll take that. I think my colleagues and I will take these steps in this order. Ordering can be done gradually, specifically and deliberately. I think that's where we're going.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-10-senat-12-2.u54	Thank you very much. Senator Włosowicz.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-10-senat-12-2.u55	Minister, I have a question for you. In recent weeks, I believe, many problems have been created by an IT system in the restructuring agency. Now we are in a hurry to introduce this legal solution. Do you have any knowledge of whether this system already provides for this solution? Isn't there going to be a situation that legally everything will be the same from 15 March, but from the IT side, unfortunately, there may be problems in the branches?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-10-senat-12-2.u56	Let me put it this way: this IT system, which is being implemented this year, is not intelligent, it has to be admitted, because of all the problems involved... But this has been widely discussed, these problems in law were already known a year ago. Let me put it this way: this does not affect the functioning of this system, because we are preparing a regulation for a legal act in parallel to this one. We've even got it. Which, as it were, is tidying up... Until December 31st, the legal titles... all those who use the land for... The application is submitted as always, it does not change in any way, but a certificate with a legal title must be submitted physically until 31 August. So these are two ordering things. We took that into account in the process of prosecuting the bill.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-10-senat-12-2.u57	Thank you, Minister. Are there any more questions for the Minister? I can't see. Thank you, Minister. [[Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development Ryszard Zarudzki: Thank you.]] I'm opening a discussion. I would like to inform you that none of your senators have signed up. The discussion is closed. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. I now announce a recess until 1152. After the vote. [[Adjournment from 11 minutes 42 to 11 minutes 52]] I'm reopening the session. Ladies and gentlemen, please take your seats. We proceed with the examination of item six of the agenda: changes in the membership of the Senate committees. I would remind you that the proposal of the Rules of Procedure, Ethics and Senators' Affairs on this matter is included in print No 96. I ask the rapporteur of the Rules of Procedure, Ethics and Senators' Affairs, Senator Sławomir Rybicki, to present a proposal to the committee. You're welcome, Senator. [[Talking in the O.R.]] Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators, please remain silent. Please, Mr. Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-10-senat-12-2.u58	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The Rules of Procedure Committee adopted a draft resolution of the Senate on changes in the membership of Senate committees yesterday at its meeting. I'm gonna read this project. §1. Senate of the Republic of Poland, pursuant to art. Article 13 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 2 Rules of Procedure of the Senate, dismisses Senator Rafał Ambrozik from the Committee on Foreign Affairs and European Union and the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development; Senator Waldemar Kraska from the Committee on Foreign Affairs and the European Union; Senator Małgorzata Kopiczko from the Committee on Family, Senior and Social Policy; Senator Robert Mamytov from the Committee on Foreign Affairs and the European Union; Senator Piotr Ziientarski from the Committee on Immigration and Communication with Poles abroad. §2. Senate of the Republic of Poland, pursuant to art. Article 13 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 2 Rules of Procedure of the Senate, selects Senator Rafał Ambrozik to the Committee on Human Rights, Rule of Law and Petitions and the Legislative Commission; Senator Waldemar Kraska to the Committee on National Defence; Senator Małgorzata Kopiczko to the Committee on Immigration and Communication with Poles abroad; Senator Robert Mamytov to the Committee on National Defence; Senator Andrzej Misiołek to the Committee on Infrastructure; Senator Leszek Piechota to the Legislative Commission; Senator Piotr Ziientarski to the Legislative Commission. I would like to stress that the rule committee has adopted a resolution unanimously. I recommend the High House to vote on this. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-10-senat-12-2.u59	Thank you very much, Senator. Would any of your senators like to speak on this matter? I don't see any volunteers. We proceed to the vote on the draft resolution tabled by the Rules of Procedure, Ethics and Senators' Affairs on changes in the composition of the Senate committees. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? The results of the vote, please. 87 senators voted, 87 votes in favour, no votes against, no abstentions. [[Voting No 2]] [[Applause]] [[Congratulations.]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on changes in the membership of the Senate committees. High Izbo, I should have started with this announcement, but let me introduce him now. I inform you that the Marshal of the Sejm issued a resolution on convening the National Assembly in order to hear the message of the President of the Republic of Poland. The National Assembly will take place in Poznań on 15 April 2016 at 12 a.m. [[Mandatory?]] And I'm going to make another announcement. The meeting of the Polish-Iranian parliamentary group will be held immediately after the end of the vote in room 179. We are returning to the examination of the first item of the agenda: the law on amending the law of the family code and caring. The meeting of the Committee on Family, Senior and Social Policy and the Committee on Legislative Affairs took place at the end of the debate and produced a joint report on the subject, which is published in print No 89 Z. I ask the rapporteur, Senator Antoni Szymanski, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-10-senat-12-2.u60	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The joint committees, the Committee on Family, Senior and Social Policy and the Legislative Committee recommend the following to the High House. Firstly, they recommend rejecting the proposal for a law without amendment. Secondly, they recommend that an amendment be adopted which replaces words or all of them with the word "and." Thirdly, they recommend not to accept Amendment 2, the amendments of Senators Augustine and Zientarski. There has been a discussion on this issue, in particular on the latter. We have been told by the Minister of Justice that such a change will be understood in such a way that all forms of aid will not have to be applied, but those which are available in a given district and municipality. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-10-senat-12-2.u61	Thank you, Senator rapporteur. Do the senators of the applicants still want to speak on this matter? I would remind you that the conclusions were made during the discussion: Senator Lydia Staron, Senator Mieczysław Augustyn and Mr Piotr Zientarski. I don't see any volunteers. We'll proceed with the vote. First, a vote will be taken on the proposal to adopt the law without amendments and then, if this proposal is rejected, on the amendments tabled. We proceed with the vote on the motion to adopt the law without amendment. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 89 senators voted, no one voted in favour, 89 senators voted against, no one abstained. [[Voting No 3]] In view of the results of the vote, I find that... [[Voice from the Chamber: No, no, so we are voting on the amendments.]] In view of the rejection of the proposal for a law without amendments, we are voting on the amendments tabled. Amendment 1 makes it possible for the child to be placed in foster care after both the measures set out in the family and care code have been exhausted and the forms of assistance provided for in the provisions of the Family Support Act and the foster care system have been exhausted. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 87 senators voted, 57 were in favour, 28 against, 2 abstentions. [[Voting No 4]] The amendment was accepted. Amendment 2 deletes a provision that does not allow the child to be placed in foster care solely because of poverty. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 88 senators voted, 32 were in favour, 56 against, no abstentions. [[Voting No 5]] The amendment was rejected. We are voting on the adoption of a resolution on the adoption of the law in its entirety, with amendments resulting from the amendments adopted. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 89 senators voted, 89 were in favour, no votes against, no abstentions. [[Voting No 6]] In the light of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the adoption of a law amending the law of the family code and caring. We return to the second agenda: Act amending the Law on Judicial Costs in Civil Matters. The session was interrupted by a meeting of the Committee on Human Rights, the Rule of Law and Petitions, which responded to the proposals put forward during the debate and prepared a report on the matter. It is available in print No 88 Z. I ask Senator Zbigniew Cichoń to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-10-senat-12-2.u62	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! At its meeting, the Commission considered... [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[Quiet, please.]] ...corrections. Four amendments were proposed. Amendment 1, Senator Borowski, boils down to referring this fee to the relationship between banks and consumers within the meaning of Article. 22 of the Civil Code, which specifies who is the consumer and what is the legal relationship between consumers and the other party. This amendment aims to ensure that banks are also regulated, i.e. that not only consumers benefit from this regulation, but also that banks benefit from the same level of charge on an equal basis. The amendment did not find acceptance of the committee. Amendment 2, adopted by the committee, concerns the use of a slightly different wording than has been proposed so far. In place of the wording, either the consumer's or the natural person in charge is to use the wording "collected from the consumer or the natural person in charge'. This is justified by the fact that here we refer the amount of the fee not to the question of who comes in a given dispute, but to the person who is to pay it. Hence the wording of the fee charged to the consumer. Amendment 3, proposed by the Human Rights Committee and supported by it... [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[Quiet, everyone.]] ...enlarges the group of persons benefiting from a liberalised judicial fee also by persons who generate income from non-agricultural economic activities and pay a flat-rate income tax for this purpose. Amendment 4, by Senator Grodzki, also boils down to broadening the subjective scope, i.e. a group of people who would benefit from the privilege of this fee, to those who earn income from non-agricultural economic activities and pay a flat-rate income tax. From the previous amendment, which I mentioned, it differs from the fact that it clarifies that this would be the case if the revenue from the above mentioned title in the previous tax year were no more than EUR 75 000. [[Talking in the O.R.]] This amendment... [[Excuse me, Mr. Senator... ladies and gentlemen. High Izbo! It doesn't matter. Quiet, please!]] I know that the subject matter is boring, because it's not only financial, it's also legal. I'm done. Thank you, and I'm not bored anymore. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-10-senat-12-2.u63	Do the senators of the applicants still want to speak? I would like to remind you that during the discussion you submitted proposals by Senator Marek Borowski and Senator Tomasz Grodzki. Mr. Senator Borowski. You're welcome. [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[The senator will tell you. There you go.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-10-senat-12-2.u64	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! As regards the amendment that I tabled in the course of yesterday's debate, in relation to the argument put forward here by your deputy minister, the representative of the government, I have announced that I still have to consult on this issue and that I may withdraw this amendment. However, after the consultation, I did not make such a decision. I'd like to justify it because it's important. I would like to remind you that, after the liquidation of the bank's enforcement title, which was issued, it could be said, very cheap and cost banks very little, in order to enforce the debt, banks have to carry out cases through the court and therefore have to pay the appropriate amount In general, it is quite high, because there are quite large debts at stake here. Banks recover this amount after winning the case, they receive it from the debtor who has to return it. Things like this are pretty routine. It's a situation where the bank wants to get an executive title, and it's obvious. Up to 95% such cases end with an executive title, i.e. the bank's winnings, if that can be said. And in 95% of the cases, the debtor, apart from having to be executed, still has to pay back to the bank the costs of the case, which, I say, are quite high. The amendment that I have tabled aims to ensure that the limitation of the judicial charge which applies to the consumer applies also to the bank. Then the consumer would return less. Just like that. The Minister said that there was no need because banks could settle, and if they made settlements, the cost borne by the consumer would be very low and would amount to 40 PLN, so there is nothing to talk about. Yeah, except no one's gonna force the bank to settle, and no one's gonna pay the bank, because then no one's gonna pay him back the fee he filed in court. Therefore, the bank will go on a judicial path, as it has so far, and will recover money from the consumer. As a result, we're fiscalizing the citizen here, not the bank. I have decided to uphold my amendment and ask the High Senate to support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-10-senat-12-2.u65	Thank you very much. We'll proceed with the vote. In the first place, the amendments will be voted on, followed by a resolution on the adoption of the law in its entirety, as amended by the amendments adopted. Amendment 1 will rule out voting on Amendments 2, 3 and 4. Amendment 1 limits the right to pay a lower comparative fee by granting it only in matters between banks and consumers for claims arising from bank operations. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 90 senators voted, 34 votes, 54 against, 2 abstentions. [[Voting No 7]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has rejected the amendment. Amendment 2 introduces the possibility for consumers or family farmers to benefit from a lower fee even if they have not initiated proceedings at first instance. Who among you is in favour of the amendment? Who's against it? Who's holding back? [[Talking in the O.R.]] Please state the results of the vote. 90 senators voted, 83 for, 7 against, and no one abstained. [[Voting No 8]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the amendment has been accepted. Amendment 3 extends the catalogue of entities entitled to bear lower judicial costs to those earning income from non-agricultural economic activities and paying flat-rate income tax for this purpose. Who among you is in favour of the amendment? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 90 senators voted, 85 for, 4 against, 1 abstained. [[Voting No 9]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has accepted the amendment. [[Talking in the O.R.]] Amendment 4 extends the catalogue of entities entitled to... [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[It's already been eliminated.]] Oh, I'm sorry. Excuse me. Yes. We are voting on the adoption of a resolution on the adoption of the law in its entirety, with amendments resulting from the amendments adopted. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? [[Talking in the O.R.]] Please state the results of the vote. 90 senators voted, 61 votes against, 28 against, 1 abstention. [[Voting No 10]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the adoption of a law amending the Law on Judicial Costs in Civil Matters. We return to the examination of the fourth item of the agenda: the Act amending the Act on one-off allowance for certain pensioners, pensioners and persons receiving pre-retirement benefits, pre-retirement benefits, bridge pensions or teacher compensation benefits in 2016. The Committee on Family, Senior and Social Policy presented a draft resolution in which it requested the adoption of this law without any amendments to Senate printing No 93 A. We proceed to the vote on the draft resolution submitted by the committee. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? [[Talking in the O.R.]] Please state the results of the vote. 90 senators voted, 90 votes against, no one opposed, no one abstained. [[Voting No 11]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the Law amending the Act on one-off allowance for certain pensioners, pensioners and persons receiving pre-retirement benefits, pre-retirement benefits, bridge pensions or teacher compensation benefits in 2016. We return to the examination of item 5 of the agenda: the Act amending the Payment Act under direct support schemes and certain other laws. The Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development presented a draft resolution in which it requested the adoption of this law without any amendments to Senate printing No 98 A. We proceed to the vote on the draft resolution submitted by the committee. Who's in favor of the senators? Who's against it? Who's holding back? [[Talking in the O.R.]] Please state the results of the vote. 89 Senators voted, 64 in favour, no one opposed, 25 abstentions. [[Voting No 12]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the adoption of a law amending the Payment Act under direct support schemes and certain other laws. [[Talking in the O.R.]] In view of the resolutions taken, I ask the senators of the rapporteurs to represent the Senate in the course of the examination of the Senate resolutions by the Sejm committees. I would like to inform you that the agenda of the 12th Senate meeting has been exhausted. I inform the senators that the next Senate meeting will take place on 16, 17 and 18 March 2016. The order of this meeting was sent to you by e-mail. We proceed to senators' statements outside the agenda. I inform you senators that the statements made to the minutes will be included in the official version of the short-term report. [[Talking in the O.R.]] Ladies and gentlemen, please be quiet. [[Talking in the O.R.]] Quiet, please. Senators, please be quiet. Declarations may not last more than 5 minutes. The statement may include matters relating to the implementation of the mandate, but may not relate to matters on the agenda of the current Senate meeting. The Marshal will refuse to accept unsubstantiated statements whose content cannot be determined or whose delivery by the senator would not be possible at the time available, i.e. within 5 minutes. There is no discussion on the senator's statement. Please, sir, the statement is to be made by Senator Jerzy Wcisla. [[Talking in the O.R.]] Quiet, please, Mr and Mrs Senators!
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-10-senat-12-2.u66	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! We, the undersigned Senators of the Republic of Poland, protest against the behaviour of Andrzej Duda, President of the Republic of Poland, who, in a way contrary to the multigenerational tradition, uses symbols of the struggle for freedom and independence of our country and nation. The unmistakable symbol of this struggle was and there is a religious and patriotic song of God, something of Poland with a verse in the sound of the Homeland free to come back to us, Lord. So sung was the anthem of insurgents going to fight against the conquerors and exiles, soldiers fighting in occupied Poland, and after the war thousands of Poles opposed totalitarianism and atheization of the nation. President Andrzej Duda, misconceptioning the words of this song, suggests that those who often risked their lives in the fight for free Poland were not about freedom, but about personal benefits. In this way, it offends many generations of Poles, and in a tavern style, making jokes and comparing the country free with the country's native land, it expresses the level of its sensitivity and respect for patriotic and religious symbols and other people. We hope that this case is the result of a momentary weakness, not an intended desire to humiliate many Poles, and that the president will prove it by denying the public, in front of cameras and microphones, words. The statement was signed by 23 senators. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-10-senat-12-2.u67	Thank you, Senator. You're welcome. Senator Robert Dowhan will now make a statement. Are you a senator? [[Voice from the room: There it is.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-10-senat-12-2.u68	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! I have a statement addressed to the Minister of Infrastructure and Construction Andrzej Adamczyk on the high tolls applicable on motorways in Poland. As Senator of the Republic of Poland, I request that measures be taken to reduce the high tolls applicable on motorways in the Republic of Poland. The tolls on the motorways in our country are increasing from year to year. We come to the absurdity in which not only carriers, but also private individuals calculate the money spent on fuel and choose alternative longer routes for which less costs are incurred. Despite considerable distances, these roads are more cost-effective for drivers than the use of motorways. For example, in Lubuskie voivodship for the A2 motorway from Jordanów near Świebodzin to Poznań the fee is 25 PLN and to Warsaw 68.90 PLN. After including the fuel price, the sum of the toll costs... [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[Voice from the room: Shh...]] After including the fuel price, the amount of toll costs turns out to be very high. On the episodes between New Thought and Konin... The toll for each of them, which is about 50 km long, is currently 17 PLN. Drivers, yes, save, but at the expense of pollution and noise. In my opinion... Well, it's been miswritten because it's already 18 zlotys. In my opinion, there is no reason to make highways more expensive. In comparison, the 10-day vignette for all German motorways, across the country from next year will cost only 10 euros. In the Czech Republic these wines also cost depending on the period for which they are, similarly. Therefore, I ask you to take appropriate measures to reduce the cost of motorways in Poland. Action in this area is important and justified. This is the first statement. And a second statement, addressed to the Minister of Home Affairs and Administration of Mariusz Błaszczak, on the ban on mobile phones in public places and other utility facilities. As Senator of the Republic of Poland, I request that appropriate measures be taken to prohibit the use of mobile phones in public places and other commercial facilities. The use of mobile phones has become a domain of modern interpersonal communication. While other forms of mobile communication are not so cumbersome, telephone calls are becoming increasingly problematic in terms of disturbing other users of public places. Loud conversations in public transport, restaurants, theatres, cinemas, museums, but also in recreational facilities, become unbearable. There is still a lack of adequate education in respect of the comfort of co-users of public places. Conversations are becoming more frequent and loud, thus disturbing the general sense of peace. The ban on mobile phones on air flights is easy to operate and is respected by fellow passengers. The operation of this ban for other sites is therefore realistic. I therefore call for consideration to be given to banning the use of mobile phones in public places and other commercial facilities. This will increase the comfort of users of these places, but will also affect mutual respect for peace. Action in this area is important and justified. Such prohibitions have already been introduced in many countries around the world. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-10-senat-12-2.u69	Thank you, Senator. Your statement will now be made by Senator Antoni Szymanski.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-10-senat-12-2.u70	Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! I'd like to make a statement on behalf of 10 ladies and gentlemen of the senators. In connection with the upcoming National Day of Life, celebrated in accordance with the resolution of the Polish Sejm on 24 March, as well as the Day of Life celebrated on 25 March, we ask everyone to take into account the special character of these days. In the Seym Resolution establishing the National Day of Life on 24 March, we read that it is an opportunity for national reflection on the responsibility of state authorities, society and the public for protecting and building respect for human life, especially the smallest, the weakest and the most vulnerable. The encyclical Evangelium Vitae shows that the essence of the Day of Life is awakening in consciences, in families, in the Church and in secular society sensitivity to the meaning and value of human life at every moment and in every condition. We ask state institutions, local governments, schools, non-governmental organisations, communities to take into account the idea of these days. We especially ask families to take time on 24 and 25 March to celebrate together and reflect on the gift of life. Signed by Senators: Janina Sagatowska, Antoni Szymański, Rafał Ślusarz, Andrzej Kamiński, Czesław Ryszka, Małgorzata Kopiczko, Jerzy Czerwiński, Jan Maria Jackowski, Aleksander Bobko, Andrzej Pajak. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-10-senat-12-2.u71	Thank you, Senator. Please make a statement to Senator Rafał Ambrozik.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-10-senat-12-2.u72	Thank you, Mrs. Marshal. This is a statement addressed to the Minister of Justice, Attorney General Zbigniew Ziobra. I ask the Minister to investigate Mr D's case. S. currently serving a sentence of imprisonment in a penitentiary at ul. Kłobucka in Warsaw. According to the information provided, the prisoner was convicted of a fatal road accident in 2005. According to the person concerned, he did not commit an alleged act. His conviction was based on a misdiagnosis of the case, which did not reflect the facts of the case. The condemned does not agree with the conclusion that he is the driver of the vehicle. The preliminary opinion, prepared by the Gdansk Road Accident Investigation Institute, excluded this thesis. In the second opinion, in which the interested party considered that the themes raised by other cases were completely different. Mr. S. argues that in the present case a number of relevant evidence, such as the testimony of one of the participants in the movement, who saw the driver's face, the actual perpetrator's shoe under the clutch pedal, etc. has been disregarded. Dactyloscopic and biological tests were refused, even though police officers secured the marks at the scene. In view of the issues presented here, I ask the Minister kindly to consult the case file with a view to bringing an appeal or other action, in accordance with his/her powers, and to inform Mr S. of his/her decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-10-senat-12-2.u73	Thank you, Senator. Please make a statement to Senator Jarosław Rusiecki.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-10-senat-12-2.u74	Mrs. Marshal! Mr. and Mrs. Senators! My statement is directed primarily to all Poles. When people talk in recent days, and especially yesterday, about the threat to democracy in Poland, and they do not see, especially in the media, what is most valuable, does not care about the most valuable, about the life of a person, about the life of a child... In the face of an incident that took place yesterday in one of Warsaw hospitals I don't even want to bring up the name of this hospital because I don't think she's entitled to it. The murder of a 26-week-old child subject to the so-called murder. the abortion that survived this procedure, I am mostly saddened by this incident and I call on the Minister of Justice The prosecutor general, as well as the Minister for Health, to take urgent action to clarify the matter. Let me remind you that in the same hospital, an outstanding professor who cared about the child's life, Professor Chazan, was harmed by the institutions responsible for the functioning of this medical unit. We can't go past what happened in this hospital. In the context of a statement just made by Senator Szymanski on behalf of a group of senators, in the face of a national day to protect life... We can't be indifferent. I say it with great pain. It is difficult to say anything more about the tragedy and the misery of a man who, helpless, ends his life without help. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-10-senat-12-2.u75	Thank you very much, Senator. That's where the list of speakers ran out. I would like to inform you that the minutes of the 12th Senate meeting of the Republic of Poland IX term will be made available to the senators within 30 days of the Senate meeting at the Senate Office, room 255. The 12th session of the Senate of the Republic of Poland 9th term of office is closed. [[The Vice Marshal strikes three times with a marshal's cane]] [[Meeting adjourned at 12 minutes 29]]
