ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-senat-32-2.u1	I'm reopening the session. Senators of the secretary's office, please take your seats at the president's table. The Senators state, I propose to supplement the agenda with a point: the Law on the Organisation and Procedure of the Constitutional Tribunal and the Act on the Status of Judges of the Constitutional Tribunal and consider it as item 19. If I do not hear the opposition, I will find that the High House has accepted the proposal. [[Voice from the room: There is no objection.]] [[Voice from the room: There is opposition!]] Mr. President Klich.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-senat-32-2.u2	As the marshal guesses, the objection is. Well, you tried as a majority in, if I count correctly, the four previous laws paralyze the Constitutional Tribunal. In three, including this bill, you're trying to make a jump to the Court. This law is actually the final slit of the throat of the Constitutional Court in an independent version. The Constitutional Tribunal, which, if adopted, will function in Poland, will only be a mock-up of the constitutional court. He'll do his job, but he won't do it properly, and the constitution will be a dead piece of paper. That's your intention, you want to make it happen. That is why the Senatorship Club of the Civic Platform necessarily opposes this law. But the formal reason is very simple. Namely, we received this text yesterday at 10:30 p.m. Today, at 10.30 a.m., the joint committee's deliberations began. This is no longer urgent. This is an ad hoc mode that we think is as bad as possible in relation to the historical experiences of Poles. And in ad hoc mode, laws of fundamental character cannot be adopted. That is why we are strongly opposed to discussing this law at this Senate meeting. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-senat-32-2.u3	Thank you very much, Mr President. In the face of the opposition, we are voting on my proposal. Who's in favour? [[Voices from the hall: For what?]] With my proposal to complete the agenda for this item. Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 71 senators voted, 52 for, 19 against, no one abstained. [[Voting No 24]] I find the Senate has accepted my offer. We return to the examination of item seven of the agenda: the Law on the amendment of the Seed Act and the Plant Protection Act. The text of the Act is contained in print No 363 and the report of the Commission In print No 363 A. I ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development, Senator Jerzy Chróścikowski, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-senat-32-2.u4	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour to submit on behalf of the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development a report on the Law amending the Seed Act and the Law on Plant Protection, which the Sejm adopted on 2 December. The Commission considered it at two meetings: 6 and 13 December. We have tabled a report in which we have listed as many as 8 amendments. These 8 amendments are mainly legislative amendments supported by the committee. I move that the High House adopt the 8 amendments that we adopted at the committee meeting. This law is a law that adapts our right to European Union directives, and there is a need for these amendments to enter into force on 1 January 2017. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-senat-32-2.u5	Thank you very much. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the rapporteur's senator. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? I don't see any calls. Thank you very much, Senator. The bill was filed by the government. The Minister for Agriculture and Rural Development has been authorised to present the government's position during parliamentary work. Does a government representative wish to speak on the bill under consideration and present the position of the government? [[Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development Ewa Lech: No.]] At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of questioning to a government representative related to this item on the agenda. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? I don't see any calls. I'm opening a discussion. Senator Chróścikowski signed up for the floor. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-senat-32-2.u6	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I would like to present in this discussion a draft amendment to the Act amending the Seed Act and the Plant Protection Act. In Article 2, paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: 1 (a) (i) (ii) (ii) (iii) (ii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) 9 is replaced by the following: The Council of Ministers may, by means of a regulation, prohibit the use and marketing of seed of specified varieties, by reason of their unusability to grow under climatic and soil conditions of the Republic of Poland or by the need to avoid risks to human, animal, plant and environmental health. And in lithium. b, in point 49 in point (a). d: in the amendment order, the words "paragraph 33" (36) shall be replaced by the words "paragraph 33" (37); in point 36 a comma shall be added; the following point 37 shall be inserted: "activates the marketing of seed contrary to the prohibition laid down in the provisions issued pursuant to Article." Article 104 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013 shall apply. Ninety-nine. This amendment is tabled by Senator Chróścikowski as well as by Senator Błaszczyk. I ask the High House to support her. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-senat-32-2.u7	Thank you very much, Senator. I would like to inform you that you have submitted a legislative proposal in writing to Senator Chróścikowski. The discussion is closed. Would a government representative like to comment on the proposal? [[Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development Ewa Lech: No.]] No. As a legislative proposal has been tabled, I ask the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development to respond to the proposal presented and to prepare a report. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held in the voting block. We proceed with the examination of item 19 of the agenda: the Law on the Organisation and Procedure of the Constitutional Tribunal and the Act on the Status of Judges of the Constitutional Tribunal. The text of the act is contained in print No 374 and the report of the committee In print No 374 A. I ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Human Rights, the Rule of Law and Petitions and the Legislative Committee, Senator Stanisław Gogach, to present a report to the committee... [[Formal conclusion, Mr. Marshal.]] Mr Klich has a formal motion. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-senat-32-2.u8	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! Again, as was the case at the penultimate Senate meeting, when we considered the Act on the mode and organisation of the work of the Constitutional Tribunal, that we have deep constitutional doubts about the bill under consideration. These constitutional doubts are shared by legal authorities. We had the opportunity today at the committee meeting to hear the opinion of the National Judicial Council, which devastated this project. Other experts, among others, say the same thing. lawyers from Polish universities law departments. The government is silent about this. To be honest, this government silence is very disturbing, because it is as if the High House wanted to take full responsibility, along with the Sejm, for adopting something that is unconstitutional. We have doubts. as regards the constitutionality of at least 4 entries in this Act. This government silence may be an attempt to transfer responsibility to the Sejm, the Senate and the President for what might happen. And that is why I would like to ask that the Marshal announces a recess in our deliberations until the Minister of Justice or one of the vice-ministers who would speak on behalf of the government and we have the opportunity to hear the government's opinion on the proposed bill. I move, Mr. Marshal, to hold a vote on this matter. Thank you. [[Mr. Marshal...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-senat-32-2.u9	Senator Dobrzyński on what? Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-senat-32-2.u10	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! It's worth recalling in this room for the last time that it was the Civic Platform that started... [[Joy in the Chamber]] Mr. Marshal, you'll be so kind as to calm down. [[All right, all right, all right, all right, all right, all right, all right, all right, all right, all right, all right, all ……]] The Civic Platform started manipulating the Constitutional Tribunal Act with its June Act. Mr. President of the Senate Platform Club said that yesterday they received documents on this matter, and he's already assessing this bill negatively. How do you know that... [[Voice in the Chamber: From the proceedings of the committee meeting.]] There's no such thing as knowledge. [[Talking in the O.R.]] And yet, ladies and gentlemen, this paralysis of the Court. I would like to make it clear: it is the Civic Platform together with PSL and with the President of the Court that paralyzes the Court. [[Joy in the Chamber]] [[The voice from the room: And that's just...]] The President of the Court is making the institution ridicule by his behaviour, by his political statements. I hope that we will soon be able to rebuild her authority. I object, Mr. Marshal, to the announcement of a break. The case is well known. This is another law that brings matters to order by the Constitutional Tribunal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-senat-32-2.u11	Thank you very much. Senator Comfort. [[Excuse me, Mr. Marshal, but I would like to add that this is a parliamentary project. There is no obligation for government representatives to be present in this case.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-senat-32-2.u12	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. I just want to tell Senator Dobrzyński one thing. What you're trying to say is that you're changing something that is the Civic Platform... If you take this text that you were just talking about, you will read in it that it is a revision of the 2016 Law and Justice Act. [[It's a fix.]] I'm really asking you, sir. I'm really... If you broke something in 2016, and now you're trying to fix it, don't tell me you're fixing anything on the Civic Platform... [[That's not the point, Senator.]] That's exactly what I'm talking about. Don't tell me you're fixing anything that's related to the Civic Platform. You're changing the laws you passed five months ago. [[Applause]] If you'd read it and then spoken, then your speech would have made any sense. [[Mr. Senator...]] I'd like to tell you one more thing... [[Mr. Senator, what's your formal conclusion?]] I'm joining the motion...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-senat-32-2.u13	Thank you. [[...to the Senate...]] Thank you very much. [[Applause]] I declare a recess until 2.55 p.m., after which we will vote on the President's motion. [[Voice from the O.R.: Which one?]] All right, let's take it up to 14.55, take nine minutes. [[Adjournment from 14 minutes 46 to 14 minutes 55]] I'm reopening the session. Please take your seats. We proceed with the vote on President Klich's request for a break until a representative of the government arrives. Who is in favour of the proposal put forward by Mr Klich? [[Unanimously...]] [[Voice from the room: Against.]] [[Room vote: 100 a.m.]] Who's against it? [[Wait, because the senator doesn't have a card.]] We'll wait. [[This is your own conclusion...]] Who's holding back? [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[It's not working.]] Everything's working. Please state the results of the vote. 76 senators voted, 23 for, 52 against, 1 abstention. [[Voting No 25]] The motion was rejected. [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[Wait, wait, because Janek's gonna talk.]] Mr. Senator Rulewski.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-senat-32-2.u14	May I take a shortcut, Mr. Marshal? [[Please.]] This is not an attempt to take your chair. [[Joy in the Chamber]] It's a good thing in such a mood... Allow me to make another request for a break on this item. And I am not driven by the need to prolong this discussion. I notice among you and among us a lot of people with union pronunciation. This law, which is discussed in this paragraph, introduces far-reaching changes to the situation of the staff of the Constitutional Tribunal, in particular removing the existing institution of the office. Next: announces the need to respond to new jobs... which can result in collective redundancies. Hence, a simple way to fully justify the request for consultation of trade unions, in accordance with the consultation law. But it's not just that. The bill discussed here is, of course, not just for... Hello, President of the Constitutional Court. ...and for the purposes of the Constitutional Tribunal. In the case of this law, different from before. The President shall consult the legal environment and confirm this. I would remind you that the recent convention law was so procedated in the Senate that the legal authorities had a position and had a chance to do so. Contrary to what's going on here, Mr. President... Even though they've notified the meeting... But it happened in time. Don't laugh, so to speak, when the result of the vote in the Sejm has not yet been known. So that the time for, say, a corporation, as it is said, to be legal and not only that, because also a citizen's law could take part in the work on this law, is actually zero, so as not to say negative. I believe that a country that is in very close commissar with trade unions In fact, it's in yours, so to speak, a set of several activists. They won't refuse my request. Because I'm a member of the union, too. [[Joy in the Chamber]] So I'm applying to order a recess until the trade union and legal background have been consulted. [[Don't take shortcuts.]] [[Voice from the room: Take the shortcut!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-senat-32-2.u15	Mr. President Martynowski, you're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-senat-32-2.u16	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. I object.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-senat-32-2.u17	Good. We therefore proceed with the vote. Who's in favour of Senator Rulewski's request for a break? [[We're against it.]] Who's against it? Who's holding back? Senator Fedorovich hasn't voted yet. [[Yeah, I just thought I wanted to speak.]] [[Joy in the Chamber]] Uh-huh. But that doesn't rule it out. Please state the results of the vote. 78 senators voted against, 24 against, 54 against, and no one abstained. [[Voting No 26]] The motion was rejected. I ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Human Rights, Rule of Law and Petitions... [[I'm still talking about the formal...]] Please. [[Can I come from here?]] Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-senat-32-2.u18	Ladies and gentlemen, I am formally expressing my outrage that we are once again working... [[Joy in the Chamber]] I'm sorry, but there's nothing to laugh about, Mr. Senator, because there's absolute disregard for the Senate, to which the senator, who is so graciously laughing, has been for several years. Once again, once again on such a serious matter What the man to whom I owe my freedom was just talking about, Rulewski, we meet with absolute disregard for us by the government side. [[Mr. Senator, there's a debate coming up and you can take the floor. But what's your formal conclusion?]] I have a formal motion to pass the recess once again until... [[Joy in the Chamber]] I know he's not gonna make it, so I'm withdrawing my motion.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-senat-32-2.u19	Thank you very much. I ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Human Rights, the Rule of Law and Petitions and the Legislative Committee, Senator Stanisław Gogach, to present a report to the committee. [[The meeting is chaired by Deputy Marshal Grzegorz Czelej]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-senat-32-2.u20	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! I have the honour to be the rapporteur of the Joint Committees, the Committee on Human Rights, the Rule of Law and Petitions and the Legislative Committee, which were held today, on 14 December 2016, and... [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[Quiet, please.]] ...the purpose of our committee's proceedings was to prepare an opinion on the bill of 1059 in Parliament's printing and in Senate printing no. 374, the Law introducing a law on the organisation and procedure of proceedings before the Constitutional Tribunal and the Act on the status of judges of the Constitutional Tribunal. We are actually, as we have already said, that basic printing on which we are working, i.e. the Senate printing, was only received by electronic mail yesterday at around 10:00 p.m. because earlier there were votes in the Sejm and earlier we could not... However, the day before Not counting on an hourly basis, that is, the day before today's resolution of the Legislative Commission, we received this printing. Ladies and gentlemen, there was a very rich discussion at the committee meeting. Among the guests attending the committee meeting was a representative of the National Judicial Council, a Member, one of the applicants Because the submission we are discussing is a parliamentary submission. We also took note of the opinion of the Legislative Bureau presented to us by the legislator. At first, these amendments were even taken over by Senator Rulewski, but it was decided that such amendments would eventually be taken over in the debate. So that the intention arose, but he was not fully realized. The discussion was, of course, about different threads. First of all, it was asked why there is another law which includes matter related to the Constitutional Tribunal, which is already a law. That's the kind of question I've been asking. Of course, both from the reasons attached to the Seym printing and from the discussion that has passed, we know that when the Venice Commission came to us... We had a meeting with the Venice Commission twice, there were guidelines. And in order to meet these guidelines, the Marshal of the Sejm has set up a team of experts to respond or lead to these conclusions. However, the expert team had not prepared a report before the adoption of the Law of 22 July, so that the material contained in the report could not be used. Thus, the allegations raised at the committee's meeting that a law has recently been passed are not justified at this time, because the present submission is intended to take account of the conclusions drawn up by the panel of experts and included in the report. This submission is a provision introducing two laws. According to the principles of legislative technique, §47 and 48, it is advisable that, in a situation where there are two laws, for the transparency and purity of legislative material... The point is that such provisions introducing these two laws should be introduced, which is precisely the purpose of this submission. There have been charges. He reported them, among other things. Mr. Senator Klich, who spoke as a guest because he is not a member of the committee... They even allowed themselves to name the person who, as I say, enters this institution, the Commissioner, even though there is no such name or nomenclature in this law. This is about a judge acting as President of the Court, who is appointed by the President. On this occasion, the question was whether there was a confusion between the two judicial authorities and the executive authority. If the president... This is not done under the prerogatives of the President, because a countersignation of the President of the Council of Ministers is required. So if this is not a prerogative, then countersignation is required, then... there was a long discussion on it and a few senators asked if there would be confusion between these two orders, these two authorities, the judicial authority and the executive authority. There was also a question as to why the institution of the judge acting is called, since there is an institution of the vice-president of the Constitutional Tribunal in the Constitution. And I, and the envoy here, quoted... The opinion of Prof. Banashak shows that, although the institution of the Vice President of the Court is literally enshrined in the Constitution, this institution lacks the assigned powers. There's no information on what kind of competence he has... The Constitution simply does not define the powers of the vice-president of the Constitutional Tribunal. That's what it's said. At the committee meeting, there was also a charge that it was a bill, so to speak, written under a specific person. Read: Chairman. There was a discussion on this in committee. [[Isn't it?]] Excuse me? [[But don't bother at least.]] [[Don't disturb me!]] [[But that's the way it is.]] [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[I'm sorry, but there will be a time for discussion later, and now we have a report from the committee meeting.]] I'm just telling you what we discussed. Vice-President of the Legislative Commission, Senator Pociej, can confirm that we have discussed this. Right? [[I admit we discussed it.]] Your Senator Augustine wasn't there, hence perhaps this mistake that he claims it's not a report that this is a discussion. No, it's not a discussion, it's just that we've been discussing it and there's been accusations that it's a bill written under a specific person, a specific event, and that there's no art here. 194 constitutions. Two proposals were tabled at the end of the discussion. The farthest proposal was a request from Senator Rulewski to reject the bill, and another proposal was to adopt the law without amendment. The first application, the rejection request, was rejected and the application for adoption of the law without amendment was accepted. And that's how the committee's meeting ended. Senator Rulewski and Senator Zdrojewska's motion has become a minority request. And Senator Rulewski is a representative of this minority. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-senat-32-2.u21	Thank you very much. I ask the rapporteur of the minority of the Committee on Human Rights, the Rule of Law and Petitions and the Legislative Committee, Senator Jan Rulewski, to present a proposal for a minority of committees.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-senat-32-2.u22	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! It is not my goal to arouse reflection, it is to pay more attention to the correctness of the work of the Constitutional Tribunal, but also . and maybe above all The House where I work, where we all work. As senators, we have a huge responsibility, so maybe I'll start my report with the question: what is this thing that appears on December 13th, is about to enter into force immediately, or actually at night, and solves it, removes something that... Someone who survived a similar night 35 years ago must ask such questions. Is there a need in a country that has been building its democratic culture for so many years, which is a member of the pantheon of democratic states, the European Union, to introduce such decrees on an ad hoc basis and at a time, so to speak, against the law? But do you not recall the fact that... well, the institution of the interim president is nothing more than the institution of the commissioner, the judge and the commissioner. It is otherwise a friendly function in the context of the bankruptcy of the company, but something else is the introduction of a judge-counsel to the Constitutional Tribunal, the same Court which recently celebrated its honorary anniversary, in which people of different views participated, people, I would say, from various parishes shaped by democratic structures of the pluralist state. And that's mine, so to speak, an emotional justification for this harsh motion, a motion to reject the bill. However, not only my reflections, but also the contents of this law require such a proposal. I'll start with a case that goes beyond the matter of this bill. This is the negative time, the zero time, and this is the wonderful thing that happened. It is December and we are facing a Christmas night during which miracles occur, and this wonderful thing is that between 10:00 and 9:00 p.m., a lawyer from the Legal Service has prepared a broad opinion, although with modesty and responsibility the right lawyers said it was not a full opinion. And it's like another justification: the senators worked in a vacuum during the committee's work. This vacuum is also a concept from 35 years ago, because in Poland there was a civilization vacuum. But that's the opinion we got. Indeed, you have said the truth to the rapporteur of the committee, Senator Gogacz, pointing out that the only opinion from the Sejm was the opinion of Professor Marciniak, but about this in a moment. [[Banashaka.]] Banashaka, Banashaka. And it is true that the National Judicial Council also prepared a position in an unexpected short period of time. But this does not actually justify the fact that the law is being knee-deepened, even more so, putting the High House under the wall of unmarked time and closer to unmarked needs. And that's why it's appropriate to press charges against the Constitution. As President Klich said, these are essentially three charges. The first is, of course, the denial of the constitutional role of deputy president of the Constitutional Tribunal. Negative, deletion. This is no longer another constitutional interpretation, it is no longer some constitutional crawl, it is simply the deletion of the Constitution. It's not on the bill. Even though it's in the Constitution, As Deputy President of the Constitutional Tribunal. In this place, as in memorable times, the function of vice-president is being introduced. The justification, as the rapporteur said, is that they are not the vice-president assigned powers. And indeed competence is not assigned, because the constitution is not a set of instructions for work or activity. This is a set of powers, this is a set of rights, this is a set defining the essence, in this case the Constitutional Tribunal. If this were the case, as the rapporteur said, it should be asked why the function of Vice-Presidents of the Council of Ministers is included in the same constitution, and why they are not defined, constitutionally included in their functions. There's an ombudsman, we know he has deputies, but their functions aren't included. It's not a rhetorical figure in the constitution, it's common... it's a specific position, I'll be honest, in the constitution, it's only distinguished. Because among this mass of constitutional terms of legal authority in Poland The courts, therefore, the Court of State and others are deputies, but nowhere is the precise description of the existence of the Deputy President of the Constitutional Tribunal. It would be wise to ask the constitution's creators what they were following, that they were so thoroughly interfering... But vice versa, we should ask these authors, including Professor Banashak, why he does not see it. Why, in this case alone, has given a comprehensive justification that this is actually something that exists and does not exist, and that is why it needs to be supplemented with a statutory replacement function... [[Deputy.]] ...substitutes. The deputy deputy. I'm sorry, but it's new. It's also something from the past. The second constitutional charge that has been put on this bill is that it is created under a person and on the occasion of certain events. Senator Gogacz confirms that such doubts were. Underneath the person. How do you explain that the bill is directed at a person? First of all, the provision is that it is to be a person who, as far as I can remember, has not obtained the full status of judge of the Constitutional Tribunal. Let's skip it, or let's skip it for a second, whether it's right or wrong. But then there's the internship, every legal internship. As I recall, the Act on the appointment of judges of the Constitutional Tribunal does not introduce such a category, it introduces only good legal opinion and knowledge. And the practice that I was accused of in committee, because the young rapporteur... the practice, when you consider who you're shaping up... How did it happen that, for example? Mr. D.A. Piotrowicz became a district attorney? It's not because he was an asessor out there, it's because he had certain achievements in the D.A.'s office, party and professional achievements in the D.A.'s office where he worked, probably in Krosno. [[Like Rzepliński.]] In other words, if you were to accept, as Professor Banaszak points out, the issue of criteria, qualifications for this function, professional qualifications, it would be better to specify that this is to be a judge with experience in the Constitutional Court, possibly in the Supreme Court or parallel institutions, and at least this experience is not to be the work of a helper with an asessor or notary. This is the second and third charge. But there's a fourth. Although I don't want to extend this list. And this is the involvement of the President in the purely orderly work of the Court. This is the involvement of the President in interfering in the structure, in the hierarchy of the Constitutional Tribunal. And I will say again that, as an analogy, in the Supreme Court, a related institution, there are also various situations, but the legislature in the basic law indicates that this assembly of judges decides on self-government, on the autonomy of this Chamber, does not grant the right in this respect to anyone, even to the President. The weird thing is, on the one hand, The Court is to represent this deputy and, on the other hand, to inform the President of the election. So we have a double representation. I don't know if he's too well... Well, time didn't allow it. By the way, I'm sorry about maybe not the best level of this relationship. To examine the election act itself, the future, the good change already made to the President of the Constitutional Tribunal... I'm sorry, but that's the nomenclature, Mr. President. We live in the nomenclature of good change, so I cannot talk about the past. It is said that there is a minimum qualification, five votes, and then it is presented to the President, I understand, an unlimited list, or actually a limited number of judges of the assembly. What does that mean? In a divided world you can accept e.g. Such 2 extreme cases: first of all, that all judges will be elected presidents and there will be 15 candidates, and second of all, the opposite situation, that everyone will delete the others so that there will be one vote and there will be no candidates at all. What comfort, then, will you have for the President in order to comply with the statute assigned to him by law rather than the constitution of the law, so that there is no need to appoint another deputy, or deputy to any power? Right? This absurdity will allow me to draw my attention. I said we were working in a vacuum because this bill is bringing economic effects that I was talking about. It is the liquidation of the office provided for in the Act, there are employee checks... Unfortunately, the rapporteurs in the Sejm seem to be extremely impressed and have therefore failed to fulfil their obligation to do so. I know that here, in the Senate, there is no starting of legislative work if there is no so-called. OSR. And the Members there, in the Lower House I'm not gonna judge it, I'm gonna censor it. They didn't do it. As I said before, they, although sitting next to each other in the benches, did not ask their colleagues about their opinions. But even if the Members did not do so, because they do not have such a statutory obligation, they do not exempt us from it, and even more so the government which has a duty to participate. I don't know if it is, I don't see it or I have negative illumination, but I don't see a government representative. However, to read the opinion of the trade union organisations. Ladies and gentlemen, it's in this bill, as in any ad hoc act, as in any act under the strain of events, under pressure of time, a disgrace. And that's what I have to talk about as an applicant, and I have to bring it up. Well, there is a provision in the Act as if it were born following a gossip debate in which the judges of the Constitutional Tribunal were accused of sybaritism These infamous chicken sauces. But there was a worse charge. Well, the record says that judges are required to make tax returns. Yeah, they have a duty to file them, and they're under strict... [[It's wealthy.]] Judges of the Constitutional Tribunal. [[Voices from the room: Property!]] Property, property... But right behind that, in this correlation, there's a record that within a month, they might be in favor of turning to rest. Only the fools will not understand that this is a disgraceful statement that this is an accusation that these judges have committed embezzlement and it is best for them to get out of this court within a month. The law provides for the presumption that a prohibited act of a corrupt nature is to be committed. This is a line for which, at least... this solution is unacceptable. And notice, High Izbo, the Senators, that in the case of qualifying as judges of the Constitutional Tribunal, there is a condition that includes not only legal qualifications but also good opinion. So there's a contradiction here, and there's a suspicion of corruption... Whoever benefits from this right And he may also benefit from other powers, he will be suspected that he simply acquired the property in an unwarranted and perhaps even in a corrupt manner. The attention you've given me is acceptance. I understand that this acceptance will go to the vote. In particular, I look forward to the expression and dazzling of Senator Martynowski, as happened at the previous meeting in the case of the Congress Act. Thank you, High Izbo.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-senat-32-2.u23	At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the senators of the rapporteurs. The first vote will be taken by Senator Dobkowski. Ask me a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-senat-32-2.u24	Mr. Senator Rulewski... [[Please turn on...]] I have a question for Senator Rulewski. [[I'm listening, Mr. Senator Dobkowski.]] Mr. Senator, rapporteur for the minority of the committee, you spoke about building democracy. You have this in common with the Constitutional Tribunal. As I remember, democracy began to be built since 4 June 1989, and actually more so since 1991, because in 1989 it was a contract parliament and only 1/3 of the Members were free elections, and in 1991 there were already just free elections to the Sejm, to the whole Sejm. I therefore have this question: when was the Constitutional Tribunal introduced or before 4 June 1989? Or later or earlier? And ancillary question: who introduced the Constitutional Tribunal in Poland? And second question... [[Talking in the O.R.]] Second question. Is there such a thing as the Constitutional Tribunal in all democratic countries? Thank you. [[Yes.]] [[Who demanded the Constitutional Court?]] [[Talking in the O.R.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-senat-32-2.u25	Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, I'm just reminding you... [[Talking in the O.R.]] Quiet, please. Quiet, please, Senator... [[Talking in the O.R.]] Excuse me, could you stop the discussion? I would just like to remind you that the questions to the rapporteur should concern a committee meeting. If the senator wants to answer, of course I do not, but we are at the stage of questions to the rapporteur, questions about the committee meeting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-senat-32-2.u26	Shortly, Mr. Senator Dobkowski. Democracy was introduced in Poland At least as I remember it. In 1980, when the Independent Self-Solidarity Union was established. Fortunately, some of the fruits of this democracy still function, including in the Senate. As for the introduction of the Constitutional Tribunal, it was actually introduced before 1989, in 1988 or 1987... [[Voice from the Chamber: 1986.]] [[Who offered?]] ...in 1986, as a result of the pressure that occurred in the process of democratisation after 1980. It was true that General Jaruzelski wanted to show off; and, as he admitted, the functions of the Court exceeded the assumptions. Are there such tribunals in other countries? Well, the answer to that question was already. In many countries, most European countries are, and even if they are not, the highest or federal courts have their functions. It's not like that anywhere, even where it is. Only one House of Parliament that its activities are not somehow controlled. Because we still have a Senate that we can say is a House of reflection, but there are one-room parliaments that make laws, and in that case the absence of any legal authority controlling, of others perhaps competence, would be a major loss. I don't know this country.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-senat-32-2.u27	Mr. Marshal Borusewicz. Ask me a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-senat-32-2.u28	I have two simple questions. Question for the senator of the minority rapporteur. Following Senator Dobkowski, referring to his intentions, I will ask: Mr. Senator, who registered the NSZZ and when? That's a question for you. And now, a question for the Senator, the rapporteur of the majority. Tell me, how many legal changes during this term have occurred to the Constitutional Tribunal? Is it 7 or 8 shifts? Because I've already lost track of how many changes there were in this term.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-senat-32-2.u29	You're welcome. [[Just to make it easier, I'll give you...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-senat-32-2.u30	The association "Solidarity" was registered as a result of the Supreme Court ruling in Warsaw on September 17, 1980, with the authentic participation of legal circles. Lawyers, yes, I must say, even though they were on the other side. And the court corrected its decision. And as for the second question, this is the seventh amendment... [[But it wasn't a question for you, it was a question for the senator...]] Oh, I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-senat-32-2.u31	The second question was to Senator Gogach. [[But are we in WYŚP class, news about the world and Poland?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-senat-32-2.u32	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! First, about 20 November last year, there was the first amendment, which allowed five candidates to be sworn in and later sworn in as judges of the Court. Later, of course, there was the December Act on the Constitutional Court, dated 23 or 24 December. Then there was the March bill... No, it wasn't in March anymore. After that, of course... It also interferes with constitutional judgments. I'm sure there was a bill from July 22, which we've already discussed. [[Wedding.]] Of course, now there are these last two laws, the Act on the status of judges of the Constitutional Tribunal and the Act on the organisation and procedure of proceedings before the Constitutional Tribunal of 30 November. This is intertwined with the judgments of the Constitutional Tribunal, with the judgment of 3 December, with the judgment of 9 December. Of course, it is difficult to talk about the amendments themselves without taking these judgments into account. [[So, Mr. Senator, it's already six in Parliament...]] [[Ladies and gentlemen, I urge you to return to your questions about the committee meeting.]] [[But that question was concrete.]] [[Mr. Marshal...]] [[How many amendments... I don't mean how many...]] [[It's a creature...]] [[...how many judgments were made by the Court, only how many amendments had been made in this term of office.]] [[Voice from the room: 7 or 8?]] No. In November, December, July and now, this year, two in November.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-senat-32-2.u33	Senator Rybicki. Ask me a question. [[Okay, thank you. I won't bother you.]] [[It's still April, April.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-senat-32-2.u34	I have a question for the Senator, Senator Gogach. Senator, in your report, you mentioned that the committee took into account the opinion of prof. Dra hab. Bogusław Banaszak, who has been recognized by many publicists as an on-call expert in Law and Justice, a man with difficult tasks, even impossible to do, but who always manages. In addition to this study, were there any other expertise of prominent constitutional law experts taken into account? If so, what is it? Second question. Was a representative of the President of the Republic of Poland involved in the committee's work? The Act grants the President powers and powers which, in my opinion, are unjustified, not provided for in the Constitution of the Republic of Poland. If so, did the President's representative take the floor and what position did he take on the change?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-senat-32-2.u35	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-senat-32-2.u36	Professor Banashak pointed out the aspect which had already been mentioned here, namely the fact that, in the case of the Vice-President of the Court, there is no authority in addition to the constitutional provision that would indicate his competence. In his opinion, Professor Banaszak also drew attention Because there are arguments that have simply been confused with the powers of the individual authorities, the judicial authority at this point in time and the executive authority. For example. It is about our parliamentary courtyard and the situation in which there are no parliamentary authorities between the various parliamentary terms, and it is the President, who is the representative of the executive authority, who appoints the senior marshal, who mostly serves at a single meeting. But it could happen that in a situation where the Marshal of the Seym or the Senate could not be selected, the Marshal of the Señor would have served longer. The professor points out that in this situation too, an argument can be used about confusion between authorities, which should by nature be separate, of course they should cooperate, brake each other. So that in the professor's opinion this example was given. As for the president's representative, no, he wasn't, Mr. Senator. [[I'm just gonna ask 'cause...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-senat-32-2.u37	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-senat-32-2.u38	I would like to ask you to answer the question as to whether, apart from Prof. Banaszak's expertise, they were taken into account and whether they were at all Other opinions of other scholars.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-senat-32-2.u39	They were taken into account. It was the opinion of the National Courts Council; it was presented very carefully. There was Judge Żurek, who is the press secretary of the National Judicial Council. In addition to the fact that he gave the thesis, which he even gave a very broad explanation, he asked for it. And we, as two joint committees, agreed to this. . about the possibility of reading the opinion, which consisted of 5 pages, and read the opinion. So that I think we've been briefed on the position of the National Judicial Council. There was also an opinion of the Legislative Bureau. Your patron has presented this opinion to us. The fact that this opinion was quickly prepared. There was no more opinion. Well, except, of course, the opinion verbally presented by the Member who came to the meeting.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-senat-32-2.u40	Mr. Senator Klich. Ask me a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-senat-32-2.u41	Thank you very much. I attended a joint committee meeting, so I remember what was going on there. I'd just like the senator to remind the senators here of some of the opinion that was presented in its entirety by our Legislative Office. Well, the shirt nearest to the body. This is about our Legislative Office. It did not leave a dry thread on this legal act. And I would also ask you to remind me whether it is true that the office raised the issue of short vacathio legis in the case of this law, claiming even that the laws of a systemic nature should have a longer period of vacathio legis than the standard, and this law does not even have a standard one. That was the first serious charge against this bill. Is it true that the issue of the unconstitutionality of the Article has been underlined. 16 and that these reservations concern compliance with several provisions of the Constitution: Article. 2, as referred to in Article 10, Art. 173, as well as Article. 194? I'll remind you, Art. 16 This is the one who speaks of the circumstances under which future Presidents of the Constitutional Tribunal should be elected. And finally... Well, that won't be four questions, Mr. Marshal, because I can't fit in time. That'll be three questions. Is it true that, as an unconstitutional office, Art. 19, which leaves the possibility to choose whether the Constitutional Tribunal should publish its previous judgments according to the political will and not according to the automatic mechanism of law? That's what I'm gonna say. Is that true? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-senat-32-2.u42	Thank you very much. Please. The Legal Bureau's opinion is not... Ladies and gentlemen, this is a public opinion. I'm asking the senator to answer the questions.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-senat-32-2.u43	Yeah, of course. In the opinion I have here. The Legal Office points out that within 14 days of the day following the date of publication of this Introductory Law, contrary to Article, we all have it, whether in electronic form or in paper form. 197 of the basic law will not be governed by the rules governing the procedure before the Court. I don't want to read it exactly, but in fact the Legislative Bureau is paying attention to this term. This opinion is, of course, to be reviewed. As far as the article is concerned. The 16th bill we are debating is a reference to the article. 21, where the institution of the judge acting as President of the Court is referred to, which convenes meetings of the General Assembly. This is what happens in the situation that art talks about. 16: if, by the date of publication of this Act, the General Assembly has not been convened by the President or has been convened by the President of the Court in breach of the requirements, or has submitted candidates to the President of the Republic of Poland for President and the President has not appointed a President, etc. In such cases, a judge acting as President of the Court shall be appointed in accordance with Article. Twenty-one, and this judge acting as President, convenes a meeting of the General Assembly to present to the President... Is it constitutional? This has already been discussed here. I understand that this is a reference to the institution of the vice-president of the Constitutional Tribunal, which is enshrined in the basic law. Well, that's what we've been discussing for a long time. We indicate Professor Banaszak's opinion, which states just what I just said, that there is no assigned competence to it in any legal act... Well, perhaps in the Rules of Procedure of the Constitutional Court they are. The second example I gave as regards the charge of mixing two authorities or the fact that the executive authority, the President's authority, goes too far because the President will decide, under certain conditions, to appoint a judge acting as President... And here's the example that there's a senior marshal who's also appointed by the president. And all this is done so that there is no solstice so that there is no such thing as an institution to prevent it from happening. At this point, it is the Constitutional Tribunal. Well, we all want the Constitutional Tribunal to function, not that there's any collapse or inertia of this institution, of course, important.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-senat-32-2.u44	Any more questions, Senator? [[Voice from the room: Yes.]] No, that's a question for Senator Klich. [[No, thank you very much.]] Mr. Senator Tight. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-senat-32-2.u45	Mr Senator, Senator Rybicki has already asked about this and we know that Members have used two external legal opinions. I have a question as to whether Members have asked other opinion centres in the area of constitutional law for an opinion on this project at all. And whether these centers, e.g. academically, did they say no to you, or didn't you even ask for such opinions? And how were decisions taken in cases that raised doubts e.g. among the Members who prepared this bill? Did you eat any opinions, or was it a vote-by-vote vote, or is it right for the one who gets the majority? And that's how you accepted the recipe? Was it accepted according to someone else's will? What did this mode look like, which caused you to accept such solutions rather than other solutions in the bill?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-senat-32-2.u46	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-senat-32-2.u47	I, Senator, still have an opinion on 25 November this year. This is the opinion of Bura Sejm Analysis addressed to Mr Marek Kuchciński, Marshal of the Sejm, the opinion on whether or not the parliamentary bill of the law. Provisions introducing a law on the organisation and procedure of proceedings before the Constitutional Tribunal and the law on the status of judges of the Constitutional Tribunal. It is a draft law implementing European Union law within the meaning of Article. 95a Rules of Procedure of the Sejm. That's what... Yeah, but it's kind of from... There's also an opinion on the same question, but as for the bill... This opinion of November 25 also on the Law of the Court of Justice... also applies to European law... In addition to Professor Banaszak's opinion, which was ordered at the parliamentary legislative stage, we in the Senate did not have other opinions, except, of course, the opinion of the KRS and the opinion of the Senate Legislative Office.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-senat-32-2.u48	Senator Florek. Ask me a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-senat-32-2.u49	I have a question for the rapporteur, too. Because he was, as I understand it, a representative of the applicants at the committee meeting. I would like to know what was the reason for such urgent changes, or actually not changes, because we are talking about 3 new laws. I remember very well how we applied the law on July 22, 2016, and here the thirteenth... which means a few months, five months have passed... And I remember that time we discussed, and those changes that were there. That's where they went, among other things. It is now said that there must be 5 votes to be a candidate, the full membership of the Court, among other things. about queueing, etc. I remember saying it's bad, bad, etcetera. And you guys were great at justifying this bill, saying she's great, good, etc. And now we have a new law, and you're talking about these changes, and they're great, too. I'd like to know if you've talked to him or if there was such a conversation at the committee meeting... When exactly are you telling the truth? Did the applicant's Member justify... Was the July 22th bill great, or is the December 13th bill great? Because right now, you can really get lost in all this. Because if the bill was as great as you said it was, why are you completely changing it after five months? Was there a discussion at the committee meeting? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-senat-32-2.u50	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-senat-32-2.u51	As I recall, the Member also spoke on this issue. What we find in the explanatory memorandum attached to the sejm printing, which is, of course, enriched with the statement of the Member, is that, of course, the two laws mentioned above on the status of judges of the Constitutional Tribunal and the law on the organisation and procedure of proceedings before the Constitutional Tribunal, are the laws which have been created, as I have already said, under the influence of the work of an expert team appointed by Marshal Kuchciński, in order to respond to the allegations made by the Venice Commission as regards the legal regulations of the Constitutional Tribunal. So, of course, the two laws were passed. And this third law, which we are debating today, is a law that is designed to ensure consistency, transparency of new legislation. It is simply intended to facilitate the use of these two laws. And of course that's why... the existence of these two laws, the status and the organization, without this law that we're debating today, would just be incomplete and uncoherent, transparent. He also spoke on this subject.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-senat-32-2.u52	Senator Augustine. Ask me a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-senat-32-2.u53	I would very much ask you to point out how Professor Banaszak has justified the non-constitutional institution of a judge acting as President of the Court. Could you read that from an opinion that we don't have? Second thing. The purpose of this law is to correlate the dates of entry into force of the previously adopted laws. Why... And how did it happen at the committee meeting that you ignored the suggestion made by the Legislative Office that this issue could be resolved without obstacles by introducing appropriate deadlines for the entry into force of those laws, i.e. without taking other action? Finally: what was the discussion and what was the reasons for the majority senators who voted in favour of the bill without amendments, the fact that the rules that the Constitutional Tribunal had already challenged were again being introduced? What were the arguments? What? That we are not concerned with the Court or that we are not interested in the Court's ruling or that we consider that the Court's rulings are not final? Well, what were the arguments? Because we want to know. [[But what exactly is your problem?]] Oh, well... No, I'm... I think that's enough for an answer. [[No, Mr. Senator...]] About Mr. President's insight... For example, the articles which are indicated in the opinion of the Legislative Office and on which it is stated that they have already been challenged by the Court...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-senat-32-2.u54	Mr. Senator, about Professor Banaszak, who just... You're asking me how he justified it. [[Yes.]] Oh, I got it right here, so... [[Specifically, Mr President, I am referring to this new institution of the judge acting as President of the Court. How did he justify the need for such an unconstitutional institution?]] Mr. Senator, I don't see him reacting to the judge's question unless I haven't read something. But the professor responded to the institution of the vice-president of the Constitutional Tribunal and pointed out that... He pointed out that he lacked the powers assigned to him. [[Yes.]] [[It's like this.]] [[And are there powers of Vice-Marshal of the Senate?]] Here, in the opinion, it does not speak per analogy about other institutions, but it is talking about the Vice-President of the Court and about the lack of assigned competences. [[It doesn't make any sense.]] [[Did you discuss this at the committee meeting?]] We've been discussing what I've been talking about before, I mean... [[Mr. Marshal, this concerns the opinion the committee has received. We senators didn't get...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-senat-32-2.u55	We're talking about the report from the committee meeting. If they haven't addressed this issue, please read... [[When?]] ...with the Professor's opinion. It's not... [[I'll take a break, then.]] We just voted. [[When do you want me to get acquainted?]] [[But we're talking about a report from the Legislative Bureau now? Mr. Senator, about the office report?]] [[Banashaka.]] [[Oh, Banashak's opinion. This opinion, as far as I know, is available in the electronic system.]] But did you at the committee's meeting discuss the subject that you are asking Senator Augustine about?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-senat-32-2.u56	We discussed in the sense that, in the opinion of Professor Banaszak, there is an argument which is aimed at the fact that it does not happen that in a situation where the President cannot direct the Constitutional Tribunal for various reasons, automatically in its place, the vice-president, the institution which is mentioned in the Constitution, is in its role. Here Professor Banaszak states that this cannot be some kind of automation, because the vice president is not assigned in the constitution or in any other legal act of competence. That's what's said. Namely: in this context it should be noted that the Constitution I'm quoting here. The powers of the vice-president of the Constitutional Tribunal are not defined. The Constitutional Tribunal Act in force also does not establish the scope of the duties of Vice-President of the Constitutional Tribunal. But... [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[You're welcome, Mr. Senator.]] [[And does the professor mention there that the constitution does not determine the duties of a judge acting as President of the Court?]] You know, here... You know, it doesn't define, because it doesn't. It is simply not in the constitution of such an institution as a judge acting as President. [[Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-senat-32-2.u57	Senator Libicki. Ask me a question. [[But I asked three questions...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-senat-32-2.u58	Thank you very much. Senator rapporteur, first of all, to the question of Senator Rybicki, whether there were any other expertise besides the expert opinion of Professor Banaszak, you replied that you had taken the floor of Judge Żurek and widely discussed the position of the National Judicial Council. I would like to ask if it is true that this opinion, which you have expressed and read, was critical and pointed to the unconstitutionality of some records of this project. Is that really what happened? The second question is the following. Therefore, before we discussed this item, Senator Pociej said that in July... Well, at the moment, this project is changing into some part of the bill that the current parliamentary majority adopted on 22 July this year. I asked at the committee meeting whether, therefore, the drafters could not simply regulate the matter in one act in the end. Because, in fact, every five months, we are debating another aspect of the dispute over the Constitutional Tribunal. And I would like to ask if I received an answer from the Member who represented the applicants.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-senat-32-2.u59	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-senat-32-2.u60	Senator, I do not recall that there was any discussion at the committee's meeting about why these legal solutions were not introduced into one legal act and why there are two laws: one on status and the other on organisation... and of course there is one today that we are debating. That wasn't the discussion. Yeah, we'd remember if that was the discussion. Perhaps the question was asked, but there was no discussion. On the other hand, as regards the opinion of the National Judicial Council, of course, Judge Żurek read the opinion in its entirety and made various thesis. I can only quote that last sentence so that I don't read it in its entirety anymore. In the opinion of the National Courts of Justice, the draft opinion infringes the principle of independence and separation between the Constitutional Tribunal and other authorities. Well, of course, it was invoked that the executive authority represented by the president, because of the counter-assignment of the President of the Council of Ministers, i.e. not because of his own prerogatives... Well, since he appoints a judge acting as President, the president as executive authority has an influence on the judicial authority, and of course it was raised. This corresponds to the last paragraph cited here in which the National Court of Justice states that the project under review infringes the principles of independence and separation of the Constitutional Tribunal from other authorities, and also affects the constitutional status of the President of the Republic of Poland, granting him the competence not provided for in Article with regard to the judicial authority. Paragraph 194. 2 constitutions. Art. Paragraph 194. The 2nd Constitution speaks of prerogatives, and this is not a prerogative, it is something that requires countersignation. So that's the charge of the National Judicial Council.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-senat-32-2.u61	Senator Orzechowska. Ask me a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-senat-32-2.u62	I have a question for the senator of the minority rapporteur. I'd like to ask what's wrong with the property statements. Because they're assembled at different levels. They put them together, whether they're district councillors or local councillors. Why should the judges of the Constitutional Tribunal be victims of this? After all, it will only prove the crystal integrity of these judges.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-senat-32-2.u63	May I? Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Senator! I think I've been misunderstood, but I blame myself. I did not claim that judges do not have such statements of property, and all the more so I did not preach the thesis that they were to be distinguished in some way. All I did was say these two records were disgraceful because they were insinuated. The judges of the Constitutional Tribunal will fulfil their obligation to make a declaration of property and will be able to retire within one month of that act. Well, we can deal with clean situations here, but we can deal with insinuations. The pure situation is that at that time someone really wants to retire, signs a statement and says goodbye to the Court, especially since he does not want to enter the letter of that law. But there may also be suspicion. After all, such statements are intended to serve clarity, transparency That the judge is leaving because his statement of property indicates corruption. Plus, he's still taking on a pretty good retiring judge. [[And for life.]] [[For life.]] Yes. I find this mechanism critical. The first should simply not accompany the second or the second. Am I understood now? [[I think that one doesn't bother the other, and by making a statement of property, it proves that you're honest.]] I share your view. [[And after making that statement, you can always leave.]] I share your view...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-senat-32-2.u64	Thank you very much. Senator Comfort. Ask me a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-senat-32-2.u65	Thank you very much, Mr President. [[Me?]] No, no. Senator Gogacz sensed my intention well, that will be the question for him. Mr. Senator, I today, as you remember, was mainly attacking the way this bill was introduced, because I think it is a mockery of the seriousness of the Senate. The procedure that you adopted by the Marshal, and which, in the language of commercial law, of the bill of exchange, led us to believe that, in addition to the opinion of the Legislative Office, we have no independent legal opinions, which is based solely on the opinion of Professor Banashak. I very much regret that there are no Żaryna or Jackowski colleagues here at the moment, because in connection with their sensitivity to historical issues, in the past of the 1980s, in some part of this question I would like to ask them. In any case, I would like to ask the president if you are uncomfortable working and based on the opinion of a man who, according to what I can read in his biography... At the beginning, Professor Banashak dealt with system systems in Mongolia, North Korea and Vietnam. He defended his doctoral dissertation in December 1983, and I hope it wasn't July 22, 1983, and it was about the socialist countries in Asia. The doctorate about Kim Ir Sena is ignored in the most detailed biographies. Mr. Senator, do you think we can calmly assume that we are going in the best possible directions in terms of ideas for constitutional order in Poland?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-senat-32-2.u66	I think it would be very risky if we were to evaluate research questions or research aimed at systematizing some department of knowledge. I find it difficult to judge what the subject matter of the publications consisting of the professor's scientific achievements was. I have an opinion signed by prof. ul. dr. hab. Bogusław Banaszak from the University of Zielona Góra and I have no reason to question the authority of the professor, all the more so because we used the opinion of the professor much earlier, and for the first time we meet with such assessments as you presented. [[Mr. Senator, I didn't judge. I asked the question whether we are calm about the only opinion on which we are based, and which comes from a professor, who mostly reads here, at least I read the news here - he was the expert on the most, but it is the most unconstitutional, contrary to the laws of the democratic Asian system.]] I'd like to say, Mr. Senator, that we are getting an opinion here that we're talking about... We use all kinds of opinions, but I think as senators, as Chambers, as committee, we are aware of what we sign up for. And it's not like that. At least I'm talking about myself that we're just blind, no matter what it says, what opinion we've been given, we're signing under it. When I summoned or moved one of the professor's opinions, which is precisely a lack of competence, it seems I put it this way, or that's how we put it at the committee meeting. It is understandable to us that if there is no competence, it means that it is difficult to say in what functions or roles a vice president can in any way be introduced. And that's how we reason whether it's legal logic or universal logic, general logic. But we're signing off on something we agree on. To analyze... to make our assessment dependent on whether the authority that prepared the opinion, the author of this opinion, is perceived one way or another, so it's still kind of another matter...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-senat-32-2.u67	Ladies and gentlemen, excuse me. Mr. Senator, the discussion is moving towards the wrong topic we're on. We are on questions about the committee meeting, and now we have an attempt to discredit the authority of the professor, who, Mr Senator, is the author of the academic textbook of the Constitutional Law. And you question his authority on the basis of his scientific work. I remind you... [[Mr. Marshal, I didn't question, I didn't question...]] But let me finish. [[Mr. Marshal...]] Let me finish. I'll give you the floor in a minute. You discredit the professor's authority on the basis of part of his research, and I remind you that this was not the subject of a committee meeting. You have the right to do so, but personally... I never question that. But I would like to draw your attention to the fact that we are talking here about a ordinary professor who is the author of an academic textbook on constitutional law. And aside from all these facts, I would like to point out that we are discussing a committee meeting and now there are questions to the committee rapporteur concerning a committee meeting. Your vote, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-senat-32-2.u68	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. I would just like to say, first of all, that it is possible to check it out and I do not discredit your professor. I asked a question about the committee meeting. I only asked if we could be completely calm if we had only one legal analysis and when the Senate didn't get a job because he didn't have time to get any other expertise. I never said I had anything against your professor. I am very glad that he wrote the textbook and I did not try to discredit it in any way. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-senat-32-2.u69	Thank you so much for those words. Does the senator have anything to add on the subject? [[No.]] Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal Borusewicz. Ask me a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-senat-32-2.u70	I have two questions for the senators of the rapporteurs. It's about art. Article 9 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 and Art. Article 9 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 says: to proceedings before the Constitutional Tribunal, hereinafter referred to as "the Tribunal," initiated and not completed before the date of entry into force of the Act referred to in Article. 1, the provision of that law shall apply. Paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 2 disables... says: "Professional proceedings carried out in the proceedings referred to in paragraph. 1, remain in force. What procedural actions remain in force? Well, it's in art. Article 9 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 It is said that proceedings before the Court have been initiated... that this new law applies to those proceedings which are ongoing. A mouth. 2 disables process actions... I therefore ask this question: are not procedural actions part of proceedings before the Constitutional Tribunal? It shows a contradiction. If I may, I would ask for a position and some interpretation. I don't really want to... If you can't answer, I'll ask someone else. And the question in connection with the article. Article 15 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 2. It is said that it is up to the President of the Court to issue an order by 31 August 2017 setting out the number and list of posts, etc., etc. That's... So it's about concreteising how it is to look after this reorganisation of the Court's administration. I therefore have a question: what if the President of the Court is not present? Who's gonna make that decision?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-senat-32-2.u71	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-senat-32-2.u72	As far as the article is concerned. Article 9 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 In cases initiated and not completed before the entry into force of the Law referred to in Article. 1, proceedings before the Constitutional Tribunal, hereinafter referred to as "the Tribunal," shall be conducted on the basis of the rules laid down therein. In Article 2, paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: 1... The Act on the organisation and procedure of proceedings before the Constitutional Tribunal shall enter into force 14 days after the date of publication, with the exception of: Article. One, six... This is what it is to draw attention to that earlier entry into force of the article. The Act on the organisation and procedure of proceedings before the Constitutional Tribunal is necessary, as it is necessary inter alia. determine what the internal organs of the Court are and what the General Assembly of Judges is. As far as the article is concerned. One, six of the Organizations Act... These are articles... Art. 1 states that the Constitutional Tribunal, hereinafter referred to as the Court of Justice, is the judicial authority appointed to exercise the powers specified... Next: The Court's seat is m.st. Warsaw. In the composition... These are the articles that are simply mentioned in the article. 1, where it is said that Article. They shall enter into force on the day following the date of their notification. And art. This Decision shall enter into force on 1 January 2018 and shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. Sixty-two, it's an organizational and mode law... This is about... The organisational units operating at the Court are: the Registry of the Court, the Office of the Court's Legal Service. This is because, according to the provisions of this Act, the Office of the Court is abolished on 1 January 2018 and the Registry of the Court and the Office of the Legal Service are established. However, between the entry into force of this law and 1 January 2018, these institutions must exist in order to replace the liquidated institutions with the new ones. Finally, the Court's Office is abolished and 2 institutions, the Court's Chancellery and the Court's Legal Service are created. And of course, it's still...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-senat-32-2.u73	Mr. Senator, in the first question, we must pay attention to the contradiction in the article. 9... well, maybe there's no contradiction here, I'm asking you a question to explain. Art. Article 9 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 states that the provisions of the new law shall apply to proceedings before the Constitutional Tribunal initiated and not completed before the date of entry into force of the new law. Lips, on the other hand. Two shuts down the process, so as a result... [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[Excuse me, Mr. Senator Rulewski... sir, you are the rapporteur. If there's any questions for you, it's gonna be an awkward situation...]] Well, there'll be questions. And then a break will have to be ordered. [[Voice from the Chamber: If there is no rapporteur.]] [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[I need to be vigilant. Excuse me, Mr. Marshal.]] And this is... If you don't see a contradiction, I accept... [[Mr. Marshal...]] That was one question. Now the second, concerning the duties of the President of the Court, who appoints these bodies of the Court, the Court's administration. Well, let me ask you this... The President is to appoint these bodies by 31 August 2017 or issue an order. What if there is still no President of the Court?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-senat-32-2.u74	You're welcome... [[Because there's no question of being the President, just the President of the Court. What if there is still no President of the Court?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-senat-32-2.u75	Mr. Marshal, I think the General Assembly as this body that just makes decisions... [[Talking in the O.R.]] General Assembly... In Article 2, paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: Article 15 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 we read that the General Assembly plans and adopts regulations... etc., etc. by 31 July. The committee meeting did not discuss such specific issues. However, it seems that in such a situation as you have summoned, since there will be no judge in charge and since we have already talked about the vice-president, the General Assembly will certainly decide under the Rules of Procedure of the Court, which will also be appointed... Well, I'm sure it'll be such a way that one judge will be appointed, who will be empowered to make a decision. But it wasn't discussed, it's just my interpretation. There was no discussion at the committee meeting.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-senat-32-2.u76	Senator Rybicki. Ask me a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-senat-32-2.u77	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. I have a question for the Senator of the rapporteur. During the committee's work, when justifying changes in the Court's administration, namely concerning the liquidation of the Court's Office and the replacement of it with the Court's Registry and the Court's Legal Service, did the applicant's representative refer in any way to the current Court's Office? It's in a fairly common opinion of the legal community... It was consistently built for many years, it brings together outstanding scientists after habilitation, lawyers with doctorates in the field of law, it is a team that functions quite efficiently and its employees pride themselves on scientific achievements, publicist in the field of law. Has the substantive quality of the current staff of the Court's Office been questioned in any way when justifying this? And has there been a statement in the debate during the work 'Cause I'm sure they were in public debate and publicity. Perhaps this is a tool for the new head of the Court simply to have an instrument to change staff, very good staff?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-senat-32-2.u78	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-senat-32-2.u79	Mr. Senator, as far as the discussion is concerned, it's going to end, as the article says. 1, The Bureau of the Court and the two institutions, namely the Registry of the Court and the Office of the Legal Service of the Court, are the discussions on the preparation of the substance, on the experience of the staff of the current Bureau of the Court, if I recall correctly, was not there.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-senat-32-2.u80	Senator Zdrojewska. Ask me a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-senat-32-2.u81	Thank you very much. (PL) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Senator, rapporteur! Today, at the meeting of the Legislative Commission, another Member, Mr Piotrowicz, appeared on behalf of the applicant, I am sorry, I do not remember his name... [[Buda.]] ...Mr Buda, who was late for our committee meeting, then left early, in fact, in response to one of the senators' questions, and he did not have time to answer all the questions I wanted to ask. In this connection, I have this question: will Mr Buda or Mr Piotowicz be so kind as to come to us to answer the important questions I would like to ask? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-senat-32-2.u82	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-senat-32-2.u83	I can speak to the senator. As far as the board meeting is concerned, this is where the marshal is hosted, and as far as I'm concerned... I do not even know whether the marshal invited the representative of the applicants and whether it would be Mr Piotrowicz or Mr Buda. In any event, in fact, you appeared at the committee meeting. I don't suppose he was very late because there was an opportunity for him to speak. The honourable Member justified himself by having an appointment, etc., but I think he has been here for a long time. I don't know if the applicant's representative is here.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-senat-32-2.u84	Thank you very much. Mr. Senator Czerwinski.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-senat-32-2.u85	Mr. Marshal, I want to ask a question to a minority motion representative, Senator Rulewski. Mr. Senator, the question is relatively simple. Because the state is absoluteizing competence. or the position of vice president, I would ask you to read, quote from the constitution, what are the powers of the vice president. Does the Constitution even say anything about this, or does it put it in the hands of the ordinary legislator? In Article 2, paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: 197 states that the organisation of the Constitutional Tribunal is governed by the law and therefore also by the powers of the Vice-President. I also ask for a detailed answer to the second question. You often use the concept that the vice president replaces the president. Then explain who he's replacing, who he's supposed to be replacing when the president's gone. The President simply ended his term of office, he is not in the sense that he physically does not have a person who is the President. Who does the vice president replace then?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-senat-32-2.u86	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-senat-32-2.u87	The Constitution says there's a president and there's a deputy, and that they both Or both of them, if there's a woman here. They're supposed to be appointed, which means they're taking an oath... Yes, they are appointed by the president, accepted from them... appointed by the president. Indeed, as you put it in your question of an indicative nature, there is no particular competence of the vice-president. I think that the fact that the vice-president of the Constitutional Tribunal replaces the President, if there is no President, is, in my opinion, the definition of his general competence. I am saying that the constitution could not go further in this regard, because it is indeed as you suggest, i.e. that the solutions are included in the detailed law. The Constitution shall, in other cases where it is clearly indicated that there is a Vice-President or a Deputy, not indicate competence. I mentioned earlier in my speech that the point concerning the constitution of the Council of Ministers mentioned the President of the Council of Ministers, ministers and vice-presidents, even two vice-presidents. Indeed, the powers of the President of the Council of Ministers, even ministers, are defined, but there is no mention of the powers of the Vice-Presidents of the Council of Ministers. So the constitutional concepts and the essential concepts... In your claim, there was also a charge that we were absoluteizing it. I would not like to absoluteize, but on behalf of minority applicants, I would like to relate this to the fact that in this case we are making a plea of violation of the Constitution. We are not making a plea of violation of the Constitution as to the fact that the powers of the vice-president have not been defined It doesn't matter whether it's in the Constitution or in the Act. We are merely making a plea of violation of the Constitution because the institution of the deputy president is being created for an event or a person. So we're running away from the abstract. It seems that this is also the subject of your speeches, i.e. The fact that the law can't be accidental, connected with an event or a person, just needs to be abstract. Of course, there are exceptions, e.g. when in 1996 Poland was affected by the flood, we were creating laws related to this event. Except it was an emergency. We believe that, in the case of the Constitutional Court, there is no emergency unless we accept that the extraordinary thing is that a certain person will be appointed as deputy president in those days. It is also worth noting that this is linked to the fact that the Court is currently in operation, is issuing judgments, has above all identified candidates and is guaranteed continuity of work in any case. There you go, Mr. Senator. I'm sorry to extend... And how could you imagine the Court's work under extraordinary conditions, and this extraordinary fact is that, suddenly, three judges are affected by the epidemic? Well, that's three. But what would happen if this illness got to your president, too? And if it were a long-term illness, what would be the precedent? Another judge straight... Judge, I presume? I'm sorry if I'm wrong... [[Voices from the courtroom: Judge.]] Judge, thank you for your help. And another judge, without explaining himself at all, even refuses to perform constitutional, constitutional duties... Again, we don't absoluteize, we don't pick on letters. We've been following up on a team of events and events that I'm going to tell you honestly, and you deserve honesty, because that's what you're saying... It's gonna be a little personal. We do not want the law to decide about the rule of law in Poland. I'm not gonna tell you what street. [[If you don't mind, Mr. Marshal...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-senat-32-2.u88	Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-senat-32-2.u89	Perhaps the question was not entirely understandable. Well, I'm saying that the state, I'd say, ex cathedra you're saying that certain powers of the vice president result only from the fact that he's called the vice president. And I wanted to know if those powers were in the constitution. You're saying there isn't. They should be in the bill. So we're either giving them or not giving them to them in the bill. We're authorized to do that. You're wrestling... In many speeches from your side, it was said that the vice-president replaced the President. In this context, the word "replaces"... It is about situations where the President is, but is temporarily absent, as a result of e.g. sickness or long journey. It can happen, it's understandable. And I wanted to get out of you. You didn't answer that question. The President is replaced by the President in a situation where the President is not present. [[Until the election.]] And then what? Exactly. Please note that there are such systems, tolerated by us, little of that, introduced, for example. collegial management of the district or voivodship. I mean the governor or the marshal. It causes the entire collegial body to resign. So even such far-reaching consequences of the president's behaviour, his presence or absence, his existence, take place in our legal system. And I'm gonna go back to my question. Explain if the vice president can replace the president, and if so, how, if this president is not here, because his term of office is over.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-senat-32-2.u90	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-senat-32-2.u91	Let's get back to... We want to escape the debate about reality, but this reality comes out of this bill. There wouldn't be a fuss at all, even after the adoption of these successive laws. This is what Marshal Borusewicz spoke about, which once had five candidates for president, as I remember, then there were 3 of them because it was changed, etc., and now it turns out that almost everyone can be one if the Court was allowed to work as a 9-member. That wouldn't be a problem at all. Of course, you use or abuse a formula. And now my answer to your allegations of absoluteization. Well, I could answer with a question if you don't mind. If your claim is justified and dictated by some care, precision, then why aren't the applicants going down the road to make up for what you think is missing in this bill? It's about an existing constitutional vice president. Why is a new institution being created, but some think it's funny, because, as I said, this is a deputy? Right? In addition, what we show does not solve the constitutional problem at all. What would this deputy possibly be doing in the event of another outbreak or obstruction? You don't solve this case. As I say, these solutions should be understood naturally by means of... Because the constitution is not the manual of machine tools, but it is actually a road map, it is an act from which something can be derived. And that's right, we know... 'Cause in fact, if it were a constitution, And I think you know that because you're a lawyer. It was a precise description of all the behaviours that took place, take place or will take place, of course there would be no need at all for the Constitutional Tribunal, including the function of vice-president, because everything would be written in the constitution, which is read directly.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-senat-32-2.u92	Thank you. Senator Augustine. Ask me a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-senat-32-2.u93	Let me repeat two questions I didn't get the answer to, and I'll add one. Namely, I asked whether there was a discussion about the answer given by the Legislative Office that the purpose of the law can be achieved by changing the 3 dates of entry into force of the previously passed laws. Did you consider that? Second line. Because Mr. Chairman couldn't find that record that said unconstitutionality, that's what I'm looking for, because I've marked it somewhere... But before I ask that question, I'll ask another one. I mean, what's in the article. 19. It states that the judgments of the Court and the decisions of the Court taken in breach of the provisions of the Constitutional Tribunal Act... and in one line is indicated one, and in another verse the second law. First of all, I have a question about whether you're talking about who you're supposed to say is that there are such violations at all. Has it been relied on by the Court's judgments which found that the provisions of the Court's laws were infringed? What are the rules? On what grounds was it determined that there were judgments against the law in fact? Because it's about defining the law. Well, then you need to know what kind of sentences are to be published. And secondly, what happens when we introduce the article. 19, and the Prime Minister will say that he will not publish the judgment because he considers that Article. 19 is not in line with the constitution? Besides, I'm saying it's against the constitution. So what happens then? Are we going to write again a bill saying that they will be published, even though they will not be published? I have already found that provision you asked about, Mr President. This is in the eleventh notice of the Legislative Bureau, which says that the identical regulation has already been written down and accused of non-constitutionality, the judgment referring to the infringement of the Article is cited. The Commission shall adopt implementing acts laying down detailed rules for the implementation of this Regulation in accordance with Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council laying down detailed rules for the application of this Regulation. 1 and 2 constitutions. Have you considered that this provision is incompatible with the Constitution? As you can see, it's not just my opinion. It may be that it will also be the opinion of the Prime Minister and that she will not now publish judgments, because it is not in accordance with the Constitution.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-senat-32-2.u94	You're welcome. [[Voice from the room: We're gonna be chasing each other over and over again.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-senat-32-2.u95	Mr. Senator, there was no discussion about this. And, uh, there was no discussion on that in the committee. However, we know that such situations have been invoked, that the Court should act in accordance with the ordinary law, in accordance with the provision of the article. 197 constitutions and if, for example, There's an inappropriate composition of the Court... etc., etc. This whole discussion has gone over. And if we're talking about the Court's judgment, the decision was taken in violation of the law, then it would certainly have to be... [[But who's gonna decide?]] We did not discuss who would decide, so that the answer would be my free interpretation. And it would be better if I repeated what was in the committee meeting. And when it comes to... It wasn't in the committee meeting, it wasn't on the subject... [[Mr President, I am trying to understand the essence of this provision.]] [[But let me, Senator...]] [[As I understand it, Mr. Chairman doesn't understand him either.]] [[But I give the floor.]] Mr. Senator, I said there was a discussion... In principle, the discussion concerned whether the Court could be based on the provisions of the Constitution, either directly or should be based on the ordinary law. For some time, the Court did not rely on the ordinary law, therefore judgments and so on were not published. If you're referring to an article here. 19, which refers to the fact that the decisions taken in breach of the provisions of the Constitutional Tribunal Act of 25 June... Of course, when we talk about the Law of 25 June, we also need to talk about its amendment from November. And that's how you read it. And as for point 11 of the Legislative Bureau's opinion... You know, here's the phrase, they can be put to him. But since none of the Senators of the Legislative Commission raised this issue and there was no discussion, it means that there was no discussion. And I, as draftsman of the committee, am not trained to present my own interpretations here. Because here's the formula... the legislator says that what you just called here... And in point 11 of this legislative opinion, it is stated that the situation we find in Article. 19 of this bill... that, as a result, there may be exactly the same charges as those you just mentioned. But there was no discussion about it.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-senat-32-2.u96	Thank you very much. No further questions. Does the President of the Constitutional Tribunal, Mr Andrzej Rzepliński, wish to speak on the bill under consideration? [[President of the Constitutional Tribunal Andrzej Rzepliński: Yes.]] Come on in.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-senat-32-2.u97	(PL) Mr President, I would like to ask you a few questions. Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! Thank you so much for inviting me. That invitation he sent to me... [[Not like that, Mr. President, Mr. Marshal.]] Excuse me, Mr. Marshal. ...Mr. Marshal Karczewski. Besides, I received an invitation from your marshal to all the Senate plenary sessions, and I thank you very much for that too. I would like to point out that in Polish legislative practice the draft laws governing the system of courts of all types of courts: and the Supreme Court, and the Constitutional Court, and the administrative courts, and military courts, presented the President of the Republic of Poland to the Marshal's staff. And there was also a constitutional custom. And in constitutional democracy, the custom is a value that is particularly respected in every country. And constitutional customs are developing, perpetuating, because they allow us to resolve certain difficult situations in a way that pleases all parties as a result of a certain consensus. So in this practice of ours... And since 1990, I've been attending several meetings as a presidential expert. Not in all of them naturally. On which a draft law governing the system of courts, including the National Courts Council, was prepared. And then the President's Office invited many experts, so that of course a group of interested people That's the judge she was involved in, too. This was the case with the Act of 25 June 2015. The President received the findings of this law from the judges of the Constitutional Tribunal in January 2012 and after a year and a half of work involving representatives of all the then parliamentary clubs in July 2013 presented it to the Marshal of the Sejm. I think it might be even better if it was a government project. Because if the project is government, it means that there are inter-ministerial arrangements, and important systemic problems should be discussed at different levels of executive authority. On such an important issue as the Constitutional Court Act, one of the most important I would also like to talk about the matter of the President and Vice President. The Constitution merely mentions that there are such constitutional bodies as it turns out, important bodies like the President and Vice-President of the Constitutional Tribunal. The Constitutional Tribunal Act provides that the President of the Constitutional Tribunal directs the Court's work and represents it outside. It is quite clear that since the legislator has explicitly stated that there are such institutions, constitutional bodies such as the President of the Constitutional Tribunal and the Vice-President of the Constitutional Tribunal, in the absence of the President, the Vice-President is fully taking over his role. And nobody else, no judge or even 10 judges of the Constitutional Tribunal, can direct and represent him outside. You have devoted much of the discussion to Professor Banaszak's opinion. I do not know whether among professors, professors of law, professors of ordinary law and professors of ordinary law with a doctorate of honor, I am one of the last group of professors of honor, there would be someone who would have undertaken to justify this very punishment, in total, the fact that one judge could perform this function alongside the annihilated vice-president of the Constitutional Tribunal, the more that it is an undefined function in time, because it may last and a half years. Until the President is appointed. Therefore, one of the judges, acting not within the Constitution, but outside the Constitution, will serve as a judge who is not the President, but directs the work of the Court and represents it outside. Well, if that's the case, then we might as well imagine the legislator calling... We also have the Supreme Court. The Constitution explicitly lists bodies such as the first President of the Supreme Court and the Presidents of the Supreme Court Chambers. The Supreme Court Act provides which of the Presidents of the Chambers, pursuant to the resolution of the General Assembly of Judges of the Supreme Court, shall act in the absence of the first President as the first President, direct the work of the Supreme Court, represent him outside. Couldn't that be a precedent for calling in the Supreme Court as well? By the legislator, within the framework of this opinion and the law passed by the two High Chambers, the institution of a judge acting as the first President of the Supreme Court, beside the 4 Presidents of the Supreme Court? It would be, in my opinion, and probably a great majority of professors of ordinary law, rather strange. Now I'd like to talk about a very painful recipe. It's painful because I get a lot of calls from judges from all over Poland. They say: why does Parliament want to give a resolution to constitutional judges who, by nature, are an authority for us, a provision encouraging them to leave this supreme court? I wouldn't even stress it if Senator Rulewski didn't. This is not about avoiding the submission of a statement of property which will be published, it is about encouraging them to leave the Court. We know why we should leave the Court. It's about buying vacancies, it's about creating vacancies at the Constitutional Court. For God's sake, Parliament cannot be a law so that it encourages constitutional judges to leave the constitutional court! Either we speak without a sense of responsibility, or not without a Cosser, we say that being a constitutional judge is the crowning of the career of lawyers. Of the 100,000 practicing lawyers and 300,000 people who have graduated from law school, very few have the chance to become a constitutional judge. Well, let's not do this to constitutional judges. I am firmly convinced that no constitutional judge will benefit from this, but even if one benefits, it will be the loss of each of us, all of us. Let's not do this to constitutional judges, I beg you. The series of 3 laws, which the Sejm now adopts, is characterized by this... What is the regulation of the procedure in these laws, in this series of laws, which is now concluded by this discussion in the Senate, constitutes a fairly accurate mapping of the Act of 25 June 2015 A law that lasted for a few months, almost a year, and allowed us to speed things up, really rationalize our work. A law which, like the laws on constitutional tribunals or constitutional courts in other countries, in connection with various relevant facts, had to be passed so that the work of this most important court in each country would be rational and have the best possible effect... That is to say, the legal system was logical, coherent and inspires citizens' confidence in investing their lives and their interests in their homeland. However, in this part that refers to the organisation of the Constitutional Tribunal, we have something really opposite. As if the legislator understood that the Law of June 2015 was good and sensible, and its reasonable rules governing proceedings before the Court are restored. If I had any objection, it was that in the Act of June 2015, the legislator strongly strengthened the position of the chairman of the formation of the court. The law and this series of laws practically make the President of the Constitutional Tribunal an almost absolute ruler who... The mass of things depends, of course, on the person who acts as President of the Court, but once again it is not necessary to tempt the rules that the President of the Tribunal might have such authority that, in practical terms, he will be able to conflict with the work and so direct the Constitutional Tribunal that it will be a very difficult place for reasonable control of the constitutionality of the law. Is the Constitutional Tribunal... There was such a statement that there are no constitutional courts in many countries. I have already said this in the High House: in 28 EU countries, constitutional courts with centralised constitutional control exist in 17 EU countries, we are talking about the European Union In 7 countries there is a constitutional control of the so-called constitutionality. Distracted. These countries include, among others: The Netherlands, which is sometimes mentioned in the debate as an example of a country where there is no constitutional control. Art. 20 The Constitution of the Kingdom of the Netherlands states precisely that courts cannot exercise control over the constitutionality of the law, i.e. to examine the compatibility of laws with the Constitution. But the Constitution of the Netherlands states that the Dutch courts have the right to control the compatibility of laws and judgments, decisions with the European Convention on Human Rights and the Charter of Fundamental Rights, and their judgments repeal laws which are contrary to either the European Convention on Human Rights or the Charter of Fundamental Rights. And I'm not talking about information taken from the ceiling or rumors. I know Dutch judges, there was a meeting of a group of Dutch judges here in Warsaw, and we discussed, and I asked them again in the presence of other judges. Knowing what it was like, but I wanted them to say it. And that is how it is, in the Netherlands is the control of the constitutionality of the law. If there is no constitutional control in the UK, where is it really? It is, but in a way characteristic of the British, different. Well, we've got the best evidence: High Court's verdict, which he said... stopped the government. He said it's up to Parliament to decide... One might agree, the other might not, but it's the principle itself. We are awaiting the UK Supreme Court's verdict. In this case, the government appealed against the judgment of the High Court, which upset Brexit's supporters, and appealed to the Supreme Court, which will deliver its judgment in the coming days. The case is extremely difficult. The court is not pressured to issue a judgment immediately, and it is hard to imagine anyone influencing the final decision of the Supreme Court. Everyone expected the verdict to be around 4 and 6 December, and the court is still working on it, which shows the importance of the case. But it is hard to imagine that the Prime Minister would not publish the Supreme Court judgment in this case, whether she likes it or not. As for vacathio legis... yesterday, when we decided about the so-called. a small media law, partly recognising its constitutionality, partly recognising its unconstitutionality... Its unconstitutionality was recognised by the Court in the part in which the constitutional powers of the National Radio and Television Council were delegated to the National Media Council, because no one, no legislator, has the right to pass on what is expressly set out in the Basic Law. In other respects, the Court considered that the provisions were in line with the Constitution. The Court only controlled those rules which still apply, because, as we know, in June Parliament substantially amended a small law, but in constitutional parts, i.e. defining the position of the National Radio and Television Council and the National Media Council... The Court considered that the legislator could not set up an authority with such powers. He could, of course, have set up an organ that would be called the National Media Council, why not, but it is about the competences that are set out in the Constitution. It is only the National Radio and Television Council that upholds freedom of expression in the media, not only electronics, because, as the constitution is, it has a wider... I hope that this sentence has already been published because it is important for the media order in our country. The law contains the same provision as is already in the law adopted by the Sejm It's about vacathio legis. Well, there's practically no vacathio legis here, because a rational legislator thinks something might not work out. Or that something might happen that he shouldn't wish for. It could be that when it's established that the bill comes in... And the record that the law enters into force the day after its publication in the Official Journal of the Laws, could mean that such a law is published one minute before midnight, and one minute after midnight already enters into force. There's no movement here. With all these consequences for the legal order, for the sense of stability, for the sense that the law is in the interests of all citizens. This is a serious problem. As you know, the Court has discontinued the proceedings in this regard because the applicants, the Ombudsman and a group of Members have not presented their arguments precisely enough. The Court is not the body which writes the arguments for non-constitutionality as the applicant, for the court asking whether it is the applicant's court. I'm going back to the question of Professor Banaszak's opinion. I said that I could not imagine a professor of ordinary law, an honorary doctor of a Polish or foreign university who would undertake to write an answer to a question as reprehensible as whether one of the judges could perform the duties of President of the Court in a situation in which the vice-president, the constitutional body, is present at the same time in that court. If you can imagine such an opinion, then perhaps Although I hope there wouldn't be a professor who would answer a question addressed e.g. by the Attorney General wishing to present to the Supreme Court a cassation complaint concerning... It is about the annulment of the 1934 judgment against Members of Parliament of the Republic of Poland. From left to right, convicts, as we know, are sentenced to imprisonment by two judges. There was one brave judge who said in relation to all twelve accusations innocent, but such great Poles as Korfanty, like Witos, like Lieberman, as Bielecki received absolute prison punishment for being messengers. And this sentence was annulled by President Raczkiewicz, by the government of Sikorski, by the National Council of the Republic of Poland in London, but in fact the full moral satisfaction of the convicted in this trial would only give a casatorial sentence to the Supreme Court. What was he like? We don't know. Suppose the Supreme Court would ask an expert, a professor, whether Bereza Kartuska, who preceded the Warsaw trial, and the judgment itself was in accordance with the Constitution of the Republic of Poland, with or without the March Constitution. And God forbid there's a professor like that and he said it was legal, it was constitutional... And Berez, and the process were the elements of ordering the Seym opposition, which was unruly and deserved proper treatment. One more thing of great importance. Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators, I think that in absolutely every European country, in every constitutional state, I mean this vacathio legis, must be the time given by the legislator, the time to control the constitutionality of the law. Let's not force the Constitutional Court to rip this time out. Representatives of the Court, unlike in the case of constitutional courts in other EU countries, did not participate, were not invited... Once again, thank you very much to the senator and, at the same time, to the Senate Marshal, Mr Karczewski, for inviting me to this meeting too, because at least I have the opportunity to say some things. In any case, constitutional court law is written everywhere, with the active participation of their representatives. They are usually the presidents of constitutional courts, and if there is a vice president, it could also be the vice president. The same is true in courts, which are also important courts for Poles. I am thinking here of the European Court of Justice. At the time, the President of the Court, the Vice-President and a group of judges took an active part in consultations with the European Parliament, including with the European Commission, finally with the European Council, the highest executive authority, as regards the Statute of the Court of Justice. And it wasn't that, no one would even think that judges would write a law that would be comfortable for them. No, it's supposed to be convenient for half a billion people. The law on the Constitutional Court in Poland is to be convenient for 38 million Poles. It's supposed to be comfortable for them. It is intended to strengthen confidence in our country and our law. Therefore, if it is not possible for the constitutional court to take part in consultations during the legislative process, let the legislator give at least a minimum of time, I do not know, 3 months to prepare a draft judgment, which would be announced after a public hearing. I am not saying that if there were such a vacathio legis, the legislator would have regulated certain provisions slightly differently, because he would have known that it would be very difficult to defend their constitutionality in constitutional proceedings. Anyway, here we have with this vacathio legis in my opinion a very serious problem. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[The meeting is chaired by Vice-Marshal Maria Koc]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-senat-32-2.u98	Mr. President, stay here, or there will be questions for you. At present, senators may submit no more than one minute's query to the President of the Constitutional Tribunal relating to this item on the agenda. The question is asked by Senator Barbara Zdrojewska. You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-senat-32-2.u99	Thank you very much. Dear President, Today we had a committee meeting, yesterday at 10:30 p.m. we got an e-mail bill and we had to prepare for today's debate. One of the documents we had from the very beginning, indeed, was Professor Banashak's opinion. It turns out that there is one case in which Professor Banaszak's opinion is in line with the opinion of the National Judicial Council, whose representative was at the committee meeting today. This concerns the so-called case. countersignations in the event of giving the President the power to appoint a Vice-President or an Agent, that then it is necessary, in accordance with the Constitution, to establish a Vice-President, i.e. Article 2 The Commission shall adopt implementing acts laying down detailed rules for the implementation of this Regulation in accordance with Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council concerning the European Parliament and of the Council concerning the implementation of Council Regulation (EC, Euratom) No 1605/2002 on the financial rules applicable to the general budget of the Union and repealing Council Regulation (EC, Euratom) The Prime Minister's countersignal. I asked this question today to the applicant's representative and the Member said that Professor Banashak actually suggested something like this and it was written, but then it disappeared. Then it disappeared during the trial... [[President of the Constitutional Tribunal Andrzej Rzepliński: Excuse me, but what disappeared?]] A record that stated that a countersign of the Prime Minister was needed in this case. Your representative from the Sejm explained to me today that there is no longer a problem regarding countersignation. Meanwhile, the constitution speaks about it quite directly, directly. Tell me how... Is there such a danger that the Prime Minister will countersign the appointment by the President of the President? That's what the Constitution says. Therefore, we may have constitutional problems, because that would indicate... Well, like Mrs. Szydło, for example. She didn't print, so she may not sign the President's order, she may not countersign. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-senat-32-2.u100	Thank you, Senator. And you will ask Marshal Bogdan Borusewicz. Please, Mr. Marshal.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-senat-32-2.u101	But it seems that the countersign has been erased. [[But she's in the Constitution, Mr. Marshal.]] I understand, but in the bill. [[The president will answer that question in a moment. I'd like to ask you a question, Mr. Marshal.]] I have a question for you. Mr President, three judges of the Constitutional Tribunal have boycotted the General Assembly, which has gathered to elect candidates for President. Did you initiate disciplinary action against these three judges? I'll admit I haven't met with a situation like this so the judges can strike.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-senat-32-2.u102	Thank you very much. That's the end of the question, isn't it? You're welcome, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-senat-32-2.u103	As far as the President's counter-assignment is concerned, the President The Constitution stands for this. It appoints the President and Vice-President of the Constitutional Tribunal, which means that this is his constitutional competence, which means that no countersignation of the President of the Council of Ministers is required. But in this case, you need to know the context of these rules. I find that out today because it is clear how these works are moving quickly that it is about a judge who will perform his duties. The Constitution doesn't know such an organ. I don't know if the president even has the right to call... Because the constitution clearly states that the president appoints the president and the vice president. Cut that short... And if anything, then... Although I have serious doubts as to whether the President may appoint an organ Right now, in December, the Vice President's term of office doesn't end. The term of office of the current vice-president ends at the end of June, and then the question of selecting candidates under the Law, as I understand it, will be raised by the provisions of the Act, which was still in force in 1997, and the Act of June 2015. It refers to the implementation of the Constitution's provisions on the competence of the President, and to the fact that there are two bodies of President and Vice-President. And consistently: with regard to the organisation of the Court, it is governed by the law. It is the President who directs the work of the Constitutional Tribunal and represents it outside. I think here it would be necessary to proceed before the Constitutional Tribunal, with all arguments and with a typical hearing. The point is that all relevant key bodies for the Polish state can present their arguments at a public hearing to determine whether in this case... The President has no right at all to deal with this issue, because the constitution only says this: President, your right is to appoint a President and your right is to appoint a Vice President. There's no further institution, the constitution doesn't know it. And since he doesn't know, someone might say, in that case, a countersignal is necessary. And I can see that this is where the designers got into a dead end because they don't really know if anything's in force or not. This is an additional argument confirming the fact that we have a serious constitutional problem here. As for Mr. Marshal Borusewicz's question, I'll say you don't even know how... If it's not a matter of... I'm not talking about corruption among judges because she's been gone almost 10 years. However, there are cases where drunken judges drive a car or lose their files. The procedure must then be initiated. The situation that we faced at the Court is absolutely typical, extremely dangerous for the Polish judges' esprit de corps. Because ordinary judges can't imagine a judge not coming to work, not coming to court, not coming to court, not coming to court. Yes, we can treat it. And to some extent, I've treated it that way and treated it that way. A little Scandinavian: since a constitutional judge calls me, one of the highest in the hierarchy of public officials, and talks about a sick situation, I accept that. I understand that the relevant documents will be submitted in due course. It may happen that three judges will get sick at one time and that these judges will call me or the head of the Court's secretariat, stating that they will be indisposed until a certain date. Then there's the problem. But disciplinary action is something... Of course, one can imagine that such proceedings have never been initiated in the history of the Court. It would be linked to the prosecutor's request for permission to be held accountable, which is the issue of immunity. It's hard for me to imagine a judge presenting a false doctor's release from a doctor who ex-posted them, knowing that he's dealing with a healthy man. I can't imagine it. If it were mere disciplinary action, a resolution of the General Assembly would have been required to initiate it. However, with the current staff arrangement, it is sufficient that three judges will not come, so that there is no resolution of the General Assembly. The resolution of the judges present at the assembly is equally contested. Because it wasn't an assembly, because there weren't enough judges. The judges gathered at the Constitutional Court within the time limit for which all the judges adjudicating were invited... This meeting, the meeting of constitutional judges who came to the General Assembly meeting, could not naturally turn into the General Assembly and the election act could not be taken. The judges did what they deemed necessary, because the Constitution directly imposes on the General Assembly an obligation that it presents candidates for president and vice-president of the Constitutional Tribunal to the President of the Republic of Poland. And as far as possible under these very difficult formal conditions to fulfil this constitutional obligation, this has been done. But, as you know, this is contested and the relevant paragraph denigrates the effects of this resolution taken by the judges meeting of the General Assembly. Similarly, it is practically impossible to carry out disciplinary proceedings because there is no such majority. [[Can I ad vocem?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-senat-32-2.u104	Please, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-senat-32-2.u105	Thank you very much. Dear President, I have already found this section of the Constitution. And here's what I'm gonna say: in art. The 17th bill we're working on is written directly And that's all that's left, because the rest of them have been removed, that the President of the Republic of Poland, by order, will entrust the duties of President of the Court. That's what the bill says, but... [[President of the Constitutional Tribunal Andrzej Rzepliński: In the law, not in the Constitution.]] In the proposed bill, the one we're talking about today. In turn, the article. The Commission shall adopt implementing acts laying down detailed rules for the implementation of this Regulation in accordance with Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council concerning the European Parliament and of the The order, as I understand it, is an official act, requiring for its validity the signature of the President of the Council of Ministers, who, in connection with the signing of such an act, is liable to the Sejm. And then there's the mouth. 3, which makes exceptions, determines when it does not apply, i.e. in which cases a countersignation is not required. And among the points mentioned there This is, among other things, the order of the elections to the Sejm and the Senate, the convening of the first meeting of the newly elected Sejm, etc. There is no point in referring to the appointment of the President of the Court, i.e. that would not be the exception. Do I understand that the Prime Minister would have to countersign this decision? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-senat-32-2.u106	Mr. President?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-senat-32-2.u107	Mrs. Marshal! Mr. Senator! We still have a young constitution, almost twenty years old, and certain ways of doing things, certain procedures are shaped by custom. As far as I know, there were many different provisions of the President, not only concerning matters of the Constitutional Tribunal, which, as if traditionally, by the custom which began to form in the pre-constitution period before 1997, the President simply signed these acts of power, his, the President of the Republic, without having the Prime Minister's countersigns. It was probably made on the basis of some kind of agreement with the current Prime Minister of our government and became a custom. As far as I'm concerned... Honestly, I wasn't investigating whether President Komorowski had obtained a signature under the request of the Constitutional Tribunal to appoint me as President. And I don't know if under his decision that out of the two candidates he presented to him, he chose me, was the signature of the then prime minister of our government. I'd bet there wasn't a signature because that was the custom. Since this competence simply mentions the constitution and says that the President is calling, it has probably been accepted that it is the prerogative of the President, which does not require a countersignation, but I do not know for sure whether this was the case in my case. Usually, if this is not a problem, the ones concerned are not particularly concerned about whether this is being done through a real agreement between the head of state and the head of government or whether the president is making a decision.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-senat-32-2.u108	But could that be the reason for appealing to the Constitutional Court the constitutionality of this provision?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-senat-32-2.u109	Yes, it is a problem that the Constitutional Tribunal should settle. At the same time, it is a question of a possible dispute of competence between the President of the Republic of Poland and the President of the Council of Ministers about whether a countersignation is required or not. The resolution of disputes between the Supreme Authorities of the State in Poland is the competence of the Constitutional Tribunal.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-senat-32-2.u110	Thank you very much. You ask Senator Sławomir Rybicki a question. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-senat-32-2.u111	Thank you, Mrs. Marshal. There is no doubt that the applicant for a bill passed by Parliament last June was President Bronisław Komorowski. This bill unfortunately ends its life, but I would like to return to it, because I think it is one of the few examples of dealing with the project in a way that should be appreciated. I'll just remind you. And I've had the opportunity to coordinate the work on this project. The President invited all the institutions which, in the case of such an important system act, should take part in the consultation, including all parliamentary clubs. The current President of the Republic of Andrzej Duda represented law and justice in this work. I think this is a role model for all applicants for projects of such importance. Unfortunately, another, seventh, draft amending the Law on the Court essentially eliminates the Court as we know it from the last period, the Court of Justice is independent, competent and responsible. This Parliament's behaviour is a shadow on the history of Polish parliamentarianism I have no doubt about that. I'd like to ask the professor about one of the solutions, which is encouraging the judges of the Court to move to a resting state, which I think... Don't you think, Professor, the President, that this provision is in fact quasi-corruption? That it's an incentive for some kind of quasi-corruption aftertaste? It's one question. Second question. During the committee's work, I asked the committee rapporteur. There was no discussion about the membership of the Court's Office, in my opinion a very good office, which for many years worked out labour standards based on scientific and substantive achievements of many outstanding lawyers. I would like to ask your professor about the assessment of this personal composition in the context of planned staff changes. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-senat-32-2.u112	Thank you very much. Senator Bogdan Klich. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-senat-32-2.u113	Mr President, first of all, I would like to express my highest appreciation that you have accepted the invitation in the last days of your office, and you are here with us during the debate on the Constitutional Tribunal law, as it is basically necessary to say. Among the numerous constitutional doubts mentioned by office experts or representatives of the institutions is another which was raised during the discussion of the two previous laws in this package, the Status Act and the Mode Act. I am referring to the question of whether a package of three laws can be dealt with in accordance with the Constitution when the Constitution says that the way the Constitutional Tribunal operates is defined by a law rather than by a law. I would like you to refer to this because it was one of the arguments for the unconstitutionality of the two previous laws, which raised our greatest doubts.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-senat-32-2.u114	You're welcome, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-senat-32-2.u115	Thank you very much. Senator Rybicki presented this period of work on the Act of June 2015, the period during which the President of the Republic of Poland hosted the project. And that was the case, and I know that it was the same with regard to the drafts of other laws introducing or amending laws defining the system of courts of particular categories in Poland. There is no natural act perfect at the end, but in Polish conditions we have to take this into account. Relatively, the President's Office, the President of the Republic of Poland, provides the greatest peace of mind when regulating in the laws of the system of courts, i.e. the third power, power, one can say, the quietest, because we do not have, and we do not want to have, and we should not have, any instruments to communicate directly with society. An instrument by which we communicate with the public Because sometimes our judgments apply to all citizens of the Republic of Poland, there are judgments of the Court, and the way even closer to the citizen are open hearings and the transparency of all documents valid for every case pending before the Court. But when it comes to lawmaking, it is really difficult to imagine another body, which, by the authority of the President of the Republic of Poland from direct elections, will provide in discussion, after all also with parliament... As the senator mentioned, representatives of all clubs participated in these debates. Too bad it doesn't go on like this. About those words that were said here, that art. 10 of this third act is corrupt, and I didn't want to use that concept. It is extremely strong, but it falls in discussion. I'm not talking about the constitutional judges themselves anymore, but also in the questions, in the phone calls I have from the judges, it appears. Anyway, I was talking about how this is a completely incomprehensible recipe. As for the Bureau of the Constitutional Court... At this point, at this point, I'm very sorry my colleagues at the Court Office had it written down, but I left it out. The resolution of the Court's office is a great loss for all of us again, not just for the Court. In the next 15 years, the Constitutional Tribunal, if there are no further corrective laws, will improve When the next judges come, and after nine years, the next one. • adequate quality of lawyers who work with judges, suitable lawyers who prepare proposals for a preliminary review of citizens' complaints, constitutional complaints and in a preliminary review of the requests of authorities with limited capacity to challenge the law before the Court, e.g. trade unions, business unions, because it is previously controlled and, as a rule, as regards applications, not constitutional complaints, allowed for further settlement. But there are top-notch lawyers there, too. Judges... I personally had two jobs that I had and that I shared, and I had the pleasure of working with three assistants, two doctors. Both of them did their PhDs while I was president, and one of them did their PhDs and their habilitations. Professor Kustra is not only a recognized constitutionalist on the Polish scale. The leaving of these people... Some will leave because they simply will not want to work under such conditions that they may lose their job, and it will depend on someone's goodwill. The way you work with judges is changing. The President will be assigning lawyers to cooperate with the judge by gaining this powerful authority. Today's the day the judge decides who he's supposed to work with. In my opinion, this is the optimal solution. This is the case in most countries. Of course, we will find an example of a constitutional court, in which it is different, but we will find an example for everything. Let's do what it's already started to do in Poland. Administration issues. Well, I'd appreciate it if in every court, including the Supreme Court or the Supreme Administrative Court... the Secretariat of the Constitutional Court, the secretariat of every court, the district court, too, that's the heart of the court. The Court's Secretariat is the heart The Constitutional Tribunal. All the girls who work there are, of course, after law school. The fact that this is a very efficient institution depends enormously on them. Solving this and creating something under a different name... It won't just be a different name. I repeat: this team has been forming for several years. There was a period, about 6, 7 years ago, when the legislative office in the Sejm, also the legislative office here in the Senate... Well, I'm not gonna say they stole it, but they bribed us with higher salaries, about 10 of our lawyers. It was a big rift when we lost them. But it can be said that we gave them to Parliament as people who were well prepared for legislative work, so the Republic did not lose on it. What's it gonna be like today? I don't know. Such a team with institutional memory, which is of great importance, is created for years. There are some of our co-workers who have almost a memory. absolute to judgments, to certain terms we use. Of course we can ask the computer, but talking to a lawyer and talking to a computer are two different conversations. And again, if I could even appeal to the High House to step away from such a radical step... It can be assumed that nowadays everyone knows about money, that those who have some deposits in banks will be excellent bank managers, and change bank law so that they will hardly need to be qualified to enter the bank's board of directors or the board of directors. But we really wouldn't want to keep the money in a bank that's managed on the basis of a law that's so inextricably written, releasing banks, which are or should be institutions of the highest trust, and will be managed in such a easy way... It's the same for the courts. Secretariats in the courts... In the Supreme Court, in the Supreme Administrative Court, in appeals courts, an extremely important point of our judiciary defending our rights and freedoms, assistants play an increasingly important role. If we want the courts to judge 15 or 16 million cases a year, then we have to hand over some of the authority to the assistants to prepare the drafts. It can't be random people, it can't be people who work in a sense of danger that... someone is very good, everyone respects him and has a chance to be a judge, but suddenly there's a bill that says there's no more institution and there's something else. And seek a job; ye shall find, for ye are good. This is not the law and does not manage this very sensitive part of the public authority, which is the courts. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-senat-32-2.u116	Thank you very much, Mr. President. And you ask Senator Mieczysław Augustyn. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-senat-32-2.u117	Mr. President, Art. 19 of this proposal contains a proposal which is an accusation against the Court because this article states that there have been judgments of the Court and decisions which have been brought in breach of the provisions of two laws. I'd like to ask you what the verdicts are. That's the first question. And two, who has the right to state... Well, apparently someone said so. Who, according to the President, is of the opinion that the Constitutional Tribunal has issued judgments and decisions in breach of these laws? [[Thank you very much, Mr...]] [[President of the Constitutional Tribunal Andrzej Rzepliński: If I may, please repeat this first question to the senator.]] Mr. President, in the article. 19 there is a statement that the Court has delivered judgments or decisions in breach of the provisions of the two laws referred to herein. I'd like to ask you what the verdicts are. The second question the President has heard, but I will also repeat it: if there are such judgments or decisions, who had the constitutional right to say so? Because it's clearly written in this recipe.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-senat-32-2.u118	And I'm asking you a question about Senator Adam Gawada.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-senat-32-2.u119	Mrs. Marshal! Mr. President! High Izbo! Mr President, you spoke in your speech today about the constitutional custom. Did you mean the Constitutional custom of 1982, 1986, or was it created after 1990, the one that was created with your participation? You also spoke in your speech about the Court and its President's participation in the work on the Law, which was adopted in June 2015. And you also pointed out the very important, very important role of constitutional bodies, including electoral bodies. I have a question: haven't you forgotten the President's failure to make the right decision in 2014, when a huge number of void voices and a large number of reported irregularities didn't cause you such sensitivity and didn't cause you to make the right decision? Let me remind you that in Austria a fraction, a small percentage of the irregularity was the basis for nullifying the election. And if so, Mr President. And I have no reason to believe that you did not want to maintain the impartiality and authority of the Constitutional Tribunal, why did you not raise these arguments from the last year when the Civic Platform revealed its intention to draw up the Constitutional Court Act, which was later challenged by the Court itself, because it had unlawfully pushed for the choice of certain judges? Why didn't you, Mr. President, then stigmatize as much as today those serious irregularities that were really the beginning of this case, the inspiration for tampering with the Constitutional Court Act? I firmly believe in your goodwill and efforts to maintain the authority of the Court, but tell the High House today why you did not take effective action then. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-senat-32-2.u120	You're welcome, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-senat-32-2.u121	Thank you very much. I haven't answered Senator Klich's question yet. Well, the answer to that question is, you might say, obvious. Indeed, the problem is that this is how the law is created, the law is slightly twisted. They show up... There are no laws yet passed, and there are already tensions between them, in which naturally, when the law is adopted quickly, it is impossible to resolve, and it is impossible to ask questions about the relationship between the various laws. That's my answer. As to the question of Senator Augustine, who decided that they were incompatible... I don't know. No one had the right to decide, and I'm not, unfortunately, And I'm not happy for you. I'm an investigative officer. These were the answers from the Chancellery of the President of the Council of Ministers to further reminders and subsequent judgments which occurred at the Court and were not published. As regards cases in which judgments have not been published so far, case K 47/15, in which the Court of Justice controlled the Constitutional Court Act of 29 December 2015, and case K 39/16, in which the Court of Justice controlled the constitutionality of the Law of 22 July this year. These judgments have not been published. By decision of the President of the Council of Ministers, all judgments were published as from 10 March and the judgment in Case K 47/15 was delivered on 9 March. All judgments, 21 in total, were published between 10 March and 14 August when the Law of 22 July 2016 entered into force. And then there were published judgments just after 14 August, that is after the date of entry into force of the Law on the Court, adopted by the Sejm on 22 July. The point of the dispute, I understand, seems to be that... And this point of the dispute cannot be, because the constitution states that the Court's rulings are simply published in the official journal. It is a matter of the ordinary legislator as to what the journal will be. But in this case, it is clear that if the Court controls the constitutionality of the law, then the judgment in which the Court maintains the provisions of the law in force and finds that the provisions in question were compatible, or the provisions which it found incompatible, and those which it found compatible... Such a sentence must be published. As well as when the entire law was declared unconstitutional by the Court. It has happened to me, as the Judge-Rapporteur, that two times at the Court of Justice the full approval of the judgment. Usually then the entire Constitutional Tribunal is adjudicated on the entire law on non-compliance with the Constitution. It was a law on family gardens and a law on... no, I wasn't the rapporteur, I was the chairman of the squad. It was a matter of a decree on martial law which the Court found incompatible with the constitution in its entirety. Although these are rare cases for the Court to find the law in its entirety incompatible with the Constitution. However, in its judgment, the Court does not consider the entire law to be incompatible with the Constitution, but considers that such rules are incompatible with the Constitution, and the legislator must rewrite the entire law. As for Senator Gadawa's question, I don't understand...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-senat-32-2.u122	Excuse me, Mrs. Marshal, I just want to make sure I understand correctly. In the view of the President, there are no judgments of the Court which the Court of Justice, because only he can do so, could find that the provisions of those laws, which are mentioned in the provision of the Article, are in breach. 19. [[President of the Constitutional Tribunal Andrzej Rzepliński: No.]] So, as I understand it, this is absolutely pointless. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-senat-32-2.u123	It is removed from the Polish legal order, from the legal system. About Senator Gadawa's question... I don't understand the first question, so I'm gonna answer the second one, and I'm gonna wait for a possible supplement to the first one. As for 2014, Mr. Senator, and the municipal elections... In Poland elections, election results, their legality is controlled by courts, not by the Constitutional Tribunal. If the legislator had decided that the Constitutional Tribunal was to control this, the Court would have controlled, at the request of the competent authority, compliance with the constitution of the electoral procedure itself, the conduct of the elections and their results. And it's not. This is the role of the courts. That's what the electoral code is about. And in the case of parliamentary elections and presidential elections, a final ruling shall be given by the Chamber of Labour, Social Insurance and Public Affairs of the Supreme Court. Thus, there could not be statements from the Constitutional Court, because the Court's competence only concerns electoral rights. And the Constitutional Tribunal has really great achievements. It's not. brag because the general part of the judgments stabilizing the Polish electoral system was issued by the Court before I became a judge. Also in time... In particular, the 2011 Grand Judgment, which was repealed, considered as an unconstitutional part of the provisions of the electoral code.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-senat-32-2.u124	Would the senator like to clarify his question?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-senat-32-2.u125	I would just like to ask the President: have you spoken on the subject of elections in 2014?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-senat-32-2.u126	No, I didn't say anything. But someone else spoke about me, and also about the first President of the Supreme Court and the President of the Supreme Administrative Court, that the three presidents almost terrorized the district and appeal courts to rule that there were no violations of electoral law. As we know, they were. And the courts ruled they were. Only none of these cases affected the results of elections, whether at the level of municipalities, powiats or voivodships.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-senat-32-2.u127	The president hasn't answered the question yet... [[He answered.]] ...why didn't you react in 2015, June, with regard to the bill I was talking about earlier?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-senat-32-2.u128	Mr. Senator, you don't know the judgment of the Court of 3 December. This bill was fully constitutional. It was fully contested, first by the PiS group, then by the PO group, except for the part of the provision that allowed The election of 5 judges by the 7th Sejm. Fully constitutional, Mr. Senator. Please read the judgment in Case K 34/15. I encourage you. It is written in very good Polish. [[So, as I understand it, the choice of judges was done correctly, too, right?]] No. After all, it is decided that the election of two judges was not in accordance with the constitution. [[And three of them are compatible.]] And three of them are in line with the constitution. It was also confirmed by the positions... I'm not gonna go back to the fact that Communiso iuris was just that... and that sentence was as correct as possible. And it is my duty not only to respect his terms as president. I didn't rule on it. But also for the entire Constitutional Tribunal. I encourage you to read pages 106 of the judgment in Case K 39/16, where the Court took stock of this position.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-senat-32-2.u129	Thank you. Senator Jerzy Czerwinski.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-senat-32-2.u130	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Mr. President! As for the judgment you mentioned here on the June 2015 Act, we have already argued about this at both the committee meeting and the plenary session. We're not going back to that. Let's move on. The first question is the question you asked Senator Klich. I didn't hear a clear answer to that question. Is it really so that since in the article. 197 states that the organisation of the Court is governed by a law and that there is more than one legal act There are laws, and not the law, that's the reason to think that something is against the constitution? Why am I asking this? The Constitution repeatedly defines the law. Such statements are particularly important in the section on the rights, freedoms and responsibilities of the citizen and man. The regulations governing or filling out the delegation of the organist, because this is how it should be read, is usually a lot. Does this mean that all laws governing e.g. the right to security which is enshrined in Article. 67... are they all unconstitutional, or are you Senator Klich simply wrong? The wording "law" also means "laws." Isn't it a coincidence that the wording "law" also means "legal act," means that something cannot be governed by secondary law, e.g. in a regulation, in a subroutine act? It's a matter of clarification. I would ask for a clear wording here. Second question. I repeat the question I asked the minority representative. He couldn't answer that question, so I'm directing it to you as a professional. Mr President, as it is: since the constitution does not define the powers of the vice president, it merely speaks of the way he is appointed and calls him... Is it possible, by name, to conclude or categorically determine the authority's competence? Or maybe it's the art that needs to be served here. 197, which cedates to the legislator the term in the law or in the statutes of the organisation of the Constitutional Tribunal, i.e. the powers and duties of the Vice-President?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-senat-32-2.u131	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to ask you a question? No. You're welcome, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-senat-32-2.u132	Thank you very much. Senator, when it comes to the first question, 100%. We agree. Art. 67, which is everyone's right to social security... It's a thick book of laws. But that's not how I understood... It's probably a matter of understanding Senator Klich's question. That's not how I understood the question. Did 3 laws created almost parallel but not parallel, and very quickly... Is the legislative procedure itself to regulate the proceedings before the Court separately, to regulate in parallel... It's not that... Indeed, I do not know, in three years' time, a law could be adopted in which only matters of proceedings before the Court would be amended, because such needs would arise. After a joint discussion, including with the Court, a separate law on proceedings before the Court would be passed which would replace the provisions in force so far and those which would regulate the organisation of the Constitutional Tribunal would have the same content as before. This is about something else. It's a parallel definition not in the same bill... Senator Klich's question, as I understand it, was that it did not cause significant constitutional problems, whether the legislator, even the best, the most attentive, would not make the mistakes that... the Constitutional Tribunal, one could say, will deal with everything, the biggest frog will eventually digest and perhaps not poison itself. But why feed the Constitutional Tribunal such a frog? What the legislator was going to do... He did so in the Law of 22 July 2016. He passed one law on the Court in which he regulated and dealt with the procedure, and the organisation of the Constitutional Tribunal, naturally in separate chapters. As you probably know, in the Court's judgment in Case K 39/16, some of the provisions contested by the group of Members were found incompatible with the Constitution, and some were declared compatible with the Constitution. And for no one in the Court there was no doubt that both in one, and in the other, we are bound by the Act of 22 July 2016, the Act repealed now, to an end it is not known by which law and what effect it may have. On this point, this is an explanation. I think I answered the senator's questions. Thank you very much. [[If you don't mind, Mr. President... the other one wasn't, but it was about the vice president's status and his competence.]] Oh, good. Mr. Senator, we're not gonna jump over the devicer. There's the president and there's the vice president. And there's art. 197, which states that the organisation... to the President and to the Vice-President these regulations governing the organisation and procedure of proceedings at the Court refer to. And any law on the Constitutional Court will regulate the powers in such a way that... the President and vice-president of the Constitutional Tribunal are being referred to. Well, now that the embodiment has decided there's a vice president in case... And it happened so once in the history of the Court, it was 1992... In a very difficult situation the Court found itself because... It was natural, but you had to reveal the health of someone who suddenly got sick and so on. In any case, the President of the Constitutional Tribunal was very ill at the time. There was no constitution yet, there was only the Constitutional Court Act. He replaced him by directing the work of the Court and representing him outside, Professor Andrzej Zoll, who was the judge of the Constitutional Tribunal, because there was no institution of the vice-president of the Constitutional Tribunal at the time. He came to the Constitutional Court in December 1989. He performed, mainly by virtue of his authority, during the absence of the sick president of his duties, and then the judge, the President, returned to these duties. The legislator probably motivated by this story But I don't know that personally. In order to ensure that it was a very stable constitutional body, so that there were no problems, questions, etc., he decided that there was an organ called the President of the Constitutional Tribunal and that there was an organ called the Vice-President of the Constitutional Tribunal and introduced it into the Constitution. The expression of the device is clear and obvious. For the senator, for someone with your education, as I understand it, it's also obvious that since the legislator has only said so much, you can't go outside this... Of course, it should be regulated, in accordance with Article. 1907, both the question of directing the Court's work and the question of representing it externally. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-senat-32-2.u133	Thank you, Mr. President. There you go, Marshal Bogdan Borusewicz.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-senat-32-2.u134	Thank you. Mr. President, I have a brief question for you and I would ask for a rather brief answer. I'm talking about art. Article 15 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 3 point 2. I quote: the Judge of the Court, who is entrusted with the duties of President of the Court, the President of the Republic of Poland elects among the judges of the Court the longest term of office in the general court or central state administration in positions connected with the application of the law. I would like to ask you: who is this article pointing to? Who is such a judge at the Constitutional Court today? [[President of the Constitutional Tribunal Andrzej Rzepliński: The question should be asked whether the legislator has the right to act as such.]] [[Mr. President...]] [[President of the Constitutional Tribunal Andrzej Rzepliński: Laws are abstract acts.]] [[Mr. President, I'm just gonna ask...]] [[President of the Constitutional Tribunal Andrzej Rzepliński: In my opinion...]] [[Mr. President, I'm just going to ask your marshal: do you have any more questions, Mr. Marshal, is this the end?]] No, I want you to-- Mr. President, I understand your legal assessment, but here are some rules on who you're entrusted with-- Specifically: who is now fulfilling these principles What about the judges of the Constitutional Tribunal?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-senat-32-2.u135	That's the end of the question, isn't it? Good. You're welcome, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-senat-32-2.u136	I don't know. I didn't count it. I didn't look at the judge's personnel records, but in my opinion, without a doubt... I don't think he'd ever agree to do this job in the situation where... We're talking about one of the judges who runs the job when the vice president... I don't think that's true. And I don't think that any judge will undertake to do this job, but if we're considering it theoretically at all... [[In theory, quite theoretically.]] These conditions are met by the former President of the Institute of National Remembrance present for many years, outstanding self-government, creator, one of the co-founders of the Polish self-government, the great success of our country's system. [[Thank you very much, Mr...]] I don't know if that judge would want me to name him, but of course the marshal knows... [[Voices from the hall: We know, we know.]] [[Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-senat-32-2.u137	Are there any more questions? I don't see any calls. Mr President, thank you very much for answering my questions. [[President of the Constitutional Tribunal Andrzej Rzepliński: Thank you very much again.]] Thank you very much. I'm opening a discussion, ladies and gentlemen. I ask you, Mr. Marshal Bogdan Borusewicz, to speak in the discussion. [[Mrs. Marshal, I have more questions to...]] But I asked if anyone else wanted to ask questions, and there were no more questions from the gym. [[I wanted to ask a question to the Minister, the representative of the government.]] There is no government representative, Mr. Marshal. [[We voted it wouldn't be.]] [[Thank you. That's what I wanted to hear. Good.]] I asked you to speak in the discussion, Mr. Marshal. [[And I thought I could ask a government representative questions.]] But, as you know, questions are being asked from the spot, and you're already at the podium. [[I'm the one who can sit back down.]] No, Mr. Marshal, like I said... [[Okay. Thank you.]] I'm opening a discussion, and please...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-senat-32-2.u138	Dear Marshal! President of the Constitutional Tribunal! High Izbo! I would like to begin by thanking President Rzepliński. I've already done it by handing out a medal, so I won't repeat everything, but I want to thank you, because this was the last speech in the Senate during your term of office. I want to thank you for your attitude, for your integrity, and also for the independence of the Court that you are defending. I would also like to say that, like I think and thank you, these 40 and 50 thousand people who were on the streets of Warsaw yesterday, also 4 and 5 thousand people who were on the streets of Gdansk. It was also a thank you for your attitude. Some believe that the Court's independence, the independence of the Court, will end next Monday, but as long as the judges are independent, the Court will be independent. I am sure that the judges of the Court will still be, and I am sure of it because they have not given in to the pressures, threats, so they will not give in to the form of bribery that is contained in this bill. She gives every judge of the current term of office the opportunity to retire with a salary of a member of the Court, a judge of the Court and a good life, even though each of these judges would be needed for the constitutional court to function. But I repeat, I am sure that those judges who have not bowed to threats will not choose to do so and will not go in a direction that will undermine their authority and position. Ladies and gentlemen, this is the seventh law, known as the perverse law of repair. I don't blame the Senator rapporteur for not being able to say exactly which bill it is. He counted 6 bills, I counted 7, but also I am not sure which is the bill. Seven o'clock? How about eight o'clock? It is a chocholi dance on the ground of the rule of law: successive laws, several fragmentary laws, prepared in such a way as to block all possibilities, block the possibility of control by the judicial authority, which is the Court, the executive authority. I think it's the seventh law. Imagine what a car looks like after seven repairs a year. Does this prove that this car is in the hands of a good mechanic, a good specialist? We are discussing another law, pointing to the unconstitutionality of specific rules. This law creates a term of duty. And the senators are asking what's going on here. It's written in the constitution of an organ, which means the vice president... And that's just a name? This is an organ enshrined in the Constitution. The Constitution is not a dictionary of names, so since there is a vice president, it has a constitutional meaning and it cannot be avoided by the ordinary law, which is done again. I have heard that this bill is the implementation of the recommendations of the Venice Commission. I've been to a meeting with the Venice Commission twice. And, of course, you can play dumb-ass with the Venice Commission, you can change something there, change the name and say, "We're doing it." But it's about the spirit of this bill, the spirit of these changes. This is not the implementation of the Venetian Commission's instructions. The liquidation of the Court's administration is a separate issue. This is a repetition of the rules that have already been introduced. PiS introduces this kind of solution already as a rule into the next law. Everyone under the law, the law, ends with a contract of employment, except those who will repeat the contract of employment in mid-2017. It's a recipe that... I no longer say that he destroys at all... although, of course, he destroys the stability of the Court. But this is also a situation where through statutory procedures, labour law is avoided, good habits are avoided... [[Mr. Marshal, time.]] Mrs Marshal, I would also like to thank the rapporteur of the majority, who is a different option than me, but I would like to thank him for the way in which I was sitting the committee and for the way in which I was reporting. He's not a lawyer, but he tried to explain everything and answer every question. Since he's not here today, please thank him... [[Good. Thank you very much.]] ...to pass it on. I'm asking the PiS senators to... [[He's a lawyer.]] He's a lawyer, yeah, he's a lawyer. Then I ask that the Senators of the PiS present. They gave him a thank-you note in the O.R. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-senat-32-2.u139	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Senator Bogdan Klich. You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-senat-32-2.u140	Mrs. Marshal! High Senate! It's been a year, and it's been exactly a year since the dismantling of the Constitutional Tribunal began. On 12 December last year, Poles first went out on the streets to defend the Constitutional Tribunal, very exotic for many Poles of the institution. Exotic, because basically acting on the sidelines, not dealing with political arguments, just law, and assessing the compatibility of the law with the constitution. Poles have not had an opportunity in the last 26 years to focus their attention on the Constitutional Court. And suddenly it turned out that thousands of people came out on the streets of Polish cities in the case of the Court. In May, last June there were hundreds of thousands of people in almost 100 cities in Poland. Even yesterday, several tens of thousands of people came out on the streets in Warsaw and several thousand in many other cities in Poland. It means that there are people in Poland who want to defend democracy, that is, values such as the rule of law This very exotic term in Polish is really important and really important for Poles. Already before, after the previous phases of the Court's dismantle, many have proclaimed the end of the rule of law, but in fact, and it must be said with an open text, the end of the rule of law will come when the President has signed the law we are talking about today. This will mean that Poland falls out of orbit of countries for which the rule of law, the rule of law, is one of the constitutional values. I would remind you that countries belonging to the European Union and NATO accept the rule of law as one of the fundamental principles of the values on which these international organisations are based. Just read the 1949 Washington Treaty, the founding treaties of the European Communities and the Lisbon Treaty. Poland will cease to be a state of law if the President signs this bill. That's one thing. Secondly, what about Polish democracy? There are many definitions of democracy. Recently, I have enjoyed one that is the basis for the functioning of an institution that has helped us, operating in the underground, so that we can fight for this democracy. I am referring to the founding definition of the National Endowment for Democracy, an organization that has been supporting the solidarity undergrounds financially since the mid-1980s on behalf of the American Congress. Democracy takes into account the right of people to determine their own fate. The exercise of this right requires a system which guarantees freedom of expression, freedom of religion, freedom of association, free and competitive elections, respect for the rights of individuals and minorities, free media and the rule of law. We've said a lot about that. This is how democracy is understood, based on freedom, so it is understood to establish political representation with respect for civil rights and freedoms. Polish democrats just can't imagine another democracy. These empty benches on the side of the PiS testify to the shame, testify to the embarrassment of what is being done in this room, testify that the Senate of the Republic of Poland has become a passive tool in the process of dismantleing Polish democracy through colleagues from Law and Justice. Polish democracy is no longer free. Polish democracy will be based on the will of the individual and the will of the political environment surrounding it. I'd like to say... Senator Czerwinski is the only one left, so in his hands, in fact, you are the marshal and Senator Czerwinski. I'd like to tell you, you're going the wrong way! We do not know for what purpose you lead Poland, but one person and its immediate surroundings knows. But we know for sure that during this year you have led Poland to blow up the rule of law and to the progressive dismantling of Polish democracy. Thirdly, as far as the law is concerned, you understand this law exactly the opposite of us on the other side of the room. Because we think the law is about defending individuals and minorities. The various kinds of minorities, political, ethnic, religious, etc. In front of a majority who can necessarily, as Rousseau described, turn into a tyranny of the majority. We believe that the concepts of law, whether prof. Stanisław Ehrlich, the promoter of the work of Kaczyński or Carl Schmitt, which was the basis for all the worst that happened in Germany in the 1930s, cannot be accepted by democrats. There is no place for them in the modern democratic world, because they say that political will is more important than the law, and not about it, as we understand it, that the law is the basis for any policy. And that it can't just be the other way around. If it's the other way around, it's out of the law. Fourthly, it's already the seventh law. And I'm wondering today what it means to be a repair bill. Either it's such a repair bill that you're fixing the situation after yourself, as one of your colleagues rightly said, or this repair term is a concept taken from Orwell, that is to say, something exactly the opposite, e.g. That white isn't white, it's black. And that you dismantle the Constitutional Tribunal to ensure its full submission. And that you're not repairing it, you're ending the process of destroying the Constitutional Tribunal. Unfortunately, I consider this second understanding to be more legitimate, and therefore I call it the juxtaposition of the Constitutional Tribunal, because it really does come close to the Constitutional Tribunal. I would like to say only three things in which I see whether or not we see the unconstitutionality of this law. Firstly, it is the appointment of an unconstitutional institution, which is acting... or rather the duties of President of the Constitutional Tribunal, because we know for whom it is cut. This is unconstitutional because of the contradiction with the constitution expressly listing the Vice-President of the Court. Secondly, the law is always to be a general standard, and in this case it is cut to a specific person and is therefore unconstitutional as such. Finally, thirdly, the act as a general standard cannot be cut into any event. And she's cut. That's what art says, among other things. Article 16 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 For a specific event, i.e. the choice made, the selection of candidates to be presented to the president as future president. This article, this paragraph simply invalidates this choice. It can therefore be seen that this law is limited to a specific political objective and is intended to lead to this political objective. We do not agree to this approach to laws, this was not the case before and it should not be in Poland. And that is why, of course, me and my colleagues will vote in a clear way, if possible, Mr. Marshal, on two hands. It's against this law. Thank you. [[Applause]] [[The meeting is chaired by Deputy Marshal Grzegorz Czelej]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-senat-32-2.u141	Senator Comfort, please speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-senat-32-2.u142	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. I was hoping to speak to a wider group of colleagues. Especially in view of what I said today on the committee Because we are debating an extremely important issue today. Apart from the fact that you're here, Mr. Marshal and a colleague of the secretary, I'm bowing to Senator Czerwiński, and also to Senator Sewerinski, that they wanted to hear our opinion. Unfortunately, there is no Senator Jackowski, who got us his bravado proposal a month ago, that an attempt to keep quiet about what President Rzepliński had to say to us, because there was no one on the side of Law and Justice... So this intelligent volt of Senator Jackowski's allowed to lead to a meeting in a wider circle. But he is not here today, so that unfortunately he will not come up with a proposal to postpone this debate so that anyone from the Law and Justice can be in this Chamber and listen to what we have to say. [[Excuse me, excuse me for interrupting. Ladies and gentlemen, you know very well that many of our colleagues are watching the proceedings in committee offices, in hotel rooms. I myself often, like the other Vice-Marshals, watch meetings in my office. So it is not quite so that these people do not watch the proceedings, and in addition it is forever recorded and stored in the Senate Archives. Thank you very much.]] With all due respect and great sympathy to your marshal, I would like to point out that perhaps for the first time so ad vocem the marshal interrupted my speech. I understand that Mr. Marshal has some access to information that law and justice colleagues are watching this particular channel, not for example. Sports. Mr Gogacz, when he started his report today, said that he had the honour of presenting this bill. I'd like to assure you... Besides, I said this privately to Senator Gogacz when he left this room, that I assure him that from a certain historical perspective it would not be an honor. Senator Gogacz, who was left by the authors of this idea, this bill here on this field Because no one came from the Sejm, there is no government side, said that the 2016 law had to be improved, said that there was no time to deal with certain aspects of this law. I would just like to remind you of what I told Senator Dobrzyński today, that this time it is not possible to argue that this is an amendment of the law that the Civic Platform has prepared, because this is the seventh approach and this is a change of the law that Law and Justice have prepared. If today we recognize that the 2016 Act was a gnith prepared on the knee, then I really don't know how Today, the Law and Justice want to make amends for this rotten bastard, proceeding faster and in an even less democratic way. Because we really didn't get a half an objective piece of information about this bill. Once again, there is nothing here that I regret very much, Senator Jackowski and Senator Zarin, who cares about dates and who have an extremely sensitive hearing for some historical nuances. They would probably tell you that a formation that cares so much about historical memory should not adopt a law on 13 December, and this law that amends the law passed on 22 July. It is a really far-reaching awkward that laws on the Constitution, on the rule of law, should be adopted in the days that in our historical consciousness They are connected to the most tragic fates. I think that only haste and ad hoc political goals can explain such a senseless choice of dates. I have no doubt that the way we are debating today about this law, defining the legal and constitutional order and amending it in a non-constitutional way... I have no doubt that this is the way to compromise our House. He compromises the Senate, compromises those who have made the decision to turn some of our political life devices upside down in 12 hours. And I have no doubt that the price will be paid for it for a very long time. I also have no doubt that the assessment of what is happening today, what happened yesterday and during the last year, from a historical perspective will be extremely negative. I asked during the meeting of the Legislative Committee and the Human Rights Committee that, for the sake of the seriousness of the Senate, our mandates, we should not adopt this law, which was really written on our knees. I asked us not to trample on the seriousness of the Senate, completely abstracting from what we judge. Every one of us, because each one of us thinks differently. These legal solutions. I think it is an absolute scandal that we are doing this at such a rate, not allowing once again to gather information and to think more about what the implications of this new law are. Because these implications will affect all the rulers in the future, regardless of who will rule. These implications will also have a very negative impact on the majority that governs today, because there are rules that have been violated for almost 30 years, and certainly for 26 years, we have been guided by the rule of law. You are responsible for the destruction of a certain knight, which is a very important element of constitutional order. I took the liberty of being a little malice at the committee meeting, because just before Senator Martynowski said, I asked my fellow committee members, especially from the Human Rights Committee, to... I'm abstracting the political approach to this issue, although it's pure politics. All you wanna do is get the CEO's office, and then you're dead, and that's what you're after. Well, I asked any of my law and justice colleagues to think about the comments of our Legislative Office. I'm talking about intertemporal rules, I'm talking about the records that are in this bill. I'm not going to quote them right now. And which are just a loophole. If what the rapporteur, the applicant's representative, said today is true, if you really want to make things right at least to the slightest degree, then after what you heard at this committee meeting, you should adopt at least 5 amendments. You didn't. Why? Because it is a law passed for only one purpose: to take the position of president to get to Godot in time. What did the Member, the applicant's representative, say? That this bill is the answer to the dangerous situation of the absence of quorum at the assembly meeting. [[15 minutes.]] I'm almost done, Mr. Marshal. Last sentence. How can you... You really have to have a forehead not copper, but I'm not gonna tell you what kind of bullshit to tell people who understand anything. How can it be said that this is the answer to the absence of a quorum and that this is a corrective action? What's this? The three judges elected by the majority currently in power do not attend the sitting. They suddenly got sick? Help? The D.A.'s looking into what they got? No, there's no such thing. They don't come, there's no quorum, and most of the Sejm Suddenly comes with the bill. There's no quorum? Well, then we'll have to fix it. What's this? What the hell is that? I have no doubt that such a law has never existed in this House. This is an outrage. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-senat-32-2.u143	Senator Zdrojewska, come in.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-senat-32-2.u144	Dear Marshal, Ladies and Gentlemen, Senators! I wonder how to say this... This bill is, in my opinion, so embarrassing that it is actually not worth our time, especially not worth the time of President Rzepliński. [[And time is money.]] I think the President is here, as are we, out of a sense of duty, out of a sense of duty. This bill is so weak that we shouldn't take care of it, she shouldn't be in parliament at all, she shouldn't be here. I must say that I miss this moment in this House when I would listen to substantive disputes concerning some legal issues, disputes involving outstanding lawyers such as Mr Rzepliński, but also some of our colleagues who are sitting in this House. I'd prefer to, but we have to discuss the kind of gnith that my esteemed colleague here has rightly defined this bill. So I'm gonna be quick, because it's heavy... But I also want to talk about proceding, because it's in the future... I wouldn't want to work like this next year. I'll remind you of this Christmas Eve, this New Year's Eve last year, etc., what it all looked like and what situations we work in. I'm not gonna... and I would ask that this never happen again, that I... And we got that bill yesterday at 10:30 p.m. for an e-mail. What exactly does that mean? That the senator should stay up all night and wake up every half hour and see if any of the senate's e-mails were sent to him. It's unacceptable, isn't it? And that's what it looks like. This is totally embarrassing. You can't work like that. You can't work with just Professor Banaszak's opinion. Besides, about the only right opinion from the Sejm, Professor Banaszak's opinion, I'd like to say that Professor... And all I'm talking about is facts, Mr. Marshal, for God's sake, I don't want to make jokes or jokes about anybody. It is written here that the senior person will be the vice-president of the Constitutional Tribunal. I would remind you that in the previous law, we laughed at this in this House, it was stated that the General Assembly was chaired by the youngest internship. That was the famous... Well, we laughed about it because there's no place like this that the youngest person or the internship or the age is leading something, because it makes absolutely no sense. I'm just talking about how absurd these laws are, how absurd these translations are, because depending on whether we have May or December, we get completely different interpretations and, depending on the particular situation, we often have completely contradictory explanations. But actually, like I said, it's a waste of time. As I said, we are here on a duty, which is why I am making my two amendments to this vice-president on the deletion of the article. 16.18, because I think that this is completely, like other things in this bill, pointless. And I'd like to put my amendment on the hands of the marshal. And the second amendment... These are the amendments taken over by us, by Senator Rulewski and by me, which cover all the comments of our Legislative Office. Why? That is why the sense of duty makes me want to... If we have an office like this, let's listen to it for once, although let's check it... That's why I'm making these amendments, although I know that we might as well function and rely only on the opinion of the only lawyer in Poland, the only existing opinion. So that I make corrections out of a sense of duty and in thanking you for your hard work. And let me remind you that this is our office's night job too, i.e. It's work. nighttime not only ours, but also our employees. They print all these acts here in the morning, we have them in color, we have yellow prints, we have white prints, but we get them thanks to the hard work of these people at night. Mr. Marshal, once again, please don't let us have to do this again. Every half an hour, wake up and see if we have an e-mail on our computer. [[I want it ready on Monday.]] And let me leave 14 amendments prepared by the Legislative Bureau, because the committee did not want to take these amendments into account, but with the votes of the PiS decided that there should be no amendments at all, because this is a great bill. That is why Senator Rulewski and I are making these amendments. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-senat-32-2.u145	Thank you very much. Senator Augustine. Come on in.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-senat-32-2.u146	Mr. Marshal! Mr. President! Mr. and Mrs. Senators! It's not like Poles don't care about the Court. I have this power, this power of conviction, this optimism of people who walked with us yesterday in Warsaw streets. It was Poles who claimed democracy, tens of thousands of Poles. And very often the Constitutional Tribunal was mentioned there as a guarantor of our right. So although today is a sad day, because we are to adopt a law which will clearly lead to the incarceration or political affiliation of the Court, I would be the last one to announce the surrender and say that democracy is ending in Poland. In Poland, the fight for democracy, for democracy as we would like to understand it, i.e. as a rule of law guaranteeing respect for the rights of every citizen, as stated by the President here today. The Constitutional Tribunal is ours and for us, for each of us. It's the ultimate instance that can keep us from being terrorized by the majority. I would like to say that I am not surprised that there are no opposition senators here and that there are so few senators at all. If anyone wants to... [[What do you mean, opposition?]] I mean, coalition. [[Voice from the room: Coalition.]] Coalition. If anyone wants to... [[The subject and object are...]] 8-year-old habit. If someone wants to destroy democratic order, he must certainly be in a system in which procedures are in force, in which the institutions are proceding, making the functioning of these institutions absurd, a farce. The Senators of the PiS probably didn't want to participate in this farce. And we're bad here, Mr. Senator, because we believe we're playing some kind of theater of absurdity. After all, we know the ending, we know where it leads, what the intention is. Therefore, all these committee meetings, discussions, etc. they are only a screen behind which there is a desire to take over full power in Poland by a certain political environment. Look, Mr. Marshal, it's worth knowing what this bill is leading to. Look, because it's actually gonna be tomorrow, it's gonna be a minute after Monday. On the basis of a clearly unconstitutional law under the unconstitutional direction of the President of the Constitutional Tribunal, appointed by the President, of course unconstitutionally, contrary to the constitutional provisions, the Court will, in an unconstitutional composition, select candidates for the new President on the basis of, of course, non-constitutional provisions. The President, who had previously broken the Constitution, will appoint a successor to the President of the Constitutional Tribunal and the Prime Minister will publish judgments which, at his discretion, are or are not compatible with the Constitution. It seems unbelievable, but this bill will lead to such absurdity or accumulation of such absurdities. Where, then, is Poland located? [[Belarus.]] How will we build trust in justice? How will we maintain faith in ourselves that we are properly protected from abuse of power? Ladies and gentlemen, this theater we're in today is the act of a real tragedy, and the sadder it is not only in the audience, but also among the actors, that this is really happening. [[Applause]] [[No, good, great.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-senat-32-2.u147	Please take the floor of Senator Libicki.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-senat-32-2.u148	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Today is the thirty-second sitting of the Senate of this term of office, and for the seventh time, as has been said here, we are debating a law concerning the Constitutional Tribunal. If it were so that this could be a joke, I could say that soon the Senate meetings, in which we will not debate laws concerning the Constitutional Tribunal, will actually be irrelevant, because we are going in this direction, so that every important Senate meeting contains in its order, in its programme, some law relating to the Constitutional Tribunal. That's right, unfortunately, it's not a joke, and if it's a humour, it's a black humour. Today the situation is all the more curiosity that this bill... At the beginning of today's meeting, there was a conversation... Senator Dobrzyński said that this is the repair of what the Civic Platform did in June 2015. Well, as Senator Pociej has already pointed out, this is not the case because the authors themselves of this bill, which we are debating today, say that they are improving the bill of 22 July this year. Well, I wanted to ask what is the reason for this repair. Why must the same parliamentary majority approach the Constitutional Tribunal seven times? Why can't the same Members who keep submitting these projects just get together and write one solid bill on the Constitutional Court? Honestly, this is incomprehensible to me. I'm not a lawyer, but I can't understand it. I would like to say one thing to the parliamentarians of Law and Justice whom you represent today, Senator Czerwiński, Mr Marshal and Mr Senator Secretary: thank you very much for this. I think that in various fundamental matters of worldview, such as: Abortion issues, we have different views here in this Chamber, but it is also so that especially the Senators of Law and Justice emphasize their attachment to the protection of life, to the social teaching of the Church and to everything that the Church teaches. Well, let's see how the Constitutional Tribunal has ruled in these cases over the years. Professor Andrzej Zoll, once President of the Constitutional Tribunal, the personal enemy of President Kaczyński, who called him a political opportunist... The Constitutional Tribunal under his leadership prevented the introduction of abortion on request during the first governments of the SLD. The Constitutional Tribunal, chaired by President Rzepliński here, has recently issued a very conservative judgment on the so-called clause of conscience. I myself witnessed the meeting in Grodzisk Wielkopolski by the judge Stepnia, who, as the former President of the Constitutional Tribunal, said something to some organizers of this meeting. Because it was a meeting organized by the CODE The question that human life begins with conception is, in the context of the judgments of the Constitutional Tribunal, indisputable; we can discuss the scope of this protection at various stages, but the fact that this life begins this way is in the light of the judgments of the Constitutional Tribunal is indisputable. That is what you said, Professor Stępień, former President, today also the enemy of many parliamentarians of Law and Justice, I do not know whether President Kaczyński personally. Because to be the personal enemy of President Kaczyński, I think you're the only one who deserves to be a personal enemy of Professor Zoll. [[And the current president, too.]] And perhaps President Rzepliński, yes. Although I haven't heard so much about the president as about Professor Zoll. And I would like to say this: we all know that this bill is cut into a specific candidate for the person who is to manage the Constitutional Tribunal and its work during the vacancy as President. It's about Judge Julia Przyłębska. Judge Przylebska is from Poznań. I'm from Poznan, too. We don't know each other. I don't know what Judge Przyłębska thinks about worldview. But when I look at the events of the last few months, when one day the PiS Members are mostly in favour of adopting a proposal to ban abortion, and after two weeks the same Members were against the project and rejected it, I fear that it may be the same with the Przyłębska judge as with the PiS Members. I'd like it to be about these things. Even if we differ from each other Someone had a strong opinion. To be honest, I am afraid that today we are working on a solution that will allow President Kaczyński to dictate to Judge Przyłębska, as she is going to rule, also in certain fundamental matters of worldview. That's what I'm afraid of. I would very much like the parliamentarians of the PIS, colleagues, Senators of the PIS to realise what responsibility they may be taking on their shoulders in an area they consider to be the most important, fundamental one. Finally, I would like to say that the 7 draft laws that we have debated this year are no different from just harassing the members of the Constitutional Tribunal, in particular Mr Rzepliński. I would like to say, looking at how Prof. Rzepliński behaves during this harassment, that I could describe his behaviour in one word: Professor Rzepliński, in the course of this harassment which the parliamentary majority is giving him at the moment, behaves dignifiedly. And I would like to thank you very sincerely for this dignity and for this worthy behaviour, Professor. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-senat-32-2.u149	Senator Grodzki. Welcome to the discussion.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-senat-32-2.u150	Mr. Marshal! [[Voice from the room: Press...]] Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! [[Voice from the room: This is where you press.]] I pressed it. [[Voice from the room: Up there.]] We've heard a lot of speeches... I'd like to start with a general case. When I came as a new senator to the Higher House of the Polish Parliament, I was convinced that I would face up to the perfection of my actions. I even tried to memorize important acts regulating this House's life, including the Senate's Rules of Procedure. However, to my amazement, it turned out that for various reasons, official and probably unofficial, most of the points of the Rules of Procedure are used to process many laws in extraordinary mode, especially above the so-called ones. repair laws. I was amazed by this until today, when we received a incomplete text at 22.30, without comparative analysis, and at 10.30 a.m., the Legislative Commission was to vote on it. Since we don't respect ourselves as senators And I still believe in the community of this House. Let us not expect others to show respect for us. Let me use a broader metaphor with the close discipline of surgery. Even if it was accepted that in June 2015 a small operation was performed at another hospital called the Platform on one of the five important sons of the Republic, the mother of Poland, the government, the Sejm, the president, the Supreme Court, i.e. the Constitutional Court, which may have been inappropriate, the operator apologized and could easily be cured. Meanwhile, the hospital changed, the chief changed. His last name is Kaczyński and he designates one of the important sons of the Republic of Poland, a surgeon named Piotrowicz, who had in the past some ungrateful miscarriages and does not seem particularly prepared to treat this particular case. The same doctor comes up with new surgeries, explaining each time in the spotlight that this is a repair operation. And the patient's condition, instead of getting better, is getting worse, the patient's bleeding. After the sixth or seventh operation. It is no longer known how many of these operations were In the light of the cameras, the patient's death occurs. In the background is still the most important son of the great Polish family, Mr President, whose role in this matter is not clear, not to say anything ambiguous. Imagine what people would have done if they had observed such inadequacy and, worse than that, carried out with a premeditated so-called. repair procedures that lead to the death of a real sick person. They'd lynch and the operator, and the chief. And we as a nation are only peacefully protesting, constantly believing that this tragic, grotesque history of superiority has the power of a nation, which sooner or later will lead to the healing of these basic pillars of the family, which is Poland. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-senat-32-2.u151	Senator Rulewski, come in.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-senat-32-2.u152	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! If I were very modest, I would give up my speech, because what my colleagues did, what with open eyes and mouths accepts opposition, although in a modest dimension... Nevertheless, there are moments in which a person, following even the integrity of the workshop and the integrity of his duties, following even the principle of responsibility, even though they listen to us or even write about us, wants to say a few words. Yeah, it's the end of the show that the man in the mask put on us. It doesn't appear bravely as prime minister, it's from hiding. He doesn't have to, he doesn't have to explore... He has performers or, as we say in our industry, he has a mechanic who has a broken car once repaired wrong, twice also wrong, and so six times. Already after the third crash, instead of repairing the car, any owner of this car would remove the mechanic, or at least take away his hammer. [[And pliers.]] It didn't happen. It didn't happen, and it's not a conscious thought. There was a loser in the hands of this man in the mask. He seems to be talking about his innocence, and he's a loser, and he needs to redeem his fallen role not from society as he should, but from that man in the mask. He's already making his sixth gift in the form of a new script, as I said, a worse and worse bill. It's no longer a legal remedy, it's already a bill erasing pieces of the Constitution. It is worth telling, however, why this man lost his role in life. Not only did he not know how to take himself to the train of freedom, which in Krosno the people of Solidarity gave him, but also because he was encoded negatively against society just as a prosecutor. Proof? He's the one who shut down the activist of Solidarity. He's the one who was investigating. He says he helped this man today. I'm the one asking, why didn't he release him, why did he file the indictment? Today he's lying about talking to his lawyer. He was talking because he had to make the files public. And a man with such a broken philosophy is capable of imposing this drama on society, which is a drama. Even though at the time... [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[Voice from the room: Quiet!]] ...on the soil of this drama grew a great movement of CODE, even though around the position of man in a mask and Europe is storming, and others. I can't stop talking, either. The man in the mask has another defect. It is worth talking about, because perhaps you will be warned, colleagues, as well as partly other activists, even in a democratic state... Let us also sometimes mention us as we hid in a mask from public opinion. Well, this man never worked, never created anything from start to finish. [[The man in the mask?]] The man in the mask. A man in a mask in his room, in his M1 creates plans, in which everything is made up, in which everything is smart and everything can be set up, but he hasn't done anything yet in his life. He participated in committees that did not issue any law because they were not obliged to do so. What am I saying this for? This isn't a personal tour. I'm just saying it's because if he's imposed on us a cooling system, it's not tyranny, it's sometimes worse than tyranny, and sometimes it's better, but it's definitely close to tyranny... Since he has imposed a management system on us, here, with the laws of the room, that means that we are in a certain area of irresponsibleness and uncontrollability. You're on this team... [[The man in the mask.]] You belong to this team because you say that the support for the Constitutional Tribunal is up to a few percent, and the majority are against it. I can say that in almost all countries of the world, especially democratic ones, support for a police officer is close to zero, but no one in these countries takes out a police officer or turns away from him. [[In Poland, we support the police.]] But I'm talking about the support you're using as an argument. Okay, except the Court isn't a cop... Although he's a strict and difficult cop to us. Question: why, following these plebiscites, these studies, are you not going to eliminate the Court at all, but in these six sides are you trying to present some other Court? You forget about this last installment: there will be a bill to liquidate what you've done. To sum up your actions, I'm going to say that these are ferajny actions from Nowogrodzka Street, headed by a man who thinks that one jump will do everything. You're wrong, you're deeply wrong. Consider how similar the situation ended... In Gdańsk there is a monument of shipbuilders who lived in a communist system, in which every second word, sometimes and actions, were directed to workers. Everyone was granted various benefits: housing, housing, family allowances. Well, the party served the workers. You're also serving... And it ended in a monument. There is an inscription on this monument, a fragment of the poem by Czesław Miłosz. I dedicate this message to you. I had the honour, but also the duty to participate in the unveiling of this monument, and I have the duty to remember and hand it over to you... Who have harmed a simple man, Laughing over hurting him exploding, [[A bunch of clowns...]] A bunch of clowns... [[...with each other having...]] ...with each other. To mess with good and bad. [[Mr. Marshal...]] Don't be safe. Don't be safe! [[The poet remembers.]] The poet remembers. You can kill him. A new one will be born. Acts and conversations will be written. I said we're not just going to say "we're going to write down your actions and your conversations." We're gonna do this just so we know when the seventh bill comes in, how to unravel this cacophony of yours, this parliamentary nonsense. This is our elementary duty. And the finale is obvious to me. There will be written deeds and words. [[Applause]] [[The nation doesn't think so.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-senat-32-2.u153	Senator Fedorovich.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-senat-32-2.u154	I'll tell you who's in that mask, Senator. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I'm sorry, I'm a little cold. You can't get it out more, but you don't have to... I came here from the Seym. Of course, it's a different debate here. In the Senate, it is known, we are serious and experienced, we have experienced a lot, and sometimes we have read a book or even two. I thought this was the House that would make all the bullshit that hit, for example. to those young, angry ones that I watched in that stage in the Seym, and myself, for 11 years... I thought this was going to be something serious, but I can see that since Christmas, since Christmas Eve, when we first debated some curian laws about the Constitutional Court, prepared by a man in a mask, which, as it is beautifully just now... Gentlemen of the PiS senators, you didn't listen because you weren't there. Now that I'm speaking, there's more of you, and that means you know I'm gonna tell you something really important that might stay in your heads, because the situation is very dangerous. Like you're trying to find out. From Homer, what Troy's tragedy looked like, and what Cassandra said, you'd see that the words that came out here... This is just the beginning of what can really happen in our country. You saw it on the street yesterday. I've always wondered how when there's a surgeon in a mask, it's in a mask, but when an anesthesiologist from Zielona Góra helps him, he's wearing a mask, even though he's putting the patient to sleep. I've always thought about medicine and university... I didn't even know there was a university in Zielona Góra. But I'm really glad that he is, and I'm proud because we're finally a country where there's a lot of these universities. Except I thought there were universities like this. in Warsaw or in Cracow, Jagiellonian University, where there are lawyers who can help you. [[But what kind of universities are these? What universities?]] They could help you so that this Green Mountain gentleman can come across arguments, for example. outstanding lawyers from Warsaw or Krakow. Each of our fellow senators talked about it. But it didn't work out, and of course we've got some pretty horrible bullshit in front of us, with 24 non-constitutional bullshit, which, of course, is about to slap the Sejm. 'Cause, gentlemen, as I know life, you're not gonna make any adjustments. And then the president after thinking about it... well, we'll see what he does about it. All right. If I didn't want to be a Cassandra or a whistle-blower of bad times, I'd have to ask if the Senator would support my request for someone to tell me whether the three judges of the Constitutional Tribunal elected by the previous... well, by the present... well, by... anyway, you know what I mean. I am very curious whether I would have to ask a lawyer at all, of course from Krakow or Warsaw I, as a senator, have no right to see it. [[ZUS.]] Yes. Because as a senator who has the right, according to the regulations, to look into everything that's going on in the institutions of the state, I'd like to know if the doctors who actually issued these certificates... [[They're healthy.]] ...they did it in good faith because these judges are as sick as I am now. Now, let's not prolong. 'Cause I feel like you guys are gonna want to make a comeback in a minute and I want to give you a chance to do it. I am addressing my fellow Senators from Law and Justice because I want you to explain to me what your boss, Mr Kaczyński, means yesterday that he wants to organize the opposition. Excuse me, what does that mean? When I was in the governing coalition and President Kaczyński was in opposition, did any of my fellow senators or Members say that he wanted to organize the opposition? If I wanted to, for example. I couldn't have done it in my life. [[Of course.]] Therefore, Mr Senator, please inform the President that your colleague from Małopolska cannot be ordered unless there are ways such as this horrible amendment of the next amendment. And actually, after what I said, I'm going to go calmly to the doctor to survive the next session of our Senate, unless Mr. Marshal guarantees me that this will be the last session of the Constitutional Court Act. And Mr Rzepliński, professor, a man of the highest social respect, whose entry into our Congress Hall in Krakow in the presence of several thousand people, lawyers and lawyers from all over Poland, was accepted with long standing ovations, once again thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-senat-32-2.u155	Senator Dobrzyński. Come on in. [[...800 people.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-senat-32-2.u156	You were just saying the wrong thing, Senator. Your entire statement... [[Mr. Marshal...]] Please don't disturb me. [[Mr. Marshal, there's a committee...]] Mr. Marshal... [[I mean, this guy says...]] Okay, okay. [[Excuse me...]] Don't talk to me like that. [[Again...]] [[It's starting now...]] [[But please be very, very quiet. I gave...]] Mr. Marshal... [[You tell me that again, I'm not saying anything, so you'll see what it looks like...]] I'll tell you many times. Mr. Marshal, calm down these hot heads. [[Hot heads...]] We need to respond to Senator Rulewski's speech, because the senator has raised a lot of important matters, but also because of the Senator's history, which, after all, is part of our independence. Mr. Senator, using man's phrases in a mask is just rude, it's a phrase that's also full of hate. This is a public figure. This is the person that's gonna go down in history. This is the person who held the parliamentary election of the party he presides over, as well as the presidential election... And here's where you have to admit it. Using the term "nowogrodzka"... Well, Mr. Senator, you don't defend yourself, you just don't defend yourself, you can't do that. And here's the hate you're showing is inappropriate. She's basically a hero, but I don't believe she's gonna matter to the development of our country and to the reforms we're carrying out. To be bored it must be said that it was the government of the Civic Platform and the PSL in June last year that manipulated the Constitutional Court. I have said many times that if it weren't for your non-constitutional actions then, no one would be taking care of the Constitutional Tribunal. Besides, you guys know that very well. Here, your speech was also such a call for rebellion, a call for protest. Mr. Senator, it won't happen again, it won't happen again, because you may not be personally, but the movement or political thought that you represent, like Balcerowicz, the Union of Freedom, and now the Civic Platform, have led to the liquidation of powerful workplaces, and we know that these powerful workplaces are able to bring about possible changes. And I don't believe that the Poles will fall for your call for rebellion, for disobedience. Calling the army, the police to disobey is simply very dangerous and, in my opinion, carries the mark of a crime. It is not law and justice, as you judge, that paralyzes the Constitutional Tribunal, it is you, the opposition politicians, the Civic Platform, and the President of the Tribunal that you do. Of course, emotions will fall, and in a few years there will be various kinds of publications or articles on this subject. This behaviour of the President of the Constitutional Tribunal is unworthy of this office. He became political, politically speaking, engaged in games that do not bring glory to this assembly, to the Constitutional Court, and that will probably be the case... And when it comes to craftsmanship, as a law specialist... After all, the district court summed up Mr. Rzepliński's lawsuit, simply embarrassed his position when the President sent a letter to the court against the President of our country. That justification, those statements of the judge are clear. And this is a district court, where there are people who should know less about it than the professionals, the specialists, the judges of the Constitutional Tribunal. And this judgment, today's discussion and this next amendment of the law is actually a summary of the definitely disgusting, in my opinion, attitude of President Rzepliński. This is really pathetic. I will, of course, pay attention to that. We often talk about judges who are sworn in and who have not been allowed to rule. I'll pay attention to that. Please note that the President of the Court is, at the same time, the head of an establishment which does not allow judges to rule and pays them wages. They just cost us. We pay for business cars, for secretariats, for apartments or hotels. And, of course, they get paid their wages. I'm gonna want to make sure that someone answers for this. Saying there's a work code here is just not true. The President and his colleagues probably know that very well. I hope that someday we will have an explanation in this regard. I've filed this case in this Chamber with the ombudsman. He's still silent today because he doesn't know how to behave. And this is about my money and yours, because Mr. President Rzepliński lives on our taxes. I think this bill is one of the last ones on this issue. I'll get back to your thoughts, Senator. In many countries, the Constitutional Tribunal simply does not exist. There are other institutions, there are other courts that replace him. [[It's where there's no democracy.]] Your idea would be worth considering. I'll take that as a good coin. Thank you for your attention. Thank you, Mr. Marshal. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-senat-32-2.u157	Thank you very much. Mr. Senator Czerwinski. Welcome to the discussion.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-senat-32-2.u158	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I must admit, I was somewhat embarrassed to hear some of the statements that the opposition state was directing towards us. On the one hand, self-presentation, as in the performance of Senator Fedorovich, on the other, regrets, from the third fairy tale, from the fourth attempt at argumentation. By lowering the veil of silence on all the rest, I will try to concentrate on the arguments I have heard from you concerning why this law should not enter into the legal system and why it is unconstitutional And that's the word for picks that always rains here. And right now, half of the Poles are constitutionalists. Because this law is passed on 13 December, and this is the wrong date for the bill to be passed. Well, no comment. Because the bill is one of three, and it should be one. This is Senator Klich's argument. Art. 197 Constitution states that there should be one law, so if there's more than one, it's unconstitutional. That's bullshit, of course. The senator read something literally, without understanding. Next argument: because it's supposed to be specific, not abstract. I didn't see any specific records in this bill. But I saw the specific provisions in the bill that you passed in June of that year. After all, this spooky recipe, which has become the beginning of a storm, is a specific recipe. He was talking about the 2015 election. He was not even a transitional provision, he did not regulate what could happen when the end of the term of office of a judge, a member of the Constitutional Tribunal, will be covered at the end of the term of office of the Sejm. He was specific, only about the 2015 elections. That was the typical concreteness and unconstitutionality. Not 2 but 5 judges were elected in violation of the Constitution. The last charge that appeared here was that he was acting as President of the Constitutional Tribunal, indicated by the President, as being a member of the Vice-President's authority. Except the constitution doesn't define the vice president's competence. The Constitution refers in this respect to the Act This law is intended to indicate what these competences are, and it indicates yes and not otherwise. The legislator, the founder of the Constitution, deliberately pointed out that it was the legislator, that is, we here, who are to indicate what the powers of the vice-president and other persons as regards the Constitutional Tribunal will be, and that is what we are doing in this law. That's the point, I'd say, of the legal level. There's another level, political level, and he's really dominant here. The majority of the votes we have heard from you are those from a political level. Ladies and gentlemen, you started this, you started repairing the alarm clock with a hammer and a cutter. And then there's really not much we can do, especially since you keep taking the tools and dropping off the wrong parts. Yes, sir, this trial is ongoing. What's the seventh bill for? Because you're still acting against... [[Voice from the room: Not seven, eight, I think.]] I don't know if it's seven o'clock. That's what you write. You're still working against the Constitutional Court. [[Talking in the O.R.]] I'm afraid... [[Calm down. Front of unity, peace!]] Mr. Marshal, may I... [[Quiet, please.]] I can see that this has only just come to a political level. Unfortunately, this is what happened. I'm telling Mr. President right in the eye. That the President has joined this policy. The President's actions are not strictly legal actions. Unfortunately, you have definitely joined this policy on one side. Perhaps this began just when you, together with the Vice President Biernat in the Chamber of Committees or Joint Committees, on 12 May, did not react to the introduction of the same Episcopal provision, which I was talking about, into the text of the 2015 Act. That's just what happened then, and maybe the continuation is just a consequence... or maybe it was planned. I'll leave it to you to assess. We respond to the joint political action of the President of the Constitutional Tribunal, some of the members of the Tribunal and the opposition. This is, as I hope, the last stage, the last chord and we will no longer be dealing with the Constitutional Tribunal, let it begin to act as it should. Another point is that I have already talked about this from this speaker several times before that of the Constitutional Tribunal in our constitution. It is, let's call it, at least inconsistent, art. The 10th Constitution speaks of the division and balance of authorities, but there is no balance for the Constitutional Tribunal. If there's something wrong with the Court itself, there's no way We're watching it right now. The repair of it from the outside. That's just the way it is, that's the way it's put it... the Constitutional Court's judgments are indisputable, definitive, and the Court itself treats itself as a council of wise men who are infallible, apolitical, flawless, as a group of angels, and men are not angels. Unfortunately, if fortunately, in the case of the Court, this has now proved to be the case in all its lengths, very clearly. This Court is not infallible, nor is it apolitical, as a result of which it loses sight of the public, because people simply see it, they can judge it. The Court is losing sight of the public and it will be very difficult to rebuild its authority in our nation. We'll try to do it, just, uh, gentlemen and ladies, just don't bother us. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-senat-32-2.u159	Senator Komarnicki. Welcome to the discussion.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-senat-32-2.u160	Dear Marshal, Dear Senators! I wanted to put my speech on the record because I thought that all year round here, in this important room, we were arguing about something that was obvious to us, and it turned out to be unobvious to you. And it must be said today that for more than a year the Law and Justice have been destroying the Constitutional Tribunal with successive laws. Yeah, for over a year. It's a pity we're so few in this room, because we all remember what it was like last year. God, we were so naive! We thought this was some sort of temporary misunderstanding, that this was a weird time. We did not believe what had happened that year because it was difficult to believe it in the state of law, in a country that started to be on the lips of Europe and the world as a modern, democratic and very rigorous state of law. But it must be made clear that we all, as we sit here, are watching the ruling party step by step destroy one of the most important democratic institutions, the Constitutional Tribunal. I am an entrepreneur who has always respected the law, but I am also a relayer of the voice of lawyers, i.e. people who have great legal experience and cannot accept the elimination of the Constitutional Tribunal. In this parliamentary term you have created, Mr. Senator, you haven't lost your way too. Only 8 sets. But it wasn't a bill. It was more of a legal buffet. That's what the lawyers say. - which by experts and public opinion have been clearly negative. I stress: by legal experts. And I ask you to respect their words. These are lawyers, not politicians. The Constitutional Tribunal itself also ruled so, as did the representatives I know that you don't like these bodies, the Venice Commission and the European Commission. Each of these institutions indicated I mean, it's not mean. For the unconstitutionality of records of all your projects. For God's sake, what's all this for? What's the comedy for? What's with the weak show with the new laws? Why? Is such a process suitable for Members and Senators elected by the public? Are you sure that's why people chose us to make legal bubbles at night here in this room? Why this attack on these, anything to say, democratic institutions? Ladies and gentlemen, are you really the President of Rzepliński and the Constitutional Tribunal interfering with PiS's good change? Because I don't really understand what you're afraid of. Right? Obedience to the Constitution? What's bothering you? And yet you're pursuing it. This is the main task of the new Constitutional Tribunal Act, in order for Parliament to adopt by majority any law, which is also clearly contrary to the Constitution. Your arguments are that Parliament is the voice of the sovereign, and I am telling you today that it is not. Parliament shall be the voice of the representatives of the sovereign. The Sovereign of the Republic of Poland is the Polish nation, but it is certainly not the Members and Senators, because we were all chosen by a part of society. Let's not forget that. Neither constitutional ministers nor judges or even judges of the Constitutional Tribunal are sovereigns. As I said, the sovereign is the whole nation, not the part of it that voted for the political party. These are obvious matters. That's how I understand it. With the new rules on the Court, you want to eliminate even, so to speak, a prosaic administrative matter, the Office of the Constitutional Tribunal, and create a new internal structure in its place. Internal restructuring of the Constitutional Tribunal will have a very serious impact on the lives of people working there. There are people out there, too. Of course, they will have a year to decide whether they want to continue working, and maybe during this year they will be evaluated by the office liquidation proxy. In a word, you will introduce a censor who will dispose of independent people. Unfortunately, this bill is nothing more than a muzzle for judges: you will obey, you will work, and if you are independent, there will be problems... How do I explain the fact that new penalties are being introduced for judges? We know who's gonna take those punishments. I am very sorry that, despite the appeal of so many legal circles, but not only are you once again in a disgraceful way trying to destroy the Constitutional Tribunal. I know that you have a majority in this term and, as always, you can vote everything out, but, for God's sake, there are limits to common sense. Therefore, today we must ask ourselves a fundamental question and answer clearly whether our country, whether Poland is to be a democratic state with independent judicial authority, or rather a state which is unfortunately controlled manually by the governing party. It's either one or the other. I am asking you, you PIS senators, not to vote for a law that completely makes the Constitutional Tribunal dependent on power and thus abolishes its role as guardian of the Constitution. Anything to say, afraid to think about what's going to happen next. Who will decide the constitutionality of the records? And will a constitution still be needed in our country after this law has been passed? And in conclusion. Mr. President Rzepliński, I am a man of the economy, I have observed your independence, your determination, and as an old man who has been through a lot in his life, I say to you: thank you very much for your steadfastness. It's people like you who still testify that it's the law and the constitution in our country... The light's still smoldering. I'm very low on your experience, determination, and above all professionalism. Thank you so much for everything. Mr. Marshal, thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-senat-32-2.u161	Thank you very much. Senator Rulewski for the second time. Come on in.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-senat-32-2.u162	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I would like to help Senator Dobrzyński decipher what has already been deciphered in the history of Poland and not only. He was trying to guess who the man in the mask was, and I thought he'd be offended when I quoted the part about a bunch of clowns he had next to him. I thought my friend Rooster would be offended first of all, that Senator Rooster would think it might be addressed to him, but I don't think so. I think, to my mind, he fell into silence. Because if he, experienced, and the other senators here, often performing more than representative functions in the administration, the executives... they wouldn't just be silent about this bill. If you, Mr. Senator Czerwiński, who was in legal analysis, followed what you just said: he has no competence for the deputy, I will put these powers in the amendment. But as you can see, something's paralyzing you. I'm not saying you're so paralyzed. You and gentlemen whose names I mentioned here Like Mr Peterowicz, because he is paralyzed by the sin of first-born treason. Betrayal, lie, it is this empty laughter over the fate of man, a simple man who may not understand, and you tell him what the law is, what not only the Constitutional Tribunal is, but also what the institution of law is, an institution of order. Senator Rooster, you wouldn't be a railroad driver if there wasn't a right watch. You wouldn't travel, sir, and you would never be a senator if you moved the clock at your own discretion. That's what a man in a mask does. That's what it does when you have to adjust to the jump. There are no rules, and above all, moral principles. Jumping always ends fast. I had the opportunity to see such winners of the day. A simple man expected a good change. The simple man did not expect manna from heaven. The simple man is no longer a simple man and does not believe in the payout program. A simple man knows that money has to be paid in order for her to pay out. A simple man doesn't believe in the lunar economy either. The simple man sees that Senator Morawiecki does not rebuild Żerania, Mr Morawiecki does as always: by bursting out laughter over a simple man, he invites Mercedes and boasts about it. That's the laugh. And my outrage stems not from the fact that you make mistakes, not from the fact that you're being made underdogs, but from this lie, which is the identification code of your camp. [[Oh, no, Janek...]] You will not end, as you think, in the seventh operation called the Constitutional Tribunal. You're gonna run into more lies. And I'm telling you again, we, the system opposition, are still a partner for you, but there's already an antisystem opposition out there. [[Time's up, Senator.]] And don't count on us to be a mediator and a middleman. We're just going to write down your deeds and your words. And not only to be angry, hateful, and in charge of retaliation, but to make this tangle of your ferajny philosophy of governing the state spread and to bring Poland back to normality. [[Applause]] [[Oh, Jackie, Jackie.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-senat-32-2.u163	Senator Rooster, you're welcome to discuss.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-senat-32-2.u164	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! I wasn't supposed to perform, but Senator Rulewski's colleague made me speak with his very sharp words. Firstly, Colleagues Janie, Law and Justice presented a clear programme, which is consistently implemented. I protest against the word that we're liars. If you look at history, you look back on eight years of your rule, you'll see that that's where the lies, the hypocrisy, the falsehood and the deception were. I humbly accept your words as a man of solidarity, because I am also a man of solidarity, and I was a strong supporter of decommunization and vetting of all PZPR's hangovers, who were wonderful in the times of the Polish People's Republic. I would remove them from their positions and there would be no problem today with the spokespersons, there would be no problem with the PZPRs who were presidents, there would be no case of illustrious liars and many other things. I really listened to all these speeches, but the speeches of the people who were in the Front of Unity of the Nation who clapped to the WRON, and today with their hand in their pockets they want to moralize us and instruct us from the speaker, it is, in my opinion, a shame and a disgrace. If we're talking about an assassination attempt on democracy... Janek, give us an example of the fact that there's an assassination attempt on democracy in our homeland in the Republic of Poland. As I hear those with ponies who can't pay their own wife alimony on their own children, as I hear them saying that today is similar to December 13th... Buddy, you remember very well how they drank you and dragged you in Bydgoszcz, how they exposed water guns to opponents, how long the cocks were. And today someone says there's an attempt on democracy. Democracy was yesterday that could have done 17 manifestations without police attacks. There used to be a police force, and now there's the police. Mr Mariusz Błaszczak from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs must be congratulated, because these manifestations were actually protected in a very cultural way. Next case. I don't know who's got it in their head, who invented a frontal attack. You're talking like you're encrypted. Mr Jarosław Kaczyński, President of Law and Justice. In my opinion, I have my own opinion on this, this is the man of the state. We'll see... Well, maybe we won't see it, but history will judge him as a providence husband. [[Oh, Jesus.]] Gentlemen, let's not sigh Jesus, because this is the most beautiful word. Let's not say it, Dear Lords, for no reason. I'm watching some hysteria right now. I'm not attacking anybody here, but I feel like, as far as I can tell, some kind of deal was slipping out of hand... It's such a horrible hysteria, as if the state were being eliminated, as if the country called Rzeczpospolita wasn't there. I don't want to go back to the case on June 25th, 'cause I've said it here so many times. Why was there an amendment? [[You've already been ……]] It could have been the way it was. We would have come to power, we would have given our two... And there was doing some, you don't know, miracles to block everything. If you're talking about liars, you have to say openly what Law and Justice didn't do. Program 500+ completed. You said there was no such thing, and we did it. [[Where are those kids?]] Please? [[Where are those kids?]] [[Senator, don't interrupt.]] Next case. Dear Lords, I will say this: you can argue with the arguments, but I believe that Law and Justice consistently pursues their agenda. And it really violated many elements, even certain arrangements, and that's why the scream started now. I really think that Poland was, is and will be a state of law No democracy is violated. And all those who go to their beloved homeland in Brussels are patriots? Ladies and gentlemen, let's stop exaggerating, let's stop comparing. There is democracy, there was, and really every citizen has the right to manifest and to do other things. It's not like we're artificially publicizing... And it's a shame and a disgrace to me that the opponents are walking along with the beaks. And I'm really convinced that the biggest mistake of Mr. Mazowiecki's sacred memory, the man I had a great deal of sentiment, was a big mess. If there was no big deal then, but there would be decommunization and illustriousness, then there would be peace in the country. And I don't really want to pull these attacks on each other. Because we all come from a solidarity root, and here it spits one at a time. And now this president Kaczyński... I don't know how you could even drown him. And really a little respect and humility to his knowledge. He wasn't an agent because he's been checked many times. And really time will tell who was right. I'm not going to attack President Rzepliński, but I'm going to say one thing: maybe he got into politics too much. Because to me, the Constitutional Tribunal should always be apolitical, not that there will be politics in it. And clap for those who support you. You attack everyone who comes to think of it, and you say it's the PiS who's guilty. Here's what I'm gonna say: I feel bad today, too, that I've been talking to Marshal Karczewski for eight years... Well, I took his argument to make us a rather constructive opposition. And what you're doing is doing such destruction that I regret that I didn't attack Marshal Karczewski very hard at that time so that we could be more radical. And I'm known for my radicalism. And the simple people really, Dear Lords, are already laughing at all of this, with your attacks, I know, because I meet and talk to them. Yes, thank you, Mr. Marshal... And I really think we should use diplomatic language, not hate language. And here is still the language of hate. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-senat-32-2.u165	Thank you very much. I inform you that the list of speakers has been exhausted. I would like to inform you that the legislative proposals have been submitted in writing: separately by Senator Barbara Zdrojewska and Senator Barbara Zdrojewska, including Senator Jan Rulewski and Senator Mieczysław Augustyn. That's everybody, isn't it? [[Yes.]] Speech for protocol? It wasn't. I therefore close the discussion. As legislative proposals have been made, I ask the Committee on Human Rights, the Rule of Law and Petitions and the Legislative Commission to respond to the proposals put forward and to prepare a joint report. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held in the voting block. Please read the messages.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-senat-32-2.u166	Messages. The joint meeting of the Legislative Commission and the Committee on Human Rights, the Rule of Law and Petitions on the proposals submitted to the Act. Provisions introducing the Law on the organisation and procedure of proceedings before the Constitutional Tribunal and the Act on the Status of Judges of the Constitutional Tribunal will take place tomorrow, 15 December, at 9.00 a.m. in room 182. The meeting of the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development will take place on 15 December at 10.30 a.m. in room 307 in building B.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-senat-32-2.u167	Thank you very much. I declare a recess until 3 p.m. tomorrow and inform you that this hour is possible to vote. [[Voice from the room: 3:00?]] Tomorrow, 3:00. [[Adjournment at the meeting at 20 minutes 15]]
