ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-21-sejm-26-1.u1	I'm opening a sitting. [[Marshal hits Marshal's staff three times.]] I would like to call on the secretaries of today's deliberations Agata Borowiec, Małgorzata Golinska, Adam Andruszkiewicz and Krystian Jarubas. In the first part of the session, Mr Agata Borowiec and Mr Małgorzata Golińska will be the secretaries. The minutes and lists of speakers will be led by Agata Borowiec and Krystian Jarubas. I consider the minutes of the 25th session of the Sejm to be adopted in the absence of objections. [[Game in the O.R., bell ringing.]] The Council of Ministers has submitted a draft law amending certain laws to facilitate the eradication of infectious animal diseases. The design is 832 printing. Therefore, after obtaining the uniform opinion of the Seniors Convention, I decided to supplement the agenda by a point covering the examination of this draft law. The Council of Ministers also submitted a draft law amending the Rail Transport Act and certain other laws. The design is 840. [[Game in the O.R., bell ringing.]] Therefore, after obtaining the uniform opinion of the Seniors Convention, I decided to supplement the agenda by a point covering the first reading of this draft law. In this case, I propose that the Sejm consent to the application of the article. Article 37 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 4 Rules of Procedure of the Sejm. If I do not hear opposition, I will understand that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. The Council of Ministers also submitted a draft law amending the Act on the Military Property Agency. The design is print number 841. At the meeting of the Seniors Convention, objections were raised to the completion of the agenda for the first reading of the project. This is, according to art. The Commission shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the I will put this item to the vote on the proposal to complete the agenda. Let me remind you that according to the article. The Commission shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 108 (3) of The adoption of the proposal to supplement the agenda will mean that the Sejm has agreed to the application of the Article. Article 37 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 4 Rules of Procedure of the Sejm. Mr Paweł Suski from the Civic Platform Club is now making a formal request.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-21-sejm-26-1.u2	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On the basis of the article. 184 of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm I request a break and a convening of the Seniors Convention in order to amend the agenda on the point concerning the debate on the Law on the Military Property Agency. How much longer will you continue to fill your people with positions in key companies of the Treasury, as well as government agencies? How long? [[Look who's talking.]] [[Mr. Marshal, this isn't right yet!]] This item is on the agenda and is being discussed today. The state throughout the election campaign cheated voters that you would apply high standards in calling people to key positions. This legal act will allow the invasion, the great path of the people of Antoni Macierewicz, the next Misiewicz, the next PiS-iewicz, who will be their absolute lack of education, as well as competence, to authorize your so-called. It's a good change. This legislative act, this draft amendment should be removed from the agenda, which is why I am making such a formal request. Antoni Maciarievich... [[Macierevich!]] ...wants to take over the powers of the State Treasury by means of this act. High Izbo, this is unacceptable. The scope of arms trade is also extended in such a way that it will not be fully controlled. The weapon may be sent to the Islamic State and the Sejm will give its consent. This is something unique and unacceptable in this House. [[Don't talk nonsense!]] [[Yes, sir!]] Therefore, Mr. Marshal, I ask you very much to convene the Senior Convention and withdraw this harmful act from the agenda. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-21-sejm-26-1.u3	There you go. Mr. Messenger and High Izbo! I understand that this proposal is a request for a break in order to convene the Senior Convention. [[That's what I said.]] Since the convening of the Senior Convention is the authority of the Marshal of the Sejm, I do not accept this, I do not accept it as a formal proposal, all the more so since the Convention had just been held and this case could also have been discussed there, and it was discussed yesterday. Then we shall proceed to the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of supplementing the agenda with the following point: First reading of the government draft law amending the Law on the Military Property Agency, print No 841, will raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 406 Members voted. 221 voted against - 183, 2 Members abstained. I find the Sejm has accepted the offer. The Sejm Bureau proposes that the Sejm should listen to ten-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and five-minute statements on behalf of the circle in joint discussions on draft laws: - concerning laws on family planning, protection of the human foetus and conditions for the admissibility of abortion, as well as on the rights of women and informed parenting, - concerning the National Tax Administration. The Sejm Bureau also proposes that the Sejm should hear three minutes' statements on behalf of the clubs and the circles in discussions on the committee's report on ratification of the printing agreement No 770. The Sejm Bureau also proposes that the Sejm should listen to the five-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and the circle in discussions on the other items on the agenda. If I do not hear opposition, I will understand that the Sejm has accepted the proposals. I can't hear you objecting. I would like to inform you that the Seniors' Convention accepted the proposal of the Sejm Bureau to consider at its meeting the current information on the change in the education system announced on 16 September 2016, including the liquidation of secondary schools and the return to the 8-year primary school, the 4-year high school of general education and the 5-year-old technician, to which the Civic Platform Parliamentary Club was requested. The agenda items of this meeting will be dealt with in accordance with the order adopted by the Bureau of the Sejm and the Seniors' Convention. Information on this matter is available in the Sejm Information System. Before reading the messages - the formal requests made by the Members. Mrs Joanna Mucha, Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-21-sejm-26-1.u4	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I declare a formal application pursuant to Article. 184 Rules of Procedure of the Sejm. Mr. Marshal, tomorrow is a debate on two proposals submitted by the Citizens' Committees on abortion laws. In April this year. The Civic Platform has tabled a draft resolution on respect for the compromise reached in the Act of 7 January 1993 on family planning, protection of the human foetus and the conditions for the admissibility of abortion. It's been almost six months since April. Marshal, I ask you: Why do you seal the mouth of the opposition, the biggest opposition party in Poland, and do not allow for a debate on this resolution that we passed almost six months ago? We demand that this point be attached to tomorrow's debate so that we can proceed with this point, including those two that are scheduled for tomorrow. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-21-sejm-26-1.u5	There you go. I have listened attentively to the voice of the Member, but unfortunately I cannot accept this as a formal proposal, especially since it has not been fully clarified. I shall inform you of the following. A few months ago... How many months ago? [[A few!]] Four months ago, a draft resolution of the Civic Platform club was directed to read in the Seym committees, in three Seym committees... [[I want it read here in the O.R.]] ...including the Committee on Health, whose chairman is sitting right behind the Member. [[Applause]] [[In the O.R.!]] So, ladies and gentlemen, please address this remark to the committee. Let him consider the matter, and then we'll be able to debate it here. I would ask you not to hold Marshal Sejm responsible for all the actions taken by the committees, although I would very much like to take this case. [[May I?]] Mrs Elżbieta Gapinska, Civic Platform, has the floor. Formal conclusion. There you go. [[But in response.]] [[But a corrigendum, Mr. Marshal!]] [[Mr. Marshal, because you obviously didn't understand my...]] There you go, Mrs Elżbieta Gapinska. [[It's all clear.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-21-sejm-26-1.u6	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On the basis of the article. Paragraph 184. 3 points 1 and 5 ask the Marshal to order a break and call the Seniors' Convention to complete the agenda for the following item: Information of the President of the Council of Ministers on the situation in the State Treasury company PERN SA. Members of the Przecko-Ciechanowski district have been asked by representatives of trade unions with an appeal for assistance in connection with the ongoing, or rather not conducted, discussions on the modification in the company's organizational regulations and the elimination of trade unions from consultations and the lack of cooperation from the employer. In addition, I quote, this concern is intensified by the information provided by the employer, in which there are scenarios for the introduction of the army or the replacement of the Pern crew with employees of another company. These are scenarios that relate directly to practices from the worst times of our country. Is that what a good change is supposed to be? End of quote. [[Speech Off the Microphone]] That was not my opinion, sir, but the sentence from the letter of unionists, which was received by all the Members of the Płock-Cichan district. It was also received by the Prime Minister, Minister Naimski. I'd like to know what the Prime Minister did about it. Has she taken any action? I therefore ask that this item be included on the agenda. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-21-sejm-26-1.u7	There you go. However, I would ask your Members to make formal proposals. Do not abuse my patience, that I allow a Member to speak within 2 minutes to justify it when it is not a formal proposal. [[How can you not?]] Like the previous proposal it was not a formal proposal, it is not a formal proposal either, because the order for a break and the convening of the Senior Convention - i.e. the convening of the Senior Convention and for this to take a break - is a marshal's right. That's one thing. [[That's why we're asking.]] Secondly, I would very much ask you to read this article exactly. 184. Paragraph 2 says, let me remind you: Formal applications may only concern matters on the agenda... [[Exactly.]] ...and the proceedings of the meeting, and this case didn't stand yesterday... [[She's never gonna stop.]] Nor have I heard that it was formally tabled by a group of Members or by the club as a proposal - by rules on the eve of the meeting of the Sejm, until noon. 21. [[Mr. Marshal, I'd like to complete...]] I no longer accept, Member. [[Mr. Marshal, that's very rude.]] Mr Mieczysław... [[...substantive conclusions.]] Madame, please do not interfere with the implementation of the agenda. [[But it's a matter of substance, Mr. Marshal.]] [[Voice from the room: Right to corrigendum!]] Mr Mieczysław Kasprzak, Polish People's Party. [[Mr. Marshal, I have the right to make a correction.]] [[Sit down.]] Madame, please do not interfere with my deliberations. Mr Mieczysław Kasprzak, Polish People's Party. Formal conclusion.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-21-sejm-26-1.u8	Mr. Marshal! Due to the emergence of new circumstances, I request that the agenda be changed and that the first two items on the National Tax Administration be taken off the agenda. The second point is also the parliamentary project - introductory provisions. There have been new, previously unknown studies which clearly state that the draft laws on the National Tax Administration are poorly prepared, not subject to public consultation. The Supreme Court's opinion does not leave a dry thread on this project, clearly states that the project submitted should not be subject to further investigation. I therefore request that these items be removed from today's agenda, that further expertise be drawn up. The best solution will be to prepare a government project, not a parliamentary project. The government shouldn't hide behind the MPs. [[Applause]] Another very important thing. Hello, all customs officers who have gathered in the courtroom today. [[Applause]] Hello, ladies and gentlemen. [[There hasn't been such a welcome in eight years.]] Today, Mr. Marshal, I don't know if you know we're celebrating Customs Day, which is why we can't allow such irony. [[Applause]] ... [[Eight years was a chance to applaud, people.]] ...that on Customs Day, the statutory day guaranteed by the 1999 Act, we assumed that we would be celebrating and analysing their achievements with customs officers, and today in the High House we will be discussing the liquidation of the Customs Service. 15,000. The customsmen are living today. [[♪ The bell ♪]] drama and protest, that's why I salute you, gentlemen. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-21-sejm-26-1.u9	Mr. Speaker! [[Member Władysław Kosiniak-Kamish: And Lord.]] [[And ladies.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-21-sejm-26-1.u10	And so are you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-21-sejm-26-1.u11	Thank you very much. Mr. Speaker! I address Mr Mieczysław Kasprzak. I remind you that your proposal cannot be included in the formal proposals, as he says... [[How can you not? The removal from the agenda shall concern the agenda.]] I am sending you back to the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm, Resolution No 4 of the Sejm Bureau of 5 February 1998, which interprets the 1998 Sejm Bureau - unchanged - on the procedure for deleting items on the agenda. [[Voice from the room: Still with the motion.]] The formal proposal was made by Mr Sławomir Neumann, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-21-sejm-26-1.u12	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I would like the marshal to exercise his statutory powers and, as the marshal has explained to Mrs Joanna, I must say, among other things. In the Committee on Health, there is a Civic Platform resolution saying that the Sejm is in favour of maintaining an abortion compromise, I would ask, Mr Marshal, because for several months in the Committee on Justice, in the Committee on Education, in the Committee on Social Policy, this project is also, and is needed, a joint meeting of these committees, and there is no will on the part of the chairmen of the Committees of Law and Justice to convene their committees. A request to your marshal to take advantage of your position and legal capacity and convene a joint meeting of these committees on the subject of this resolution. Otherwise, we will not be able to proceed with the resolution made by the Civic Platform concerning the maintenance of the abortion compromise by this Parliament. The request to your marshal to hold a meeting of these committees as a matter of urgency, and to start working on this resolution before we start working on laws, whether tightening or liberalising abortion in Poland. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-21-sejm-26-1.u13	I accept this remark and inform the High Chamber and the committee chairmen mentioned by the honourable Member that I will request that the meeting of both committees be convened immediately for consideration of the draft resolution later this week. [[Applause]] [[Bravo!]] [[May I? Yes, you can.]] I ask the Secretary to read the messages.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-21-sejm-26-1.u14	I would like to inform you that today will be the meeting of the Commission: - to the European Union, together with the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development, at 3 p.m. 9.30 a.m., - Poselska etiquette - hour. 9.30 a.m., - Public Finance - hour. 9.30 a.m., - for Petitions - at 10 p.m. 10, - Legal notice - hour. 10, - to the European Union, at 3 p.m. 11.30, - Administration and Home Affairs - hour. 12, - Education, Science and Youth - hour 12, - Economics and Development in conjunction with the Committee on Justice and Human Rights - h.m. 13, - Rules of Procedure, Parliamentary and Immunity Affairs - hour. 14, - Communication with Poles abroad - hour. 15, - Local Government and Regional Policy - h.m. 15, - Maritime Affairs and Inland Navigation jointly with the Committee on Social Policy and Family Affairs and the Committee on Foreign Affairs - at 16, - Physical Culture, Sports and Tourism - hour 16, - National Defense at 5 p.m. 16, - Infrastructure - hour 17, - Public Finance - hour. 18. The following parliamentary teams will be held today: - Parliamentary Mining and Energy Team - hour 10, - Parliamentary Group for: Protection of the Białowieża Forest - hour 10, - Parliamentary Group for: St. John Paul II's Heritages - 3 p.m. 12, - Parliamentary Group for: Polish-Japanese Economic Cooperation - h.m. 16, - Parliamentary Group for: support environments Children of War - h. 18, - Parliamentary Group for: digitalisation of hospitals and medical facilities - hour 19. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-21-sejm-26-1.u15	Thank you very much. We proceed with the consideration of items 1 and 2 of the agenda: 1. First reading of the parliamentary draft law on National Tax Administration (print No 826). 2. First reading of the parliamentary draft law Rules introducing the Act on National Tax Administration (Print No. 827). I would like to ask Mr Łukasz Schreiber to provide a justification for the bill in print No 826. [[Game in the O.R., bell ringing.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-21-sejm-26-1.u16	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour to present the justification for the bill on the establishment of the National Tax Administration. At the very beginning, the question should be asked at first: Why do you even have the idea of establishing a National Tax Administration? Well, ladies and gentlemen, this, of course, requires a diagnosis of what we have today. Today, what we inherited from our predecessors, we have very low wages in the IRS, so often very low expectations, but we also have a very high VAT gap, we have a very fast growing gray zone and for this reason we have a lot of problems. We'd like this pay to be good, at least decent, to give more tools to the IRS, but also to bet... that there's more expectations. A brief description of what we have today is actually contained in three basic issues, actually four. First of all, a fragmented structure. Tax and customs administrations today have three independently functioning branches: tax chambers, customs offices and tax control offices. As part of the finance department there are 48 units, which are subject to as many as 594 local units. Secondly, insufficient efficiency. Distribution and duplication of tasks related to the collection of tax and customs duties make it impossible to carry them out in a coherent, uniform and optimal use of available staff and organisational and financial resources. Thirdly, problems with the collection of commitments to the budget. The current structure and organisation of services have a negative impact on the level of collection of tax liabilities due. The administrative costs of tax collection in Poland are very high - 1.6% in 2013. For comparison in Ireland this is 0.85% , in Spain - up to 0.67% Finally, the fourth case, the grey zone, the VAT gap, and all the problems involved. Ladies and gentlemen! Of course, as some opponents say today, at the start of this project, you can do nothing. Maybe it's better to just make a cosmetic change. The question is, is it really for the best? It's kind of like that, you could say, like the cake you make. However, it can be considered that without sugar it will also be good and put on the table. Yes, you can. [[We're not talking about tea.]] Yeah, it might look the same. [[The cake must by nature be cute.]] But will it have the same taste? Same here. Without some strategic solutions, system solutions cannot be carried out. [[What about the bakery advice?]] Ladies and gentlemen! It is worth answering two basic questions that are being raised during this discussion. First of all, what is the purpose of creating the KAS, secondly, what will be the organisation of the National Tax Administration after 1 January 2017, of course according to this project. With regard to the establishment of the National Tax Administration, its objectives are aimed at several fundamental issues: strengthening effective tax collection, improving the service and support of the taxpayer, enabling effective enforcement of administrative cash claims, improving efficiency and efficiency in combating tax fraud and the recovery of tax and customs arrears, improving the efficiency and effectiveness of controls, improving the system of financial security of the State, improving cooperation and the exchange of information relevant for the implementation of the tasks related to recognition, detection, combating and prevention of criminal offences, including criminal offences and tax offences. Case two, what will be the organisation of the National Tax Administration after 1 January 2017, because this raises understandable interest, understandable anxiety. The introduction of the National Tax Administration will result in the creation of bodies and organisational units such as the tax administration's office, the tax office and the customs and treasury office. The reform of the National Tax Administration will involve maintaining the current powers of the tax and customs authorities and will not create new obligations for citizens, companies and entrepreneurs, and this should be emphasised. The agencies of the National Tax Administration will be the budgetary units carrying out the tasks imposed on the basis of the annual financial plans. The activities of the National Tax Administration units will be financed entirely from the State budget within the limits of the appropriations for the financial year in question. Could we try briefly to identify what we are proposing when it comes to this reform? In short, there are three basic issues: greater budget revenues, a consolidation and a payer-friendly office for entrepreneurs. I'm gonna start with the first case, more budget revenue. Against the shadow economy today seems crucial to improving state stability and security. Ladies and gentlemen, it is not possible to ignore the fact that today almost 20% all economic activities are carried out in the grey zone. The size of the grey zone is strongly linked to the so-called. a tax gap. According to data from the European Commission published in 2015, the VAT gap in 2013 amounted to EUR 10.13 billion, i.e. 26.7% revenue from this tax. This is, ladies and gentlemen, 3%. gross annual domestic product. This is more than the budget deficit planned for the following year. This is the first case worth leaving. The question is therefore understandable: Will the creation of the National Tax Administration, which is the connection between the Customs Service and the tax administration and the tax control, improve the collection of taxes? Today - this is what it looks like today - each of the services, i.e. tax offices, tax offices and customs offices, has its own separate IT systems, which necessarily hinders the exchange of data. This not only hinders the exchange of data, but also facilitates the action of all kinds of frauds today, because they benefit from some inconsistencies of the system and benefit from the fact that tax authorities often cannot react as quickly as necessary. Reproduction and dissipation of tasks related to the collection of tax and customs duties within individual services, e.g. such as checking the regularity of the implementation of tax and customs obligations, makes it impossible to carry them out in a coherent and uniform manner, while at the same time making optimal use of available staff and organisational and financial resources. The National Tax Administration is to be responsible for carrying out all tasks related to collection of tax and customs duties, starting with the process of registering entities, through handling declarations and other tax and customs documents, checking the correctness of the implementation of tax obligations, clearing and distribution of payments and enforcing outstanding arrears. These single tax administrations at regional level will ensure adequate organisation of work, financial and property resources, and above all the well-trained staff. Ladies and gentlemen, the integration of customs IT systems, tax administration and tax control is also assumed. In other ways, such questions also arise: How fast? What's the deadline? It is natural and obvious that this must be done in a step-by-step manner, by combining systems taking into account technical capabilities, so that this is least felt for taxpayers themselves. The costs incurred in integrating systems will be offset by future benefits both on the taxpayer's side and on the budget side. At present, all these bodies, i.e. tax administration, tax control and Customs, have separate IT systems, which, as I have already said, makes it difficult to exchange data radically and consequently simply force reorganisations in this area. The approach to the analysis of individual areas is adapted to their specifics and IT tools implemented at present in the finance department. Ladies and gentlemen, the introduction of one IT system instead of the current three, the flattening of service units and the reduction of office space rental is of course also not meaningless. Case number two, ordering through consolidation. Ladies and gentlemen, as I have already mentioned, today 48 units are operating under 594 local units. This fragmented structure in three independently functioning verticals causes a number of organisational problems as well as - as we said - related to the effectiveness of the fight against the grey zone or the gap in Vata. The dispersal and duplication of tasks related to the collection of tax and customs duties within the services makes it impossible to make optimal use of staff and organisational and financial resources. Why do we say HR? Because in this connection we also have duplicated structures, I would say, office at all these levels. Thanks to this reform it will be possible to put them on the line, i.e. directly to help taxpayers. The current structure also, as I said, causes very high tax collection costs. Finally, it is worth adding that for 8 years of government of the previous coalition, tax officials had a base frozen at the level of approx. 1870 PLN, while a sharp increase in the minimum wage from 950 PLN, today to 1850 PLN, from next year to 2000 PLN. It was the actions of this department, the Ministry of Finance, that made today the minimum amount of payment in the treasury amount to PLN 2850. In the plans there is an even higher increase, to a level of at least PLN 3000. Finally, why should this be tax-friendly and business-friendly? Of course, someone will say that for some, little will change. Yes, in the worst case scenario, these changes will be neutral for taxpayers, for entrepreneurs. But the introduction of the National Tax Administration does not foresee the liquidation of existing bodies and organisational units. This can often be raised as a threat. The current bodies and agencies will be transformed and then merged. The consequences of these activities will be the creation of bodies and organisational units of the National Tax Administration. At the same time, we can talk about some benefits in this regard. Here, in particular, it is worth mentioning: abolishing rules which differently regulate the control of tax authorities, tax authorities and customs authorities, ensuring the uniformity of policies and interpretations of law in the areas of action by authorities, speeding up tax cases, improving the handling of taxpayers, including the handling and support of the taxpayer and the trader in the proper performance of tax and customs obligations. National fiscal information is important in this respect. Also thanks to national tax information it will be possible to create an email channel. It's also one of the novelties planned. Ladies and gentlemen! High Izbo! The solutions contained in the draft Act on National Tax Administration will result in the KAS authorities being the Minister of Finance, the head of the national tax administration, the director of national tax information, the director of the tax administration, the head of the tax office and the head of the customs and treasury office. The head of the customs and treasury office of the national tax administration will be able to carry out a customs and treasury check. Customs and treasury control, as so-called. the tough procedure will apply to offences with a high quality weight, e.g. related to the activities of organised criminal groups. Its objective will be to detect and combat large-scale irregularities where the size, complexity and extent of the impact of the deficiencies present have a significant impact on the State's financial security system. Customs and treasury control will therefore be an important tool in reducing the tax gap. At the same time, the draft law assumes the establishment of the Customs and Treasury Service as a uniform and uniform form, which will be created by Customs and Treasury officials. Yeah, I know how much anxiety there is. or how much there is also some kind of resistance on the part of the workers of the present Customs Service. Moreover, discussions on this subject have been ongoing and have been ongoing for several months when we presented plans for the introduction of the national tax administration. [[You're talking to each other.]] I realize that every major change of this kind causes this, otherwise understandable, anxiety. But it should be stressed that, contrary to what we also heard from this speaker before the vote, the aim of fiscal reform is not to eliminate the current uniform formation of the Customs Service, but to rationalise and optimise both employment and the use of existing staff resources in terms of a real assessment of the competences of individual officers. The number of Customs and Customs officials will therefore be appropriate to the tasks they carry out, i.e. primarily the tasks related to the implementation of customs duties and charges related to the transport and export of goods. Within 1 January to 31 May 2017, once again assuming that this law will enter into its unchanged form, the Director of the Tax Administration Board shall submit a written proposal to his staff and customs officers setting out new conditions for employment or service, which shall take into account the qualifications and conduct of the work or service so far as they are concerned, as well as their place of residence. The Act therefore provides for a different regulation than that currently in force concerning the status of an officer. It is assumed that the status of an officer will not be held by persons who do not carry out tasks requiring special powers, which may be performed by civil servants, that is, officials. The status of an officer and the resulting pension privileges and additional leave will be granted only in connection with the performance of police activities in a manner appropriate to these tasks. Other employees will be able to pursue their professional activities using their competences under the National Tax Administration Act, which develops the employment structure of highly qualified workers, especially in the field of judicial tasks. Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to stress this once again: the aim of introducing these provisions, the aim of introducing this reform is not to hit any professional group, the aim is not to bring disaster to anybody, the aim is not to finally see itself as a result of some idea of creating or reforming something forcefully. It's not like that. It is clear that if these bodies, these services and those rules that are in operation today were enough to make a slight adjustment, no one would be throwing themselves into a systemic reform. But we must make it clear to ourselves that today the losses that all Polish taxpayers bear in relation to the regulations that we are dealing with are too big, simply do not allow them to keep their heads in the sand, do not allow this House to continue to be passive, and do not finally allow them to pretend that there is no problem, nor do they allow them to continue, as it was for the previous coalition, to ignore the needs of the tax administration staff as well... [[Don't lie to me.]] ...to leave them without any increase in the performance of not only more difficult, but often also more dangerous duties in connection with the growing of these... it is difficult to call them entrepreneurs, they are simply thieves, criminals who use their business as a screen for their activities. And that's what this reform is going to do. Of course, the bill is quite large, and today we are just beginning to work on it in Parliament. This Parliament is the place where such a discussion should be held, and changes should also be made if necessary. We realize that not everything is completely perfect, that we are waiting for this, as I said, discussion and work. There are allegations of this kind that there has been no introduction, there have been deliberately no provisions specifying the powers of directors. This is an oversight. It's just that. We are going to introduce, we are going to make amendments that would reverse this state of affairs, so we should not assume the wrong will at once, only we can assume that there are certain shortcomings in the course of the work, but today we are starting to work on this law. [[Especially on the knee)]] [[You should have started a few months earlier)]] Not about abolishing, eliminating one of the uniformed services, we are beginning to work on improving the situation and improving the functioning of the customs-credit administration. And I strongly encourage all of you, ladies and gentlemen, to do this work. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[President of the session includes Deputy Marshal Joachim Brudziński]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-21-sejm-26-1.u17	Thank you, sir. I would like to ask Mr Wojciech Murdzk to provide the reasons for the bill in print No. 827. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-21-sejm-26-1.u18	Dear Marshal, Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, The consequence of the regulations provided for in the parliamentary draft law on National Tax Administration in print No. 826 is the need to regulate in a separate law solutions that will ensure effective and efficient implementation of the rules on national tax administration. The Parliamentary draft law The provisions introducing the Act on National Tax Administration from print No. 827 contain both amending, repealing, transitional, adapting and final provisions. The provisions of the National Tax Administration Act, as a general rule, enter into force on 1 January 2017. The introduction of the National Tax Administration will result in the need for amendments adapting to 157 laws. The National Tax Administration will take over the tasks performed so far by tax control, tax administration and Customs, and therefore the provisions of the laws on these formations will expire on 1 January 2017. By virtue of the article. The Commission shall adopt implementing acts laying down detailed rules for the implementation of this Regulation. 2 of the proposed legislation, the tax office continues to operate and becomes the tax office. The IRS will be an entity which will have a significant burden of implementing the reform of the IRS. With effect from 1 January 2017, the tax administration will be merged with the customs office and the tax control office. Therefore, the Chamber of Tax Administration, in connection with the merger with the Customs Chamber and the Tax Control Office, enters into all rights and obligations of the merging entities irrespective of the nature of the legal relationship under which those rights and obligations arise. Further changes refer to the Centre for Vocational Education of the Financial Resort, on the basis of which the National Treasury School will be established on 1 January 2017. The draft law indicates that the head of the National Tax Administration is carrying out tasks in the field of the creation and organisation of the National Tax Administration and may issue regulations for this purpose. In terms of staff resources, detailed rules have been adopted for the continued employment and service of officers. These regulations preserve the continuity of work and service. Rules have been laid down for the submission of proposals for continued employment or service. The proposals will take into account the qualifications of the employee or officer, the course of the work or service so far and the place of residence. In accordance with the Article. 169 of the draft law in the event of failure to receive or accept a proposal for employment or service by 31 May 2017, employment relations and professional relations of persons duly employed or serving in tax administrations, combined or abolished entities shall expire and workers and officers shall be entitled to benefits due in connection with the liquidation of the office or the removal of the organisational unit respectively. The following arrangements have been adopted for the continuation of the activities of the National Tax Administration after the reorganisation: in order to maintain liquidity in the performance of tasks and to gradually implement new regulations, without prejudice to the exercise of statutory tasks, pursuant to Article. 183 and Article 183. 186 of the draft law, a three-year period is foreseen for changes concerning: business cards, uniforms, marking of vehicles and vessels and business cars and decisions on the allocation of service weapons. In turn, the provision of the article. 187 of the draft law regulates property issues. The property of the State Treasury and the property at the disposal of the tax houses, customs offices and tax inspection offices shall become the property at the disposal or the permanent management of the local tax administrations respectively. On the other hand, the property of the State Treasury at the disposal of the tax houses and property located in the permanent management of the tax chambers, used by the offices of the National Tax Information in these chambers, become the property at the disposal and property in the permanent management office of the National Tax Information Office. Transitional provisions for the continuation of proceedings and checks - The implementing law lays down rules for the conduct of criminal proceedings initiated and not completed under the existing rules of taxation, taxation, customs, enforcement, protection, judicial and control procedures and other activities, adopting the principle of their continuation by the competent authorities. To that end, the provision of Article shall also be introduced. 234 draft law maintaining all the activities carried out so far within the framework of these activities. Detailed rules for the continuation of proceedings shall be laid down in Article. 195.215 of the draft law. It must be noted that the project was developed and brought to the Sejm in the first half of this year. The dates for certain introductory processes were then scheduled for September and October. Today it is already known that these dates are out of date. In the meantime, a number of new tax laws and some amendments have been adopted, which also require adjustments in connection with the creation of the National Tax Administration. The project therefore requires some updating changes. The regulations contained in the parliamentary draft Rules introducing the National Tax Administration Act, print No. 827, will ensure effective and efficient implementation of the reform of the tax administration. I request that the project be transferred to the Parliamentary Committee for further work. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-21-sejm-26-1.u19	Thank you, sir. The Sejm agreed that in the joint discussion on these items, it would hear ten-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and a five-minute statement on behalf of the Circle. I'm opening a discussion. The first vote will be taken by Mr Łukasz Schreiber, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-21-sejm-26-1.u20	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! First of all, it is probably worth to start by saying that we already see a lot of institutions, independently of each other, from the International Monetary Fund, through the European Commission, NIK, and ending with the Ministry of Finance, providing increasingly worrying, increasingly alarming data, data that show that we simply have to deal with this problem, with the problem of the tax gap, with the problem of the grey economy, with the problem of running away money, with the problem of rising costs. I'd just like to mention a few of them. The arrears in the tax on goods and services were still PLN 12 350 million at the end of 2011, at the end of 2015, PLN 42 775 million. The arrears in recovery over the three years have increased from 5 billion to 14 billion. Unabsorbed tax from fictitious VAT invoices - from 5200 million to 12 billion only at the turn of last year, from 2014 to 2015. Tax revenue collected in relation to GDP decreased from 17.4% 2007 to 14.5% when the Platform gave power in 2015. Mostly VAT in this relationship shrunk the most, with 7.5% up to 6.5%. From the calculated and contested invoices for 2013 and 2014 and for the first half of 2015 for the sum of PLN 12 billion, 162 million were recovered, i.e. 1,3% the amount of unpaid tax. Fictitious invoices detected in 2010 by the services - PLN 3.7 billion, in 2015, PLN 81.9 billion. The largest number of invoices detected - 4700 only at one point, 4700 such invoices for more than 234 million. The largest gross amount disclosed in one project amounted to PLN 1165 million contained in 746 invoices. The VAT gap has increased, as I have already said, from 9% in 2005 to 27% in 2013. The European Commission has called it a rapid increase. In 2015 this is already 3% of gross domestic product. That way, at this rate, with such a problem... As regards the countries of the European Union, it can be said that it is also bad or worse only in Greece, Estonia, Italy, Lithuania and Finland. During recent years in Poland we have not seen, in principle, any action taken to counter it. Yes, some actions were put in place at the end of the last year, and a single control file was adopted at the end of the term - I admit that. On this basically ideas, on this basically the energy of our predecessors ran out. Often said, we often heard when the Law and Justice presented these ideas and projects in the election campaign that everyone said so, no one did anything about it, and probably it will be the same now. It was said that the PiS couldn't do it in this respect, that there was no systemic idea. They said there was nothing to be done, so it has to be done. This belief, the belief in a theoretical state, which we heard from one of the ministers at one time, also reflected this in this state of affairs. However, the Government of Law and Justice, the Ministry of Finance under the current management, was able to introduce specific things: the tax avoidance clause, the possibility for some entrepreneurs to submit a VAT return only electronically, the increase of wages in the Treasury, the central register of invoices created by the establishment of a special purpose company, the limitation of the quarterly possibility to settle VAT invoices - here the work is underway. The Council of Ministers also approved on Tuesday a draft amendment to the Criminal Code introducing inter alia. 25 years in prison for VAT fraud on the basis of fictional invoices, on a large scale, i.e. over PLN 5 million. This is part of the government's strategy to reduce the so-called. VAT gap. The second major project is a comprehensive revision of the VAT Act prepared by the Ministry of Finance. One can say that the third is the creation, the calling to life of the National Tax Administration. At the same time, it is worth pointing out and emphasising that these actions, also under these laws, on which we are to start to process today, are directed against large companies or rather large tax frauds who hide behind the paravan of economic activity. Honest entrepreneurs - because this must also be emphasised - are losing out on this situation today. They lose because they pay not so small taxes themselves, but on the other hand unfair competition robs them from the side. We know, because this has also been said and identified, which industries today cause the greatest problems for law enforcement: the fuel industry, scrap industry, especially until 1 April 2011, spirits and tobacco, precious metals, steel or electronics. Of course, introducing such solutions, which have been written here, giving more opportunities, more instruments to act to the services concerned, more instruments to act and more influence on what is happening, including the Minister and the Ministry of Finance, is also expected to be more responsible, but as I have already said, this government and this resort not only make changes, but also show that it can be effective, because we have data in the first half of the year and we have revenue from taxes without increasing them, which our predecessors liked so much, is about about PLN 9 billion. So it turns out you can. So it turns out that these actions that have already been implemented are already producing some results. Only this has its limits if we do not introduce the system solutions that we are proposing today. I therefore urge the High House to work once again and state that Parliamentary Club Law and Justice is in favour of referring the draft law on National Tax Administration to further work in Parliament. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-21-sejm-26-1.u21	Thank you, sir. I would ask Mr Janusz Cichoń, the Civic Platform, to speak. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-21-sejm-26-1.u22	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! There is no doubt that we need a professional, efficient tax administration. It is difficult to imagine the implementation of the budget, the implementation of the revenue of the state budget without an efficient, efficient administration, and this matter is extremely complicated. I cannot understand how it is possible that not the Ministry of Finance, and Members present a project that regulates it. This project, contrary to what the applicant has said, has not been consulted, there is no public discussion on it, and there are no impact assessments of this project, including the financial consequences, and the project itself is in fact a failing compilation of three laws: the Chambers and Tax Offices Act, the Tax Control Act and the Customs Service, as well as certain provisions on the tax administration governing the whole various areas of activity of the administration subordinate to the finance minister. Combining these laws into one makes the rules illegible both for external consumers, for taxpayers - complete galimatias - as well as internal ones, i.e. for employees of bodies. We're gonna have an amazing mess when it comes to procedures and business pragmatism. In my view, first of all unfortunate, it is impossible to combine two completely different administrations: on the one hand Customs, on the other hand - tax administration and tax control. The Customs Service is based primarily on the Community Customs Code, which is the same throughout the European Union, and the Customs Code law merely complements Community rules in this respect. On the other hand, tax administration, tax control relies its action primarily on the Tax Order and on the substantive provisions of tax law, and UKS - also on the basis of the Tax Control Act. The tasks and conduct of the tax and control authorities are therefore diametrically different from those carried out by the Customs Service at the border of the European Union, and the combination of them into one organism will only bring chaos and consequently budgetary losses. Taste adds the fact that this submission appears in the Sejm on the Customs Service Day, which was established to highlight the importance of the Customs Service to the economy and society. At this point, I would like to wish the Customs staff every success, every success in their work and every success in their personal lives, but in fact, in the context of today's discussion, I wish you that the motion which I am about to make to reject this project at first reading be accepted by the Sejm so that you can rest assuredly [[Applause]] for Poland continue to work. We have an unprecedented politicisation of tax authorities in this project. This is, in fact, the PiS coup against the tax administration, and I understand that in the background... that the enthusiasm of the MPs is also derived from the fact that the Pisewicz people are waiting for this submission and for this bill. [[Applause]] The directors of the tax chambers, the director of the National Tax Information, the head of the tax offices, the heads of customs and treasury offices will be appointed within the meaning of the Labour Code by the Minister of Finance. The competitions for these positions are being terminated. This means that all the heads of these institutions will be appointed from a political key. The reformed, consolidated PiS-tax administration - it is really what awaits us - will be an excellent weapon for political and party struggle. Another very important issue is the abolition of the two-instant tax proceedings, the practical abolition of cases conducted by the heads of customs offices. Appeals against decisions of heads of customs offices, successors of tax offices, i.e. the authority that will conduct the biggest, most difficult proceedings, will be dealt with by the same chief. In fact, this will also result in different review procedures in the case of tax proceedings. If we have to deal with proceedings conducted by the head of the customs office, the appeal will be dealt with by the same authority. If the proceedings are conducted by the head of the tax office, the appeal against the decision will be sent to the head of the tax administration. The effect you want to achieve is the quick enforcement of tax charges resulting from decisions - just take into account the fact that also those that are not accurate, which are incorrect. If we look at statistics, I don't know, I don't have up-to-date data, but in some tax offices, even 90% of their decisions were repealed. It was in Rzeszów, it was in Krakow, it was in Lublin. This, I think, clearly illustrates the scale of the problem. It is also important that existing employees, e.g. Customs chambers dealing with secondary case law, i.e. the best specialists, coordinators in voivodships, will be transferred to customs and treasury offices. No one has and I have no doubt that they will not do the work of the jurors so far. We continue to maintain the duality of control procedures under this law - customs and treasury control and tax control - and this duality is detrimental to both tax authorities and businesses. The absence of a clear criterion for distinguishing these procedures translates into a lack of clear, normative criteria determining the membership of the Customs and Customs Service. It is not known whether the decisive criterion is only the type of task assigned. Only tasks that can be performed only by officers are indicated in the Act - there is no clear indication as to whether other tasks can also be performed by officers. The division of control powers in the field of tax law is not transparent, there is no distinction between the powers governed by Article. 2. We do not know what are the conditions for customs control - for a good cause this cannot be due only to the justification of the law, and no decision-making information on this matter is available. Two different control procedures are essentially the inequality of taxpayers vis-à-vis the law, but also, in principle, the qualification of the taxpayer even before the introduction of customs and treasury controls as potential tax offenders. This is actually a stigmatization of entrepreneurs on the basis of completely undefined conditions. It may turn out that all businessmen are criminals. As far as the introductory provisions are concerned, I have a whole set of comments on these provisions. I think that in the committee we can discuss this, although I hope that this proposal will not go to the committee. I can say, in conclusion, that this project does not contain any regulation guaranteeing the smoother functioning of the tax and customs services after their merger, and the claims of increasing efficiency contained in the explanatory memorandum are rather an expression of the wishful thinking of the creators rather than a result of sound, rational analysis. This regulation does not only eliminate the fundamental disadvantages of existing solutions - the dualism of procedures, the lack of clear criteria for their application - it even strengthens them by significantly restricting the rights of the trader to whom the customs and treasury control will be carried out (the stigma of the suspected, non-application of the Law on the freedom of business, the question of the time and time limits of that control). In conclusion, it is difficult to resist the impression that this project serves a radical staff cleaning service in customs and fiscal services, with the deletion, practically speaking, of the past career and professional achievements of employees. Proposed regulations [[♪ The bell ♪]] leave full discretion and full discretion in proposing conditions for further employment - there are virtually no mechanisms to prevent abuse in this area. In my opinion, this poses a huge risk of action on the basis of subjective and not substantive grounds, especially since these decisions will in fact require no justification. Therefore, I would like to submit a motion to your marshal for the rejection of the parliamentary bill on the National Tax Administration, print No. 826, as well as a draft law introducing the law on the National Tax Administration. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-21-sejm-26-1.u23	Thank you, sir. Please take the floor of Mr Blaze Parda, Kukiz Club15.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-21-sejm-26-1.u24	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I will present our position on behalf of the Club Kuliz In the first part, I will refer in general to the laws, and then my colleague Andrzej Kobylarz will refer to labour matters. At the outset, it is worth noting that it is a parliamentary project, but it has not been subjected to a public consultation process, although it has been developed by the management of the Ministry of Finance. This has resulted in the deprivation of a wide range of stakeholders of the possibility to raise objections, proposals for amendments or comments, which would allow the National Tax Administration Act to be more refined. According to the legislator, the main objectives of the legislation are to increase efficiency, to eliminate conflicts of competence, to harmonise the database, to reduce costs of action, to eliminate a situation where the trader has several controls carried out by different bodies in different areas, to harmonise procedures, to adapt the administration to the realities of the current economy, including the international one. All of these goals are right and we support them in all its lengths. However, we are not entirely convinced that these laws can be achieved. Any change, in particular such a big one, carries a high risk of failure, chaos and disinformation. Any unthinkable record can cause great losses to our finances. I therefore call for as long as possible to process - I fear we will not avoid this - these laws in committee, so that each individual has the right to submit his or her comments and proposals calmly. Since we didn't have time to consult earlier, we need to provide it now. Potentially favourable statutory provisions are the codification of interpretations to be issued by the Director of National Tax Information, the determination of the exact manner in which the tax and customs checks are carried out, the possibility to submit a correction of the declaration within 14 days of receipt of the information on the inspection, the provision of assistance and support in the proper performance of the tax duties by the head of the tax office, the submission of statements of property by some of the employees, the lodging of reservations in writing in a situation where the service order infringes the law or contains an error. The statutory records, which may potentially lead to fraud, concern the possibility of carrying out ad hoc checks only on the basis of a card, the fact that trained officers will have the right to use means of direct coercion, and the fact that officers will be able to conduct searches without the consent of the prosecutor. The head of the National Tax Administration will perform a very special role, which includes: will perform the duties of the Head of the Customs Service, the General Inspector for Revenue Control, the General Inspector for Financial Information, as well as the duties of the Minister for Public Finance so far, in particular to the extent that he supervises the tax administration, will form advisory and advisory teams, decide on staffing and training policies, implement the budget, carry out supervisory and control functions in the framework of the various bodies of the National Tax Administration and officials, carry out audit and certification functions, implement European Union legislation on customs matters, eventually issue regulations. Such numerous powers and duties will require not only a trusted person in this position, as unfortunately happens in the supervisory boards of companies of the State Treasury, but above all competent in many, sometimes very different areas of life. There are doubts about the provisions entering the sphere of civil rights and freedoms, as outlined in the opinion of the National Courts Council. According to Art. 110 of the draft law on KAS, the designer has granted tax authorities the right to obtain, collect, process and use information for the purpose of carrying out tasks which have been defined in a very general way, without indicating the criteria to be met and which would possibly justify the need to exercise the powers conferred on them, leading to significant interference in the sphere of civil rights and freedoms. Such generally defined tasks may give rise to a belief that the principle of proportionality is being infringed, requiring that an appropriate proportion of the employer's interference in the sphere of civil rights and freedoms be maintained and that the result is achieved. A further indication of a breach of that principle is in the assessment of the National Courts referred to in Article. 111 draft law on National Tax Administration allows the collection of information belonging to the individual's privacy sphere only for the purpose of preventing or detecting tax offences. Such determination of the grounds for interference with the rights and freedoms of citizens should be assessed as extremely general and indeterminate. This provides the basis for an uncontrolled collection of relevant information and personal data by the tax administration. The Council also notes that in paragraph 2. 2 of this Article, the designer has imposed an obligation on those collecting information and other important personal data to make it available, limiting the legal grounds for requesting information to be made available to indicate as sufficient only the written request of an officer performing the operational and inspection activities. The projector has therefore created another possibility of violating the principle of proportionality in practice. To sum up, we are counting on leaning on the comments and suggestions of all the communities involved in the Customs and Treasury Department. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-21-sejm-26-1.u25	Thank you. Please take the floor of Mr Andrzej Kobylarz.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-21-sejm-26-1.u26	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Dear Customs! Taking advantage of this opportunity, I wish you the best of luck on your day. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I would like to highlight here the dedication of customs officers' work. In my parliamentary work I meet with customs officers, I was present at the border, I saw this hard work, I talked to people who are involved in this work. I know how much time you spend on your own families, instead of spending your time with your family, you work very hard. I would like to point out that it is difficult to talk about the Customs Service, which is really not only the Polish Customs Service, but also the European Union, because we focus the largest number of Customs staff on the eastern border, where there are many threats. So that the Kukiz15 club will certainly support this initiative to leave this Customs Service as it is. We understand taxes, we need to keep our taxes very tight, but the Customs Service is this service that deserves our greater approval. We cannot allow this service to be completely terminated. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-21-sejm-26-1.u27	Thank you. Please take the floor of Mr. Mirosław Pampuch, the Modern Club. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-21-sejm-26-1.u28	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Dear Customs Officers! I took part in the honour of presenting on behalf of the Poselski Club Modern positions on the procedated draft laws concerning the National Tax Administration and Regulations implementing the National Tax Administration Act. What should be the first thing to look out for? Well, once again, we are dealing with parliamentary projects. This applies to projects that are institutional projects. It's really calling for revenge in heaven. We have almost 11 months of rule of law and justice. Still important projects are parliamentary proposals, not government ones. What are you ladies and gentlemen of Law and Justice afraid of? Assessment of your projects by really competent people, practitioners, by those who can provide very important guidance on the future reform? This attempt to consolidate customs and fiscal services, these projects in their entirety should simply be thrown into the basket. The projects submitted do not solve, will not meet any assumptions that underpin the actions of the applicants, because, first of all, we should talk about sealing the tax system, improving the efficiency of tax services, there should be a significant radical simplification of tax, material and procedural law. It is not the fault of the employees of the treasury, customs officers, that there are low revenues to the budget - although in the case of customs officers these influences and the extent of the influence is very important - only the wrong law, the wrong material law, the wrong procedural law established in this House. Ladies and gentlemen, in the framework of this reform, we are in fact dealing with the creation of a tax police, a specific CBA for entrepreneurs in the form of customs and treasury offices, a uniform formation equipped with a number of powers of law enforcement, capable of interfering widely in the rights and freedoms of citizens. For example, the projector granted tax authorities the right to obtain, collect, process and use Internet, telecommunications and postal data. These offices can therefore process this data without the knowledge and consent of the person. These powers have been defined in a very general way and there are no criteria to justify the possible need to exercise the powers conferred on them. The general nature of the tasks combined with the absence of these criteria may lead to significant interference in the rights and freedoms of the individual, as pointed out by the National Judicial Council. High Izbo, i.e. we are dealing with another project of surveillance of Poles by the PiS, in this case in the issue of customs-credit administration. In addition, it should be noted that, in the context of the customs and treasury control, the control procedure, decisions at first instance and at second instance will be issued by the head of the customs and treasury office. In view of the above, the model proposed in the draft for the duality of tax proceedings can simply prove to be fiction and will lead to a deterioration of the quality of the proceedings in terms of compliance with the applicable law and, in particular, with regard to the carrying out of the evidence. It is difficult to imagine a situation in which the head of the customs and treasury office - not only issuing a decision in both instances, but also conducting a customs and treasury control - will critically approach his own evidence and substantially alter his factual findings. [[Courts.]] Thus, the burden of assessing the regularity of proceedings will rest on administrative courts, which will significantly prolong tax proceedings. High Izbo, another very disturbing element that has already been mentioned today, but it needs to be underlined, this is a matter of the head of national service, the heads of the treasury administration, the chiefs and their deputies. All these positions under the current draft law will be able to be filled without any requirements arising from the qualifications of those persons or professional experience. The question is, what are you afraid of? Is it a test of knowledge, or is it a test of professional competence of these people? It's another gate for the next Misiewicz, this time in Customs, in the service of the IRS. This is a total politicization of these organs. And what's more, ladies and gentlemen, these people - directors and governors - will decide to verify 65 thousand. fiscal staff, customs officers on the basis of unclear criteria. In addition, most of these officers will not have the right to appeal after this verification and will not know the reasons for their failure to entrust them with new posts. Moreover, the draft law does not state, and even the Minister himself does not know how much reductions will be made in the fiscal apparatus. In his speeches he speaks about 4 to 15% And the project says 10%. So, de facto, please pay attention: we're going to have to deal with a maximum release of almost 10,000. tax officers and customs officers. Those servants really didn't deserve it. Without improving material and procedural law, this reform is simply pointless. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-21-sejm-26-1.u29	Thank you. Please take the floor of Mrs Paulina Hennig-Kloska. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-21-sejm-26-1.u30	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, The tax administration in Poland absolutely requires reform - it is dysfunctional, dispersed, actually has a mess of competence, there is no uniform IT system, and we have very complicated tax law. All of this leads to discrepancies in the interpretation of the law. I saw a situation where different cells interpreted certain business issues in a completely separate way. These interpretations had nothing to do with each other. This is unacceptable, it all leads to slow administrative proceedings, and ultimately to the lack of efficiency of these services. We have the least efficient tax administration in the European Union, which means that we have the lowest collection from the zloty introduced into the system. But we're not gonna solve these problems, ladies and gentlemen, by sending tax police to businesses. This bill, which was submitted to the Sejm today, is not really going to change anything. In the management positions of the National Tax Administration, account should be taken in particular of the effectiveness in preventing VAT fraud. Such instructions, quite clear and clear, were included in the circular sent by the Ministry of Finance to the directors and heads of the tax, fiscal and customs administration already in April this year. Does this mean that PiS wants to send chase dogs to entrepreneurs who will want to show their effectiveness at all costs? Do you want to organize a proverbial rat race in the service just to realize the recorded sealing effects in the budget system? Ladies and gentlemen! This is what happens when you introduce unrealistic tax sealing goals into the budget, and then you think about how to raise money. On the other hand, it is actually difficult to find business-friendly rules in this project, to support the taxpayer in carrying out tax obligations. However, we have inefficient judicial control over the operating activities of the cash register with very large surveillance of citizens. Ladies and gentlemen! The merger of services with different objectives is aimed at carrying out different tasks, completely does not support the Modern Club. In trying to improve the quality of the cooperation of these services, they need not be extended to the IT system. for such radical solutions. Modern supports professional separation. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Customs services and reforming this group within a separate unit. Ladies and gentlemen! Finally, I will say that we are to fight fraud, and you have applied in this law measures as in the Anti-Terrorism Act. This is too far-reaching interference in citizens' rights and freedoms. Therefore, on behalf of the Modern Club, I request that this project be rejected at first reading. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-21-sejm-26-1.u31	Thank you, Member. And please take the floor of Mrs Genowefa Tokarska. You're welcome, my fellow Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-21-sejm-26-1.u32	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I would like to present the position of the Parliamentary Club of the Polish People's Party on the drafts of prints 826 and 827 that are being examined today. The proposed laws bring to life the National Tax Administration, define its tasks, bodies, their competence and method of appointment, organisational units, legal forms for carrying out tasks, powers of the authorities of the National Tax Administration and officials, as well as working conditions and services in the National Tax Administration. The introductory rules apply to a huge number, because 157 laws. National Tax Administration will be created as a result of consolidation of tax offices, tax control and Customs. Tax administrations, tax offices and tax and treasury offices will be set up. The customs offices to date will be abolished. The National Tax School and the KAS Information Technology Centre will be established. The projecters point out in the explanatory memorandum the numerous objectives of creating the structure of the KAS, unfortunately, in our view, the projects so prepared do not allow them to be implemented, are simply unacceptable. Both draft laws, very comprehensive in their content and on issues which are extremely important and sensitive to the finances of the state, are unfortunately not submitted by the government, but only by a group of members of the governing party. It is clear that these are further projects of the PiS which are completely unfit for parliamentary procedure. As Members' projects are not preceded by any analysis, they have not been subject to any agreement or consultation. This specific simplification of the legislative process in the drafts of the governing party is a universal standard, and the objectives are of course very different from those indicated in the explanatory memorandum. You have repeatedly announced, you have written in your electoral programme - I am addressing the Members of the PiS - that you will strengthen the Customs Service, that you agree with the demands of customs officers, and these projects are doing something completely different. We agreed on the strengthening and equipment of the Customs Service as a separate unit to ensure the safety of Poles and the security of the European Union. After all, we are securing the external border of the Union. The independent, separate unit is the customs services in Germany, France, and Canada has also separated customs and fiscal services. The reasons for the projects concerning the National Tax Administration do not indicate the problems of the Customs Service which the proposed changes will solve. No analysis or reports have been submitted on the functioning structures of this service. The Customs Service is one of the most modern institutions in Poland and operates on the basis of the Community Customs Code. It has been reformed, used national and European resources for equipment and organisation, and already has centralised IT systems that are compatible with customs systems in other EU countries. The exchange of information with traders takes place almost exclusively by electronic means. You're going to ruin something that works well. In this situation, the question arises: Why this revolution? Is it merely a matter of statutory dismissal, dismissal of workers and employment of only those with specific political sympathies, as was the case in many previous draft laws? Currently existing work relationships according to the project are, in principle, by law becoming labour relations or service relations in the KAS, but their continued existence is subject to the submission by the new body of a written proposal for new working conditions or service. In the absence of such a proposal or its refusal by a staff member or officer, those relations shall cease and the Director entitled to make such a proposal shall be exempted from any obligation to justify his conduct. Staff shall therefore be deprived of the appeal. These are not the only and isolated criticisms of the projects submitted. Negative opinions on the projects were reported by several state institutions, as well as tax advisory companies. Among the opinionaries are the Supreme Court, the National Court of Justice, the National Bank of Poland, the Public Prosecutor's Office and others. The most important points are, among others: interference in the sphere of civil rights and freedoms. Art. The 110th draft law confers on the tax authorities the right to obtain, collect, process and use information in order to carry out tasks which are unfortunately not precisely defined are too general. Art. The 111th project allows the collection of information in order to prevent or detect fiscal offences, thus offering unlimited opportunities to acquire and collect relevant personal information and data. This laconic record of the prevention or detection of fiscal offences is assessed only by an officer performing operational and cognitive activities, as it is this officer who has the right to request information. Art. 112 extends the unlimited capabilities of an officer. Failure to provide information within a period of time or incomplete provision of information shall be punishable by a penalty of up to 10 000. zł, which can be imposed on an institution providing information even the head of the customs office. The project confers prosecutorial powers on the National Tax Administration in the event of the identification, detection and eradication of several types of crime and the prevention of them. It is about organized crime and participation in organised crime, material and intellectual forgery or fraud. These powers will be conferred on the tax administration in cases where those offences have been disclosed by that administration. In its opinion, the National Judicial Council stresses that this is contrary to Article. 49 constitutions. The basic law ensures freedom and the protection of the confidentiality of communication, and their limitation may only take place in the cases set out in the law. The definition of "prevention or detection" is unfortunately not precise. It's a curiosity matter to regulate the use of weapons. Unprecise terms, such as suspicion or prevention, give the possibility to even stop the ship and carry out checks. National Bank of Poland draws attention to art. 48 a project setting out access to banking secrecy. It is to be repealed even at the stage of the preliminary investigation, as well as in the case of fiscal misconduct and not just criminal offences. Art. 60 of the project suggests access to information of the nature of banking secrecy in the situation of any customs and treasury control, i.e. even random control, which falls within the scope of customs and treasury control. The Attorney General raises a number of reservations about the ambiguities of proceedings following the takeover of cases by the new structures. In conclusion, the Parliamentary Club of the Polish People's Party identifies itself with the conclusion contained in the opinion of the Supreme Court, which states that the proposed laws should not be the subject of further legislative work. On behalf of the Polish People's Party Parliamentary Club, I submit a request to reject both projects at first reading. High Izbo, finishing my speech, I would like to warmly greet all customs officers on the day of their holiday, on the day of St. Matthew. The taxes and duties levied by the Customs Service represent 1/3 of the total revenue of the State budget. In 2014, the Customs Service collected and transferred almost PLN 87 billion to the budget, which represents 30% His total income - this is information from the Ministry of Finance. On the occasion of the Customs Day, I wish all customs officers in the country and customs officials, especially those who serve directly at checks and checks. Working in government administration earlier, I had the opportunity to work closely with Customs, securing the border in the Lublin section. I know how important your service is. You stand guard of our European [[♪ The bell ♪]] Customs border. Your service is to ensure economic security not only for our country but also for the whole European Community, which is why your work deserves special recognition. Accept thanks for the professionalism, reliability and courage shown every day. I wish you the success of your personal and professional lives and the continuing satisfaction of your tasks and customs decisions for your formation. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-21-sejm-26-1.u33	Thank you very much, Member. Before we proceed with the questions, I would like to inform the High House and our guests here that our discussions are being listened to by young people, including students from primary school in Regimina. We also have class IIIa from Primary School with Integration Branch No 223 - attention here to the ladies and gentlemen of the Kielce Land - im. Partisans of Kielce Land from the street. Kasprzak in Warsaw. [[Applause]] I see that there are Members representing the sanctimonious land, so much the more I like it here... [[And the customs guys are here!]] After all, we have welcomed customs many times, but as you wish. Welcome to the customs here as well. [[Applause]] [[Bravo!]] ...who Mrs Genowef has just been so beautifully on behalf of the parliamentary club and, I think, many of us Here she made her wishes. I think that the Member is already satisfied. [[Thank you very much, Marshal.]] You're welcome. Ladies and gentlemen, let's get to the questions. Time for questioning is set for two minutes. Please, Mr Sylvester Tulaev is the first question to be asked.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-21-sejm-26-1.u34	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The dispersal and duplication of certain tasks related to the collection of tax and customs duties within each service makes it impossible to carry them out in a coherent and uniform manner and at the same time to make optimal use of available staff and organisational and financial resources. In the current legal state, there are regulations which differ in the question of controls carried out by tax authorities, tax authorities and customs authorities. This means that taxpayers are subject to different control regimes, i.e. both checks carried out under the Tax Control Act and the Tax Ordination Act as well as controls carried out by customs authorities. Therefore, the establishment of the National Tax Administration is so legitimate and necessary. Currently, the structures of the tax administration, tax control and Customs should be adapted to the changing market realities and cooperation with the administrations of the Member States of the European Union. In its current shape, they have been functioning - with some modifications - for more than 30 years. During this time, the economic realities and expectations of the state and the clients of the administration changed. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I would like to ask what the organizational structure of the National Tax Administration will look like and who will be able to become an officer of the Customs and Treasury Service. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-21-sejm-26-1.u35	Thank you, sir. Please take the floor of Mr Mark Rząsa.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-21-sejm-26-1.u36	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Law and Justice have double-crossed Customs officials: once promising you to move to the so-called. Uniforms, and now, ironically, on the day of your holiday, and basically on the day of your national wake - this is the moment when your formation actually ends. Question: "Why is the law so important, even for the state budget, not a government project?" Why was the opinion of the Supreme Court or Professor Witold Modzelewski, who is a member of the National Development Council in front of Mr President not taken into account? In view of these opinions, do applicants not see the risk of a significant fall in revenue to the state budget, which will increase the level of the budget deficit and thus result in the European Union's response? In recent years, it has invested in the Customs Service, which should also be treated as a customs service of the European Union, with powerful financial resources. Will the European Union not claim this money in connection with the liquidation of this service? Isn't that a waste, Minister? 14,000. The tax collectors pay a third of their income to the state budget. How is it that almost four times the number of tax officials, 54 thousand, brings the remaining 70% ? I absolutely do not want to antagonize these two professional groups, but the simple question is: Which one of these services is more effective? Minister Macierewicz, justifying the establishment of territorial defence, refers to the security of the state. So what is the logic of eliminating the service, which day by day, side by side with the Border Guard of Polish security weapons? Finally, the slogan of the PiS campaign was the strategy of sustainable development of Poland. The areas at the border of the European Union are mostly so-called. Eastern Poland. I really don't like that term, but it works. There are most customs chambers, where the largest customs chambers are located. The liquidation of chambers, including my city, Przemyśl, is the loss of jobs and further degradation of these areas.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-21-sejm-26-1.u37	Thank you, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-21-sejm-26-1.u38	Was this a balanced strategy? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-21-sejm-26-1.u39	Thank you, sir. I would like to ask the next Members and the next Members to take the floor to try to fit in these two minutes. I have set a maximum period of time for the question, but there are many of us, there are many Members of the question, which is why I ask you to at least try to fit in at this time. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-21-sejm-26-1.u40	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen of Customs at the gallery! I have a question for the Minister. Has the Ministry of Finance been suffering from intellectual indolence lately? I am asking because yesterday we had the opportunity to see what happened to the third approach to the Retail Tax Act, which the European Commission questioned. Today we are discussing a law that is already assessed as a complete legal framework. The question is: Who should prepare laws for you, because so far it turns out - is it a parliamentary project, or is it a government project - that they most often end up in a basket, so why don't you hire someone? You have some money from the budget. Maybe it's worth renting out some good law firms that are gonna make you a bill, 'cause for now, it's just a total embarrassment? There is a lack of basic things in this law that should be there, namely: What will be the cost of implementing this reform? How many of the people who are sitting there are gonna get fired? Would it be easier to explain to these people that it wasn't us, not the Ministry of Finance that deleted your jobs, that the Members did? It's very convenient, Minister, to treat them that way. As modern, we will not allow Customs officers with proper education, very extensive experience and competence to replace the new Miesiewicze, whose queue stands at the gates of Law and Justice. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-21-sejm-26-1.u41	I would like to ask the floor of Krystyna Sibinska.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-21-sejm-26-1.u42	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! First the question, I think, rhetorical, which will remain unanswered, to the Members of the applicants: Are you not ashamed on Customs Day to proceed with a bill that just blows up the entire Customs Service? And now, substantively. About 600 people are employed in the Lubuskie Voivodship in the Customs Service. These are professionals who, with their experience, work effectively combat smuggling, excise fraud, and fight organised crime. Today, once again, this professional group is facing a great unknown in terms of its future, the existence of its families. I would add that they are mostly 50+ people who will find it difficult to find employment in other sectors of the economy. Therefore, I ask Members of the applicant's reply: How many people will be released in the Lubuskie Voivodeship? What is the plan for changing employment conditions? How many people will once again change their place of residence in their professional history, disorganizing their lives and their families? Finally, what will be the cost of this reorganisation for tax collectors, their families, their loved ones? I am not only talking about financial costs, but also about the normal human costs that will affect the functioning of customs families. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-21-sejm-26-1.u43	Thank you. I would like to ask the floor of Maria Margaret Janyska.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-21-sejm-26-1.u44	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I wanted to ask you a question, Minister Szalamasha, but unfortunately he is not here. I wanted to ask: Why does he allow himself, being so professional - I think, I would like it to be - a minister, to have such an important law concerning 1/3 of the budget income processed in amateur? Why does the Minister agree to this being incompatible with the Community Customs Code? In a moment, just like with the commercial tax, he'll say again that those bad European officials have challenged this beautiful bill. Amateur chefs, ladies and gentlemen, can be seen in comparison. The applicant compared another organisation of the tax administration, which is now known as "cake making." He was talking about sugar in the cake. Mr President, there have already been researchers on the sugar percentage, but it was a comedy. It's important to remember that it was in comedy, sir, not in reality. You've been so peeking at the recipes, you probably think the more mixing, the better it's gonna be. No, sir. In organisational structures, in administration, in institutions, the more mixing, the more unknown, the more chaos, the more confusion of competences and the worse the effects and effects of administration. That's where a lot of questions come from. What's this organization gonna be like? What status will they have sitting at the customs gallery today? Will everyone still be uniformed or not? Or part of it? Or are you going to get the country's culinary aprons now, using this comparison and going with this thinking process? How many people will be fired because how many places do you need for your own? How will the competences be analysed? You've overlooked that the director has been enrolled without competence. Cabaret, ladies and gentlemen. Is that how it's supposed to be? Is this what one of the most important administrations in the country is supposed to be like? I would like you to answer all these questions so that I can also in my constituency, [[♪ The bell ♪]] because somehow the Members of the PiS in my constituency are not interested in this topic, to say what it will look like in Nowy Tomyśl and in the capital city of the region, in Poznań. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-21-sejm-26-1.u45	Thank you. Please take the floor of Mr Paweł Bańkowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-21-sejm-26-1.u46	Dear Marshal, Minister! High Izbo! Dear Customs! Customs employs around the country. 15,600 people. Customs earn almost PLN 87 billion for the state budget, which accounts for around 30% of the revenue of the state budget. In the European Union, Polish entrepreneurs are most satisfied with the electronic services implemented by the Customs Service. Minister, Members of the Law and Justice, why do you want customs officers to be the victims of your next good change today? Why are you preparing an attack on customs officers to abolish the uniformed formation responsible for the security and public order of our country's citizens and to protect the borders of the European Union? Why do you want a law that clearly undermines the status of the Customs Service, to civilise most of the officers who are to be employed under new conditions, without a guarantee of employment, without a guarantee of a basic salary at the current level? For many customs officers with several decades of experience in the service, the implementation of this law will mean the loss of work, the breakage of their previous career, the obvious material losses, prestigious losses, the deletion of their previous professional achievements. Why, ladies and gentlemen, have you not submitted draft laws on the National Tax Administration to consultations and do not want to take the opinion of the authorities, such as the Supreme Court, who has stated that the proposed laws should not be the subject of further legislative work or, finally, Mr Modzelewski, a member of the Programme Board of PiS and a member of the Development Council at President Andrzej Duda, who said that this law in this form should not be adopted? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-21-sejm-26-1.u47	I would like to ask the floor of Anna Elizabeth Sobecka.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-21-sejm-26-1.u48	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! It is not true, Madame, that the Law and Justice do not deal with customs... [[That's not good!]] ...who report that the proposed consolidation of the tax, fiscal and customs administrations leads de facto to the liquidation of the Customs Service and the civilization of thousands of customs officers. The proposed amendments would start on 1 January 2017, but are opposed by customs officers who fear a reduction in employment. Many in a silent protest went on sick leave, border checks were carried out more rigorously. At the beginning of June the customs officers also protested before the Sejm to manifest their opposition to the changes being made. With all this in mind, I ask for information on the position of the government against the objections of the customs union, which informs that the idea of setting up a national administration bank... National Tax Administration is detrimental to the public interest. Moreover, the consolidation of the tax administration and the Customs Service according to the World Bank is not a remedy for the fight against the grey zone and for the increase of budgetary revenue. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Were you an MP for or against it?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-21-sejm-26-1.u49	Thank you, Member. I would like to ask the floor of Mrs Maria Zuba.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-21-sejm-26-1.u50	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I am listening to the discussion that has been going on here for several hours, and I am reminded of the discussion that was being held in this plenary room in 2006, when the Financial Supervision Committee was set up. And then we also heard the voices of our opposition indicating what mistakes we make. For 8 years of the Civic Platform and PSL governments, those who were screaming against the KNF have put up positions with their people and did nothing to return to the three supervisory committees in the financial zone. The situation is similar today. [[You're wrong.]] We're not talking substantively about things, we're just talking about things that are going to be settled at a committee meeting. We start work and let the opposition... [[Don't lift a finger.]] ...work, especially businessmen, because entrepreneurs are waiting for them to make their lives easier. [[You don't want to speak?]] And here, Minister, I have a question. Why will the dualism of control continue to exist? Customs and treasury and tax control will be in place. What does that tell you? You're welcome here... What were some reasons for such a solution? This will cause some to come to the entrepreneur and others to come from him. Would it not also be possible to introduce more transparent systems in this area? Please respond in writing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-21-sejm-26-1.u51	Thank you. I would like to ask the floor of Mrs Genowefa Tokarska.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-21-sejm-26-1.u52	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! We know that the bill's drafts are for a crowd of employees - 65,000. persons. We should therefore feel responsible for these people. Hence my question: Is the Ministry of Finance able to determine how many people will not be offered employment or service at the National Tax Administration? In response to the parliamentary interpellation, according to the trade unionists, the Minister of Finance explained in December 2015 that there would be a reduction in employment of up to 15%. In his statement of 1 June, the Minister of Finance spoke of the release of 3 Officers and employees, and at a meeting in the Social Dialogue Council, the head of the Customs Service informed about a reduction in employment of 5 000. persons. In the impact assessment of the regulation, project promoters state that 10% reduction in employment That's about $6.5,000. employees will be able to retire by pensioning people, and this already seems to be a lie, because independent experts have calculated that the number of people who will have pension rights for 1 January 2017 is a total of 2.2 thousand, the most in tax chambers - 1.5 thousands, at inspection offices - almost 300 and in customs chambers - 400. A simple calculation shows that about 4.5 thousand. people will remain unemployed and without pension. I repeat the question: Does the Ministry of Finance know how many people will not be offered employment? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-21-sejm-26-1.u53	Thank you, Member. Please take the floor of Mr Mieczysław Kasprzak.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-21-sejm-26-1.u54	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Dear ladies and gentlemen, I have a question. Today, in this festive mood, as we are already talking, I would like to ask why it was impossible to wait for the 100th anniversary of the Customs Service, because in 1919 the Customs Service was established on 4 November. It would be a beautiful 100th anniversary, a beautiful holiday. You should have left it to others, not changed it. Three years from now, somebody else should worry about it, 'cause it's probably gonna happen. What has the Customs Service done to you? Are the officers working badly? What are the reasons? The basic question is: What are the reasons for today's drastic removal of service, which gives a third of the revenue to the state budget? The question arises: Do you not fear this, because so far every project prepared by Members is practically not working out. Hundreds, thousands of amendments, then budget implications, I'm not going to be calculating here. And the state is losing it, it's about income. Later this money is sought out by citizens, various increases are introduced: electricity, gas, insurance, etc., because there is no money in the budget, the budget is not balanced. The question arises: What will be the cost for the budget, for the state of such chaos, because it will cause chaos and it will not be possible to control it in a short time. IT systems, a combination of information flows. We say here that entrepreneurs will benefit. I am afraid that entrepreneurs will have problems with the course, with the settlement, the flow of information will be hindered. [[♪ The bell ♪]] My question, I would also ask you to answer in writing, is how many Customs officers will lose their jobs? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-21-sejm-26-1.u55	Thank you. I would like to ask Mrs Zofia Czernow to speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-21-sejm-26-1.u56	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! I greet customs officers at the gallery and all customs officers in Poland. High Seym! It takes a lot of time to prepare a good, substantively competent employee of customs and tax authorities. Tax or customs law in Poland is complicated, it changes very often, and the number of regulations in force is huge. I know this from my own experience, because after college I started working in these organs. It is therefore very important to make use of the enormous knowledge of employees of tax or customs authorities. Work must be facilitated, working tools must be improved. Meanwhile, the proposed implementing rules are so called. the zero option, namely the expiry of existing employment relationships, is indeed an expression of a lack of confidence in workers and officers. They introduce harmful politicisation, resulting in paralysis of these organs. Because what is a multi-month state of uncertainty, destabilization and waiting for a job offer? This will have a negative impact on the level of commitment to the implementation of the tasks. In such circumstances, can greater budget revenue be made necessary to meet the promises of the Law and Justice? Can the tax gap be reduced under such conditions? Of course not. Why, then, are these projects harmful to your budget? I have a question: What is the position of the government in this difficult, important matter that is harmful to Poland? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-21-sejm-26-1.u57	Thank you, Member. Please take the floor of Mrs Aldona Młyńczak.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-21-sejm-26-1.u58	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The Customs Service shall carry out tasks in the field of organised crime, in part international. The project provides for the civilization of several thousand officers. What arguments does the government make to confirm that it is the civilian workers, not the uniformed services, who will be better able to fight against abuse of gambling, fuel trade, alcohol or tobacco? It's a gift for organized crime in Poland. Here, in this Chamber, we respect the applicants that the bill we are debating abolishes the formation which is responsible for the security and public order of citizens, as well as for the protection of the European Union border with the greatest traffic intensity. That's very irresponsible. The IRS is a functioning office working a few hours a day. Customs is a mission, it's a service that operates 24 hours a day. The creation of pier offices, which are foreseen in the Act, in turn organisational inertia, is the relaxation of anti-corruption restrictions, also a reduction in the availability of services. Mr. Marshal! The bill we're talking about today is a bad bill and it should be rejected. The question is: Is it true that the documents of the Supreme Audit Chamber, the European Commission and the International Monetary Fund, which the Minister of Finance refers to, in no way do they indicate what is alleged to be civil service, the problems resulting from which this law was presented? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-21-sejm-26-1.u59	Thank you. Mr Stefan Strzłkowski, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-21-sejm-26-1.u60	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I'd like to ask you two questions. This topic, of course, has been widely addressed by Members of the applicants, but there are certain things that need to be said several times, so let me ask you these questions. Will the principle of two-instant tax proceedings be respected? That's the first question. And two: What will be the role of officials and employees in customs offices when issuing tax decisions? And to the opposition: please, a little bit I think you need more optimism. I am convinced that this bill will certainly be subject to further legislation, and I think that it will then be possible to demonstrate the wisdom you are talking about. I don't mean that ridiculously. If there are proper comments, it may be possible to place them somewhere in the right places. But let's be hopeful. Thank you very much. [[God bless you.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-21-sejm-26-1.u61	Please take the floor of Mrs Halina Szydleko.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-21-sejm-26-1.u62	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I also join the wishes for the Customs Service. I have a brief question: What exactly will be included in the employment and service proposals? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-21-sejm-26-1.u63	Thank you. And Mrs Eve Szymanska, I would like to ask you a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-21-sejm-26-1.u64	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Establishment of a single tax administration, i.e. National Tax Administration is, in my opinion, a good project. However, I have a question for the Minister: Why have customs officers and employees not been guaranteed protection of their legal status and salary? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-21-sejm-26-1.u65	Thank you. Mr Kazimierz Starowski, I would like to ask you a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-21-sejm-26-1.u66	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! In connection with this parliamentary draft law on National Tax Administration, I would ask for clarification of the content of the article. 30 laws. It follows that the head of the tax office may entrust the conduct on his behalf of certain matters belonging to the jurisdiction of that authority to the local government unit. The management of cases shall be entrusted on the basis of an agreement between the head of the tax office and the local government unit. Article 1 shall apply mutatis mutandis to such an agreement. Article 8 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 2b-5 of the Municipal Government Act. Does the signing of such an agreement by the governor have to be preceded by the adoption by the council of the municipality of an appropriate resolution authorising its signature and must such an agreement be published in the relevant provincial official journal? The next thing you know, it's Art. 169 of this bill. Are the provisions of this provision relating to the employment relationship of persons employed in tax administrations, combined or abolished entities also applicable to current employees of tax offices? My last question concerns the content of the article. The Commission shall adopt implementing acts laying down detailed rules for the implementation of this Regulation. 3 of the Act, which states that the tax infringement proceedings initiated and not completed by the tax offices as financial bodies of the preparatory proceedings until the date of entry into force of the Act are taken over by the competent heads of the tax offices respectively. I ask you to explain what will happen to the tax fraud proceedings that have been conducted so far by the tax authorities. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-21-sejm-26-1.u67	Thank you. And I'm asking Mr Peter the King.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-21-sejm-26-1.u68	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! Minister! I have the honour of representing the land of the Bydgoszcz in the Seym. I will remind you that the city of Bydgoszcz is the largest city of Kujawsko-Pomorskie land. After the so-called. administrative reform in the Kujawsko-Pomorskie voivodship was created in a situation in which the tax administration, tax control staff, the headquarters of these authorities are in Bydgoszcz, whereas the Customs Service is located in Toruń. I would like to remind you that in Bydgoszcz, taking into account the tax office, the employees of the tax office, the entire tax administration and tax control, there are nearly 3,000. such workers. In comparison, in Toruń, as far as Customs is concerned, these workers are 400. Therefore, I wanted to ask the Minister to confirm, because of these numbers and for the good and efficient operation of the National Tax Administration, that the seat of the KAS in the Kujawsko-Pomorskie voivodeship will be located in Bydgoszcz, and that part of the employees who will enter the KAS and come from the Customs Service will remain in Toruń to obtain this compromise and continue it. On the other hand, it is about this administration being able to function efficiently and properly. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-21-sejm-26-1.u69	Thank you. Mr Richard Wilczyński, please take the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-21-sejm-26-1.u70	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Dear Customs! In fulfilling the commitment made in Opole at the Social Dialogue Council, I would like to say that the project of establishing the National Tax Administration simply provokes the question whether the pilot is coming with us. Is there a public finance pilot coming with us? He's not here in the middle of a debate, so I'm assuming he's betting on something. Management theory says that any change results in a decrease in efficiency, at least a temporary of course, then it can be better. You design three changes together - the IT system, the organizational structure on a large scale and the exchange of managers. Perhaps this will also mean the exchange of positions of many people. And this is all going to happen in a record deficit for 2017. The question is: Why do you take such a high risk when it was possible to improve in the service? The more that the Customs Service works very well, I have not heard any legitimate charge against this service. There was no public consultation, no inter-ministerial consultation. The greater the risk is that this change will take place under the full determination of the customs officials. You expect more efficiency from the uniform formation, depreciating it, depriving it of its pride in uniform and the benefits of present or potential resulting from this fact. It's obviously absurd, there won't be any higher efficiency. I would like to point out that, in relation to the Customs Service, we have had an extremely cynical appearance of social dialogue. Why are you provoking Customs for violent forms of protest, or do you have, Minister, a scenario for this, a plan B? So far, so good. [[♪ The bell ♪]] The changes are going well, the public danin pool is at stake, incomparably higher than your commercial tax. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-21-sejm-26-1.u71	I ask Mr Grzegorz Adam Wozniak to speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-21-sejm-26-1.u72	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! During today's debate on the establishment of the National Tax Administration, we pay much attention to the objectives of the new tax formation. This main objective - apart from the consolidation that we often talk about here - is to make public donations more efficient and at the same time to ensure more detailed financial security of the State. I have a question about a different direction than those that were before, more on the part of the trader or the taxpayer, because the law gives the possibility to shorten proceedings with respect to individual entities, businesses, individuals, because now there is a two-step appeal system in the tax hierarchy, and then there is the possibility of going to court: What will the appeal process look like for taxpayers after the decision of the new tax office, illuminative and in what direction will it be, whether this process will actually be shortened and whether the taxpayer will in some way be limited by this shortened appeal process? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-21-sejm-26-1.u73	Thank you. I ask Mr Mirosław Pampuch to speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-21-sejm-26-1.u74	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen, Officers Customs! In principle, the National Tax Administration Act has 276 articles, and at least two questions can be asked for all these articles, because it is a legal act that is a typical legislative bubel. And, Commissioner, unfortunately, there is no hope, because the practice so far of adopting many laws in this House was that there were no arguments of opposition in the committees, also improving and correcting these laws. I don't think this bill is being processed in any other way. The state is simply in your knowledge you know everything best. And the other questions I've been provoked to here. One of the objectives of this law, contained in the draft, is to increase the level of voluntary fulfilment of tax obligations by the taxpayer. Perhaps the applicant will show me the provisions of these draft laws, which are just talking about a voluntary increase, which are flexible instruments for voluntary implementation of tax obligations contained in the law? Because I don't find any in this bill. This law is a typical model of a law that does not serve an entrepreneur by introducing oppressive law and treating an entrepreneur as a criminal. Once again, you treat an entrepreneur like a criminal, not an entity that needs to be respected, because it is his income that keeps all of ours, but also yours, actions. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Ladies and gentlemen, another last question. That won't be 500...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-21-sejm-26-1.u75	Then ask that question.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-21-sejm-26-1.u76	There won't be 500, Marshal. As regards customs staff, one of the elements related to the verification of workers, among others. Customs is the course of the previous service. What does the Minister of Finance mean, and how many customs officers will be released as a result of consolidation?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-21-sejm-26-1.u77	Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-21-sejm-26-1.u78	Please answer the last questions in writing. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-21-sejm-26-1.u79	I would like to ask Mrs Isabella Leszczyna a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-21-sejm-26-1.u80	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! Minister! It would be good to look you in the eye sometime, if you'd sit closer, not shamefully hiding in the last bench. [[Applause]] Because it's worth it, and I think you have to start by asking, "Who wrote this to you?" Who wrote you that mediocrity? He even asks your tax guru Professor Modzelewski. [[Applause]] The tax collection system is designed to separate the de facto service function of collecting taxes from millions of honest taxpayers from the preventive and control functions aimed at fraudsters. And such a bill was prepared by the government of the Civic Platform, among others. on the basis of the multi-monthly work of the inter-ministerial team. tax fraud. You threw her in the trash, you put her in a oppressive tax system, a oppressive tax collection system, and you want to control all taxpayers. First of all, there's no need for that because they're not crooks, second of all, you can't do that, and unfortunately you're going to fail. The question to which please answer in writing: Minister, in the first half of this year, were the tax receipts, including VAT, higher than those laid down in the Budget Act? And isn't that proof that the instruments left behind by the previous government have begun to function and function well? So, for God's sake, why are you destroying something that we've prepared after months of analysis, we've introduced? You guys finish this and don't do the revolution in the Polish country again because the Poles don't want to. [[♪ The bell ♪]] It's more to look at. Of course, bows to customs. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-21-sejm-26-1.u81	Mrs Margaret Płępek will speak. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-21-sejm-26-1.u82	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Today, the Polish Customs Service is highly evaluated by the EU institutions. This law can significantly corrupt what is good and, according to the assessment of independent institutions, function very effectively. The emergence of a new formation can significantly reduce this efficiency for a few good years. There are many opinions, among others. The Supreme Court or law firms, which indicate that the bill is simply underdeveloped, except as indicated among others. the opinion of the Supreme Court, the Customs-Skarbow Service does not have clearly identified tasks and organisational structure in the new law. The powers of individual tax authorities will be significantly dispersed, and thus the effect of this law will be contrary to the aims of the reform. Customs is an experienced formation that knows the behaviour of smugglers and criminals. The amendments introduced are intended to consolidate the different bodies and their tasks. There is no guarantee that Customs officers will retain the status of officers in the Customs and Treasury Service. The introductory provisions also provide no guarantee that, while continuing employment, the current Customs officials will receive a salary of the previous amount. There are also no specific rules for the award of degrees in the civil service, depending on the rank held by the officers in the present Customs Service. In negating the rapid process of this reform, I would like to ask how this will be regulated. [[♪ The bell ♪]] In the face of a growing budget deficit, we should take care of income rather than quickly implementing crippled reforms. I hope we don't fire the baby with the bath. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-21-sejm-26-1.u83	Thank you, Member. Please take the floor of Mr Jarosław Goncier.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-21-sejm-26-1.u84	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! It is natural that such a reorganisation process may be accompanied - I repeat: it may be accompanied by a period of disorganization and a certain chaos of the action of the tax and customs authorities. Doesn't the Ministry fear that fiscal and tax efficiency will be reduced during this period? If so, how could this have consequences for the budget and for how long? And will the implementation of these laws improve the quality of the functioning of tax and customs authorities? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-21-sejm-26-1.u85	Thank you. Mrs Joanna Borowiak.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-21-sejm-26-1.u86	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! In the current legal state, tax and customs administrations have a distributed field structure, concentrated in three independently functioning verticals. The project submitted assumes the establishment of a consolidated administration operating under uniform procedures. The structures of the tax administration, fiscal control and customs services should be adapted to the changing economic realities, cooperation with the administrations of the European Union, the expectations of the state and the customers of the administration. However, any change raises concerns, concerns of the most interested. Customs representatives raise concerns about their continued employment. Minister, if the number of customs officers is reduced, account shall be taken of the need to have the staff reserve necessary in the event of unforeseen events or the need to strengthen national borders, e.g. the risks of terrorism, migration or other situations covered by Article. 100 Customs Act? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-21-sejm-26-1.u87	Please take the floor of Mr Wiesław Krajewski.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-21-sejm-26-1.u88	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I have some questions for the Member representing the applicants and the Minister. To what extent will the implementation of tax and customs revenues be improved after consolidation of tax and customs services within the National Tax Administration? Will this draft law and the proposed regulations improve the effectiveness of the fight against tax offences, especially as regards VAT? Is it expected to improve the service of the taxpayer as well as better cooperation, e.g. in the field of training, between taxpayers and employees of KAS in individual units of the National Tax Administration? To what extent are the costs of collecting tax and customs duties expected to be reduced, i.e. the costs of functioning of the tax and customs administration following the consolidation reform of the KAS? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-21-sejm-26-1.u89	Please take the floor of Mrs Paulina Hennig-Kloska.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-21-sejm-26-1.u90	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, As I said before, this law makes it difficult to find rules that are business-friendly. There is nothing there that could be seen as supporting and treating our citizens as taxpayers and not criminals, and in return, we have no recourse to the decisions of the senior authority. And, Minister, what made you think that controlling people would verify their own decisions? We also have inefficient judicial control over the operations of the KAS. The Court of First Instance has only the right to familiarise itself with the material justifying the provision of data relating to citizens, and let us remind you that this law provides for full surveillance of citizens similar to such surveillance as was previously included in the Anti-Terrorism Act. So my question, too, is, why is this really meant to be? What are you afraid of, on the one hand, that you are actually eliminating the real possibility for a taxpayer to appeal to a senior authority against a decision under the so-called. hard tax control, and on the other hand, you are also eliminating real and real judicial control over what will happen in the KAS's operations, on full surveillance of citizens, on the availability of banking confidentiality data, on the private and professional sphere of the entrepreneur? I ask the key question: Why is it that, instead of preparing a bill that would solve taxpayers' problems, seal this process, but also simplify certain procedures, [[♪ The bell ♪]] Have you prepared another bill that's just supposed to chase criminals? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-21-sejm-26-1.u91	Thank you, Member. And Mr Tadeusz Dziuba, please take the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-21-sejm-26-1.u92	Minister! I have a request for an answer to a very detailed question, so probably a vacation. Please tell us what part of the National Tax Administration will be the National Tax Information Department. What part of the staff will be involved in this vertical? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-21-sejm-26-1.u93	Mr Andrzej Maciejewski, please take the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-21-sejm-26-1.u94	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Dear Ladies and Gentlemen of Customs, For more than two hours we have been talking about a bill that talks about Customs, UKS, tax offices, and in fact 95% are talking about customs officers. What does that mean? That means there's an error in the title. We should talk today about political cowardice of party class III of the Republic of Poland on customs officers, this is the main topic of today's debate, about the fact that the political class, knowing and knowing that customs officers are uniformed, has done nothing. I'm listening today with the horror of those tears spilled by my colleagues from PO and PSL, but I don't want to repeat that you're here, on the right, 8 years. What has prevented the political class of the last eight years from getting it straightened out? Tonight customs would be celebrating, not sitting and hating. Your sloppyness and misfortune have caused us to waste our time today. [[For the project, for the project.]] It wouldn't be a topic if Customs had clarity about where there are uniform jobs, where there are civilian jobs. This was done in the case of the Border Guard, it was done in the case of the police, and there is no problem. [[Then do it, but not in this bill.]] But to do that, you have to have the courage - you have to have the courage - not do spychology. If it was so good, why is it so bad? Today is the question to the rulers whether you are going again on the same path: spychology and waiting that on a natural basis it will all die itself and somehow resolve itself. I feel like I don't. The question is, is there a time, because today is September 21st, the customs day, until January 1st is very little time, if all this can be fast-tracked. I'm afraid the surgery might work, but the patient won't make it, because January 1st is starting a new tax year. [[♪ The bell ♪]] And you're gonna have to pay taxes. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-21-sejm-26-1.u95	Thank you, sir. Mr Wojciech Murdzk, please take the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-21-sejm-26-1.u96	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I think that two very important themes are mixed up, because we are discussing structural changes and there are arguments about the effect we want through these changes and whether they are necessary or not indicating that, however, action should be taken taking into account a very important thread: some uncertainty about the future of workers, the position they have developed over the years. I think that through joint work on the elements of the implementation of this project, many questions will be answered, and those things that seem to scare, will be explained to the benefit of services and to the effectiveness of actions, as well as such human satisfaction and certainty of the future. That is why the question - one of the questions, because the questions have really been asked - one of the questions to the Minister: How will the number of customs officers be identified? This repeals this discussion about the future, and I am convinced that we are talking about constructive solutions and about a good future. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-21-sejm-26-1.u97	Thank you. Mr Józef Lassota, please take the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-21-sejm-26-1.u98	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Of course, by listening in particular to rapporteurs or representatives of applicants for the purposes of this new law properly, and not to amendments, it can be said that the objectives are set as noble objectives. Besides, I think that such goals also have the minister present in the Chamber, whom I know personally, even for a time we were sitting in the same cell, but when you read the proposal itself, it starts to be dangerous, because actually why, Minister, you, as a very serious, responsible man, did not cause it to be consulted to get an opinion. You just gave in to those PiS methods, that everything is well known by those who rule, and that it will be as they please. Speaking of liquidation, practically about liquidation, the Customs Service, we are also talking about this, the law clearly states that full centralization is taking place. And maybe even centralization wouldn't be bad in this case, if it weren't for the fact that you're gonna throw everyone out, literally everyone who has any executive functions in these services. Why? It's to cast those passive, mediocre, but faithful, just from the PiS, isn't it? Minister! I warn you that next year, the situation will be similar to that of former Minister Jackiewicz, that it will turn out that nepotism was the main objective of this bill. The Act also shows that you are going to intimidate entrepreneurs. This isn't the way to go. Why, Minister, you don't protest [[♪ The bell ♪]] or following what was once our idea? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-21-sejm-26-1.u99	Mrs Elżbieta Duda.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-21-sejm-26-1.u100	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen! Dear Minister, Tax offices currently wait up to 3 months to respond to the so-called. SCAC query. However, we know how important the time is in the control process, how important it is. I therefore ask the Minister: Will the creation of the National Tax Administration affect the faster exchange of VAT information with Member States? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-21-sejm-26-1.u101	Thank you. Mr Tomasz Kostus.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-21-sejm-26-1.u102	Dear Marshal, Minister! High Izbo! This bill represents organisational chaos and at least partial paralysis of the tax administration and the Customs Service. This draft law destroys the Customs Service's existing acquis, which is sufficient to reform, equip and combine the common information exchange system and which is sufficient to give greater autonomy to the action, and the effects of greater revenue to the state budget will be visible in a shorter period of time and less cost. And questions. How does the creation of the National Tax Administration refer to the judgment of the Constitutional Court, which ruled that the powers of customs officers should be aligned with those of other uniformed services as soon as possible? Will it be carried out and customs officers who, in theory, could retire when forming the National Tax Administration, go to it or lose their jobs as a result of a reduction? Does this draft law have a strategic analysis of the country-wide changes planned? Does it have a reliable estimate of expenditure, effects and consequences of the introduction of the so-called. reforms? How many people are gonna lose their jobs? What fate awaits officers in such divisions as: Opole? Please respond on a special day: on the day of the customs service holiday. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-21-sejm-26-1.u103	I would like to ask Mr Tomasz Jaskola about the question.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-21-sejm-26-1.u104	Dear Marshal, Socialists Believers and Unbelievers! Ladies and gentlemen! One page: PSL and Platform, these are people who very often destroyed Poles by three services, and this website now wants to destroy Poles with one service. Of course, Customs is necessary. I think it's gonna be at the expense of the Customs Department to fix the errors of the IRS. In the meantime, I would like to focus on one important institution, on PIT, ladies and gentlemen, because this is a completely unnecessary tax. In 2013, the World Bank considered that we are 114th country on the issue of tax collection and friendship in 183. The OECD, the 35 most developed countries, said that Poland has the worst tax system among these countries. From 100 PLN or from 100 PLN to EUR, from 100 EUR to about 2 euro is the cost of tax collection, in Germany it is 79 cents. I would like to think about the value of this tax, whether this tax is needed at all. It is not necessary, ladies and gentlemen, because in 1992 the tax on individuals was more than 24%, 25% state budget, today it's 14%. And the interesting question is, how much of these taxes do you pay the State? After all, PIT also pays pensioners, budgets, pensioners, etc., etc., also Members, but they have a higher tax-free amount, because they are cut down, ten times higher, as you remember. In fact, only 4 million people pay PIT. I think we just need to save $18,000. I.R.S. jobs. I don't really understand what the crocodile tears are about here, ladies and gentlemen. In the case of entrepreneurs who are losing their jobs, did someone ask: o Mother of God, why did the entrepreneur lose his job? Officials have to do the same thing, especially the IRS. Honestly, I don't really care if IRS officials get a job. Let them go, [[♪ The bell ♪]] They're gonna start businesses and it's gonna get better. And last question: How strong is the responsibility of the chief of the tax office gonna affect corruption in this bill, ladies and gentlemen? Let's ask that, too. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-21-sejm-26-1.u105	Thank you very much. Please take the floor of Mr Stanisław Szmijan.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-21-sejm-26-1.u106	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! There is a fundamental question for the Minister. Minister, how is it possible that such important changes concerning our economy, in fact, are initiated by Members, by a group of Members, and not by the resort headed by you, for, of course, without the involvement of the environments concerned, many points out that, contrary to the environments to which this law will apply, but above all, without the environments that will apply this law? That's not enough, there's a lot of evidence that you're making, you want to make these changes against those environments. And my specific question. Minister, is it true that there have been lists of officers in customs chambers, particularly trade union officials, who have requested consultations on these projects? Is it true that they were transferred to other jobs, in particular very far from their places of residence? Is it true that they have been omitted, traditionally, as each year, with the distinctions given on the occasion of the customs officer's day? [[Disgraceful!]] Were they left out for promotions and prizes? I'm asking you to answer these questions. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-21-sejm-26-1.u107	Thank you. Before I ask Mr Tadeusz Wozniak to speak, I would like to welcome the children very warmly... [[Young people, not kids.]] ...and their tutors, teachers, actually our neighbors, because they're a group from Elementary School 29. Giuseppe Garibaldi at ul. It's a factory. [[Applause]] Welcome. And I ask Mr Tadeusz Wozniak to ask a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-21-sejm-26-1.u108	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! Minister! I pay close attention to this debate, as well as to the numerous questions asked by the opposition party in particular, and in particular by the Members of the two groups: the Civic and Modern Platform. It seems as if the representatives of these groups did not understand the fundamental issue, because the questions are sometimes even infantile. Therefore, Minister, I would ask you very much, because here are still questions about why not the government, why they are Members. Although my name does not appear under this project, I look closely at the content and think about the possible consequences of this project. But tell us, Minister, whether the government supports this solution or whether the government is against it. You haven't spoken so far. Maybe there are some doubts on the part of the opposition, and it would be good for the opposition to know if the government is in favour of whether the government is against it, and then maybe some of the questions wouldn't be at all. Second thing. I would also like to ask you to answer the question even more infantile, whether customs duties will be levied at Poland's borders after the proposed provisions have been implemented. After all, you shed crocodile tears, as if there were no customs officers in Poland at all. I would like to say that the organisation, structure, tasks and competences of customs services in the various Member States of the European Union differ to a small extent. In general, it can be said that they are under the responsibility of the finance minister, with little exceptions. With us, all these services will be subject to the Minister of Finance. Another issue remains the association of central administration with other financial administrations, especially with the tax administration, because there is no general trend here. But I want to tell you that [[♪ The bell ♪]] in many countries of the European Union, these services are complex and will be integrated with us. We believe that they will simply function better, and if so, you will simply gain. I just want to remind you that a few years ago, I just...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-21-sejm-26-1.u109	Mr. President, it's time.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-21-sejm-26-1.u110	I'm almost done, Marshal, last sentence. ...your guru, Minister Boni, introduced the so-called law. rationalisation of employment in government administration. That's where you wanted 10%, as a rule. People get thrown out on the street and you're okay with it... [[But it's what you wanted, you said it yourself!]] ...and you didn't spill at all...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-21-sejm-26-1.u111	Good. Mr...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-21-sejm-26-1.u112	Crocodile tears. The Constitutional Tribunal for you then it's just...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-21-sejm-26-1.u113	Thank you, sir. And please take the floor... [[It didn't work out for the gentleman.]] [[It's out. It didn't work out...]] Mrs Skowronska, I ask you to hold back your emotions in order to enable the question to be asked by Mr Mirosław Suchoni. [[I'm extremely calm today.]] Mrs... You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-21-sejm-26-1.u114	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Or infantile? If anything is infantile in the legislative process, and in particular in asking questions, then I think that the infantile attitude of the government can be called, which, despite the fact that it is a serious law affecting serious matter, has no courage to present this law as it should be presented, i.e. with an analysis of the consequences, with full information on what these effects will be, only uses the members of its party facilities and thus goes to the Sejm. It's actually infantile. On the other hand, ladies and gentlemen, just as it is very easy to find evidence that Law and Justice are not capable of dealing with the economy - for I will remind you, for example. Construction production year-to-year dropped by 20% - so easy to find evidence also that these laws are not what they should be. We have a lot of doubts here, time isn't enough to ask all the questions we have about these laws, so I'm going to ask, I think, such an important question. The project assumes the creation of the Customs and Customs Service, but does not contain any regulations that constitute its specific tasks or organizational structure. It is appropriate to agree with the Supreme Court's opinion on this project that the determination of the Customs and Treasury Service contained in the article. 1 paragraph The 2nd project is incorrect in terms of creating and defining any organisational structures of the state administration. He rightly pointed out that it was difficult for the Supreme Court to talk about the creation of a formation if it did not have specific tasks or a defined organisational structure. It should be noted that the project is not specific [[♪ The bell ♪]] posts which will be occupied by officers but include delegations to issue a regulation in this respect. I wanted to ask you a question about that. What exactly was the designer's direction in creating the Customs-Scarb Service, and what specific tasks were planned for this service? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-21-sejm-26-1.u115	Thank you, sir. I would like to ask Mr Stanisław Lamczyk's question.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-21-sejm-26-1.u116	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! The government introduces very restrictive draft laws, both fiscal and just the Penal Code. However, entrepreneurs have a lot of concerns, they have a lot of concerns about what will happen. I have the impression that these companies that are still working, who are still paying taxes that employ people, are getting married. And it's marazm. I don't think the government has good judgment. And that's where private investors stop investing, finish what they had to do, similarly foreign investors. We lost even in the last rating with Hungary, I'm not talking about the Czechs anymore. And that's also going to be a signal for foreign investors, they're going to invest abroad. Public investment is halted. Therefore, I have a question: What does the government at least control? Question two: Does the government have any idea how to eliminate the grey zone in construction? As we know, a lot of wholesalers sell goods at a net price and then trades later These are the invoices. Many developers, construction companies buy these invoices and then it turns out that construction standards in terms of materials are overstated. I repeat this question: Does the government have any idea of a gray area in construction? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-21-sejm-26-1.u117	Thank you. Mr Wojciech Zubowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-21-sejm-26-1.u118	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! In the same year, according to the Supreme Audit Chamber data, false invoices for the amount of PLN 80 billion were disclosed. In 2014 alone, the Council adopted Poland lost about PLN 38 billion of VAT revenue. Also in 2014 it did not reach the state's cash register every fourth of the money due. [[It's not about that.]] Member, this too, believe me. [[I have an opinion.]] At the moment, our country is one of the worst performing countries in the European Union when it comes to sealing VAT. I'll just remind you that the gap in government... [[But you deny yourself. The invoices disclosed are good service activities. You have to understand what you're saying.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-21-sejm-26-1.u119	Madame, please do not disturb me.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-21-sejm-26-1.u120	Believe me, I understand. [[It doesn't work out.]] Allow me to finish, my fellow Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-21-sejm-26-1.u121	Member, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-21-sejm-26-1.u122	So, ladies and gentlemen of the Civic Platform, during your reign, I would just like to inform you that the gap has increased from about 8%. up to 25% in terms of extortion, with an average in the European Union, which currently stands at around 15% . The question to the Minister: What is the expected timetable for reducing the VAT gap in percentage and what values, following the introduction of these solutions today, are we expecting to achieve, assuming, of course, that this is just one of the elements of the Treasury's financial policy? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-21-sejm-26-1.u123	Thank you. The question will be asked by Edward Sulphur. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-21-sejm-26-1.u124	Mr. Marshal! Minister! Indeed, today we are discussing the difficult topic that the Customs Service is dealing with, but also the whole tax administration. The question arises, which is also asked by customs officers themselves, seems to me that it is justified, namely: How much is the Customs Service responsible for collecting customs duties responsible for what is possibly a gap in the collection of this tax, these customs duties? If we really have such a gap, it would also be an argument for making profound changes. My second question is much more serious. At this moment we have in committee or subcommittee print No 30 - a citizens' bill on the pension rights of officers, which also assumes completely different solutions, namely the granting of pension rights to the Customs Service. We say it's a uniform formation. As far as tasks are concerned, yes, but as far as powers are concerned, no. This case hasn't been settled for years. And now the new bill goes in a completely different direction. Namely, we have to answer the question of how many of the elements of this law from print no. 30 have a chance to implement and in what form, as regards the proposed solutions concerning the new structure of the tax administration. Do we provide for such measures that at least part of the powers in question may be granted by the Customs Service so that in the new structure the officers are also covered by these powers? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-21-sejm-26-1.u125	Thank you, sir. And Mr Andrzej Matusiewicz. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-21-sejm-26-1.u126	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Dear Customs! There is a delegation in the Home Act to issue a regulation by the Minister of Finance for the establishment of the seat of the tax and customs offices. And I have a specific question for Minister Banasi. [[The Reichs will, don't think about it.]] Mrs Krystyna Skowrońska is the Member who can bother anyone, whether he is a Member from the same province or not. [[Okay, I'm sorry.]] Minister, I have a specific question: What criteria will be adopted to establish these premises? I think there should definitely be a base criterion. The base in Przemyśl has, of course, been for 70 years. Human resources. There's an excellent staff of customs officers. There are free public facilities that can be developed, which so far are in the city administration or the local government. And as Members of the Election District No. 22 covering the former Przemysl and Krosnień voivodships, we are asking that this seat of the Customs and Treasury Chamber be, Minister, in Przemyśl. Rzeszów has had enough of the various central and voivodship offices. I think, even in support of the principles of sustainable development, that Przemysl also deserves it. I think the Minister will keep his word and this office will be [[♪ The bell ♪]] In Przemyśl. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-21-sejm-26-1.u127	Thank you. And Mrs Krystyna Skowronska, I would like to ask you a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-21-sejm-26-1.u128	Dear Marshal, Mr Matusiewicz! If I've bothered you, I'm sorry, but... Dear Customs! I think the Minister has prepared this fate with the hands of the Members of the Law and Justice. And I am very surprised by the statement by Minister Zieliński, who spoke in favour of the special pension status of the customs officers on the citizens' project, and in the corner you earned Minister Shamacha and gave this project to your Members. I'm saying to the P.I.S. Members, you're trying to come up with tricks to talk here and try to defend customs. No, your intentions are false, you're trying to defend the government, none of you are defending customs. Why, to the Minister, is this law supposed to deprive a number of customs officers of their right to resolve pension matters in accordance with the judgment of the Constitutional Tribunal? Why didn't you try the right solutions as a government, starting with the Tax Order? After all, previous teams worked on the Tax Order, there was a certain amount of work, it had to be used. Another problem when it comes to reaching for taxes, which unfortunately are in the grey or black zone, is for customs officers to build places where they would be friendly and... check-in goods that come from the east. This is the direction to work on. And you tried this: Promise, promise, promise. And today you show the bat. And it's very bad on customs day. Ladies and gentlemen, shame on us. [[♪ The bell ♪]] for this parliamentary project, which has prepared such a fate that the government and the minister say: 10,000. Or more customs officers will be waiting for employment, no one knows where. And all IRS employees, as they're watching this National Tax Administration Act today, can't be sure of their employment either. It's a very bad bill, we'll be against it. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-21-sejm-26-1.u129	Thank you. Thus, the list of members of the vote has been exhausted. I request the floor of the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Finance of Minister Marian Banasi. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-21-sejm-26-1.u130	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Let me say hello to customs at the very beginning and give them the most heartfelt wishes on the day of the customs official's holiday... [[They're sad.]] ...and I will ensure that 21 September will also be the celebration of customs officers and the entire tax service in the new structure, in the National Tax Administration. Let me start by presenting the government's position on the two projects that have been presented here, and then I will address the questions that have been raised here. The parliamentary bill on National Tax Administration, print No.826, provides for the creation of the National Tax Administration. In the current legal state, the tax and customs administration which collects budgetary revenue within the government has a distributed field structure, which is concentrated in three independently functioning verticals. The tax administration consists of 16 tax houses and 400 tax offices. Customs services are 16 customs chambers, 45 customs offices and 141 customs departments. The tax control is carried out by 16 tax offices and 8 branches. All units at voivodship level have their own budgets, staff and manage movable and immovable property. Tax administration, Customs and tax control also develop separate directions of development, strategic objectives and measures for their implementation. Consequently, the implementation of tax and customs collection tasks is fragmented and inconsistent. They are not optimally used personnel and technical and financial resources. Pieces have independent IT solutions that are not sufficiently cooperative. The lack of diversity of administration results in its suffrage, i.e. its duplication of activities in certain areas and the lack of action or their delay in other areas. All of this has a negative impact on the effectiveness of the actions undertaken by the state administration and the costs of danin collection. Such an assessment of the current situation of the tax administration, fiscal control and the Customs Service indicates the need for a thorough reform of the administrative apparatus. It should be stressed that the need for reform of the tax administration is signalled inter alia.: International Monetary Fund, European Commission services and Supreme Audit Chamber. In a written position of the government on the draft Polish Tax Administration Act, print No. 826, a diagnosis of the current state by these institutions and their conclusions was presented. The draft law on National Tax Administration provides for the establishment of the National Tax Administration in place of the currently functioning: tax administration, tax control and Customs Service. The National Tax Administration will be subordinate to the Minister responsible for public finances. Under the new rules, the national tax administration authorities will be: Minister of Finance, Head of National Tax Administration, Director of National Tax Information, Director of the tax administration, Head of Customs and Treasury Office and Head of the Tax Office. The Minister of Finance will be responsible for coordinating and cooperating in shaping state policy on the tasks of the KAS. The minister's role will also be to identify four-year directions for action and development of the KAS, which will enable the tasks of the KAS to be carried out more effectively and effectively. The head of the National Tax Administration shall primarily supervise the activities of all KAS bodies, shape HR and training policies in the KAS organisational units and implement the state budget within the limits set for the KAS. The Head will be responsible for the tasks currently being carried out by the Head of Customs Service, the General Inspector for Revenue Control, the General Inspector for Financial Information, and the duties of the Minister responsible for Public Finance so far, in particular to the extent that he supervises the tax administration and conducts tax proceedings in individual cases. The Director of National Tax Information will provide uniform and publicly available tax and customs information and will be competent in matters relating to the interpretation of individual tax laws. The Director of the tax administration will carry out to a large extent the tasks currently carried out by the directors of the tax chambers and the directors of the customs chambers and to a certain extent the tasks of the directors of the tax control offices. The head of the Customs and Treasury Office will be able to carry out a customs and treasury check. Customs and treasury control as so-called. the tough procedure will apply to offences with a high quality weight, e.g. organized criminal groups that today act with impunity. Its objective will be to detect and combat large-scale irregularities in situations where the size, complexity and extent of the impact of the deficiencies present have a significant impact on the State's financial security system. Customs and treasury control will be an important tool in reducing the tax gap. The head of the tax office will carry out tasks related to the collection of danin, i.e. the determination, determination, collection of taxes, fees and non-tax fiscal duties, collection of customs duties and other charges related to the import and export of goods, the tasks of the creditor of monetary claims, the administrative execution of monetary claims, tax control and verification activities. The tax authority's task will be to provide services and support to the taxpayer and the payer in the proper performance of their tax obligations, which will consist in providing assistance in the independent, correct and voluntary fulfilment of their tax obligations, carried out in particular by the service centres. Applications and declarations, certificates issued, explanations of tax legislation, including those who are just about to enter into business, as well as information on how to fill in their statements and tax returns will be accepted at the service centres. The bill assumes the establishment of the Customs and Treasury Service as a uniformed formation, which will be created by officers. The status of an officer will be linked to tasks which, due to their specific characteristics, require uniforming and having specific powers, e.g. surgical and cognitive function. The status of an officer will therefore be linked to the execution of police activities. It is assumed that the status of an officer will not be held by persons who do not perform tasks requiring special powers which may be performed by employees or civil servants. Aggressive tax avoidance, tax crime, the grey zone poses serious challenges for our country. The size of the VAT gap poses a serious threat to the security of public finances and reduces the potential of the country's development. Honest taxpayers expect fast and professional service. It is necessary to create a new, efficient and uniform tax system to which the proposed National Tax Administration Act serves. The Council of Ministers supports the parliamentary draft law on National Tax Administration, print No. 826. The next draft law, the parliamentary draft law Rules introducing the Act on National Tax Administration, print No. 827, contains regulations concerning the entry into force of the provisions concerning the National Tax Administration. The Act contains a broad package of adaptations, repealing, transitional and final provisions. The National Tax Administration Act shall in principle enter into force on 1 January 2017. In view of the change in the organisational structure of the tax administration, the Customs Service and the tax authorities in the structure of the National Tax Administration, the project identifies the need for amendments to the 157 laws. In principle, changes in most laws consist in replacing the terminology for tax houses and customs offices with concepts for tax administrations. Similarly, concepts relating to customs authorities are replaced by regulations relating to tax offices or customs offices. Regulations concerning tax control authorities are replaced by regulations concerning customs and treasury offices. In addition, in the existing laws, customs officers regulations will be replaced by customs officers regulations. This is not just a simple, automatic substitution of some concepts. Terminological changes mean that the functions of existing bodies are assigned to new bodies according to the tasks assigned to them by the draft law on KAS. In addition to the adjustment changes, additional changes are proposed, among which a revision of the Tax Order deserves particular attention. The Tax Order shall introduce the tax advisor's institution. The powers of the head of the tax office as the tax authority of the first instance, the director of the tax administration as the tax authority of the first instance and the director of the tax administration as the review body will be conferred on the tax adviser carrying out the judicial activities. Such a new position in the structures of the tax administration will strengthen the expertise of experts who stand out in substance. Ladies and gentlemen, there is therefore no concern that those professionals who are ruling in tax chambers today will have neither employment nor proper place. In connection with the regulations adopted in the parliamentary draft law on the National Tax Administration, the General Inspector for tax control, the Directors of the tax chambers, the directors of the customs offices, and the heads of customs offices shall be abolished. Customs offices shall also be abolished. According to the project, the tax office continues to operate and becomes the tax office. This is a preliminary, extremely important stage of reform. These tax administrations will be responsible to a significant extent for implementing fiscal reform in the field. The key changes are to enter into force on 1 January 2017, when this is connected at the level of each voivodship with the tax administration chamber and the tax control office. The duties and duties of the tax office, the customs office, the tax inspection office shall become duties and duties of the tax administration. The closure balances drawn up by the tax administration, the customs office and the tax control office as at 31 December 2016 shall become the opening balance drawn up by the tax administration as at 1 January 2017. In a similar way, it is proposed to set up the National Treasury School on 1 January 2017 on the basis of the Vocational Education Centre. The proposed law establishes the following bodies of the National Tax Administration: the Head of the National Tax Administration, the Director of National Tax Information, the Director of the Tax Administration Chamber, the Head of the Tax Office and the Head of the Customs and Treasury Office. The following organisational units are also created: National Tax Information, Customs and Treasury Offices and the National Tax Administration Information Centre, which is a state budgetary unit. The project pays much attention to the regulation of staff resources. As a first step, the rules for continuing work or service in converted, combined and abolished units have been laid down until 30 June 2017. Persons employed in tax offices shall become, no later than 30 June 2017, employees employed in tax administrations and shall maintain continuity of work and service. Those persons shall be informed in writing of the place of performance of their duties if they change. The lack of information is equivalent to the performance of the duties at the place of business. Persons employed in combined or abolished units and customs officers serving in these units or in the Ministry of Finance and staff carrying out the tasks of the National Tax Administration employed in the Ministry of Finance shall become, as from 1 January 2017, no later than 30 June, staff employed in the organisational units of the National Tax Administration or Customs and Treasury Officers serving in the National Tax Administration units and shall maintain continuity of work and service. The same rules apply to employees of tax chambers employed before the date of entry into force of the Act on National Tax Administration in tax chambers in Bydgoszcz, Katowice, Łódź, Poznań and Warsaw, carrying out tasks in offices of National Tax Information, and Customs Chamber in Katowice, carrying out customs information tasks. They shall become, no longer than 30 June 2017, employees of the National Tax Information Office. Workers' matters of the Centre for Vocational Education in the Ministry of Finance are also regulated. The law subsequently lays down rules for the submission of proposals for continued employment or service after 30 June 2017. By 31 May 2017, respectively, the Director of National Tax Information, the Director of the Tax Administration Chamber, the Director of the National Tax School and the Director of the National Tax Administration Information Centre shall submit a written proposal to staff and officers specifying new conditions of employment or service. It will be the same for the Ministry of Finance. The Director-General of the Ministry of Finance, in agreement with the Head of the National Tax Administration, shall submit to the employees and officers carrying out the tasks of the National Tax Administration adequately employed or serving in the Ministry of Finance... The Head of National Tax Administration shall submit a proposal to serve officials serving in the Ministry of Finance. These proposals shall take into account the qualifications of the staff member, the officer and the course of his previous work or service, as well as his previous place of residence. In the event of failure to receive or accept a proposal for employment by 31 May 2017, the employment relationship and the professional relations of persons duly employed or serving in tax administrations, combined or abolished shall expire on 30 June 2017. The staff member and the official shall make a statement on the decision to accept the proposal. Failure to make a statement within that time limit shall be tantamount to refusing to accept a proposal for employment or to serve. In the event of failure to accept the proposal, employees and officers shall be entitled to the benefits due in connection with the liquidation of the office or the abolition of the organisational unit respectively. The proposed law contains regulations on the continuation of the activities of the National Tax Administration units after reorganisation and transitional provisions concerning the continuation of proceedings, operations and controls respectively. The rule is to continue the ongoing procedures by the new authorities and preserve the procedural activities of the authorities following the changes made by the reform. In the legislative process, additional adjustments should be made to the extent resulting from recent legislative changes in recent months. The project will ensure a smooth transformation of the three existing separate tax, customs and tax administrations into one coherent and effective National Tax Administration. The Council of Ministers supports the parliamentary draft law on the introduction of the National Tax Administration Act. Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, In brief to the questions that have been raised here in this Chamber, I would like to say that you really do not take into account what has happened in the last eight years. I would like to say that this reform, the great reform that we are doing, is almost eight years late, or more, because in 2004, when Poland entered the European Union - you are well aware of that - the Western border has been abolished. It was at that time that a reform had to be done, not an ill-considered allocation of officers, without asking them, to the eastern border. In order to justify this and not another number of officers, the principle that tax supervision with excise duties is transferred to the Customs Service was introduced, without any major and deeper consultation. Ladies and gentlemen, these were the decisions that are leading to today's situation. For eight years out of 20 billion in 2007, I was also privileged to serve as head of the Customs Service and undersecretary of state at the Ministry of Finance... It was established that we had 20 billion execution commitments at the time, and today it is almost 60 billion. The same is true with the tax gap - today it is almost 80 billion. These are the numbers and facts that say that there is no other way than to make a thorough reform and make bold and effective decisions that will change this situation. In its report, the European Commission also clearly points out that the administrative costs of tax services - customs, fiscal and fiscal control - are far too high, that is 1/6 of tax revenue, while in other countries this is 0.8.0.7. Ladies and gentlemen, other countries have consolidated over the last eight years and have achieved results. Slovakia, Hungary, the Netherlands, Israel, the United Kingdom and this gap is not as deep as it is with our country. That's why we made that decision. This is not a new project. This project was prepared in 2005 and 2007 and was consulted because it was a government project at the time, so it cannot be said that there was no inter-ministerial or social consultation here. It was completely locked up. At the moment, new circumstances have been taken into account, which occurred during those eight years... [[Society has changed!]] ...the project has been modified, it has been consulted in our department, and trade union organisations have been involved. So that the project has been prepared fully and thoroughly and will play a crucial role in ensuring that the real results that we expect are achieved. Now, ladies and gentlemen, as to the details that came up in this room when we ask questions, we will answer them in writing. Thank you. [[Applause]] [[Chairman of the session includes Deputy Marshal Ryszard Terlecki of the Sejm]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-21-sejm-26-1.u131	Thank you very much, Minister. Their representative, Mr Schreiber, will now speak on behalf of the applicants. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-21-sejm-26-1.u132	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I would like to begin by thanking you for all the substantive questions that have been raised during today's discussion. I regret to note that there were less of them than speeches of character, let's call it this, the evening-popularist. Here's the first thing. I have this remark to the Members of the opposition, the Council: you should decide which way to carry out the attack - whether this reform will lead to complete chaos, disorganization, to the fact that basically all services will disappear and the revenue to the budget will be dramatically low, or to radical surveillance of citizens and that it will be even more difficult to live. It would be worth agreeing here, because, as you can see, there is no agreement on this. The main issue of the opposition's attack was the fact that this reform of the Law and Justice wanted to bring an end to the Customs Service, and that the process of liquidation would supposedly start today. Well, like I said, there's no liquidation here, but there's a reorganization here. I think that there is no one in the Law and Justice, among the Members of Law and Justice, who underestimates, I address your customs officers, what you do, your dedication, your commitment, your work. It's undisputed, and no one's said a single word about it. The fact that we are introducing a reform that we want to introduce it and we want to talk about this reform is not because, I don't know, we judge your work very badly, only that it has already been stressed, the current fragmentation, fragmentation, the lack of coherent systems, the lack of ensuring that you also have some additional instruments to act, causes a decrease, and this is growing dramatically, for the budget, for the Treasury, for all citizens. In any case, as I have already said, I understand this concern and concern, but nowhere is it possible, nor has it ever been said that the aim of this reform is, I don't know, to deprive a large proportion of people of their jobs. This applies to the reform only for example. people who worked with the previous authority - by this, I mean, of course, not the Civic Platform as the previous authority, but the power exercised in the previous system. That's line one. And you are aware that most of you will still find work in new customs offices, a minority may be offered a proposal to move to tax offices, for others... there are just frozen jobs, so there is no full state in Customs today, and finally some people will be able to retire. I'm moving on to specific charges. This concern for the Platform and PSL about customs officers is touching and, I must say, upbuilding, especially considering that for 8 years you have done absolutely nothing, absolutely nothing about reform as regards the granting of pension privileges, and that despite the judgment of the Constitutional Tribunal in this case. There were also no other actions, there were no increases - for 8 years the base amount has been frozen in the tax administration. Today, you are becoming knights and fighters for how much harm is being done. When it comes to questions or voices in the discussion. Mr Rząsa - customs officers bring 1/3 of their income, why tax administration services are less effective, in theory, they work worse. That is not true, and anyone who knows that is aware of it. As I say, while appreciating the role of customs officers and not questioning their involvement, it is worth noting that 95% revenue comes from the 100 largest economic operators, so this needs to be looked at in a slightly different way. Mrs Janyska... I don't think she's here, even though she's been demanding answers to all the questions. [[He's got a commission!]] All right. ...conceived that maybe one metaphor that appeared in my speech, manipulated in such a way that it was about insulting anyone while I was talking... This metaphor applied to the current rules, not to Customs staff or tax administration. As for Mr Kasprzak - the state will be losing, chaos will have to raise taxes - I know that it was the only idea of the Platform and PSL government to deal with all the problems... [[You didn't lower your VAT, you didn't!]] ...but that doesn't mean that everyone wants to go your way. [[You're going worse!]] Good. Indeed, she is trying to scream, but I think it would be better if we talked in substance. [[Exactly.]] Mrs Leszczyna, Minister, said that, thanks to the changes introduced by the Platform, we now have good news for the budget, we have an increase in revenue. You can say that this is a unique failure: 8 years are ruled, and changes are made when Law and Justice have been ruling for a year. [[But you haven't done your homework. You haven't seen the crisis.]] I have to say, it's an exceptional misfortune and a unique misfortune. Well, that's what happens. Mr Kostus said that it is enough to reform what exists. I ask: What have you been doing over the last eight years, since it was enough to make a few minor adjustments? Finally, the issue of pensions for customs officers. After all, this project, this reform, does not assume and does not state that they will not be granted. I think it's the opposite. The work in the Seym is ongoing and I think that appropriate solutions will be developed. I would point out that the previous governments have done nothing in this matter. Finally, Mr Suchon's statement, which states that this illustrates that the PiS is not dealing with the economy. [[Quiet, isn't it?]] I would like to draw your attention to the fact that we have over 3% economic growth at 1.5% in other countries, that we have the lowest unemployment rate, that we have more than 18 billion surpluses in foreign trade, that we have more tax revenue than the forecast that the budget deficit after the first 8 months is about 26 and 27%. In short, whatever happens, as I understand it, you will always be on it. But I would also like to draw attention to one, at least as regards the opposition, such a positive voice, a positive statement and thank Mrs Hennig-Kloska for it, who said that we have prepared another law to prosecute criminals. You're right. The records in this bill are supposed to help chase criminals. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[But the Member has lied and has not seen the crisis. You weren't born yesterday, boy.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-21-sejm-26-1.u133	Thank you very much, sir. No further representative of applicants shall be reported. I'm closing... [[Speech Off the Microphone]] Yes? Mr... [[Wojciech Murdzek. I volunteered.]] Have you checked in? [[For what?]] Please, the representative of the applicants, Mr Wojciech Murdzek.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-21-sejm-26-1.u134	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I think that we are experiencing in these many questions, statements of unnecessary thread, attempts to stick wedges among those who want to look forward and make changes, and a specific group - I think of customsmen who listen to our statements. I personally hope that the participation of your formation will indeed be such a constructive participation, and we will be able to do this work together, achieving good results and calming the atmosphere, because there is no need to just turn someone against someone, and indeed the months so far have shown willingness to cooperate. I think that this topic will also be completed on the way, as far as pension matters are concerned, and the solutions that we are discussing today will also be - with respect for the achievements to date and your commitment, in the interests of public finances, in the interests of the rule of law, in the interests of the elimination of the crimes of the shadow economy. I'm sure this cooperation will work out. Let me remind you that this is the first reading. This work is just beginning and this space for discussion, for commenting is not a closed space. Since I have presented an introductory act, I would like to reassure you and remind you that we have already faced major structural changes. As regards the transfer of tasks between different bodies, we remember that in 2003 there was a very serious operation involving the creation of voivodship tax colleges, the amendment of certain laws governing the tasks and competences of the authorities and the organisation of organisational units subordinate to the minister responsible for public finances; above all, excise duties. This law entered into force on 1 September 2003 and was published on 6 August. This shows that, in fact, the time allowed for such a large undertaking was intensively used and, as you have followed, with good results, because as far as the part concerned is concerned, that is to say, the high revenue generated by customs, this is also a consequence of excise duty. Just a combination of tax houses, customs offices, tax offices It's not the biggest venture we're proposing, either. It is a simpler undertaking than the consolidation of ancillary processes in the tax administration carried out in 2015, where the law entered into force on 15 January. Indeed, it involved very many processes. I could trade them, but I'm not gonna do it right now, because it's a long list. The result of consolidation under that law was a reduction in the number of budgetary units operating in the tax administration from 416 to 16. Consolidation also covered a nation-wide crowd of 40,000. employees of tax administrations with similar concerns about the future, about job stability, about income issues. Everything has gone through what you can follow, efficiently and from this we can gain the conviction that, by cooperating, we will also ensure the smooth implementation of this reform, which is facing us as a great challenge. I think that really the determination of all sides to make this the best possible solution will make it really possible for us to achieve this goal as a result of cooperation, not of standing up against each other. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-21-sejm-26-1.u135	Thank you very much. Member of the Commission, on the basis of the corrigendum. You have one minute. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-21-sejm-26-1.u136	Dear Marshal, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Schreiber made a lot of mistakes because he took credit for both the entrepreneurs and the previous government in terms of how we were dealing with the crisis. But I'm addressing your marshal with a formal motion. Tomorrow will be the meeting of the Public Finance Committee on both projects. Trade union representatives can't... They were told by the committee presidents that they could watch a committee meeting on television. [[They won't be allowed in.]] They won't be allowed in for a committee meeting. You do not invite the parties concerned by the projects that are being processed. You introduce further taxes: bank, store, water tax in the Water Law Act and others. You don't lower your VAT, as you announced, and yet you're not introducing... You don't audition, you don't file a government project, and yet you ban or ban a committee of trade unions whose representatives could comment on this, [[♪ The bell ♪]] Not like today, sitting in the courtroom, even on their holiday...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-21-sejm-26-1.u137	Thank you very much, Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-21-sejm-26-1.u138	All the best, ladies and gentlemen of customs. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-21-sejm-26-1.u139	Thank you very much. The discussion is closed. In the discussion, proposals were made to reject the draft laws contained in prints 826 and 827 at first reading. We will proceed to the vote on these proposals in the voting block. We proceed with the examination of item 3 of the agenda: First reading of the government draft law amending certain laws in order to facilitate the fight against infectious animal diseases (print No 832). Mr. Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development... I'm sorry. I'm asking Mrs. Ewa Lech to state the reasons for the bill. I'm so sorry, Minister. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-21-sejm-26-1.u140	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to present a government bill amending certain laws in order to facilitate the eradication of infectious animal diseases, the main objective of which is actually to improve the activities carried out in the fight against infectious animal diseases. The direct reasons for the legislative work are, first and foremost, the need to clarify the legislation in force to combat infectious animal diseases, but also to identify the addressees to whom these rules will apply, to clarify the scope of those addressees. In the course of the eradication of infectious animal diseases, the Veterinary Inspection encountered a number of difficulties. This law amends six laws. The first law to be amended is the Animal Protection Act. Next is the law on the national system of records of producers, the records of agricultural holdings and the records of applications for payment. The third is the Animal Health Act and the fight against infectious animal diseases. Fourth is the Animal Identification and Registration Act. It is also about the Animal Products Act and the Law amending the Animal Health Act and combating infectious animal diseases. High Seym! In the Animal Protection Act, the amendment concerns the possibility for the district veterinarian to order the slaughter of animals which are on holdings which, unfortunately, are not in zones where the animals cannot be moved from those holdings by decision. Therefore, if the host produces in a cycle, say a weekly or a two-week cycle, animals, they grow to him and, in connection with prohibitions and orders, cannot move them, then the district veterinarian will have the possibility to order the slaughter or destruction of these animals for compensation. This has not been possible so far, because this possibility was only in the case of disease control in the outbreak, and here we are talking about areas which are introduced by decisions of the European Commission or by regulations of the voivodships. So there's a lot of ease, because there was actually a general ban on killing in the Animal Protection Act. However, an exception has been introduced here that due to the deterioration of animal welfare, the increase in weight, growth or the increase in the number of living conditions of these animals are deteriorating. Therefore, the district veterinarian may decide to eliminate these animals for compensation. This is a fundamental change. Of course, this change will also facilitate cooperation with farmers, because I do not hide that at the moment when we are dealing with ASF, it is one of the main problems in regions, in zones where sharpenings are introduced. It was the first law and fundamental changes. The second law, on the national system of producer records, the records of agricultural holdings and the records of payment applications, is amended in Article. The 2th bill we're talking about. These amendments are intended to ensure consistency with the Animal Identification and Registration Act. We introduce the possibility of registration in the system of identification and registration of animals of entities that temporarily own animals. So it will be possible to include in this identification system entities that organize trade fairs, shows, exhibitions or through trade in these animals. The second amendment concerns the second law, i.e. the law on the national system... The third amendment, I am sorry, concerns the Animal Health Act and the fight against infectious diseases and will concern the facilitation of the registration of supervised entities by introducing in the system or in the register of supervised entities the identification number REGON or PESEL. Another amendment, a district veterinarian in accordance with that law will have the possibility to determine orders and prohibitions by local law, order the performance of certain obligations to operators, e.g. the hunter will be able to order firing in the county area, the road managers will be able to order the distribution of disinfection mats and the border crossing managers to take certain actions - of course, in return for the actual costs incurred. A similar decision will be made in the case of local law acts issued by the voivode, which include not one county but several counties. So, in short, so far it has been so that the district veterinarian may have introduced by administrative decision certain orders and prohibitions, order the introduction of bans, but only in a campfire, where he fought the disease, and in the nearest protection areas, at risk, but he could not take certain measures outside these areas. That's why we're giving him the opportunity. Speaking of facilitating the fight against infectious diseases, we still mean ASF, but these rules will also apply to other diseases. The district veterinarian will be able to determine how to proceed e.g. With wild boars shot dead, with animals dead, he'll be able to order the delivery of dead or shot wild boars to a specific location. Here we detail the recipient and some of the activities that we expect will be carried out. The bill, which is being amended, does not specify the addressee, so there were very big interpretation problems. These are fundamental changes in the law on the fight against infectious animal diseases. Then we are dealing with a revision of the Animal Identification and Registration Act. There are very important changes here, which are not only forced by the current situation that we have found, and the fact that we have recently been dealing with the spread of African swine fever in an uncontrolled manner, i.e. It was difficult to determine the source. Since the animals were not marked, their movement took place without any documentation. Therefore, the changes concerning the animal identification and registration system will serve to seal the system. Moreover, this is not only due to the situation that occurred during the eradication of African swine fever, but also to the recommendations of the FVO audit and the recommendations of the Supreme Audit Chamber, which indicated that the number of animals in the system of the Agency for Restructuring and Modernisation of Agriculture and the number of animals indicated by the Veterinary Inspection and also by the Central Statistical Office are simply missing out on each other, and it is difficult to explain. Therefore, this system will first of all be sealed and we will really know what number, here we are talking mainly about pigs, animals are kept in agriculture. What are we changing? First of all, that pigs will have to be registered in the system within 30 days of birth. Any change in their presence, their movement the farmer will have to report within 7 days, and in a situation like now, the ASF threat will be required to report any movements and changes in the stock size within 24 hours. One of the major changes is that the animals, the pigs, will be marked with the numbers of all subsequent flocks in which they were staying. At the moment, according to our regulations, the animal is only marked at the seat of the herd where it was born, and it is difficult to trace on the basis of the data we have, the movement of these animals. This is also a recommendation from the FVO after the inspection last year. Another amendment concerns the proceding, implementation of programmes for the control of infectious animal diseases, which are introduced by Council of Ministers regulations or by a regulation of the Minister of Agriculture, which, in order to be co-financed, had to be approved by the European Commission, except that the European Commission in its decision finally approved such programmes by the end of January and, according to EU legislation, the programme should start, say, on 1 January and it happened in the past that the Salmonella control programme had been in force since January, and it actually appeared several months later. Here we want to avoid these problems, so we will want such a regulation implementing the programme to be possible... to be announced after the European Commission has announced the technical approval of the programmes in November of the previous year.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-21-sejm-26-1.u141	Thank you very much, Minister. [[It's only four. Two more.]] Undersecretary of State of the Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development Ewa Lech: Four. Not yet... The most important changes were these. [[The most important thing is that you're past it.]] We still have a revision of the Animal Products Act, but these are actually ordering changes. He'll make his point. To date, products of animal origin produced in a restricted area have been treated differently, i.e., the same is true of products... [[Definitions.]] Yeah, it's just sort of clean stuff. In short, we want to do so in a meat plant where meat is produced, e.g. Only meat from animals that are susceptible to the disease concerned was restricted from poultry, bovine or porcine animals. If there are also poultry and pork, then in the case of ASF the restriction would apply only to pigmeat, and we specify what it means to a product from the area where the disease occurs, and in the area, because these are two different things. The next amendment concerns the amendment of the Law on the fight against infectious animal diseases. The point is simply that we are providing for compensation payments, because as far as the bioinsurance programme is concerned, its second edition was extended until 2018, and the law that provided for funding for these two programmes or the second edition of the programme did not provide for this money. Therefore, in this law we introduce the possibility of financing compensation for people who are resigning from production. Is that all, Minister? Undersecretary of State of the Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development Ewa Lech: Everything, I guess. Thank you. Thank you very much, Minister. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would listen to the five-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and the circle. I'm opening a discussion. I'm gonna stick to the time limit because we're late. Please, on behalf of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice, Mr Jan Krzysztof Ardanowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-21-sejm-26-1.u142	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I would like to present my opinion, the comments of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice to the statutory amendments contained in print 832. It is no secret that we are introducing these solutions in order to finally deal effectively with African swine fever, whose effects on Polish agriculture can be very, very negative. I will not develop this thread because we discussed it on the occasion of the act which we adopted as a matter of urgency at the last session of the Sejm. The fact that African swine fever virus has not been eradicated since February 2014 should be a reason for all of us to reflect deeply on the need for effective action. Some emergency measures are needed, because the situation is extraordinary. New obligations must be imposed on all who depend on preventing the spread of the virus and consequently lead to the release of Poland from this disease. These solutions, the Minister mentioned, concern not only this particular disease unit, but also, if implemented, will allow for the future to eliminate other potential disease risks. To date, action to combat ASF shows the weakness of existing legal solutions and significant gaps in their application. Even if this system of identification and registration of animals, which is responsible for the identification of producers, flocks, movements of animals, allowing to track the history of animals, is ineffective and unfortunately leaky. We want to make sure that all animals are marked in good time with earrings, tattoos or passports, are reported in the register, there is information about the movement of these animals, about the slaughter or death of the animal. The big problem that we face in the course of practical implementation is the bioinsurance programme introduced by Minister Sawicki. It turns out that some farmers question the meaning of this scheme. There are serious difficulties, such as securing farms, ignoring the required measures, the lack of financial resources in many farms to implement them, the problem of the transport and slaughter of animals, as well as the transport of carcasses and post-mortem waste, the problem of teaching disinfectant mats on the roads - these are tasks for road management. An important problem that is difficult to deal with at the moment is the reduction of the population of susceptible wild animals, i.e. the shooting of wild boars, about which so much is being said, the question of how to achieve this. This shows the weakness of the state. This law amends several laws, which contain specific provisions, introduces new obligations for animal owners, operators in the hunting industry, equips the Veterinary Inspection with the possibility of imposing additional orders, prohibitions and restrictions, also clarifies the data that should be included in the register of operators, by introducing PESEL and REGON numbers, so as to be able to monitor movements of animals more easily and efficiently, it also provides budgetary resources for the implementation of the bioinsurance programme. I am convinced that the release of Poland from African swine fever and the prevention of the spread of possible other infectious diseases is our common concern. I am aware that political rivalry is the salt of democracy. Probably many things, including how African fever has been combated so far, what possible problems, errors or omissions have occurred, we can of course talk. However, it seems to me that in the most serious situations, and the occurrence of African swine fever is such a state of greatest threat to the economy of the country, for agriculture, we must be able to rise above political divisions and act for the good of Poland. These are maybe important words, but I am convinced that this situation in which we have found ourselves together, in which Polish agriculture is located, requires extraordinary actions, requires certain additional obligations, which must be assumed by all the participants who depend on the eradication of this disease in Poland, and that we, politicians, responsible for agricultural matters, must be above those divisions which somehow differ from us, ascend and act together for the good of Poland. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-21-sejm-26-1.u143	Thank you very much. Mrs Dorota Sunday will perform on behalf of the Civic Platform. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-21-sejm-26-1.u144	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! On behalf of the Civic Platform Club, I have the honour to present the club's position on the Act amending certain laws to facilitate the fight against infectious animal diseases, print No. 832. As you have said before, we have a package of statutory amendments ahead of us. As the Minister has presented, these are changes in six laws. I would just like to remind you that this is a change in the Animal Protection Act, a change in the Act on the national producer registration system, the farm records and the records of payment applications, unless the most important changes are in the Animal Health Act and the fight against infectious diseases, those that actually allow the fight against ASF, changes also in the Animal Identification Act, in the Animal Products Act. And these are the main laws in which changes can lead us to have real supervision of this and the ability to control the spread of the virus. That is not the case, Mr President, that we are able to destroy or eliminate the virus with these statutory changes, but it is not possible, while it is possible to secure further spread of the virus and further areas from the unstoppable spread of the virus. I'll remind you that in August it was... it's been since 2014. We've been keeping this virus in check for a long time, sticking to the bio-insurance policy. Right now it's completely disturbed, we have a lot of bonfires. It is these changes that may cause us to be able to control these spreading bonfires. However, doubts are raised by a number of provisions which I hope we will be talking about in committee and which, I hope, Mr President, we are able to determine beyond divisions. Among other things, such doubts include the financing of this law. That's one thing. The sums that are presented by regulation are really weird and funny. Given the amount of compensation provisions and the possibility of compensation, as well as the co-financing of bioinsurance, this will not be possible with the budgetary assumption we have here. Weird. It is also a fact of writing, and I quote here the effects of the regulation that we have received: Any revenue from the state budget will come from fines imposed under the proposed rules for non-compliance with orders, prohibitions and restrictions on the fight against infectious diseases. It's a concern, it should be a concern for the farmers. It is a fairly strict law which contains a number of provisions on penalties and sanctions, and these penalties are to be the income of the state budget. Is it for damages? The next element that raises great doubt and concern is what is a general idea. We give here enormous powers and legal capabilities of the Veterinary Inspection, which has been armed with tools that it can use. Let me remind you that these tools in the Animal Health Act and the fight against infectious diseases of animals were, could have been used, without allowing the transport of infectious material to be disposed of for 300 km, because such county doctor had such rights. But I am pleased that some of these rights are tightened up and allow faster decisions to be made, so there is a greater possibility of bioinsurance and safety. Of course, we are talking about safety mainly in Wielkopolska, i.e. those big farms that are exposed to this danger. It also raises doubts that we do not have a clear directing of the whole action and the fight against the Veterinary Inspection in the context of the project which appeared in the Ministry of Agriculture, the reorganisation of food safety inspections, i.e. the merger of inspections, because this draft law reduces the powers of veterinarians and the powers of the inspector at all, to whom these activities will belong. And at the head of this inspection does not necessarily have to be the veterinarian, at the head of the provincial inspector will not be the veterinarian, i.e. the one who makes administrative decisions, whose knowledge, competence and experience should be enormous, because the coverage of infectious diseases and related diseases [[♪ The bell ♪]] The veterinarian is huge. That's why the question is, then...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-21-sejm-26-1.u145	Thank you very much, Member. You had five minutes to use. [[But let me finish.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-21-sejm-26-1.u146	On behalf of the Platform...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-21-sejm-26-1.u147	Now, if you'll excuse me, Mr. Jarosław Sachajko of the Kukiz.15 Club. Excuse me, please. [[One sentence, Marshal.]] We're running late.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-21-sejm-26-1.u148	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! On behalf of the Kukiz Club, 15 I am pleased to present my position on the draft law amending certain laws in order to facilitate the control of infectious animal diseases. This is already the second act, which has been prepared by the government as a matter of urgency as a response to the current situation related to the spread of ASF virus. Two weeks ago, Parliament dealt with the speciality of buying pigs from farmers in the ASF protection zones. The Act entered into force on 13 September. In my opinion, it is the responsibility of the Polish authorities and, in particular, of Parliament as a representative body of the nation, which was elected in the general election, to care for citizens. It is the responsibility of the State to react immediately when the agricultural sector is not doing well, especially if the risk is external, independent of farmers. In the case of ASF disease, taking rapid and efficient action is extremely important because the virus is spreading rapidly, and it is important not to lose control of the disease, to control its expansion. The above measures include a draft of this Act to facilitate the eradication of infectious animal diseases, the main objective of which is to improve the action carried out in the fight against infectious animal diseases. The provisions of the project indicate additional measures that are necessary for the effective, effective control and prevention of the spread of infectious animal diseases and clarify the addressees on whom these measures will be required. Without appropriate services equipped with broad competences, it is not possible to cope with any threat. It is therefore important that the Veterinary Inspection cooperates with other services to ensure that their activities form a whole and that they cooperate with farmers to eliminate any risk of disease and, in particular, that the human factor in the transmission of the disease is eliminated. Two weeks ago, at the session of the Parliament's Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development on African swine fever, farmers pointed out that a low-level veterinary inspection neglects its activities and sweeps under the carpet wild boar problems. They dealt with specific situations in detail. Blaming each other, throwing responsibility isn't good for anything, and it certainly isn't beneficial for the process of fighting the disease. Only joint actions can bring tangible, satisfying results, which we all care about here. On the occasion of the procedure of this Act, I would like to point out that, despite undoubtedly a short period of preparation of the Act, which I already mentioned at the beginning, surprise and reflection is the fact that these provisions have not existed so far, although I would like to remind you that the ASF has been dealing with since February 2014. Why was it not even considered in this two-and-a-half-year period to give the Veterinary Inspection appropriate competence? Why was the disease ignored and led to a situation that was out of control and a very crisis? I think the greatest art in skillful government is following a changing reality, adapting to the current situation, dynamics in making and initiating changes. Such foresight and foresight were lacking here. I am very happy that this project was created. This means that if there is an urgent need, the act may be adopted immediately. There are currently several urgent problems to regulate agriculture, and Kukiz15 will therefore vote in favour of this law. As soon as the positions and questions are presented, the agricultural committee will be held and I hope that, after a few substantive amendments, the law will be adopted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-21-sejm-26-1.u149	Thank you very much. Now Mrs Ewa Lieder, Modern Posel Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-21-sejm-26-1.u150	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! A government bill amending certain laws to facilitate the fight against infectious animal diseases should unfortunately have been here on the stand long ago. I think it should be swapped with the previous law that we've recently tried, because these changes are incredibly necessary, they're needed. We as the Modern Parliamentary Club will certainly be in this case behind, but definitely all these proposals are too late. I may not be developing here, a lot of things were said. I have very specific doubts and comments about specific provisions in these laws. First case on the labelling of bovine meat breeds. The current rules and those proposed in this Act do not take into account the specific characteristics of grazing beef cattle, such as: it is taken into account in sheep farming, since the marking of calves within 7 days is very often not possible in the case of grazing livestock. A lot of experts are talking about it. For example, in Scotland there are derogations in such records, because it is simply a dead rule. I think it would be worth considering. These records would simply make life easier for our producers. It is often the case that dairy cattle farmers are encouraged to change their production profile to meat breeds, and if these rules were adapted, they would have the chance to carry out grazing during the pasture season, because in such flocks where there are dozens of pieces, where calving occurs in the pasture, it is simply not possible. Therefore, many breeders are forced to fail to comply with these rules or to give up breeding. Another thing is the requirements of tattooing. In practice - we are talking here about tattooing pig breeding - they are also difficult to implement and I think you could try some other way of tattooing, there are possible different choices. Experts report that this tattooing of the ears is difficult in practice. The next thing you know, it's Art. Point 11 (3) 3. This is a requirement to destroy or remove natural fertilisers. There's an imprecise record that rules out danger, gives us an opportunity to interpret, and that can be the cause of conflict. This is about storing fertilisers and dung, which is also such a hot spot for infectious animal diseases. I don't think we've paid any attention to that in the rules. I'm very happy that the previous clubs are proposing that this bill go to committee. We as the Posen Club We are also in favour of passing these laws to the committee. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-21-sejm-26-1.u151	Thank you very much. Mr Marek Sawicki will now speak on behalf of the Polish People's Party Parliamentary Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-21-sejm-26-1.u152	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! In presenting the position of the Polish People's Party on changes to these regulations, I would like to make it clear that we will support them and we will also try actively at the stage of the committee's work in this work. I just want to ask, because these questions were raised by President Sachajko, why the amendments to these legislation are so late. I would like to remind you that under the current legal conditions, this disease was maintained within 15 km of the border, and for two years this disease did not move. Today we do not know who is de facto responsible for the fight against African swine fever, because Minister Jurgel is the head of the government interministerial team. Two weeks ago, when we examined the first law, Minister Bogucki bragged about the control of the disease and coordination. I am glad that today we have Minister Lech, who also, when I was Minister, was for a time the chief veterinarian, because we finally have a specialist who knows what he is talking about with us. I would also like to point out that both of the ministers I mentioned earlier had excellent insight into the nature of African swine fever disease, the fight against this disease, and I remember precisely that in the sittings of the Parliament committees and here in the Chamber they had ready, prepared recipes as to how to deal with this disease. And it is a pity that they waited eight months to present us with further legislative changes with this experience. I would like to say that neither the previous legislative change nor the proposed amendments today give us guarantees because they both address the issue of African swine fever mainly in the fight against outbreaks already occurring and the restricted area. I think this is such a good time to think about how to increase bioinsurance in areas outside restrictions, how to effectively protect voivodships: Wielkopolska, Łódź, Kujawsko-Pomorskie, from the possible spread of African swine fever. But today, modest funds of several million zlotys are no longer sufficient, because if we have information about the possibility of 5,000 photos in this justification. Or 10,000. You have to think of at least 600,000 pieces. Pieces. And then when we're We fought and could make financial decisions in this smaller area, there were budgetary problems and there was no agreement of the coalition partner, but today one political party is responsible for everything. And today I think that, in the face of the threat that African swine fever is causing this farm, it is worth considering once again whether, for areas adjacent to the areas today designated as restricted areas, specific bioinsurance programmes, including the ban on livestock farming for those farms that do not meet the bioinsurance requirements. It is also worth extending bio-insurance to the entire country and to support farmers in meeting bio-insurance requirements to prepare specific measures. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-21-sejm-26-1.u153	Thank you very much. Mrs Małgorzata Zwierzan will now speak on behalf of the Free and Solidarni wheels.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-21-sejm-26-1.u154	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Free and Solidarnia Circle, I would like to present a position on the government proposal for a law amending certain laws in order to facilitate the fight against infectious animal diseases. The proposed amendments are another element of the fight against African swine fever. This problem hasn't existed for a few weeks, and it's been for two years. It is only today that we are dealing with a bill that improves the functioning of the relevant animal disease prevention services. In the face of a real threat, we consider it necessary to increase the powers of the Veterinary Inspection doctors, as well as to create the possibility of enforcing the rules in force and imposing penalties for violations of the law. This is confirmed by the findings of the Supreme Audit Chamber. Studies have shown a number of deficiencies in the system for the prevention and control of African swine fever. Non-compliance by herd owners was a significant risk. We therefore consider the proposed amendments to be particularly important in order to seal the animal identification and registration system, as well as the possibility of controlling movements of animals. According to some experts, the proposed changes are still only an ad hoc measure. In our opinion, the project presented is not a comprehensive solution. It does not ensure a fully efficient and effective organisation of the competent authorities for the control of infectious animal diseases. We would therefore like to point out how important it is to implement the agricultural programme announced by the Law and Justice. It consolidates the system of official control of food products by setting up a single Public Health Office under the President of the Council of Ministers. The development of a new system organisation favours a more effective operation than making further changes to the current, critical veterinary control and surveillance model. The draft law is of an intervention nature. It introduces concrete solutions that really increase the chances of combating infectious animal diseases. In view of the above arguments, the Free and Solidarni Circle will support this bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-21-sejm-26-1.u155	Thank you very much. 13 ladies and gentlemen have spoken. She's the first to ask Ms. Anna Cicholska, the Law and Justice Club. Question time - 1 minute. You're welcome. The Member is absent. Mrs. Margaret Navel, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-21-sejm-26-1.u156	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! This Act introduces among others. provisions which will enable the holder of the animals to take certain measures to protect the holding from the transmission of infectious diseases. It will be, for example. A warrant for the construction of a fence. Can farmers count on any support in this regard? And another case - the law is intended to allow the slaughter or killing of animals susceptible to an infectious disease located in a protection or surveillance area. I have a question: Does the Ministry plan to introduce prevention by examining animals that are likely to be infected? Germany has already adopted such regulations as apply not only to pigs potentially at risk of infection but also to feral pigs. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-21-sejm-26-1.u157	Thank you. Now the question is asked by Mr Jan Krzysztof Ardanowski, club Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-21-sejm-26-1.u158	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! My question to the Minister arises from a specific case of a farmer from Kujawsko-Pomorskie voivodeship, from the district of wąbrzeski, who, after training organized by the Veterinary Inspection and the farm advisory centre in a very nervous and allergic manner, stated that he was not interested in the problems of bioinsurance and the associated costs to be incurred on the farm in a very acute manner. I regret that his knowledge of the relationship between a particular farm, the stock of animals and others is probably small, but I must say that the question of state participation in farm security costs is a legitimate question. The predecessor also spoke a little bit about it. Can we find any means to help those farms that have to bear high costs of bioinsurance, also in the financial sense? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-21-sejm-26-1.u159	Thank you very much. The question is asked by Mr Krzysztof Szulowski, club Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-21-sejm-26-1.u160	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The bill we are debating is an extremely important project. The presence in our African swine fever country in order to ensure the control of this disease forces the adoption of additional new powers and obligations on individual operators in relation to the current regulations. Additional, new powers will be granted to the Veterinary Inspection, as the county veterinarians have a huge, responsible role to play. They will be able to impose additional orders, prohibitions, restrictions, administrative sanctions, including penalties. Due to the specific nature of the disease - the existence of a reservoir of germ among wild boars, the high contagion of the virus for pigs, the existence of sources of infection just outside Poland - it is difficult to predict how long and in what area this disease will last. Here is my question, which corresponds to the issue raised by Mrs Niedziela, in connection with the ongoing work on the establishment of the Food Safety Authority and the consolidation of inspections. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Isn't there any concern that at least during the transition period...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-21-sejm-26-1.u161	Thank you, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-21-sejm-26-1.u162	...will there be no weakening of disease control activities? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-21-sejm-26-1.u163	Now the question is asked by Mrs Dorota Sunday from the Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-21-sejm-26-1.u164	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Minister, my question, as a further question, is whether you provide for the possibility of extending bioinsurance, especially in vulnerable areas. But the more important question I also asked during the discussion about African swine fever - the creation of a system for collecting dead boars, which is, as you know, the main reservoir of this virus. All scientific authorities say that the more we collect these dead boars, not shot down, with only a few percent infected and 80% infected. About the corpse... Do you foresee any program related to their collection and payment for those found wild boars that have died, with the possibility of being properly disposed of? Whether this is foreseen not only for employees of State Forests or hunters, but also for farmers or people living in a given area who would possibly be compensated for finding [[♪ The bell ♪]] A corpse like that?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-21-sejm-26-1.u165	Thank you very much. The question is asked by Mr Jakub Rutnicki, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-21-sejm-26-1.u166	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I am asking this question as a Member from western Wielkopolska, where we have a great depth when it comes to pig breeding. Indeed, at the moment farmers are terrified that African swine fever can also occur in Wielkopolska. I would like the Minister to be able to guarantee - I know it is very difficult - that these fires will actually be stopped. The issue of bioinsurance, Minister, is very important. At the moment, farmers in Wielkopolska are already self-employed trying to counter the possible emergence of African swine fever, but they need support and assistance. We know that this is a hole, and if this virus were to appear, there would be billions of losses to farmers and to the budget. Is there a chance for such money [[♪ The bell ♪]] Did the farmers of Greater Poland also show up? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-21-sejm-26-1.u167	Thank you very much. The question is asked by Mr Sylvester Khrushch, Kukiz Club15.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-21-sejm-26-1.u168	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have a question: Is the penalty against hunters and hunting circles for failing the decision of the district doctor to reduce the game up to 1/3 of the average salary sufficient? Was she properly consulted? I stress that we are talking about emergency situations. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-21-sejm-26-1.u169	Thank you very much. The question is asked by Mrs Gabriela Masłowska, club Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-21-sejm-26-1.u170	Thank you, Marshal. So far on family farms, especially small ones, e.g. in south-eastern Poland, the breeding of one, two pigs for their own needs, the needs of the family was common. How do the rules introduced to increase the effectiveness of the eradication of infectious animal diseases change the conditions that farmers who hide animals for their own use? Is it even possible to grow one or two pieces for your own use? I ask this because, lately, in my parliamentary office, farmers have made such comments that they cannot produce for themselves at all. It seems unlikely to me - perhaps it is spreading such messages for the use of anti-government propaganda - but please explain, because I am very interested in it. Are you right now? [[♪ The bell ♪]] Can you hide one piece for your family? What are some conditions that need to be fulfilled? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-21-sejm-26-1.u171	Thank you very much, Member. The question is asked by Robert Telus, the Law and Justice Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-21-sejm-26-1.u172	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! Minister! The need to pass this law, I think, does not need to convince anyone, the need to cooperate to prevent this disease, to spread it to the rest of Poland. We have two situations. One is that somehow we have a human factor that spreads this disease. And in this bill we have it secured because there are farmers, certificates, bioinsurance and even penalties for the lack of bioinsurance. And the second, in my opinion, is the more difficult thing to do, the more dangerous one, is the wild one. Minister, in particular, will this bill protect the wild boars so that there is a reduction in the population to what we are planning - 0.5 pieces per hectare? And are those penalties that are... means, are these tools, maybe not penalties, or those tools that are in this bill, enough to get us to [[♪ The bell ♪]] the state we're proposing? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-21-sejm-26-1.u173	Thank you very much. The question is asked by Dariusz Bąk, a club called Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-21-sejm-26-1.u174	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! First of all, I would like to refer to those statements made by your PO and PSL representatives that there are now some negligence. I'd like to remind you that the PO-PSL coalition has been blocking wild boars for a year. [[Applause]] [[Oh, Jesus! What are you saying, sir?]] It's led to the fact that there's a situation today when it comes to wild boars. The proper firing of wild boars by hunting wheels was hindered, leading to such a threat. [[What are you saying?]] [[The truth.]] It is a good thing that such a law is, only I would draw attention to this - of course we will still proceed in committee - that we need to improve the proper relations between the veterinarian and professionals who will shoot off these wild boars, because if this is not done rationally, intelligently, it will happen again to some situations that are unclear, inexplicable, and this will simply be affected by the Polish village. [[♪ The bell ♪]] And you have to...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-21-sejm-26-1.u175	Thank you very much. You did not have time to ask a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-21-sejm-26-1.u176	I am referring specifically to art. 8. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-21-sejm-26-1.u177	The question is asked by Mr Jan Duda, the Law and Justice Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-21-sejm-26-1.u178	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! In the fight against African swine fever, we are aware of this, we need to take rapid and effective action. They are proposed in this bill. However, there is doubt about the free - living game. And here's the story of the wild boars. Are hunting wheels able in a relatively short time on the area of several tens of thousands of hectares to make such a sanitary discharge of wild boars? Can they do that? And the other thing. What about areas where there are no hunting circuits, e.g. urban areas, where do wild boars also live? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-21-sejm-26-1.u179	Thank you very much. Now the question is asked by Mr Jarosław Sachajko, the Kukiz Club15. [[Mr. Marshal, can I correct?]] You wanted to ask me a question? [[Because Mr Fark accused me that I...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-21-sejm-26-1.u180	Mr. Marshal! Minister! We've already talked about the responsibility of hunters here. Of course, it's very big at the moment, but I'd like to ask you something else about the responsibility of veterinarians. [[Veterinarians.]] What is the personal responsibility of veterinarians and is it sufficient? These are people of public trust. We should trust them. Those people should be beyond suspicion. Therefore, I have a question: Are the current regulations certainly at a sufficient level so that farmers - not as it is today - have confidence, do not lose confidence in doctors? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-21-sejm-26-1.u181	Mrs Dorota Sunday is corrected. One minute.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-21-sejm-26-1.u182	Mr. Marshal! Minister! I'm in corrigendum mode. Mr President, the government of the Civic Platform and the PSL did not block any wildfire. That's a lie. That's one thing. Secondly, it was the country that blocked any action that reorganized the Hunting Law. And now you are unable to present the Hunting Law in its entirety, which would oblige the Minister of the Environment to fire properly, and during that term, and in this term of office. Lobbing hunters in this Seym is the biggest. Therefore, hunting law cannot be reorganized. I hope you're finally gonna file a motion, and you're not gonna lie. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-21-sejm-26-1.u183	Thank you very much. [[Mr. Marshal...]] There will be time for discussion at another time. [[Mr. Marshal is one-sided.]] Now you ask Marek Sawicki, a club of the Polish People's Party.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-21-sejm-26-1.u184	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! Minister! I have a question: Are the measures taken by Minister Jurgiel in the last months to combat feral pigs effective? How many of these boars have been slaughtered? There were announcements of the complete elimination of the population of feral pigs in Podlaskie voivodship and adjacent voivodships. So I'm asking you, how much? What is the more dangerous vector for the transmission of this disease, whether it's a boar or a man? And once again, I am going back to the question: Are there measures to extend bioinsurance beyond restricted areas? Those which are given in the explanatory memorandum of the bill are far from sufficient, and in the restriction zone alone we have about 600,000. animals of swine. So I don't think that a dozen million is enough.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-21-sejm-26-1.u185	Thank you very much. The list of Members registered in the vote has been exhausted. Please address the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development, Minister Ewa Lech. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-21-sejm-26-1.u186	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, In the beginning, I would like to express my satisfaction with the fact that all clubs are rather positive about this law. I think she'll meet with support. I would like to answer the questions I have written down one at a time. The first question was asked by Mrs Niedziela, who expressed doubts about the funding of this law. Of course, for the time being, we need to be part of the measures we have to combat infectious diseases. As far as money is concerned, the funds provided for in the special reserve, the money available to the voivods, is a budget of about PLN 300 million, maybe incomplete. [[Well, that's what I'm talking about.]] But we expect to fit in. These are things, unpredictable situations, but it seems to us - today is September - that we can do it. [[Voice from the room: We can do this.]] Yeah, we can do this. About this state thing... [[You got it, you got it, you got it, you got it, you got it, you got it, you got it, you got it, you got it, you got ……]] [[You guys can do anything.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-21-sejm-26-1.u187	Minister, continue. Undersecretary of State of the Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development Ewa Lech: Here, too, was the question about the State Food Safety Inspection and the role of the Veterinary Inspection. These are the laws that were until the end of August. There was an opportunity to comment. I don't think these are the final versions of the bill. Let's see what it looks like. In any event, there will not be any special risks with regard to the fight against infectious diseases due to the creation of a new inspection. Mr Sachajko said here that the Veterinary Inspection in Podlasie sweeps under the carpet problems with ASF. I'm declaring that I'm gonna check it out. Of course, there's a lot of information we're looking into. As there are shortcomings everywhere, but they are resolved on an ongoing basis. So we'll take a look at this information. Ms Ewa Lieder raised doubts about the labelling of meat cattle and the proper implementation of the obligation to notify or mark within 7 days. We don't think it's real. It's not the problem of marking a calf like that. In addition, the Member raised doubts about the tattooing of a pig, the wearing of a tattoo in the ear. At the moment, the duty is to put an earring on the left clam, and the next tattoos are applied to the back. So here we're not talking about the ear. It's such an underinformation. Mr Sawicki, Minister Sawicki, raised doubts about who oversees the fight against ASF. In fact, this is a very good question, because in those countries that fought against ASF, the prime minister was most often in charge of everyone. Here, as the Minister knows, an interministerial team was appointed, headed by Minister Jurgiel. It's just a precaution, because not only is the Veterinary Inspection involved in the fight, but all the forces and resources are needed here. I mean the police, the guards, customs, etc. So that here the interministerial team will coordinate it and Minister Jurgel. On the other hand, as far as the Ministry of Agriculture Forum is concerned, I would like to say that combating this is a little bit different than mitigating the effects. Mr Bogucki is in charge of mitigating the effects, which is actually looking for money, how to help farmers who are at a very disadvantage, in a situation where they cannot sell or move animals. So here it is my duty to do so, and I am responsible for the fight. Not one or the other can be separated, because in case of e.g. Whereas the slaughter of animals due to deteriorating welfare must be anticipated and mitigated and at the same time combatted. I don't see any ridiculous stuff here. Małgorzata Płępek asked if there were studies in the direction of ASF. Of course, research has been underway and an early virus detection program has been underway for 2 years. There are also tested pigs that have died in the region where the fires occurred, as well as in zones, say, yellow, red and blue all wild boars shot off and died. So here we have full information about the virus in the area. If in a given area we find that the dead boars have fallen on ASF, it means that this virus in this environment is, and if we don't find it, it means that it's gone. In short, in the rest of the country, outside the red and navy blue areas... It's for those of you who know what's going on, and I don't want to bring it up. In other areas of the virus The ASF is not established, so when it comes to e.g. about Wielkopolska or other regions where there is a very intense breeding of pigs, so far there is no danger. Of course, such a threat can be posed by man and his ignorance, including lack of knowledge. Mr Ardanowski asks if there are any means available to help farmers financially. What I'm saying is that we were just talking at the ministry yesterday, and we need to think about how to help farmers. One such possibility is to find money in the RDP, among others. for the construction of fences. The Minister tries to think hard about this with Minister Bogucki, but if it turns out that the Minister of Agriculture is unable to cope with it, that is why this inter-ministerial team is here so that everyone can find a way out of the situation together. The next question is whether the Veterinary Inspection will actually be effective during the transitional period when the Act establishing a new inspection enters into force. I think it will, so that I think there are no threats here. Dr. Niedziela also asked if we were looking for dead boars, finding dead boars. Yes, of course. This early detection program has been amended, where fees for wild boars found have been introduced for reporting dead boar. Although it may not be a knock-down amount, because it is 100 PLN. This remuneration is intended for foresters and hunters. We do not foresee these fees or prizes - I do not know what to call it - for those who are in the forest or for farmers to avoid intentional entry, perhaps even deliberate movement of these boars. After talking to professionals, it seems to us that they should be forest workers, forest workers or hunters. When it comes to gathering boars to intensify it, in the case of these three voivodships: Podlaskie, Mazowieckie and Lublin, it was on the interministerial team that it was decided that the voivodeships would enter into agreement with military representatives and soldiers would occasionally pass through the forest and search for these boars. [[Oh, that's a very good solution.]] So it's part of this interministerial team. As for Mr Rutnicki's question about Wielkopolska, let me express such an opinion that, however, where there is large breeding, large industrial farms, there is no problem with bioinsurance. Those small, small employees are the problem. The threat is, of course, huge, and I think there's... No, I'm pretty sure there's no problem with bioinsurance. [[Those little guys are gonna get 'em.]] The problem of bioinsurance just yesterday was considered, whether to implement a bioinsurance program, which has so far been run in two editions. Unfortunately, he hasn't met much interest. I think only 32 farmers came forward in both programmes. So that we have to decide whether we are going in this direction or whether it is some kind of aid, but this is the decision of Minister Jurgiel, and it is not necessarily something to do with prevention, but here we are talking about combating. Mrs Masłowska asked, she asked, to make it clear whether it is acceptable to raise one pig. Of course there is, there is a possibility, while there is an obligation to register this pig in the IRZ system. Two years ago there was no such obligation, we used a derogation, but now one pig can be buried, but it needs to be reported to the identification system. Mr Telus asks whether the bill will secure the firing and whether the tools provided for in this law are sufficient. We hope so, because here the district veterinarian will have the possibility to impose penalties for failing to comply with local law orders that the county doctor will be able to issue. Mr Duda asks if the hunting circles are capable of firing in a short time and what about areas where there are no circuits. We're probably talking about national parks, reservations, and we're gonna have to think here or... Anyway, there might actually be a problem here. What is the personal responsibility of veterinarians? I think Mr Sachajko meant district veterinarians. At the moment, a voivodship veterinarian may have some disciplinary penalties under the Labour Code or the Civil Service Act. These signals get to us, they're all analyzed, and I think that all the doctors who were under attack with criticism have been disciplined, and now it's a little bit different. Minister Sawicki is asking if the virus is wild or human. I think it's mostly wild, but people can, too, because of their ignorance and their evil will to do the wrong thing here. Therefore, we think that the customs services at the borders have much to do to focus not only on cigarettes and alcohol, but mainly on food transported in travellers' luggage. [[Meat certificates, too?]] We didn't bring in the meat testimonies. We have introduced certificates for pigs in these three zones, but we provide for health certificates throughout the country. I think that's all the questions. Thank you. [[Applause]] [[Chairman of the proceedings includes Deputy Marshal Małgorzata Kidawa-Błońska Sejm]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-21-sejm-26-1.u188	Thank you very much. The discussion is closed. The Marshal of the Sejm, after consulting the Sejm Bureau, proposes that the Sejm forward a draft law amending certain laws to facilitate the fight against infectious animal diseases, contained in print No 832, to the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development for consideration. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. I propose, on the basis of an article. 39 (1) (a) 3 of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm for the committee to submit a report on the draft within a time limit allowing for consideration at the current sitting of the Sejm. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. We proceed with the examination of item 4 of the agenda: First reading of the government draft law amending the Rail Transport Act and some other laws (print No. 840). I ask the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Infrastructure and Construction of Mr Andrzej Bittel to present the justification for the bill.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-21-sejm-26-1.u189	Thank you very much. Dear Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to present a government bill amending the law on rail transport and some other laws which entered the Polish Sejm on 15 September this year. The draft law was adopted by the Council of Ministers on 19 July. The purpose of the proposed implementation is to implement Directive 2012/34 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 21 November 2012 establishing a single railway area and supplementing the implementation of Directive 2008/57 of the European Parliament and of the Council on the interoperability of the rail system within the Community. Directive 2012/34 governs the functioning of the rail market. The most important aspects are the operation and cooperation of infrastructure managers and railway operators. In addition, the Directive recasts the Directives and combines the provisions of the existing three Directives relating to the development of the Community's railways, the licensing of railway undertakings and the allocation of railway infrastructure capacity and the levying of charges for the use of railway infrastructure. Pursuant to Directive 2012/34, the European Commission has issued six implementing regulations governing matters relating to: access to railway infrastructure for commercial passenger carriers, the rules to be applied when requiring financial guarantees from railway undertakings by infrastructure managers, the licensing of railway undertakings, the rules to be applied when charging for noise costs, the rules for calculating costs directly incurred as a result of train crossing, and the reporting obligations of Member States in the framework of the monitoring of the railway market. The proposed amendments include the Law of 28 March 2003 on rail transport, the Law of 16 December 2005 on the Railway Fund, the Law of 12 January 1991 on local taxes and charges and the Law of 4 September 1997 on the departments of government administration. On the basis of the Act they will be issued by the Council of Ministers or by the Minister responsible for transport implementing regulations on the procedures for carrying out checks, inter alia. procedures for carrying out checks by the President of the Railway Transport Office on the national register of railway vehicles or on the conditions for access to and use of railway infrastructure. In view of the modification of the importance of basic concepts such as railway infrastructure, railway line or railway siding, I would like to stress that the draft law that I am discussing is the biggest amendment of the rules since 2003, in which the Railway Transport Act entered into force. The main changes introduced by the present law concern the financing of rail transport, the government position of the President, the Railway Transport Office, service facilities and the provision of railway infrastructure. Let me discuss these four aspects in more detail. As regards the financing of railway infrastructure, one of the most important elements of the amendment is the creation of legal opportunities for the development of the so-called. a multi-annual maintenance programme. This programme will set out the tasks for infrastructure managers during their lifetime and the resulting financial resources for their implementation. The programme should contribute to the proper maintenance of the modernised network of railway lines. The adoption of the programme will be the fulfilment of Poland's obligations to the European Union and should translate into a measurable improvement in the quality of service of rail customers, both passengers and freight forwarders. However, the improvement in the way rail infrastructure is maintained will depend on the solutions adopted in the programme, which must be agreed within the work of the Council of Ministers. I would like to stress that the successful implementation of the programme's objectives over a period of several years will make it possible to exploit the potential of the national construction industry much wider than at present. This cooperation will also benefit the economy as a whole. The programme will have an impact on the proper maintenance of the modernised network of railway lines. At the same time, investment effects will be developed. I am convinced that the adoption and implementation of the programme will contribute to improving the competitiveness of rail transport and to preparing a more attractive offer for rail customers. Moreover, the implementation of the multiannual programme should exclude the risk of introducing significant speed restrictions or the exclusion from the operation of lower lines, allowing access to work, schools, health centres, etc. inhabitants of towns far from large urban agglomerations, so-called Polish powiatowej. About the need to develop and reduce barriers in the field of district Poland Ms Beata Szydło, Prime Minister of Government, has said many times. Most of the funding for maintenance of infrastructure under the multiannual programme will go directly to the market, thus directly affecting the development of many sectors of the economy. In my opinion, the multi-annual programme will contribute to the development of Polish companies operating in the railway sector, both contractors and subcontractors of repair and maintenance works, as well as manufacturers and suppliers of railway infrastructure elements from various industries, and ultimately national railway carriers and manufacturers of rolling stock. The proposed amendment to the Rail Transport Act amends the supervisory formula by the Minister responsible for Transport over the President of the Railway Transport Office. Currently, the minister responsible for transport is overseeing the President of the UTK, which is a regulatory body within the meaning of the Directive. At the same time, the Minister of Infrastructure and Construction exercises ownership supervision over PKP and PKP PLK companies, for which the President of UTK makes decisions. In addition, according to the Public Collective Transport Act, the Minister responsible for Transport is the organizer of public collective transport in the field of international and inter-voivodeship rail passenger transport, which is also subject to supervision by the President of the Railway Transport Office. The provisions of Directive 2012/34 indicate the obligation to ensure that the railway regulatory authority is independent of other public administrations. Directive 2012/34 is laid down in Article. Article 55 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 that the railway regulatory authority should be legally independent in terms of organisational, functional, hierarchical and decision-making from any other public or private body. Therefore, in formal terms, this situation eliminates the possibility for the Minister responsible for transport to continue supervising the President of the Railway Transport Office. Therefore, the President of the Railway Transport Office will be appointed and cancelled by the President of the Council of Ministers in accordance with the provisions of the draft amendment to the Railway Transport Act. In accordance with Directive 2012/34, a new group of facilities has been identified, so-called. service facilities for the provision of services necessary for the transport process - in particular fuel stations, railway stations, terminal freight stations, marshalling stations, etc. In addition, the obligation to make them available to all railway operators will be introduced. For service facilities, different rules will apply to the provision and charging of service facilities than for railway infrastructure. Whether an object is included in the service facilities shall be determined by its function as defined in the paragraph. 2 and 3 of Annex 2 to the Act, regardless of whether the facility is composed of railway infrastructure. In contrast to the rules applicable to railway infrastructure for the use of service facilities, charges will be allowed to be charged to finance the full costs of the facility, plus a reasonable profit. In addition, a specific case of a service facility was envisaged, such as a passenger station including the railway station, platforms and routes connecting them. The passenger station will be made available free of charge to travellers, while the carriers will be provided with the necessary space for handling travellers and commercial information for payment. As regards the provision of railway infrastructure, the previous Chapter 6 of the Railway Transport Act concerned only the provision of railway infrastructure for train journeys. Due to the need to regulate the provision of access tracks to service facilities, after which maneuvers are usually carried out, the provision of infrastructure for train and maneuvering journeys has been distinguished and numerous amendments and additions have been made to the applicable rules. One of the most important changes is to extend the catalogue of entities that may apply to the railway infrastructure manager by allocating capacity. This right will be conferred not only on carriers, but also on anyone interested in obtaining capacity, including public collective transport organisers. At the same time, in order to limit fraud, the infrastructure manager will be entitled to request financial guarantees in the event of non-use of allocated capacity. Thank you for your attention, I kindly ask you to adopt this regulation as soon as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-21-sejm-26-1.u190	Thank you very much. The Sejm agreed that the discussion on this item would be held on the five-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and the circle. I'm opening a discussion. You will be the first to speak with Mr Artur Rule, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-21-sejm-26-1.u191	Dear Marshal! Minister! High Seym! The Government's draft law amending the Rail Transport Act and certain other laws, contained in print No 840, aligns national legal rules on rail transport with the amendment of European Union law introduced by Directive No 34 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 2012 on the creation of a single European railway area and implementing rules based on it. The objectives of this document were to revise and harmonise the three directives of the first railway package in order to simplify, clarify and improve the legal framework for the European rail sector, thereby increasing competition, improving market surveillance and facilitating investment in the rail sector. Already during the work on the Directive at the level of the European Parliament, but also the Council of the European Union, Members of the European Parliament and some Member States, including Poland, drew attention to a number of issues relating to the liability for the deficit borne by railway infrastructure managers as a result of the differentiation of rail access charges, which prefer trains equipped with the European ETCS control system, as well as to the problem of existing broadband lines used exclusively for freight services with unusual technical parameters for the European Union, which combine only one Member State with a bordering third country. This was mainly the case for PKP infrastructure, Wide-Wide-Wide-Wide-Wide-Wide-Wide-Wide-Wheeled Steel Line, LHS, which, according to the package, would have to separate the functions of the carrier and the infrastructure manager. Unfortunately, despite the support from the Committee on Transport and Tourism of the European Parliament and the European Parliament as a whole, the relevant provision for wide-range lines was not included in the final version of the document. I am regretting this as a former Member of the European Parliament because it was possible for this amendment to obtain a broad coalition of Members from different countries and from different political groups. Only because of the irreconcilable attitude of the European Commission did not succeed, we have this shape of the directive rather than another. In view of these discrepancies, Poland did not support the changes resulting from the revision of the first railway package in 2012. Dear Marshal! Minister! High Seym! The draft law submitted introduces a number of important changes concerning, among others, the definition of railway infrastructure, the issue of the provision of railway infrastructure, the concept of service facilities, the way of supervision and the appointment of the President of the Railway Transport Office or the plan for financing rail transport. This is an extremely important project which has a huge impact on the functioning of the railway market in Poland on the one hand and, on the other hand, which should be highlighted in particular by implementing European Union law. In view of the above, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice will support the referral of the project to further work in Parliamentary committees. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-21-sejm-26-1.u192	Thank you very much, sir. I invite Mr Stanisław Lamczyk, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-21-sejm-26-1.u193	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I have the honour to present the position of the Civic Platform Parliamentary Club on the government draft law amending the Rail Transport Act and some other laws, print No. 840. The next years can be groundbreaking for the railway industry in Poland. The prospect of huge financial expenditure on the development and modernisation of transport infrastructure can ensure that thousands of Poles will start using trains again in mass. It is important to remember what I always stress about the creation of these small but extremely important infrastructure elements, such as rail mijanki, and the electrification of local lines, which are necessary today for the rational use of the track network in Poland. However, going back to the draft law itself: It obliges us to provide such legal solutions for rail transport to be as high as possible in the future. The revision of the law, i.e. in this case aligning national rail transport laws with European Union law, and creating the conditions for a single European railway area in the future, is a step in the right direction. However, due to the assumptions and extensive issues contained in the government draft law amending the Rail Transport Act and some other laws, the Civic Platform Parliamentary Club proposes that the project be directed to further work in committees. All this is needed in connection with the liberalisation of the rail transport market in the European Union, and therefore the purpose of the proposed amendment is to adapt national transport laws to the revision of European law introduced by the Directive of the European Parliament and of the Council on the creation of a single European railway area and to the implementing rules adopted on this basis, as well as the regulations of the European Commission and the various directives. Many provisions must be amended in our legislation, especially certain regulations of the Minister of Infrastructure must be repealed. The most important changes introduced by the law include: the definition of railway infrastructure, the issue of making railway infrastructure available, the definition of rules for making it available, matters concerning service facilities - my previous speakers spoke about the role of the President of the Railway Transport Office - the financing of rail transport as well as matters relating to many other laws. The Rail Transport Act, Chapters 1, 2 and 3, as well as many other laws need to be adapted. This also applies to chapters 4, 5 and 6 of the Railway Transport Act. So it's a lot of work, the bill is very extensive, it's about 200 pages long, so there's a lot of work. We are therefore in favour of supporting these changes as a Civic Platform, but we ask you to refer the project to the Committee on Infrastructure. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-21-sejm-26-1.u194	Thank you very much, sir. I invite Mr Krzysztof Sitarski, club Kukiz.15.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-21-sejm-26-1.u195	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! When considering the draft amendment to the Railway Transport Act presented by the Government of the Republic of Poland, the following questions must be asked. Does maintenance of railway infrastructure pay off, who will win the race for investment funds for the coming years: the Main Directorate of National Roads and Motorways or Polish Railway Lines, and who will benefit from contractors and suppliers when it comes to asphalt, concrete, steel? Preliminaryly presenting the position of the Kukiz Club15 on the government draft law amending the Rail Transport Act and some other laws, I began to signal the key problem of raising infrastructure investments, which will continue for 5, 6 years. Then there is likely to be a drastic decline in demand. It must be appreciated that the State has tried to improve the rules on rail traffic, among others. by defining the terms in the Act, such as: freight terminal, etc. In conclusion, the legislator has introduced many new concepts, the rules for making railway infrastructure available and using this infrastructure have been improved. There may also be organisational changes at the Railway Transport Office. The legislators focused on changes in the rules on capacity allocation contracts and the use of railway capacity by infrastructure managers and service infrastructure operators. We hope that the new rules will help to reduce the risks of rail traffic safety and the safety of passenger transport or goods. Will the amendment contribute to railway development? There are many doubts, time will show and show this further proceding, as my clubmate Sylvester Khrushch will say.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-21-sejm-26-1.u196	Thank you very much, sir. I invite Mr Sylvester Khrushch, the Kukiz Club15.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-21-sejm-26-1.u197	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Continuing with the presentation of the position of the Kukiz Club15 on the government draft law amending the Rail Transport Act and some other laws, I am pleased to present the following issues. Today we have one of the biggest EU funds in history to be allocated to rail transport - about EUR 10 billion in the 2014-2020 budget perspective - and our country must meet this challenge. This is a difficult process because European legislation is constantly being amended and its transposition into national law raises various legislative problems as well as practical application. An example of this is the legislation on the next railway package. Therefore, the project under examination concerns the opening of the railway market and the standardisation of standards for such transport in accordance with the provisions of Directive 2012/34/EU of the European Parliament and of the Council of 21 November 2012 on the establishment of a single European railway area. It is worth noting that safety on the tracks is the most important element here. Already today, we are pleased to see a systematic decrease in the number of railway accidents both in Poland and throughout Europe. I would like to stress that during the first term of Poland in the European Parliament and during the second term of office, when I spoke with my previous speaker, Mr Rule, we fought for these packages, we fought for good legislation for Poland. I hope that we will be able to get a lot in committee even now. In the committee, we will discuss changes in the definition and definition of the components of our railway infrastructure, the processes for allocating capacity and charging for the use of infrastructure, the question of determining the competence and independence of the President of the Railway Transport Office, which is important, also the definition of the rules for the functioning and location of our railway stations. Ladies and gentlemen! A smart revision of rail law and the transposition of regulations into rail law are necessary, we all agree with that, but they must take into account the interests of our national companies, and then the competitiveness of this mode of transport will improve, which will help introduce new technologies in our country and, what is important, will improve the competitiveness of entire regions in Poland. Therefore, as a parliamentary club, we will support the referral of this project to further proceding and work to make sure that these solutions contribute as much as possible to the development of this mode of transport. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-21-sejm-26-1.u198	Thank you very much, sir. I invite Mr Mirosław Suchon, the Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-21-sejm-26-1.u199	Thank you very much. Dear Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I am pleased to present on behalf of the Poselski Club a modern position on the government draft law amending the Rail Transport Act and some other laws, print No. 840. Ladies and gentlemen! This law is a government submission. As we read in the explanatory memorandum, the aim of the amendment is to adapt the national regulatory standards for rail transport to the revision of European Union law introduced by the Directive of the European Parliament and of the Council of 21 November 2012 on the creation of a single European railway area and a number of implementing rules based on it. In addition, the Act complements the amendments implementing Directive 2008/57/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council of 17 June 2008 on the interoperability of the rail system in the Community and introduces in the Railway Transport Act amendments of a sequencing and clarifying nature which do not comply with Union law. For starters, on behalf of my club, I have such a request to the government party that these submissions try to deliver somehow earlier to the High House, because sometimes it is that if this space is missing for a substantive analysis of the projects, it may be that the High House will leave, colloquially speaking, bubble, and we would like to avoid all of this. So I would ask you very much to take into account this request we have made regarding the early delivery of these projects. High Izbo! The proposed amendment includes four laws: on rail transport, on the Railway Fund, on local taxes and charges and on government departments. According to the information provided by the Government following the adoption of this draft law, three regulations will be repealed and five regulations will be issued, including one completely new one. This new regulation will result in an increase in the costs borne by rail carriers, moreover, also by public rail transport organisers, including the state budget and the budget of voivodship authorities. I therefore ask you to provide information on the conditions which led the Minister in this case and to do so immediately. All the more so because, as the explanatory memorandum states, there are countries in the Community which have the freedom to set the deadline for this obligation. This work is ongoing, so it may not be necessary to implement it immediately, so quickly. Our attention was also drawn to the draft regulation on the activities carried out by the President of the Railway Transport Office, for which fees are levied, in particular the annex which regulates these charges. In this Annex, the issue of a certificate to the entity responsible for the maintenance of the railway vehicle in the area of freight wagons and the verification of compliance with the conditions or requirements contained in that certificate was valued at 7 000. zł, whether it lasts one hour, two hours or maybe 10 hours. And, of course, I would like to ask the Minister here to explain the reasons for applying the rates at this level, not at any other level. I would very much ask for a written statement of calculation and justification. Turning to such more specific provisions, the draft states that, at the request of the State Committee on Railway Accidents, the definition of a serious accident was corrected by a mistake - I do not know how it came to the conclusion that it was a mistake - to avoid the word "heavyly" referring to wounded persons. This raises the obvious question: Is it in the interest of rail passengers to reduce the level of response to railway incidents? In turn, the provisions of the Article. Article 14 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 2 and 4 have been improved in order to eliminate interpretation doubts as to the scope of application of the provision. The justification states that the doubts concerned the formulation of a traffic safety risk, which was improved to a significant risk to railway safety. There are doubts here, too, because such a provision eliminates risks that are not significant risks. So is this provision in the interests of passengers? And then there's the art. 38d paragraph. 3 which allows the Minister to provide assistance dedicated to certain types of rail transport, rail transport undertakings or undertakings wishing to use it. There is also a question to the Minister: Is it an idea to do this second mining in turn? 'Cause if we need backup, I don't know, like... intermodal transport, it is necessary to build terminals, encourage use, not support some companies. The budget isn't a bottomless box. So, in our opinion, we're going to need very detailed explanations here. I would also ask the Minister to send these detailed explanations to the Modern Club [[♪ The bell ♪]] in writing. Of course, this is part of the doubt, but since the project partially implements Community rules, I ask on behalf of the Poselski Club that it be transferred to the committee for further work. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-21-sejm-26-1.u200	Thank you very much, sir. I invite Mr Kazimierz Kotowski, a club of the Polish People's Party.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-21-sejm-26-1.u201	Dear Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Today we begin work on a draft law amending the Rail Transport Act and some other laws, print no. 840. In his speech, the Minister presented the purpose of the project and introduced us to it. He also discussed all these elements and actions of the government which will have to be taken and implemented so that all the provisions contained in the 2012 Directive in general are also included in this law, so that the areas of operation covered by rail traffic can be harmonised and be well served for further development and economic cooperation. In the material presented, we can see that... We believe that this preparatory work, as well as this provision, contains the necessary elements, the most important changes. The most important changes have been identified. We are talking about harmonising the definition of infrastructure, improving the definition of infrastructure manager, defining the concepts of railway lines, sidings and infrastructure elements that exist and, all this indicates, will be functioning in the near future. Rules for the provision of railway infrastructure have also been laid down. They're talking about a directory of entities. This may indicate that this area of economic activity, as if it could open up to other sectors with which it sees the possibility of cooperation, and that there is a need for cooperation, cooperation in order to make good use of infrastructure as a national good, is necessary and necessary. The new element practically identified in the provisions of this law are railway infrastructure facilities, so-called. service infrastructure. My previous speakers also paid attention to this record. In the proposed provisions, in the proposed proposal, we are also talking about whether we can define a new way of supervising this area by the President of the Railway Transport Office. There are regulations on the length of the term of office, supervision is defined. It is good that we are also talking about the location and location of the education area, because this economic activity, services, is also very important in terms of the objective of continuing a good mission and good economic results. Rules have also been laid down and may have been outlined only, a skeleton has been created, the financing of rail transport. The Minister mentioned a long-term maintenance programme. As regards this issue, when the project goes through and we work on it in committees, I think we will also be talking about investment resources, bearing in mind the specific assumptions that were adopted during the preparation of the procedures to enable the use or possibility of support for investment in the nearest programming period from the European Union, and the resources allocated to rail, rail transport, have taken a special place here, have been identified as a priority in these assumptions. Your Marshal, High Izbo, the club of the Polish People's Party is in favour of passing the project to the committee [[♪ The bell ♪]] and continue to work. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-21-sejm-26-1.u202	Thank you very much, sir. I invite Mr Ireneusz Gaina, the Free and Solidarnia Members' Circle.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-21-sejm-26-1.u203	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Freedom and Solidarnia Circle, I present my position on the draft law amending the Rail Transport Act and some other laws, print No. 840. The purpose of the amendment to the Act is to adapt national legal standards for rail transport to the amendment of European Union law introduced by Directive 2012/34/EU of the European Parliament and of the Council of 21 November 2012 on the establishment of a single European railway area and its implementing rules. The Free and Solidarnia Members' Circle accepts the trend of the amendment to align national definitions with European standards, as is the case when the definition of infrastructure is aligned with that of the Directive. It is therefore useful to refer to the introduction of a reference to Annex 1 to the Act, which sets out the components of the railway infrastructure in a way that is even more structured than the Directive itself. In this way, the mutual definition of railway infrastructure by railway area and railway area by rail infrastructure has been eliminated, leaving only the definition of railway area by rail infrastructure. It is also useful to refer to the proposed changes concerning, inter alia, the definition of the infrastructure manager, the railway line, the railway sidewalk and the railway network. They introduce legislative order and contribute to a better understanding of legislation by citizens. In addition, the introduction of provisions on exemptions from certain provisions of the Act in respect of infrastructure used exclusively for its own use, where the concept of private infrastructure has been introduced, and for railway infrastructure located in the repair workshops of rolling stock, wagon or locomotive facilities, contributes to greater flexibility in the application of those provisions and will have a positive impact on the economics of transport undertakings. Similarly, the change in the scope of the exemption from the provisions of the Law in respect of railway sidings, which extends the scope of application by Chapter 6 in connection with the obligation to make railway sidings accessible to service facilities available, will have a positive impact on real economic processes. The changes proposed in the draft law concerning the organisation of the operation of rail transport in Poland, including the appointment of the President of the Railway Transport Office by the President of the Council of Ministers and the re-formation of its duties and service obligations, are considered beneficial. This will strengthen the position of President of the UTK vis-à-vis the Minister responsible for rail transport, i.e. Minister of Infrastructure, and increase the independence of this institution. Your Marshal, High Izbo, Circle of Polish Free and Solidarni will support the proposed bill, requesting that it be passed to the committee for further work. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-21-sejm-26-1.u204	Thank you very much, sir. Members have asked questions. Anyone else want to join the list? If not, I'm closing the list. The first question is asked by Małgorzata Płępek, the Civic Platform Club. Question time - 1 minute.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-21-sejm-26-1.u205	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! In my opinion, we're back to the old days. There is a tightening of the conditions for access to the passenger transport market in view of the possibility of launching new commercial passenger services. The approval of the President of the Railway Transport Office will be necessary for the provision of such services. It will be accepted if the new carrier does not compromise the economic balance of the company's activities, which already provides passenger services on the basis of a contract with the transport operator, i.e. if it is not at risk of reducing the revenues from subsidised transport. This will only be a discretionary decision of the Railway Transport Authority. High Izbo! This is the direct protection of transport subsidised from the state budget from operators who would organise transport [[♪ The bell ♪]] On your own. I have a question: Are these provisions in line with the fourth railway package of the European Union and the declarations that Poland will develop the passenger transport market, or are they contrary to them? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-21-sejm-26-1.u206	Thank you very much, Member. I invite Mr Sylvester Khrushch, the Kukiz Club15.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-21-sejm-26-1.u207	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Seym! Railway affairs for the Polish government are very important for the European Commission. Everyone puts priorities here, but I have a question: If we unite common legislation together, common standards - this is a good direction, but I have a question for the Minister - how are our preparations for other countries? Are we at the forefront of this legislation, or are we on the tail? Is it that maybe we will adapt to all standards, and some country next door, I don't know, for example Lithuania, will not be able to do that? So my question is where we stand with legislation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-21-sejm-26-1.u208	Thank you very much, sir. And I invite Mr Krzysztof Sitarski, Kukiz Club15.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-21-sejm-26-1.u209	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! According to Art. The 38th Rail Transport Act is the maintenance of the railway line by the rail road manager who is responsible for the financing of the railway infrastructure he manages. If the administrator finds that he is unable to realise the capacity allocated to him, he will, as amended, proceed with the liquidation of the railway road. Is infrastructure of strategic importance for Poland still railway? That's my question. Does the new rules make it easier to remove rail passenger connections from timetables in municipalities and powiats? I would like to ask you to explain what the local government unit and its residents are going to do when the manager withdraws from maintaining the railway road and the local government units cannot afford to maintain the railway infrastructure in its territory. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-21-sejm-26-1.u210	Thank you very much, sir. I invite Mr Tomasz Kostusia, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-21-sejm-26-1.u211	Dear Marshal! Minister! The draft law has been proposed for years to lay down the conditions for the conclusion of a long-term contract between the government and PKP PLK for the maintenance of the railway line. What changes will concern the length of contracts and their financing? Finally, what changes will be made to the owners of railway sidings? How does the government intend to support their owners so that they can maintain them and modernise them without significant burdens? In addition, I would like to ask, what is the work on a common ticket, which will allow you to travel by trains of any carrier on the basis of one ticket? What does the implementation of this project look like and how do the actors who will have to accept it, in particular PKP and regional carriers, refer to it? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-21-sejm-26-1.u212	Thank you very much, sir. I invite Mrs Gabriela Masłowska, the Law and Justice Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-21-sejm-26-1.u213	Thank you very much, Marshal. I have a question about the cost of this implementation. This Directive 2012/34 of the European Parliament and of the Council intervenes very strongly in the organisation of rail transport in Poland, until it is defined, for example, rules for the operation of railway stations. I would therefore like to ask, what are the costs of implementing this directive and for what period it was planned and whether, in this way, we will bear such a burden in financial terms, because if it is to improve the competitiveness of Polish railways, it is good. It is only a matter of costs and whether we can afford it, and at what time it is to be done. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-21-sejm-26-1.u214	Thank you very much, Member. I invite Mr Stanisław Lamczyk, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-21-sejm-26-1.u215	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! The Minister has just mentioned district Poland. This is a very important problem. As we know, in the county Poland 60 cities, which have about 10,000. residents, no access to the railroad. In the Czech Republic, which are next door, only two such cities have no access. At the moment, many district cities would expect such a connection to the railway, but it is impossible because the resources are limited and the rules are the same for local, district lines, as the Minister said, and precisely national ones. Wouldn't it be worth wondering if it would be possible to separate these district lines and then the renovations would be cheaper, it would be cheaper to refurbished, it would be possible to refurbished more? And that is why the question is: What about Poland district, Minister? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-21-sejm-26-1.u216	Thank you very much, sir. I invite Mr Mirosław Suchon, the Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-21-sejm-26-1.u217	Thank you very much. Dear Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I have noticed that unlike previous human rights laws in the case of the President of the UTK, you have refused to continue this unsavory tradition. Something was bothering me, however, and it has indeed turned out that this directive imposes such an obligation on Member States to open and competitive recruitment. I very much thank the European Commission that at least one important position in Poland has been defended against Misiewicz. However, I would like to ask you a very specific question. In the current wording of the law, there was a provision of an article. Article 5 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 5 specifying that, in the event of a threat to the safety of rail traffic or the safety of the carriage of passengers and goods, the manager shall take action to eliminate that threat, including the interruption or limitation of rail traffic on all or part of the railway line. The explanatory memorandum states that the provision has been transferred to Article. Article 17 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 2 to ensure consistency of the exemptions specified [[♪ The bell ♪]] in Article 4, paragraph 1 But in the project we're investigating, there's no record of that. I wanted to ask you what happened to him. Did he accidentally disappear, whether it was consciously done, and if it does disappear, would it not be a threat to safety in rail traffic? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-21-sejm-26-1.u218	Thank you very much, sir. Mr Jerzy Meysztowicz, the Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-21-sejm-26-1.u219	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! A change is made at the point concerning the President of the Railway Transport Office, namely a revision of the supervisory formula by the Minister responsible for Transport over the President of the Railway Transport Office. The appointment and dismissal of the President of the Railway Transport Office will be the responsibility of the President of the Council of Ministers. Here I will allow myself to disagree with Mr Profit that it is good that it will be an independent office. I cannot imagine a situation in which the President of the Railway Transport Office will not cooperate and will not, however, pursue a common policy with the Ministry of Infrastructure, with those responsible for rail transport. I see no reason why another official of this rank is to be appointed by the Prime Minister or by the Prime Minister if he is to be so in the future. And the question is: What is the purpose of this change? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-21-sejm-26-1.u220	Thank you very much, sir. The last question is asked by Mr Kazimierz Kotowski, a club of the Polish People's Party.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-21-sejm-26-1.u221	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Has the position of local governments or communities been taken into account in the work that we are going to continue, or has it been done at this stage already? We know that this also applies to this area and these people. Furthermore, I do not know whether I have read it, perhaps I have not read it, because I do not know whether in this act we will also refer to narrow-track railways, because such also function, whether we leave them to regional or district governments. Last question: How, in the light of all these assumptions, is the preparation of infrastructure investments financed by the European Union [[♪ The bell ♪]] And are we gonna make it? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-21-sejm-26-1.u222	Thank you very much, sir. The list of Members registered in the vote has been exhausted. I ask the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Infrastructure and Construction of Mr Andrzej Bittel to answer questions.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-21-sejm-26-1.u223	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! At first, I would like to thank you for your willingness to continue to proceed with this presentation, which is very valuable information for us and we are very pleased with it. I hope that the work will proceed at the right pace for this complex matter, without undue delay, we finally have an important matter ahead of us, and we also have proceedings related to the non-implementation of this directive. And that's also the answer to some of the questions that have been asked. As far as Mrs Margaret Navel's question is concerned, in principle the provisions we are introducing are in line with the fourth package. Here as if we are trying to solve these issues so that they are already in line for the future. As for Mr Khrushch's question of implementation, it is so in the middle. Some countries have implemented, some have not implemented, but we have the European Commission, yes, we have a follow-up to this, so we need to move on. In answer to Mr Sitarski's questions, we are trying not to eliminate. We're putting in a program to help maintain these lines. That's also what I was talking about, justifying the bill. As far as Mr Kostusia's question on the common ticket is concerned, work is underway, they are at the preliminary stage. As a rule, we expect that their development will be such that, of course, you can buy different tickets at one cashier, because it is kind of a basic issue. As regards Mrs Butterwska's question about the costs of implementing this law, they are described in detail in the impact assessment. In addition, it must be said that the costs resulting from the maintenance programme must also be borne in mind, as it is as if it is not yet described in the impact assessment. [[But what is the cost?]] 46 and 70 million depending on the position, whether taxes or issues related to the maintenance of the institution of the President of the Railway Transport Office. As to Mr Lamczyk's question, which is related to Poland's county, we, as the Ministry, have the task of maintaining the entire network. And that is why we need to put in place the programme, and that is why we stress the need to put in place a programme in which we will try to finance the entire network as far as possible. I would like to say to Mr Suchoni that the issue he is referring to is transferred to the article. 17 and there are provisions for it. Yes, sir, we checked now. Check it out. As regards Mr Meysztowicz's question, the position of President of the UTK is as if directly adapted to the directive and, of course, cooperation, cooperation with the President will probably be complete, while its formal legal position must be changed, i.e. these formal dependencies must be removed as regards the minister responsible for transport. With regard to Mr Kotowski's question, we have narrow-track issues in separate intellectual processing and perhaps a little too early to mention it. I hope I answered all the questions. Requesting written information will, of course, be met. Thank you kindly.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-21-sejm-26-1.u224	Thank you very much, sir. The discussion is closed. The Marshal of the Sejm, after consulting the Sejm Bureau, proposes that the Sejm refer to the Government's draft law amending the Rail Transport Act and certain other laws contained in print No 840, to the Committee on Infrastructure for consideration. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. At the same time, the Marshal of the Sejm pursuant to Article. The 95 Rules of Procedure of the Sejm shall set a time limit for the submission of the report by the committee by 18 October 2016. As there is no applicant as regards item 5 of the agenda, we move on to item 6 of the agenda. We proceed with the examination of item 6 of the agenda: First reading of the parliamentary draft law amending the Civil Code, Family and Care Code, Code of Civil Procedure and the amendment of other laws (Print No. 730). I ask Mrs Agnieszka to pursue the statement of reasons for the bill.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-21-sejm-26-1.u225	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour to represent Members of the Kukiz Club as rapporteur for the bill amending the Civil Code, Family and Care Code, Civil Procedure Code and other laws, print No 730. The bill was submitted through members of the Kukiz club15, but de facto it is a change proposed and advocated by intellectually disabled people, their parents and carers and non-governmental organisations that have been involved in helping people with disabilities for many years. In fact, ten years are waiting for this shift. Its main objective is to ensure that intellectually disabled persons are adequately protected from the negative effects of their deficits while preserving their ability to express their will. The current rules designed to protect people with disabilities from the negative effects of their illness are based on an institution of total or partial incapacity. These two institutions interfere very strongly with the freedom and dignity of persons with intellectual disabilities. For example, because of fear of a dentist or before a regular medical procedure, we often deprive them of the possibility to go to elections, to buy an apartment, to marry, to education or even to set up a bank account. An average of about 2 years is often expected to determine involuntaryness. During this time, there may be a great deal of work in health matters. The institution of incapacitation is primarily a violation of the Constitution, but also of the UN Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities of 2006 ratified by Poland in 2012 and in particular Article. The 12th Convention states that persons with disabilities have the right to be recognised everywhere as legal entities on an equal footing with other persons. At the same time, the State is to take appropriate measures to ensure that people with disabilities have access to the support they may need while maintaining their right to legal action. In recent years, the number of incapacitations has been growing surprisingly rapidly in Poland. At present, it is on average over 60,000. Until a few years ago, there were 20 and 30 thousand of them. Let us add that all institutions, including the Ombudsman, are alarmed that this institution is very often abused. The contested law provides for the introduction of two legal forms which are judicially established: a healthcare professional and a legal guardian for persons with intellectual disabilities. It would be possible to introduce a medical care provider for an intellectually disabled person who is 16 years old if it did not have sufficient discernment, necessary for all medical procedures to save the life or the health of such a person. In accordance with the provisions of the Proceded Law, a medical guardian would establish a custody court at the request of an intellectually disabled person, parents or carers on the basis of a significant or moderate disability decision. The introduction of a legal guardian institution for persons with intellectual disabilities would also be possible if they did not have sufficient discernment in very individual cases identified by the family court. This institution would be intended for an intellectually disabled person over 18 years of age, whose disability would also be confirmed in a judgment of significant or moderate disability. The possibility of setting up a guardian with competence to represent or co-represented is important in these proposals. The project indicates only these two forms of care: representational care - a disabled person has a retained capacity for legal action, and its guardian represents it only in the court's jurisdiction; care with competence for co-decision - which means that the guardian must additionally consent to some of the legal acts indicated by the court. A decision to choose one of these forms or both would be taken by a court depending on the different scopes of legal action. In the proposed amendment, I would like to pay particular attention to the change of terms which are currently in force in Polish law. These are terms like mental retards. or disability. In our project, we replace them for the first time with intellectual disability. The earlier terms in the laws, also in the Civil Code, are clearly misconstrued, and it is they that violate the dignity of the disabled person. This is seemingly a very small change, but for the environment of people with disabilities it represents a big step forward in relation to the way people perceive disability consciously. The changes proposed in the project make it more flexible to protect people with intellectual disabilities and allow them to shape them individually, adapting them to individual needs or situations. Thanks to the new rules, it will be possible to avoid a broad and absolute effect of incapacity, whether total or partial, which is often perceived as stigmatizing unfortunately and, on the other hand, often risked being used by family members not in the interest of an intellectually disabled person. The new legal guardian institution, both with competence for co-decision and representation, will allow courts to limit interference in the decision-making sphere of a person to the minimum necessary, leaving it free to decide on other matters in which it can deal. It will therefore be an institution that protects against the negative consequences of a wrong decision in the area where such a threat occurs and, at the same time, an intellectually disabled person will retain his full legal capacity in the rest of his life. This institution will also allow for parallel degrees of interference depending on the sphere of action - in matters more important (higher risk), a guardian with the right to representation can be established, in matters less important a guardian with the right to co-decision can be established and some cases can be left to the free decision of an intellectually disabled person. In the current legal situation, such flexibility was not possible at all. I would like to add that the solutions proposed in the proposed law have also been based on the principles developed by the Committee on Civil Law Codification - that is very important, I would like to stress - and have received a positive opinion from the National Sejm of People with Disabilities, which brings together more than 150 NGOs who are involved in helping people with disabilities. The opinion was quite positive, and the seymist asks for this project to be adopted. The project was evaluated by many institutions. With regard to the comments made in the various opinions, I would like to point out very clearly at the outset that most of the criticisms of the draft are due to the overinterpretation of the notified provisions. The purpose of the Act is not to introduce new conditions for restricting the freedom of action of disabled persons. The draft law aims to introduce the possibility of using softer forms of legal and medical supervision for disabled persons, which are currently severely restricted by their own participation in legal transactions under the rules on incapacity, whether partial or total. At the first stage of the legislative process, the Sejm Analysis Office issued a negative opinion on the compatibility of this project with the European Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities, but the Ministry of Foreign Affairs presented the opposite opinion, arguing that the project was bringing Poland closer to meeting the objectives of this Convention. BAS' opinion was that carers' institutions restrict the rights of persons with intellectual disabilities, but without paying attention to the fact that the current institution of incapacity is a much greater restriction. There were also opinions from the Marshal's Office of the Silesian Voivodeship, which drew attention to the fact that the catalogue of restrictions on legal activities should be rigidly defined. However, in the same opinion it was stated that, given that the subject is specific, there should be considerable flexibility in assessing the situation of a disabled person. So there is a definite contradiction here. The comments also concerned whether the family courts were sufficiently prepared for this kind of ruling. In fact, this argument cannot be the subject of an in-depth discussion, because, as parliamentarians, we have the task of primarily caring for the good, the interests of the citizen, rather than guided by the issue of capacity or failure of institutions or offices. The courts are for people and it is a problem for the courts to adapt their functioning to the tasks entrusted to them by the legislator and which citizens require. The comments also contain reservations about the language used in the project - mainly that it is imprecise. Of course, as I mentioned earlier, this project is not a legal project, it is an environmental project. Let us also remember that the language of the laws is to be understood by the addressees above all. We have decided to use such a language, to use it, because such language is also spoken by people with disabilities, their families and their carers. The opinions on the project, even the less favourable ones, clearly stress that the current rules on persons with disabilities and their incapacitation need to be amended. The notified project in its legal structure may contain some defects, even it certainly does, but it is not a reason to take a disabled chance for a better life. While working on it in the committee, we have the opportunity to address shortcomings and take into account all the comments - the attention of the legal community or the comments from Members. Dear colleagues! Dear fellow Members, On behalf of themselves, but above all of those with intellectual disabilities, their parents, carers, who look forward to changing their dignity for many years, I ask you to support this project and direct it to work in committees so that the bill in the final version is a good legislative step towards improving the quality of life of people with intellectual disabilities. The project is an expected and socially acceptable project in its purpose and legitimacy. It should not become the subject of any political dispute, so in this respect I would very much ask you to treat it with particular sensitivity, because it concerns the lives of people to whom we are particularly guilty of due care and respect. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-21-sejm-26-1.u226	Thank you very much, Member. The Sejm agreed that it would hear 10 minutes' statements on behalf of the clubs and the circle in the discussion on this item. I'm opening a discussion. The first vote will be taken by Mrs Barbara Bartus, Parliamentary Club, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-21-sejm-26-1.u227	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the pleasure and the honour to refer on behalf of my Parliamentary Club Law and Justice to the draft law amending the act - Civil Code, Family and Care Code, Civil Procedure Code and to the amendment of other laws contained in print No. 730. This amendment provides for changes not only in the codes mentioned in the title of the draft, but also in the Act on Competitions of Doctors and Dentists, the Act on Occupational and Social Rehabilitation and the Employment of Persons with Disabilities, the Act on Judicial Costs in Civil Matters and the Act on Patients' Rights and the Act on Patient Rights. The proposed amendment provides for the possibility of setting up a medical care provider for an intellectually disabled person who is 16 years old. The application in this respect could be made by an intellectually disabled person, his parents or a statutory representative on the basis of the indications contained in the disability judgment or a judgment with a moderate or significant degree of disability. For a person who is intellectually disabled who is 18 years old, a legal guardian could be established, as proposed. An application for the establishment of a legal guardian could be made by an intellectually disabled person, his or her relatives in a straight line or siblings. In the event of the establishment of a healthcare professional, the project shall propose that the court permit required today be withdrawn if the patient objects to the examination or provides him with other health benefits. On the other hand, a legal guardian would assist a person under his care in carrying out more important legal activities or represent him as a proxy to the extent specified by the court of custody. A number of opinions are attached to the draft law discussed at this point, starting with opinions coming from marshal offices, through the opinion of the National Council of Sądowice, the Chief Medical Council, the Attorney General, the Supreme Court and the Ministry of Family, Labour and Social Policy. The project is accompanied by opinions of the Sejm Analysis Office. In conclusion, one of the opinions, precisely those from the Sejm Analysis Office, states that the draft law is incompatible with European Union law, as you mentioned. I would like to stress that the Legislative Committee, at which you were present, and which I am a member, has very deeply relied on the admissibility of further proceding on this project, but after a long discussion, the committee in the vote issued an opinion in which it rejected this finding of non-compliance with European Union law, considered this project acceptable and today we have the first reading of this project right here in the Parliament's Chamber. However, this does not change the fact that there are a number of reservations about the project, a number of substantive reservations which you mentioned or did not mention by the opinion-makers, and I would like to draw attention to some of these opinions. Firstly, the Śląskie voivodship also submitted a number of negative comments and I wanted to present at least a part of it, where there is a provision that the proposed new legal guardian assists the person under care in carrying out the most important legal activities or represents it as a proxy to the extent specified by the custody court. However, the legislation does not specify which legal acts are more important. Given the importance of the impact of the amendment on the lives of its addressees, the operation of such a general phrase should be considered questionable. There's a lot of other opinions here, too. The Śląskie voivodship also emphasizes that applicants did not specify the conditions for establishing one or the other form, i.e. care with representation or care with competence for co-decision. The Łódzkie Voivodeship also stresses that in the case of a healthcare professional, this involves the need to appear in district disability decision-making teams in order to obtain an indication concerning the fulfilment by an intellectually disabled person of the grounds that there is no discernment to justify the establishment of a healthcare professional. [[♪ The bell ♪]] It is only with this record that you will be able to apply to the custody court. There is no such provision where a guardian is requested by a guardian court. Here is a number of these opinions and I just wanted to say that the bill must be understood by the addressees. The subject of this law is also the courts that would have to decide, and not just the courts, because for example... [[Voice from the room: Proceed to the punch line.]] There are a number of negative opinions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-21-sejm-26-1.u228	Thank you very much, Member. I would like to ask Mrs Agnieszka Hanajczyk, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-21-sejm-26-1.u229	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour of presenting my position on behalf of the Civic Platform Club in relation to the proposals contained in print 730. The proposed project concerns amendments to the Civil Code Act, Family and Care Code, Civil Procedure Code, Professional and Social Rehabilitation Act, and the Employment of Persons with Disabilities, Law on Judicial Costs in Civil Matters and, finally, the Patient Rights Act and the Ombudsman Act. What needs to be highlighted at the outset is what constitutes a completely new quality of the issue, that is, the proposal to refrain from using terms "mind impairment" and "mind impairment." These terms have been replaced by the term "intellectual disability." This is indeed a very serious, very expected change, and, as we know, such terminology has long been used in the environments of these people. This fundamental change in the naming of people working, moving in a disabled environment is indeed obvious. It's hard to imagine today operating in a language that stigmatising this kind of disability, which is definitely pejorative. The project is based on the full legal capacity of each adult. The limitation of the possibility to use this capacity shall be an exception determined on an individual basis, taking into account the situation of the individual. The project presents a proposal from the institutions of the legal guardian, the healthcare provider, care with competence for representation, care with competence for co-decision. I would like to say first of all that, unlike my esteemed previous speaker, in conversations with the community of judges of the family court, as well as the community of associations, care organizations, working with intellectually disabled people... They expect these changes and really support these changes, although this project requires leaning over it and certain, in some situations - it seems to me - even important, changes. Now, on behalf of my club, I would like to make some suggestions to consider. What we think needs to be considered is the possibility that the custody court assigns a probation officer to take care of the property of the incapacitated. Very often such situations are, unfortunately, that if a disabled person, usually an older person, takes care of e.g. One member of the family who has become her guardian is often in such a way as to manage the estate so that it is beneficial to him. Therefore, it seems that e.g. a regulation with assets beyond the ordinary activities of the daily management board should provide for the consent of the court or guardian - simply, simply for security reasons. It also appears that the proposed proposal lacks the possibility for a medical institution to ask the court to establish whether it is a healthcare professional or a caretaker of the meaning of largo. It is very often in medical facilities where intellectually disabled people are hit, that there is a need to identify a person who could make decisions about a disabled person. Often a family may not accept that the closest one is not doing well, or may simply not want to take the trouble over their head. Unfortunately, this is likely to be the case, and there is a serious likelihood that such a request will not be made. It seems that giving medical institutions a card to file such an application does not infringe the rights of the patient, because the case will consequently be judged by the court, while protecting the interests of a disabled person who cannot make such an application or simply does not understand that such a need exists. For the sake of safety, it could possibly be pointed out that in the case of an application by a medical institution, experts who have an opinion on the state of health of an intellectually disabled person under the law will have to be employees of another medical institution in order to avoid the situation of experts' opinion on the application of the institution where they work. Undoubtedly, there should also be a catalogue of actions that guardians will be able to perform by virtue of the Act, because unfortunately, an indication in the Act that in each case the court will individually determine the actions which the guardian will be able to take and which he may not, may cause that the guardian will have to apply to the court every moment to increase his powers, such as the operation of the conclusion or termination of a telecommunications contract, because such a court will have to submit such requests to the court for the extension of his powers, for example. He didn't see it coming. It should also be specified whether, in the case of a guardian with competence for co-decision, this will concern a specific directory of activities or [[♪ The bell ♪]] any activity exceeding normal daily activities and within what time it will have to be confirmed to bind the parties. [[Chairman of the session includes Deputy Marshal Ryszard Terlecki of the Sejm]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-21-sejm-26-1.u230	Thank you very much, Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-21-sejm-26-1.u231	Are the provisions of the Article. Will the Civil Code apply accordingly? And whether the regulation on minor daily activities resulting from Article. 20 c.c. will be subject to restrictions, or will an intellectually disabled person be able to perform activities regardless of the guardian's will?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-21-sejm-26-1.u232	Thank you very much. Mrs Barbara Chrobak from the Kukiz club15 will now speak. There is no Member. Therefore, Mrs Elżbieta Borowska from the Kukiz club15.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-21-sejm-26-1.u233	However, we support this project, we believe that it is very important, necessary and, what is important, for many years advocated by the environment of intellectually disabled people and those supporting this environment. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-21-sejm-26-1.u234	Madame, you are using your time.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-21-sejm-26-1.u235	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Designed changes included in the project presented by the Kukiz club15 are changes expected for many, many years. Although it is possible to recall the project from the last term of office, from 2014, which did not come to an end. It was then pointed out that this matter should be addressed as soon as possible, that the expectation of the environment of persons with disabilities in this respect is extremely high and these are problems of adapting our right to international law, to the right of persons with disabilities intellectually or physically. The proposed amendments to the Civil Code, the Family and Care Code, the Civil Procedure Code or other laws are basically minor changes which significantly improve the situation of both carers and people with disabilities themselves, where there is a very different degree of disability. Many times families have had a dilemma as to how this care should look, whether to start treatment, to seek incapacity, or not to do so, because it is a procedure that has repeatedly condemned people with disabilities to be treated in a very special way. These minor changes concern among others. naming, there are two forms of care, and to a large extent the naming concerning the environment of people with disabilities has been changed. We no longer have handicapped people, such pejorative statements. Very often these people point out that it is stigmatizing them in society and that it is extremely contagious for them. On the other hand, when it comes to representational care and co-decision, it is a change, although small, bringing us closer to international solutions, to this care, to respect human rights in a much broader way. With regard to the type of care provided by a healthcare professional, it may be appropriate to clarify what type of care should be undertaken to what extent. Here it is the environment's favour, in such a way as to try to improve the situation of people with intellectual or physical disabilities. As far as the effects of these regulations are concerned, this is not an excessive burden on the state budget. In fact, certain procedures are being simplified. This allows you to start treating some people in a much faster way, so as much as the Kukiz club15 asks all parliamentary groups to support this law. This is not perhaps a spectacular bill, it is not a law that we could fight about in particular. This is a project that is very expected by the environment of people with disabilities, and these changes are indeed significantly improving the situation of those people. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-21-sejm-26-1.u236	Thank you very much. Now Mrs Cornelia Wróblewska, Modern Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-21-sejm-26-1.u237	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Poselski Club I would like to present a modern opinion on the draft law on the amendment of the Civil Code Act, the Family and Care Code, the Code of Civil Procedure and the amendment of other laws. Allow me to start by saying thank you to Mrs Agnieszka. The environment of people with disabilities has been calling for changes in naming that would not detract from the dignity of people with disabilities and in the issue of impersonalisation. Furthermore, it is high time to respond to the regulations to which we are bound by the Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities. We support the direction of the proposed changes, but - as many bodies and institutions have expressed their opinion on this law - we stress that the project does not meet the needs for full regulation of all these issues. It does not apply to the whole environment of people with disabilities, narrowing down the circle of stakeholders only to persons with intellectual disabilities. It is incomplete and scrappy, according to the environment of people with disabilities with whom I work. The project is also ill-written when it comes to the legislative side. It contains many mistakes, which unfortunately cannot be closed. The care institution and the curator shall be governed by the Civil Code in Article. 13 and 15, which define total and partial incapacity and require the establishment of a guardian or guardian for such persons. At the same time, the family and caring code in the title III, referred to as "care and curate," regulates in detail the rights and obligations of carers and curators as well as their charges. The project by Kukiz15 was prepared in a non-professional and non-legislative manner. An example may be the addition of Chapter IIa in Title III of the Family and Care Code in the middle of this chapter, after the first of the provisions there, and not after it has been completed. This project does not define an intellectually disabled person and the procedure for obtaining the necessary documents to submit the relevant application is not precise. The name is also inconsistent with the current system, as the guardian is to replace the subject in all legal activities. The aim of setting up a healthcare professional or legal guardian in this law is only to lack sufficient knowledge necessary to carry out legal action in certain cases, which indicates a similarity of new care to the curate. It would be important to consider how the environment would propose or not a better solution, instead of introducing an additional kind of carer, it would be necessary to rebuild the entire care system and the tutorials currently existing in the Polish legal system. There are now three such institutions, as described in both the Civil Code and the Family and Care Code. The present law would introduce another two guardian institutions, which instead of simplifying the law, which is claimed by the Modern, further complicates them. I'm making this proposal: let's sit down together for conversation. I'm after talking to the environment today. There are many comments, i.e. The whole environment emphasizes that this is a very good step, in a very good way, because these changes are really very much needed. Thank you very much for daring to take this subject, but please also sit down and do this act comprehensively so that, first, all people with disabilities, secondly, are simply legally coherent so that no one can accuse us of anything. Of course, I invite all the environments to do this because I think this is a very important and necessary subject. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-21-sejm-26-1.u238	Thank you. Mr Krzysztof Paszyk, the club of the Polish People's Party, will now speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-21-sejm-26-1.u239	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, On behalf of the Parliamentary Club of the Polish People's Party, I have the honour to present our position on the parliamentary draft law amending the Civil Code, Family and Care Code, Civil Procedure Code and on the amendment of other laws contained in print No. 730. Today's project assumes that the protection of a disabled person will be intellectually provided by the establishment of a legal guardian for the disabled. The powers of the legal guardian shall be determined by the court of custody in a manner proportionate to the needs arising from the person's mental state, provided that the decision restricting his or her ability to act constitutes a definitive measure, only if measures less interfering in the autonomy of the will would not be sufficient to protect his or her interests. The project also assumes that in the case of unauthorised persons, they will be able to request the revocation of the incapacity and replace it with custody by a legal guardian. The legal guardian is to assist the person who is in custody in carrying out the most important legal acts or to represent him as a representative to the extent specified by the court. However, the question arises as to whether the proposed project will respond comprehensively to a problem such as that in June this year. signalled the Ombudsman. He then drew attention to the lack of judicial control over whether a person with a mental disability is to be placed in a social assistance home. The Ombudsman also considered it necessary to carry out regular checks to verify whether it was appropriate to extend the stay in those social services centres. In 2012, the European Court of Human Rights in Strasbourg dealt with the Polish citizen's complaint about the impersonalisation and inclusion of him in the DPS. The Court found that a man was capable of expressing his opinion on his situation and that putting him in a home of social assistance, which completely controlled his treatment, movement and invalidity pension, was a deprivation of liberty in violation of the Convention on Human Rights. Unfortunately, there are no explicit provisions in the proposed bill on this issue, and it is a pity, because this could also be included in the proposal. The project indicates two forms of care: representational care, leaving the beneficiary with legal capacity to act while giving the guardian the authority to represent the subject in the designated scope, and co-decision with competence to reserve the consent or confirmation of the guardian for the validity of the designated types of legal activities of the beneficiary. The analysis of the project raises the question whether this range of legal solutions should not be extended due to the varying degree of intellectual disability of persons to whom legal guardians will be granted. In particular, care with competence for co-decision should be subject to the degree of disability and not to the same formula for all. This bill introduces a new kind of care, that is, a healthcare provider. According to the project, if the patient objects to the study or receives other health benefits if the patient is the person for whom the healthcare professional is established, the consent of the caregiver will not be required. In turn, the family aspect of the law should be regarded as beneficial. As a general rule, parents should be appointed as a legal guardian and as a healthcare professional, and if this is not possible, the care provider should be established from among relatives or other persons close to the caretaker. In our view, such a solution will make it easier for families to take care of the disabled. Mr. Marshal! Honourable ladies and gentlemen, The Parliamentary Club of the Polish People's Party in spite of the shortcomings, which includes the proposed project, proposes to refer it [[♪ The bell ♪]] for committee work. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-21-sejm-26-1.u240	Thank you. Małgorzata Zwierzan will now speak from the Free and Solidarni circle. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-21-sejm-26-1.u241	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Polish Free and Solidarnia Circle, I present my position on the draft law amending the Civil Code Act, the Family and Care Code, the Code of Civil Procedure and the amendment of other laws. This bill raises a lot of controversy. On the one hand, the designers refer to the need for changes in these laws arising from the demands of the social environments and organisations involved in the care of intellectually disabled persons. On the other hand, most of the opinions issued on this project, including the opinion of the Sejm Analysis Office, refer to the introduction of the regulations in question very critically. However, it should start with the fact that the initiative taken by applicants is undoubtedly right. The current solutions in the area of the protection of persons with intellectual disabilities interfere too much with the rights of those persons and their dignity. We should strive to fulfil the objectives of this bill, i.e. to introduce the concept of supported decision-making based on guarantees as fully as possible the ability of persons with intellectual disabilities to express their will. The main solution proposed by the projectors is to add to the existing institutions to help people with mental disabilities the institution of the healthcare provider and the legal guardian. The care provider's institution could be established for a person who is 16 years of age if he does not have the ultimate understanding necessary to agree to the examination or to grant it other medical benefits. An institution of a legal guardian could be established for an intellectually disabled person who is 18 years of age and does not have sufficient knowledge to carry out legal action in certain matters and does not justify partial incapacity. The main charge with regard to the contested bill is, first and foremost, its non-compliance with European Union law. There is also a lack of clarification of the significant differences between the institution of the legal guardian and the partial immobilisation of the intellectually disabled person and the lack of precise grounds for establishing any of the forms of care introduced by this project. In addition, regulations in the proposed form will introduce chaos resulting from the use of different terminology. Despite the sublimeness of the idea behind this project, it is impossible not to mention that, despite the assurances made by the applicants, it will burden the state budget. However, given that the most serious of the allegations, i.e. non-compliance with European Union law, was discussed during the meeting of the Legislative Commission, and aware of the relevance of this project, the Free and Solidarni Circle will vote in favour of further proceedings. We hope that during the discussion in the committee solutions will be developed, which will not raise so many concerns. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-21-sejm-26-1.u242	Thank you very much. Seven ladies and gentlemen joined the questions. I'm shutting down the voice mailing list. I'm setting a question time for one minute. As the first on behalf of the Civic Platform, the question is asked by Mrs Małgorzata Płępek.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-21-sejm-26-1.u243	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The proposed amendments are intended to allow for the replacement of institutions for the incapacity of the institutions of the legal guardian and the healthcare provider. There is also a new term - an intellectually disabled person. It is very important and important for a subject that is neglected. The proposed changes will allow people, people with intellectual disabilities, to co-decide on important matters of life for them. However, it is extremely important in all this important undertaking that carers actually allow their subjects to co-decide. For it can happen that they will decide everything themselves. I would like to ask the Members of the applicant whether there is such a threat and whether there will be legal tools to control such situations. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-21-sejm-26-1.u244	Thank you. The question is asked by Mr Jarosław Gonciusz, the Law and Justice Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-21-sejm-26-1.u245	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! There is no doubt that the applicants of this law had a wonderful purpose, i.e. provide adequate protection and assistance to disabled persons in legal activities. In the draft law, the term "intellectually disabled person" is very often used. My question is what group of people would be affected by this law. What circle of people would be covered by the proposed regulation? There is no definition of an intellectually disabled person in any normative act. Due to lack of definition whether it will be extremely difficult to assess whether a person with a statement of disability is an intellectually disabled person or not. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-21-sejm-26-1.u246	Thank you. The question is asked by Mrs Ewa Drozd, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-21-sejm-26-1.u247	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! The idea of various actions is to involve people with disabilities, including people with intellectual disabilities, in social life. Unfortunately, the institution of incapacity contradicts all these assumptions and excludes those persons from social life. Therefore, the idea you are presenting in the bill is the right direction. But as always, the devil is in the details. Aren't you afraid that such a bill will introduce chaos in the current system, where legal guardians, guardians and guardians for disabled people already operate? You're assuming that the court will determine the guardian. And who will be responsible for this form of care? Why would you limit the catalogue of people and entities who can apply for a healthcare professional? Often, the family is not interested in this and will not make such a request. [[♪ The bell ♪]] These are questions that should be answered, but, as I said, we are going in the right direction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-21-sejm-26-1.u248	Thank you very much. The question is asked by Agnieszka Hanajczyk, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-21-sejm-26-1.u249	Question to the representative of the applicants. Undoubtedly the direction is right - this sentence is often repeated. Insolvency is obviously no longer for the purposes for which it has been introduced. But I would like to ask you, Commissioner: Do you have any idea how many people are completely incapacitated? How many situations have there been with a court appearance to make it impossible to change it? And have you even considered this - because these postulates are, and are not postulates taken from the air - to rule out total incapacity, which nowadays, when we talk about integration, about preschool education, about the professional activity of people with intellectual disabilities, contradicts those intentions? Have you even explored this problem? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-21-sejm-26-1.u250	Thank you. The question is asked by Barbara Bartus, a club called Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-21-sejm-26-1.u251	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I wanted to start by saying that it is not that these changes that are proposed are very minor changes, which will not change much, but will improve the situation of people with intellectual disabilities. As the Supreme Court stressed in its opinion, the Civil Code, in general, are the most important legal acts in the Polish legal order after the Constitution. And I would like to ask the applicants about the wording of the proposed article. 15 in the Civil Code. You write down that intellectually disabled persons who have been appointed a legal guardian have limited legal capacity. Why has the Civil Code not yet known the limitation of legal capacity? Every person from birth to death has this legal capacity, that is, he may be subject to rights and obligations. Why do you want to limit this legal capacity to these people? There's no such thing. We don't question that changes are needed either. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Previously, I didn't have time to finish my speech.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-21-sejm-26-1.u252	Thank you very much, Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-21-sejm-26-1.u253	Mr. Marshal, because I didn't make it before. On behalf of the club, however, I would like to make a request to reject this project at first reading, because these vague provisions, as stressed by the Supreme Court, cannot be clarified at the time of the committee's work, a new regulation is needed. As the modern Member has said, let us sit together, but this must be done by the institution, which has also been stressed, which will propose and carefully consider these changes. Therefore, on behalf of my Parliamentary Club, Law and Justice, I am requesting rejection at first reading. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-21-sejm-26-1.u254	Thank you very much. The question is asked by Mrs Gabriel Lenartowicz, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-21-sejm-26-1.u255	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I would like to ask the applicants whether you have been leaning down, whether you have considered - if not, I would like to recommend considering these issues during committee work - the issue of the situation of people with disabilities, mostly intellectually, who are under the care of single guardians, as well as the issue of their legal situation, when the carers are suddenly accidented or ill. At the moment, there is no legal instrument to react quickly to such a situation. In this situation, people come to my parliamentary office with the fear that in case of sudden illness, also due to advanced age, their ward, with whom due to intellectual limitations is even difficult contact - also difficult due to their emotional nature - will remain unattended. [[♪ The bell ♪]] I am calling for this subject to be addressed. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-21-sejm-26-1.u256	Thank you very much. The question is asked by Mr Waldemar Buda, the Law and Justice Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-21-sejm-26-1.u257	Dear Marshal, Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to ask the applicants what the limitation of the legal capacity of persons with intellectual disabilities would be. This is the formula of civil law unknown. This would mean that these people would have fewer rights than children born. That means they wouldn't be the subject of rights and obligations. What's that supposed to mean? Actually, it's a step. It's even further than total insanity. And I think that's definitely not what the applicant was talking about, and that's what came out of it. It is unacceptable to question legal capacity in a democratic country today. We can talk about the scope of legal capacity, but certainly not about legal capacity, because it is the natural competence enshrined in every code, in every European country, also with us. So I would like to ask you what this limitation of the law would depend on. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-21-sejm-26-1.u258	Thank you. Mr Łukasz Piebiak, Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Justice, will now speak. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-21-sejm-26-1.u259	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! It will not be the first time in this Chamber that the idea of the project is right. Undoubtedly, however, the way and scope of the changes raises a number of doubts. Possible changes to the Family and Care Code and the Civil Code should take into account, first and foremost, solutions to support persons with intellectual disabilities, and not to replace them if necessary to use legal assistance in certain cases or in the use of medical services. Unfortunately, this project marginalises the individual's will for a decision taken by a third party. The proposed solution introduces protection tools in a very formal manner, making the establishment of a legal guardian or a healthcare professional subject to prior recognition of a disability decision, and this particular type of decision. The inclusion of the proposed solutions in two Codes: the Civil Code and the Family and Care Code also raises concerns about the systemic nature. Specifically, as regards the doubts on the part of the Ministry that I represent, it is about posting the proposed provision of the Article. 175 § 1 in the Family and Care Code. At the same time, the amendment of the article. 16 Civil Code duplicates the same solution. Such an approach confuses the transparency of the proposed amendment, in particular as the institution for setting up a legal guardian may result in a limitation of the legal capacity of the person for whom it has been established and is very similar to the current partial incapacity. That was also said several times today. It seems necessary to regulate both of these institutions in a single provision or in neighbouring legislation while identifying the differences between them. Come on. According to the proposed Article. 175 § 1 of the Family and Care Code, the legal guardian would represent the subject as a proxy and not as a statutory representative, which is contrary to the wording of the proposed article. 175 § 3 paragraph 2 of the family code, which provides for the possibility for the guardian court to reserve the obligation to consent or to confirm by the guardian for the validity of the legal acts indicated, in line with the current solution in Article. 18 § 1 Civil Code. It should also be pointed out that the draft provides for the introduction of the proposed article. 15 The Civil Code of an Unknown Civil Law of an Institution with limited legal capacity, which would result from the establishment of a legal guardian by a custody court, contrary to the principle set out in Article. 8 § 1 k.c., according to which every person has legal capacity since birth, and its limitation is possible only by means of a judicial decision on total or partial incapacity and depending on whether the person concerned is unable to direct his or her own conduct or needs only assistance to conduct his or her affairs. This is something that Mr Buda has just mentioned. Solutions for so-called The health care provider also appears not to meet the declared objectives, are insufficient and inconsistent. A medical guardian would be established only for persons aged 16 years or over who are intellectually disabled and do not have the necessary knowledge to agree to the examination or to provide other medical services. At present, parents are, in principle, the statutory representatives of a child under their parental authority, i.e. It's usually until you're an adult. The introduction of an additional care institution for persons aged 16 and over does not seem appropriate. Currently, consent is needed for the provision of medical services for a minor aged 16 years old and for an intellectually disabled person. If you object if you are at the same time ill mentally or intellectually disabled, but with sufficient discernment, it is possible to provide medical services after obtaining the consent of a statutory representative or guardian of the facts and additional court clearances. The medical guardian in the proposed version would replace the statutory representative and the court, denying the right to a decision of the person he is caring for. However, the justification for the project does not suggest that such decisions of this healthcare professional can be verified. Next - the last group of doubts about the procedure for setting up a healthcare professional or a legal guardian. The lodging of an application to the court will depend on the prior receipt of a disability decision by an intellectually disabled person for whom such a guardian would be established. The concept of intellectual disability is not present in the current legal order. The amendments proposed in Article are not justified. 5 of the Act of 27 August 1997 on occupational and social rehabilitation and employment of persons with disabilities. District disability assessment teams operating on the basis of the above mentioned above. the laws do not categorize persons because of the type of disability, by merely assessing the functional limitations underlying the judgment. On the one hand, the proposal to indicate in a disability decision that an intellectually disabled person meets the conditions of non-recognition could stigmatize such a person and, on the other hand, discriminate against persons who do not have sufficient discernment to agree to carry out the study or to provide other health services and are not intellectually disabled persons. Last but not least, this statement cannot be accepted either that the proposed solutions do not have any financial implications for the budget, since, firstly, the basis for establishing a medical or legal guardian is to be a judgment, together with an indication of what may result on the part of persons already having a disability decision in the form of a re-application for the status of a disabled person due to a change of legal status and the absence of such indication, and therefore, in the case of persons with a previous judgment, there will be no possibility of setting up a medical practitioner and they will be forced to re-trial, which will entail difficulties and costs. The scale of the persons concerned may be significant, as a total of 110 098 decisions on the cause of disability were issued in 2015: mental impairment, mental illness or partial developmental disorders, and 392 944 such decisions in 2008 and 2015. To sum up, High Izbo, the formal position of the government is not yet in place, but the project is being prepared in the Ministry of Justice, is a draft negative position towards this parliamentary bill. Unfortunately, we are dealing with consistent negative opinions of the Ministry of Health and the Ministry of Family, Labour and Social Policy, we have a negative position of the Ministry of Justice as a leading department, and the opinion of external entities on the non-compliance with European Union law, the Prosecutor General, the Supreme Court, the National Judicial Council and the Chief Medical Council in various passages, larger or smaller, raise serious concerns about this project. Therefore, the government's position cannot be positive and I would not be optimistic as to whether this project can be improved in committee work. Therefore, there may be a need in the future, there will certainly be a need to improve solutions in this area, but I don't think this is the right way. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-21-sejm-26-1.u260	Thank you very much. Ms Agnieszka Szczaj, Kukiz Club15, will now take the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-21-sejm-26-1.u261	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Dear fellow Members, Well, I've heard your opinion. At first I would like to thank you very warmly for these words also critical and comments to this project, because, as I mentioned earlier, this is a parliamentary project, but this is a project brought by the environment of people with disabilities, by people with disabilities themselves. We have referred here to ministerial, governmental opinions, and no one has paid attention to opinions that have been received, and these are two very key opinions for me, because one is 150 NGOs and the other is 17 non-governmental organisations that bring together parents and carers of people with disabilities. We have, of course, been talking here about the intention of this project and I am glad at least because you agree that the intention that this project is justified and that the social interest... I am particularly referring here to the interests of intellectually disabled people who will not be able to speak in the committee, either in this room or in the media. They probably won't be able to discuss with lawyers or the government, because they don't have that kind of knowledge, they can't talk in such a way as to put their opinions into legal terms that will be accepted by all lawyers. I have asked you to allow me to proceed on this project. We didn't really change much in it, we didn't give it severe legal criticism because we were hoping that it was the committee that was going on, because we're a little bit in this parliament, and we know that compared to the boobs that went to committee, this project is just the world championship, but okay. [[Applause]] [[Yes, sir.]] I understand that intentions don't matter here. We submit all these legal opinions, because this law, as you can see, is created for lawyers. Nevertheless, thank you very much, because I will be able to convey all these comments to the environment of people with disabilities. I think they're looking at this debate and they're not going to give up because they haven't given up for 10 years and they've been asking for 10 years to help them. Even if they are preparing a project for a year, which you believe has major legislative shortcomings, major legal shortcomings, I am actually surprised that for a year there has not been a project well prepared by all these ministries, by the Minister, who would actually solve this problem. Incidentally, referring to this last critical sentence that struck me, although, as I say, I am here in this role, I have asked you three or even four times, asking you to put this project into work. I believe that it can be improved and that it can be worked in committees, especially since a large number of Members in this Chamber have expressed their willingness to do so. I think we'd do a good project for these people. As you can see, we have our first reading, because in this case it needs to be removed quickly, because there are other, more important topics, and I will no longer mention them here. Not all the questions I can answer now, so of course I wrote them down to find the answer for myself. On the other hand, very important and valuable comments were made about this catalogue. Previously, I read in my opinions that it would really be worth considering the catalogue of restrictions, whether or not to extend it to another group of people with disabilities. I remember talking to Minister Michałkiewicz in the clours, who also considered this project to be justified. In replying to the questions, he stressed that this idea was worth moving to other groups of people with disabilities. It should only be pointed out that we are talking about individuals here, because disability alone is not, as it were, a determinant of limiting the capacity to act. I stress that this is about legal capacity, because there is indeed a fundamental error here. Indeed, we are not talking about restrictions on legal activities, but about the ability to act. It's just a mistake in this bill. That is indeed a mistake. We knew, too, and we wanted to improve it later on in the committees, so thank you for that, too. As far as numbers are concerned, here, as you have heard, the Minister stressed the number of people. From these backgrounds, we had information about about about 50,000. persons with this intellectual disability per year. As for the definition of intellectual disability, I don't know, but I didn't find the definition either. a lack of mental development, and yet involuntaryness is ruled on this basis. So I guess everything doesn't have to be defined in the Civil Code, because the courts themselves can judge. Here it is further suggested that the type of disability indicated during the granting of the code and the degree of disability could be such an indication that it is this disability. This definition is missing, but the wording of the social communication type or other wording is not defined in the Civil Code, so I don't think that's a big problem. It is worth noting the fact that you have stressed here, I think Mr Paszyk also stressed, that Ms Agnieszka Hanajczyk stressed that it would be worth considering institutional enlargement, i.e. so that institutions or institutions in which such persons are present could also be present with an application for legal or medical guardian. In my opinion, it is that's actually a very good point. There was also a question from Mrs Małgorzata Płępek, which drew attention to whether it was clear what specific legal acts we would be giving power of attorney, i.e. to which this legal guardian would be entitled. This comment was also made in many recommendations, including the Supreme Court, that it would be worthwhile to determine, but on the other hand, as I mentioned earlier, it fell that, with the sensitivity of this case, flexibility in making this decision could help judges. Indeed, here it would depend very much on the judge's environment, whether it would need to define these actions. The question is whether we are able to exchange these actions in this code. If we start exchanging e.g. To conclude a contract with telecommunications, we can indeed go too far. Here, however, the court will, at the request of the guardian or of the person concerned, make a determination. I'll tell you that I've been working with disabled people and intellectually disabled people for 20 years. I also ran a professional activation facility. The great pain of intellectually disabled people and their carers - Mrs Bartus - are loans, there are moments. We talked about this at the last session of the subcommittee, where we discussed an increase in the amount free from bailouts. These people work very often, they have wages, they can do a lot of things. They get married, they get married, they have children, they have families, and very often they have problems with the fact that someone is simply stretching them for loans and most of their salary or social pensions must be spent on bailiffs and debtors. In this respect, it would be sufficient to allow a parent or spouse to make a decision with them to make a higher amount of debt. I think that in many situations it would avoid that they later have a bailiff and very large bailiff costs. As you can see... I don't know if I'm gonna... I can assume that since the main parliamentary club is in favour of rejecting the proposal at first reading, it will probably happen, although I still hope it will, I believe that maybe it will not. Nevertheless, all that remains is to ask that you do so immediately after you reject this proposal, simply involve your lawyers, involve the Ministry of Justice and create a legislation that you believe will solve this problem, because, as you all emphasized - it is very interesting, you all emphasized - it is important, necessary and this is repeated for 10 years. So please, pay attention to this, because that's maybe 40.50 thousand. people, but for them it is very often a matter of life and death. It's not a case where we can foam here, but it's very important to them, so let's do something that's important to people for once. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-21-sejm-26-1.u262	Thank you. The list of speakers enrolled has been exhausted. The discussion is closed. A motion to reject the draft law at first reading was put forward in the discussion. We will proceed to the vote on this proposal in the voting block. The competent committees have submitted a report on the government draft law on out-of-court resolution of consumer disputes. The report shall be published in the Official Journal of the European Union. Therefore, pursuant to Article. 95e of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm, Marshal of the Sejm, decided to supplement the agenda by a point covering the examination of this report. I propose that in the discussion on this item, the Sejm should listen to the five-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and the circle. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. We proceed with the examination of item 7 of the agenda: First reading of the Senate bill amending the Civil Code Act (Print No. 768). I ask Senator Robert Mamytkow to present the justification for the bill. You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-21-sejm-26-1.u263	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour to present a resolution of the Senate of the Republic of Poland of 7 July 2016 on the submission to the Sejm of a draft law amending the Civil Code Act. The Senate bill aims to amend the article. 647 § 5 of the Act of 23 April 1964. Civil Code in such a way that this provision makes it clear that the investor and the contractor are jointly and severally liable for the payment of the remuneration for works carried out by the subcontractor, provided that the investor agrees in writing to conclude a further contract for works between the contractor and the subcontractor. High Izbo! The main objective of this project is to eliminate situations that have been very often encountered recently, i.e. the investor commissioned the work of the contractor - mainly construction works, but this mainly concerns road works and others, where the general contractor was a capital company - often it was a several-person company with a desk and a place, it won the tender and commissioned all these works to subcontractors. It was often the case that the investor did not even know that the main contractors were subcontractors of this work, even though the contract had been concluded with the main contractor. There wouldn't be anything out of the ordinary if it weren't for the fact that there was often such a practice that the contractor didn't pay or pay the subcontractors the money they owed them because there was no collateral. We propose in this law, you could say, increasing the role of the investor, securing the investor, it might look that way. Except that, respectable Izbo, an investor, when concluding a contract with the contractor, accepting in writing the employment of subcontractors, assumes responsibility and at the same time eliminates from the market the unreliable companies, several companies that win tenders. Why? Because the contractor, knowing that he will be able to make a deal with the investor, will not be exposed to the fact that the main contractor who won the tender, because it is necessary, will fool him. This is all included in our projects. Finally, it is the informed decision of the investor to conclude a contract with subcontractors. We also want to make it possible for the investor to have a choice. Sometimes he can hire a smaller company, but the genuine company that provides services on the market, not a company that, through contractors, often makes such contracts with the awareness that he will not pay, maybe not to the first subcontractor, but to the next few. That is why it is a request to the High House to adopt a Senate bill in the form we have proposed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-21-sejm-26-1.u264	Thank you very much, Senator. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would listen to the five-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and the circle. I'm opening a discussion. Mr Waldemar Buda, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice, will be the first to speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-21-sejm-26-1.u265	Dear Marshal, Dear Minister, High Izbo! On behalf of the Law and Justice Club, I would like to present an opinion on the Senate bill amending the Civil Code Act, specifically the amendment of the provisions concerning the construction contract. It must be acknowledged that the proposal responds to the problems that arise in practice in connection with the application of these provisions, since the case law actually allowed the so-called "law' to apply. consent to the acceptance of joint and several liability by the investor for payment to the subcontractor. Thus, there were often such situations that after many years the court decided whether or not an implied agreement had been reached and whether the investor was actually to pay the subcontractors, and the subcontractor would receive the money. This had a number of negative consequences, such as the fact that the investor had repeatedly cleared the investment in question over a period of time and it was not possible to secure funds for this purpose or the subcontractor only within a very short period of limitation to ask the investor for payment, whereas the investor was not prepared for instance financially to satisfy such a claim. There is one doubt about these provisions, namely whether the introduction of the obligation to accept joint and several liability by the investor will lead to the dissemination of the notification and security of subcontractors, or whether investors will refuse, which will lead to a situation where, in practice, this guarantee of payments to the subcontractor will be less. I hope that subcontractors will be so prevented that, with any such agreements that there will be no written investor guarantee, they will most often not enter into such a business and will not risk not receiving payment in the event of financial problems. I would also like to draw attention to a problem and to a situation concerning double payment by the investor. [[Mr President, what kind of world do you live in?]] There may be a situation where an investor is obliged to pay twice for the same work, i.e. it will pay the contractor, which for example will fall and then the subcontractor will ask for payment again and in this situation the investor will be obliged to pay for the second time. This case needs clarification. Therefore, on behalf of the Law and Justice Club, I request that the project be referred to the committee for further work and refinement. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-21-sejm-26-1.u266	Thank you very much. Ms Gabriel Lenartowicz, the Civic Platform Club, will now speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-21-sejm-26-1.u267	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour to present on behalf of the Civic Platform Club the position of the club regarding the Senate draft law amending the Civil Code Act. This draft law amends the article. 647 § 5 of the Act of 23 April 1964. This amendment concerns a construction contract and aims to limit the joint and several liability of the investor with the contractor for the remuneration of the contractor to cases where the investor agrees in writing to conclude the contract between the contractor and the subcontractor. In order to look at this situation, it would be appropriate to go back to 2003 when this article was introduced. In order to protect the investor from the risk of double payment, the investor's joint and several liability was introduced and made conditional on the fulfilment of two conditions: firstly, the determination of the scope of the subcontractors' works in the agreement with the contractor, secondly, the agreement of the investor to conclude a contract with the subcontractor or the silent consent. The necessity to meet these two conditions was about to protect the investor from double payment, because after consent he could control the payments and possibly suspend payment to the main contractor. From the beginning, this provision has created huge problems of interpretation, but it must be said - as is the case in our legislative situation - that first there is not a fully coherent and good law, and then the courts are tired and trying to correct the situation in the course of case law. By case law, the view that an investor can also express such consent in an implied manner was maintained. With regard to the concept and proof of this implied agreement, there were many doubts about which a petition for a change of scope was made, except that the change proposed by the contractors does not meet those expectations which are covered, because it is not so that the investor will wonder and enter into a contract only with a reliable contractor and not with any companies, because above all this provision concerns only joint and several liability for payment. The contractor will continue to be able to commission without any agreement, which can even lead to this - in general this change encourages - that investors, and mainly public investors, will be encouraged to release themselves from this joint responsibility, further sub-contracting these works to contractors and subsequent contractors, especially as this record is also flawed in substance. He's referring to... Only the relationship between the investor and the general contractor is mentioned, nothing is said about the situation of contractors and further subcontractors, which is regulated by the original provision that you want to change. And this is kind of one of the issues of some inequality of operators and opportunities, of course, avoiding this provision ensuring turnover in terms of the market for construction investments. The second huge doubt - these doubts were raised by all the resorts and organisations consulted, with the exception of those interested in this good change - is a collision which was not settled at all here, between the Civil Code in the section on works and the Public Procurement Law. Public procurement law rigorously regulates the investor's liability to the contractor, the contractor to subsequent subcontractors and all these relationships. At the same time, the same law in Article. 143c says that it is necessary at once... that these restrictions and regulations in the Public Procurement Law do not restrict the rules and powers resulting from the Civil Code. So we have the situation that there are either two legal regimes, other obligations on a public investor - and this is usually the investor who is subject to the Public Procurement Law - and other obligations or less obligations - on a private investor vis-à-vis its counterparties, or we will assume that all the protection of contractors, subcontractors [[♪ The bell ♪]] vis-à-vis the investor included in the p.o.p. It will be useless if this bill comes into force. The problem is obvious. I think it could be clarified...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-21-sejm-26-1.u268	Thank you very much, Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-21-sejm-26-1.u269	...but it should be done with absolute expertise. You can't correct a bad law even worse. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-21-sejm-26-1.u270	Thank you very much. Mr Grzegorz Długi, the Kukiz Club15, will now speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-21-sejm-26-1.u271	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Thank you very much for your vote. I can honestly say that I am very disappointed with this legislative proposal that has been presented to us here, because first we should ask ourselves whether there is a need to change the law in this regard. Yeah, there's a need. From the beginning art. 647 was ill-edited and should be modified. In fact, all the opinions attached are repeating the same thing and it is right. On the other hand, when you read this project and even when you have heard the justification from this Seymary, you ask yourself who is behind this change. After all, it looks like it's the work of some lobbyists, not a solid project to correct the existing irregularities. High Izbo! We cannot do this in such a way that we support the investor and support the general, the great performers, as a rule large companies. It really can't be like this. It's just not fair. As a result, we want to make sure that this small contractor stays unpaid, because what Mr. Senator said here just now is that this change is intended to ensure that dunes companies do not... No, the proposed change concerns only joint and several liability, which we want to limit here, and in fact, under our conditions, we exclude. This can't be right. This project deserves to be put in the trash as soon as possible and not procedated. On the other hand, it is important to consider that Article. 647 was modified because it has to be, but not in the way I say it. The proposed change, by the way... For unknown reasons, this text introduced a written form for the contract between the contractor and the subcontractor under the strict conditions of nullity, and for some mysterious reasons such a guarantee no longer applies to the contract between the investor and the contractor. It should not be so that the agreement takes effect and the joint and several liability of the investor may be excluded. We can't support an investor that much. Just because an option has gained power does not mean that it must immediately protect its investments in this way, usually at the expense of small or small entrepreneurs. The proposed legislative change, which is defective, could only be introduced if it concerned a specific section, and then we could talk about it, while such an introduction threatens our legal order and threatens the terrible number of bankruptcies of small businesses. And it looks like that's what this is all about. We support investors and big companies. This is a total misunderstanding. It's a written deal... When such problems are most common, not even in the performance of the contract itself, but in the so-called. extra robots? If these so-called ones appear. additional works, i.e. the situation when there was a written contract with the contractor, the contractor, was the consent of the investor even written, any - and the subcontractors are most often mentioned in the basic contract itself - there was an increase in the scope of the works, of course..., there is no written annex to the contract, and then the problems begin. A sub-contractor, especially a minor one, is not in a position that would allow him to negotiate the new situation equally. It is not that the subcontractor is able to ensure that there will be appropriate approvals, etc. He's the little one, he's gonna get a job from the big one or not. His negotiating opportunities are none, and that's the change we're taking out right away. So, as I was saying, when it comes to these changes in the course, changes, that is, additional works, etc., then the investor will not pay the contractor. The contractor doesn't have to worry about the contractor here at all. Really, this change is just immoral. The whole case law of recent years, that is, since the Article exists. 647, a model has been developed. The judges had to make up for legislative shortcomings. A model has been developed and now it should only be written in the form of a bill. That would be the right way. That would be the right way to go, because that's what happened when the judges did the job behind the Sejm. She can, as in case law, [[♪ The bell ♪]] It's too wide, maybe you'd have to simplify it, put it in a coded form, but that's what you have to do...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-21-sejm-26-1.u272	Thank you, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-21-sejm-26-1.u273	...to take advantage of court case law, not to go against court law. Therefore, the club will definitely reject the bill at first reading. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-21-sejm-26-1.u274	The floor will be taken by Marshal Barbara Dolniak, the Modern Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-21-sejm-26-1.u275	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Before I begin, Mr President, thank you very much for these positive words to the judges. The project shall be modified by adding to the article. 647 § 5 of the sentence, the importance of which is expressed in the limitation of the investor's joint and several liability for the payment of remuneration for works carried out by the subcontractor in cases of expressing written consent to its execution under the conditions of nullity. The new wording contradicts the case law of the Supreme Court for the last 8 years and introduces an investor protection instrument which can easily turn against subcontractors, often economically weaker. It limits the scope of joint and several liability of the investor. This provision serves to strengthen the sub-contractor's position by having an investor's own interest in ensuring that the subcontractors' remuneration is paid, otherwise it may be forced to satisfy them with its own resources. The position of the investor vis-à-vis the contractor allows him to enforce his obligations to subcontractors, e.g. by making the payment of part of the remuneration corresponding to the remuneration of the contractor subject to proof that the subcontractor has been paid. Despite the strengthening of the sub-contractor's position, the examination of Article. 647 k.c. leads to the conclusion that the investor has not been deprived of the necessary protection by the obligation to obtain the investor's consent expressed by making a declaration of intent or the expiry of a period of 14 days until it has been lodged. The possibility of obtaining knowledge of the content of the contract between the contractor and the subcontractor, which is intended to provide sufficient safeguards for the investor's interests in the course of reconstructing his will, is to be understood as providing him with a real opportunity to become familiar with the provisions of the contract which are relevant to his responsibilities. Real opportunity means a state in which only the investor's will depends on whether or not he becomes acquainted with the content of the contract. The proposed regulation contradicts the resolution of the Supreme Court of 2008, which harmonised the case law on investor consent. The Court of First Instance held that the consent required by the Article. 647 § 2 c.c. the standard Article shall not apply. 63 § 2 k.c. The annulment of the instrument of consent gives rise to concern. 2, if the written form ad solemnitate is not maintained. The nullity of the consent does not prejudge the nullity of the contract itself concluded with the subcontractor. Consequently, such an agreement, which was concluded despite formal disagreement, is important irrespective of the rules on joint and several liability. The legislator did not identify the legal consequences of refusing written consent, although this could be an instrument of impact on the weaker, which in fact led to a return to the state before the amendment of the Civil Code in 2003 and to the previous case-law line. The case law of the Supreme Court, in this regard, has been the subject of extensive research by the Institute of Justice. They give an image of a uniform and consistent position on the form of the investor's consent from § 2 and its economic function. The proposed amendment will substantially shift the centre of gravity from the protection of subcontractors towards the investor. It follows from the justification of the project that its objective is to eliminate cases in which the investor is liable to subcontractors despite the performance of the entire undertaking to the general contractor. The solution proposed in the project does not eliminate the possibility of such a double burden on the investor as it retains the general principle of its joint and several liability to the contractor for payment of the contractor's remuneration for construction works. The argument raised in the explanatory memorandum that the investor's liability extends to all obligations towards the subcontractor, regardless of the state of knowledge of the work carried out by the subcontractor, is not confirmed either in case law or in doctrine. The effects of the proposed amendment in § 5 are unclear in terms of the liability of the contractor and subcontractors towards further subcontractors. The system interpretation, the introduction of a written form requirement for the investor's consent in § 5, and not in § 2, argues that the requirement of written form applies only to the investor's consent. On the other hand, the liability of contractors and subcontractors to further subcontractors would remain unchanged. For these reasons, the Modern requests that the draft law be rejected at first reading. I would also like to draw attention to one thing, namely that the Ministry already stated in the opinion that it is working on the amendment of the Civil Code, among others. over this recipe. Therefore, we will proceed twice: now and in time, [[♪ The bell ♪]] When the Ministry reports it. Ladies and gentlemen, a waste of time and money for the taxpayer. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-21-sejm-26-1.u276	Thank you, Marshal. I think your marshal should file that motion. No? Oh, it's oral enough. Okay, okay. Mr Krzysztof Paszyk, a club of the Polish People's Party.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-21-sejm-26-1.u277	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour on behalf of the Polish People's Party Parliamentary Club to present our position on the Senate bill amending the Civil Code Act, contained in print No. 768. A draft amending the article. 647 § 5 of the Civil Code provides that the investor should be jointly and severally liable for payment of the remuneration from the contractor only if he has agreed to conclude a further contract for works in writing under the obligation of nullity. The authors of the project indicate that the amendment aims to increase investor control over contracts concluded with subcontractors, which is directly translated into joint and several liability. At the same time, the creators justify that, in the current legal state, the investor's consent to the works by subcontractors is often presumed to be acceptable to the construction site by means of a silent acceptance of their presence. This favours the abuse by contractors of contracts for further works without the express consent of the investor. It should be noted that the current provisions of the Civil Code favour subcontractors and deprive investors of any protection against the obligation to pay for third parties' obligations. Subcontractors often do not receive works payable to them by contractors, generally large capital companies. Then they go with their claims to the investor, even though he transferred funds to the contractor. This results in a situation where an investor is obliged to pay twice for the same job. Moreover, the investor is deprived of the instruments to defend against unfair subcontractors who can freely determine the prices of contracts without his knowledge. It opens up a field for fraud and fraud. In conclusion, the current legislation significantly undermines the legal balance, significantly strengthening the status of the subcontractor vis-à-vis the investor. It should be stressed that investors are not only private entities. Often the problem of failing contractors and unpaid subcontractors is experienced by local governments and, above all, housing cooperatives, whose representatives have particularly appealed and called for the amendment of this law. In our opinion, limiting the investor's co-ownership to the situation in which he agreed in writing to entrust part of the subcontractors' work is an attempt to civilise the under-defined so far. relations on the line investor - contractor - sub-contractor and increase transparency of these relations. In our opinion, however, it is worth paying attention to the opinion of the National Cooperative Council, which concerns the project that we are proceeding with. According to this opinion, the proposed amendment may not be sufficient if it is not linked to the amendment of the article. 647 § 2 of the Civil Code. This provision still includes the construction of a legal presumption that by silent consent the investor accepts that the general contractor uses the services of subcontractors, which may lead to further interpretational doubts. Despite numerous reservations about the Senate project as a club, we are in favour of transferring it to committee work and, on the basis of the results of this work, we will decide to support the final product, this project. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-21-sejm-26-1.u278	Thank you. Małgorzata Zwierzan, Circle of Members of the Free and Solidarni will now speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-21-sejm-26-1.u279	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Freedom and Solidarnia Circle, I present my position on the Senate draft law amending the Civil Code Act. In 2003, after a series of abuses, which many subcontractors, mostly small family businesses, led to bankruptcy by failing to pay their work due, the Civil Code of Art was introduced into the Act. 647. The records of this article were intended to safeguard the interests of subcontractors who, in the absence of any remuneration due to them from their contractors, were able to claim their fees from investors. In addition to the joint responsibility of the investor and the contractor, the said article introduced an institution of implied agreement of the investor to conclude a construction contract with a subcontractor by the contractor. As the projectors and petitioners point out, whose demands are to implement these proposals for regulation, solutions aimed at protecting subcontractors have, at the same time, begun to impose additional risks on investors. In the case of certain situations, they are obliged to bear the costs twice: by paying the amount first to the unfair contractor and later to the victim of the subcontractor. The contested bill raises a lot of controversy. According to this solution, the investor would be jointly and severally liable if he gave his written consent to the employment of subcontractors and if he gave his consent silently that liability would not apply. According to the opponents of this amendment, the obvious fact is that if an investor is given the opportunity to be free from joint and several liability by not giving written confirmation to the subcontractor, it will benefit from this possibility and in practice such solidarity will not arise. This translates into a renewed lack of protection for subcontractors who, without a guarantee of receiving money for their work, will increase the cost of funding. According to the supporters, this novel aligns the market positions of the investor and subcontractors, making positive changes both for one and the other. This is a clear signal for the subcontractor that if he wants joint and several liability to be in force, he must obtain the investor's written consent. For the investor this is the introduction of additional protection, which reduces the risk of investment. While not agreeing to any of the arguments put forward in its opinion, bearing in mind that further work on these regulations is needed in order to find the best solution, the Free and Solidarni Circle will vote in favour of further proceedings. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-21-sejm-26-1.u280	Thank you very much. Four Members have asked questions. I'm closing the list of questions. I'm setting a question time for one minute. The first question will be asked by Mr Stefan Romecki, the Kukiz Club15.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-21-sejm-26-1.u281	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! The proposed change is only beneficial for investors. Where the investor fails to give written consent to the contract between the contractor and the subcontractor, the liability for payment of the remuneration shall be transferred to the contractor. What's going on? The contractor will be exposed to a lack of payment for the actual execution of the works. The proposed change can easily turn against economically weaker entities - subcontractors. In view of the above, I would like to ask: Is the aim of the proposed regulation to strengthen the position of investors at the expense of tens or perhaps even hundreds of thousands of construction companies in our country? Thank you for your attention. Let me add that we remember the case of motorways when Polish companies fell. That's the fear. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-21-sejm-26-1.u282	Thank you. The question will be asked by Marshal Barbara Dolniak, the Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-21-sejm-26-1.u283	System interpretation, i.e. The introduction of a requirement of written form under the conditions of annulment in paragraph 2 argues that the requirement of written form concerns only the consent of the investor, while the liability of contractors and subcontractors to further subcontractors would remain unchanged. So I'm asking. : How does this apply to equal treatment between the parties to the contract and the parties to the law? Is this a deliberate record or an oversight? If so, what caused it? I also have a question: What is the direction in which the work of the Ministry of Justice on this provision - and in particular - is going in the same direction as the Senate project? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-21-sejm-26-1.u284	Thank you. The question will be asked by Mr Jerzy Meysztowicz, the Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-21-sejm-26-1.u285	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Mr. Senator! I have this question: How can we be sure that we are actually able to protect subcontractors, who very often as a result of errors in the Public Procurement Act and the need to choose the cheapest offer, which is very often above the investment cost for a good cause, is not even in line with the investment cost, because the investor can at any time choose a contractor who will not insist on obtaining such a written statement... Then the investor will not press, will have no problem obtaining such a contract, and the person commissioning will be rid of this co-ownership. We don't have any instruments to force it to actually sign. [[♪ The bell ♪]] That kind of deal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-21-sejm-26-1.u286	Thank you. Mr Waldemar Buda, Club Law and Justice. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-21-sejm-26-1.u287	Dear Marshal, Minister! High Izbo! I would like to ask the applicant's representative whether he also sees the problem of the need to regulate, at least a limitation, if he does not eliminate the situation in which the investor, in connection with joint and several liability, bears a double burden of payment, i.e. he pays twice: to the contractor and to the subcontractor? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-21-sejm-26-1.u288	Thank you. The list of Members registered in the vote has been exhausted. Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Justice Mr Łukasz Piebiak will speak. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-21-sejm-26-1.u289	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! According to the current wording of the article. 647 The civil code shall be jointly and severally liable to an investor, contractor or subcontractor vis-à-vis a non-direct counterparty on condition that any agreement to conclude a construction contract with that entity is given in any form, and in the event that the investor, contractor or subcontractor is presented with a sub-contractor - possibly a further subcontractor - or its design, together with a relevant part of the documentation, no objection within 14 days shall mean the agreement specified in the doctrine as silent or passive consent. The silent consent provided for in Article must be distinguished. 647 § 2 gd 2 c.c. from the implied consent provided for in Article. 60 of the Code, i.e. any behavior of a person who reveals his will in a sufficient manner. The agreement is implied by the form of active consent. It consists in expressing its will in a way other than verbally, i.e. other than in writing or orally. Against the background of the current wording of the article. 647 Civil Code controversy and divergences in case law relate primarily to implied consent. The silent agreement does not give rise to any problems in case law, but, with regard to the agreement of the implied caselaw, it has not developed uniform criteria to consider the investor's behaviour as consenting to the conclusion of a contract with a subcontractor. In extreme cases, the investor shall be attributed an implied consent only on the basis that the supervisory inspector knew about the performance of the works by the subcontractor concerned, while in case law dominates the view that the investor's consent sanctiones all other requirements necessary for the investor's responsibility towards subcontractors. Assigning an implied consent to an investor, in situations where the investor did not realise that he had agreed, led to the investor's joint and several liability for the remuneration of subcontractors in the absence of awareness of the existence of that liability. Consequently, the investor, not realizing the claims of subcontractors and his liability for these claims, could have settled with the contractor without verifying whether the contractor had paid to its subcontractors. Because Art. 647 does not restrict when subcontractors submit their claims to an investor, subcontractors sometimes report them only after the investor has cleared the investment and paid the contractor the full remuneration. Then the investor may be forced to pay subcontractors for the works for which the contractor has already paid for, and regressive claims against the contractor may prove irrecoverable. The absence of time limits for the submission of a sub-contractor's claims to the investor results from the assumption that the investor knows which contracts he has granted active or silent consent to, and thus checks before paying the contractor's remuneration whether the contractor has paid to his subcontractors. However, recognition as an implied agreement of too wide a range of investor behaviours makes this a fictional assumption and results in investors sometimes paying for the same robots once again. The limitation of the form of consent to the written amendment will eliminate the risk of double payment unless the investor does not check the satisfaction of the subcontractors' claims on which the agreement was given prior to payment of the contractor's remuneration. High Izbo! It cannot be made clear that the proposed change leads to a weakening of the protection of subcontractors, as was discussed in today's discussion. Introduction of Article 2003 647, although intended to protect subcontractors, could in the long term have contributed to reducing this protection. Before the entry into force of the Article. 647 of the Code Contractors were aware of the importance of securing their interests in the event of the insolvency of the Contractor. The often used security was the assignment of the right to part of the remuneration for the subcontractor. Introduction to the c.c. That's the art. 647 weakened the vigilance of subcontractors and it should be stressed that it is still alive - the project does not concern it, does not abolish - the right of the subcontractor to require the contractor to provide a bank or insurance guarantee of payment under the strict conditions of withdrawal for reasons incriminating the contractor, i.e. Article. 649 Civil Code. In this situation, with a view to strengthening legal certainty and avoiding liability, avoiding situations where there is double satisfaction, often as a result of criminal acts - various forms of collusion operate on the market in order to ultimately ensure that the same work is paid twice, including often a public investor - we consider that not always every investor should be protected, including the public. It is this project, in writing, that has the chance to prevent such negative phenomena. Therefore, in the assessment of the Ministry of Justice, as well as the Ministry of Infrastructure, because the government's position has not yet been formally adopted by the Council of Ministers, the project is worth supporting. It only requires a minor modification - that it is not justified to introduce written consent as a condition for the investor's responsibility towards subcontractors, while leaving the existing general liability of the contractor to further subcontractors, i.e. providing for liability also if consent is implied and that silence is accepted for consent. If the Senate initiative had been adopted, there would have been a situation where an investor would have been in accordance with Article. 647 § 2 c.c. could agree to the performance of works by a sub-contractor in a form other than written, but at the same time this agreement, in the light of the new wording proposed by the Senate. 647 § 5 k.c., would not give rise to the investor's liability for the remuneration of the subcontractor. Therefore, the objective of the Senate project, it seems, can be achieved in a simpler way by leaving unchanged § 5 and the requirement of written consent in § 2, which should be stated that the Contractor shall require the consent of the investor in writing to conclude the contract of works with the Subcontractor. Failure to make a written statement of consent within a period of not less than 14 days shall be deemed not to have been granted. In addition to the elimination of non-legal consent, the above proposal retains the uniformity of the investor's liability to subcontractors and contractors vis-à-vis further subcontractors. The proposal provides for the withdrawal of the requirement to join the sub-contractor's declaration with the subcontractor or its design together with part of the documentation relating to the performance of the works specified in the contract or project. This requirement was necessary to consider the investor's silence as consent, but since the investor is to grant his consent only in writing, it is for him to decide on the submission of such documents to be subject to his consent. Therefore, according to the Ministry of Justice, the project is worth supporting, yet overworked and refined in committee. I would like to stress that this is not the final regulation of all the problems and even the pathologies that occur in the construction market, this is the first step, but this is a step in the right direction, which is why we support this Senate initiative. There will be time for further steps. The preliminary work is really taking place, this is the work of the Ministry of Justice, together with the Ministry of Development and the Ministry of Infrastructure. And it's not like Marshal Dolnyak here said it was a waste of time. It is not a waste of time to introduce good solutions as soon as possible, but Kraków was not built immediately. In six months, a year later, solutions will be introduced to complete and eliminate all pathologies. I think it's worth at least part of the pathology to eliminate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-21-sejm-26-1.u290	Thank you very much. [[Minister, I didn't get the answer to the question.]] In corrigendum mode, yes, Marshal? One minute, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-21-sejm-26-1.u291	How much time do I have, Marshal? Two minutes?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-21-sejm-26-1.u292	One minute.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-21-sejm-26-1.u293	You don't give enough of that time. Minister! I didn't get any answers to any of my questions. I therefore ask for them to be given in writing. It's a matter of correction. Namely, from 29 April 2008 is the resolution of the Supreme Court which harmonised the case law on investor consent. The Court of First Instance held that the consent required by the Article. 647 § 2 c.c. the standard Article shall not apply. 63 § 2 of the Civil Code. Besides, contrary to your claim, this project does not eliminate the fact that the investor will pay the money and contractor general, and the contractor, because this is a completely different issue which concerns this provision, the regulation which is covered by the Senate project. There's one more thing. Either the investor gives his consent, or he does so actively by his actions or in writing, or he does not propose at all. This is an action where it's hard to say the lack of awareness by the investor. [[♪ The bell ♪]] The recipe is clear.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-21-sejm-26-1.u294	Thank you very much. Now, on behalf of the applicants, you will speak for Senator Robert Mammoths. You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-21-sejm-26-1.u295	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The Minister has basically answered all your questions. This project is complex to protect subcontractors, small subcontractors. I would like us to discuss if he is evil according to you, how to correct him. But you can't come in here and say no, reject it, I disagree, because it's not fair. I repeat, you have a committee, we're going to committee, we're talking. If the Senate's proposal is not entirely clear or not entirely clear, then let's talk, but let's do everything we can to get a law to defend subcontractors as soon as possible. I repeat once again, if today I may be misconstruing the situation, maybe I am misconstruing this project, then show me on the committee that you have a better one, that it has to be done differently. I get it. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-21-sejm-26-1.u296	Thank you very much. The discussion is closed. There was a motion for rejection in the discussion... [[Mr. Marshal, I'm here to make amends.]] [[I didn't use your words.]] Please? [[Corrigendum to the senator's statement.]] Your marshal's already straightened out. [[But that's for the Minister, and now...]] Here you go, one minute.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-21-sejm-26-1.u297	It is not true that this provision is intended to improve the situation of the subcontractor, not even the contractor. He's only talking about one entity, he's not talking about contractors in relation to subcontractors and subcontractors in relation to further subcontractors. He's only talking about the investor. So how do you, Senator, want to correct this recipe? That's one thing. Second, how are we supposed to improve it with regard to § 2, since at all § Two isn't procedated? There is no way in committee that we will now add to this project § Two, because he's not the subject of the project. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-21-sejm-26-1.u298	A motion to reject the draft law at first reading was put forward in the discussion. We will proceed to the vote on this proposal in the voting block. We proceed with the examination of item 8 of the agenda: the report of the Committee on Economic Affairs and Development and the Committee on Justice and Human Rights on the Government's draft law on out-of-court resolution of consumer disputes (prints No 630 and 853). I would like to ask Mr Anthony the Man to present a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-21-sejm-26-1.u299	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour to present a report by the Committee on Economic Affairs and Development and the Committee on Justice and Human Rights on the Government's draft law on out-of-court resolution of consumer disputes, print No 630. The Government's draft law is a purely technical project and aims at implementing the new Directive of the European Parliament and of the Council, the ADR Directive of 2013. This Directive aims to harmonise the system of out-of-court dispute settlement between consumers and traders throughout the EU market, including on contracts concluded via the Internet and cross-border contracts. While the ADR system is currently in force in Poland, it is based not on hard legal bases, but on self-regulation and rules of universal law, and on the recommendations of the European Commission regulated by 1998 and 2001 documents, i.e. the 1998 recommendations and the 2001 recommendations, in which the Commission introduced minimum standards for ADR procedures and which are to be the basis for Member States. The first reading of the project took place at a joint meeting of the Committee on Economic Affairs and Development and the Committee on Justice and Human Rights on 6 July this year. A subcommittee was set up five times, the first meeting on 6 July being formal and concerned the formation of the subcommittee. The next, 20 July, was both a general consultation with the environment and concerned the presentation of the principles of work on this project because - as I have already pointed out - there is no experience of the law in Poland and that it is an implementing directive, and here the European Union is using quite strict methods of verifying this implementation, the point is that all the provisions or all the recommendations of the directive are actually included in the draft law. There's some understanding here. This project was burdened with many, many reservations. It must be said that this project, although the government has been working on this project for a long time, is a good reflection of the provisions of the directive for 3 years, but it also has shortcomings related to compliance with the Polish legal system and the principles of legislative technology. In the first meeting, since the Legislative Office had tabled about 500 amendments - most of the amendments were legislative-editing-language, but there were also more than 50 substantive amendments - and it was necessary to redesign this project in such a way that the soft rules, which, as it turned out, were a faithful translation of the directive, replace the tough legal standards and, at the same time, that the whole project would comply with the principles of legislative technique, we agreed on this, both the representatives of the Ministry - precisely in the case of this law it is about the UOKiK - and the Members that we will work on the legislative side of this project very seriously. During the discussion, some social environments pointed out that sometimes soft regulation is better due to a more flexible approach to the subject matter, because this flexibility offers more opportunities. If there were such solutions as to clarify this clearly, we would agree to adopt them at this first session of the subcommittee, but in principle we agreed that we were going towards tough legislation to synchronise these new ADR rules, which have not yet been in force in Poland, with the Polish system of law, as well as with respect to this law of all legislative techniques. And here the main task belonged to the Legislative Bureau and the UOKiK. Their representatives met between meetings to find good solutions. Here was full agreement, so at the next meetings on 5 and 13 September, after the holidays, this draft law was considered for the first time point by point, article by article, change for change as regards the rules in force, and there was a work on which, because we were trying to respect the time of the members of the Committee on Economic Affairs and Development and the Committee on Justice and Human Rights, we decided to hold another meeting yesterday, such cleansing, to present a project that was almost ready to be accepted by high committees. And that's what we did. Although it took us a long time to consider the draft law in these 2 days, it was a long time - here I thank all the Members involved in the subcommittee for their participation, for their commitment precisely because it took about 500 amendments to work, even if the majority were legislative-editing, and it was also more than 50 substantive, it was not a simple matter - but we tried to draw up a good bill. That's why we had to spend so much time proceding this bill in the subcommittee. Here we have to say that there have also been structural changes concerning the government project, which means that the titles of chapters have been changed. This matter has also been ordered in the manner required by the principles of legislative technology. This concerned Chapter 2, which has been replaced by Chapter 5, Chapter 3, which has been replaced by Chapter 2, Chapter 4, has been deleted, Chapter 6 replaced by Chapter 3, and the others have been moved. We have also, as I mentioned, changed the titles of chapters. As far as government submissions are concerned, chapters 6, 8 and 9 were concerned. On yesterday's day, the Legislative Office reported a number of legislative-editing and linguistic changes to align the report, and five substantive amendments were tabled. The UOKiK also reported five substantive changes in terms of UKE and other entities interested in this bill. All of this has been accepted, Members have agreed to this and a report has been drawn up, which today has been examined by the Joint Committees: Economics and Development and Justice and Human Rights. Only seven legislative amendments have already been introduced and the report has been adopted. This work, especially in the subcommittee, has to be said, was a real legislative revolution by making so many changes. But as a result, we have received a good project, which, like government presentations, faithfully implements the provisions of the directive and fits well into the Polish legal system, is fully compatible with the Polish legal system. The Commission recommends that the draft be adopted from the submission of the committee of today. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-21-sejm-26-1.u300	Thank you very much, sir. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would listen to the five-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and the circle. I'm opening a discussion. Mr Paweł Lisiecki will be the first to speak on behalf of Parliamentary Club Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-21-sejm-26-1.u301	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour on behalf of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice to present to the High House the position of my club on the government draft law on the out-of-court resolution of consumer disputes contained in the report of the Committee on Economic Affairs and Development. This proposal responds to the Directive of the European Parliament and of the Council of 21 May 2013 on alternative methods of resolving consumer disputes and to the Regulation on online consumer dispute resolution. The main objective of the project is to provide consumers with the possibility to apply for the settlement of disputes with traders to operators offering independent, impartial, transparent, effective and rapid alternative solutions. As envisaged in the legislative package, access to cheap and efficient ways of resolving consumer disputes will be beneficial both for consumers and for entrepreneurs who will obtain an instrument to avoid long-term and costly judicial processes in disputes with consumers. Although there is a constant upward trend in Poland towards amicably resolving consumer disputes, the mechanisms for amicable settlement of consumer disputes in Poland are still too small and widespread. However, as the reality shows, arbitration courts and other forms of out-of-court consumer dispute settlement are an effective and inexpensive means for consumers to exercise their rights, in particular in minor cases, in cases where the general judicial system does not work because of the length of proceedings, high costs, formalised procedures and psychological resistance to consumer involvement in legal proceedings. The result of the adoption and entry into force of this project should be: improving the efficiency and efficiency of procedures related to the amicable resolution of consumer disputes in Poland, introducing uniform methods of acting of entities and ensuring the consistency of the whole system, popularising this form of dispute settlement among Polish entrepreneurs and consumers. In addition, it should be noted that this project is not intended to impose on out-of-court consumer dispute resolution entities ready-to-use solutions, but is intended to create a framework which will, on the one hand, allow the relevant authorities to enter in the event of bad or defective activities of the entities, on the other hand, will give the dispute resolution entities a large amount of freedom by creating their own rules of operation. Parliamentary Club Law and Justice supports the draft law on out-of-court resolution of consumer disputes, contained in Parliamentary Printing No 630, together with the amendments adopted. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-21-sejm-26-1.u302	Thank you very much. Mr Antoni Mężyłko will now speak on behalf of the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-21-sejm-26-1.u303	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour to present on behalf of the Civic Platform Parliamentary Club the position of the club on the report of the Committee on Economic Affairs and Development and the Committee on Justice and Human Rights on the Government's draft law on out-of-court consumer dispute resolution. The government proposal for a law on out-of-court consumer dispute resolution is a purely technical project aimed at implementing the new Directive of the Parliament and of the ADR Council of 2013, which is the Directive on alternative methods of resolving consumer disputes. With the same date, a new regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council of 2013 was published in the ADR package, namely the regulation on the online consumer dispute settlement system, which in the ADR package amends the old 2004 ODR Regulation and the old 2009 ADR Directive. In view of the growing integration and harmonisation of the internal market in the European Union in all economic sectors, this new ADR-ODR package aims to provide consumers with better access to independent, impartial, transparent, effective and rapid alternatives to consumer dispute resolution. It is also beneficial for entrepreneurs as it provides them with access to cheap, efficient ways of resolving consumer disputes as opposed to costly litigation. The ADR Directive provides for a single system of out-of-court dispute settlement in all Member States which covers all disputes on the EU market between the consumer and the trader, including contracts concluded via the Internet and cross-border contracts. In Poland, there is currently an ADR system based on self-regulation and rules of universal law and international standards, in particular the recommendations of the European Commission regulated by 1998 and 2001 documents, in which the European Commission introduced minimum standards for ADR procedures and which are the basis for Member States to notify the European Commission of national out-of-court entities meeting these criteria. Currently, the following systems are notified to the ADR database in Poland and the European Commission: bank arbiter, arbitration court at the President of UKE, arbitration court at the Financial Supervision Commission, ADR proceedings conducted by the Financial Ombudsman and mediation conducted by the Trade Inspection. The ADR system in Poland is based on two pillars. The first is general and multisectoral and the second is sectoral. The first form the structures of the Trade Inspection and includes mediation conducted by voivodship trade Inspection Inspectorates and amicable judiciary, within which 16 permanent friendly consumer courts and 15 out-of-town centres operate. The second pillar is composed of public administrations, the President of the Office for Electronic Communications, the Financial Supervision Commission and the Financial Spokesperson, and ADR entities set up by businesses in the industry, such as the Bank Arbiter or the Commission for the Protection of Passenger Rights at the President of the Civil Aviation Authority. The Government's draft law on out-of-court consumer dispute resolution introduces a new model of ADR system in which both non-public and public ADR entities will exist. It will include ADR entities set up by businesses in the industry, existing or newly established public sector ADR entities located in or within the structure of public authorities, sectoral administrations such as UKE President, URE President, UTK President, Financial Supervision Commission and Financial Spokesperson, and horizontal entity, Trade Inspection, the scope of which will cover cases for which the relevant sectoral ADR has not been established. This project has been created for a long time, because for 3 years, and although it reflects all the provisions of the directive well, it has many shortcomings in the principles of legislative technology and synchronization or compliance with the Polish legal system. Many of the provisions contained therein do not meet the conditions of tough legal standards and are only a faithful translation of the Directive. Therefore, in the work of the sub-committee set up for the examination of the project, we have carried out a real legislative revolution, introducing about 500 amendments, mainly legislative-editorical-language changes, but also about 50 substantive and structural changes resulting from the principles of legislative technique, consisting in changing the order of chapters. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! As a result, in the report of the Joint Parliamentary Committees we have a good project, which faithfully implements the provisions of the Directive, fits well into the Polish legal system, is fully in line with the principles of legislative technique and deserves the support of the Civic Platform Parliamentary Club. We're gonna vote anyway. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-21-sejm-26-1.u304	Thank you very much. Mr Jerzy Meysztowicz, the Modern Club, will now speak. Excuse me, Mr Grzegorz Długi, the Kukiz Club15.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-21-sejm-26-1.u305	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Very briefly. Of course, the introduction of this law is a necessity, because it results from our participation in the European Union. We have no doubt about that. We also have no doubt that there is a social need for a compact dispute resolution system to be established, which would be out-of-court dispute resolution. Consumer matters are common issues, they are sometimes complicated and require specific knowledge, but common courts or others should not necessarily be involved. Common courts, which are overloaded, inefficient, expensive, often act controversially. It is therefore necessary to proceed on this subject. Of course, the proposed project, as I think my previous speaker just said, contains many shortcomings. The fact is that, at first glance, for me at least, the biggest flaw was such a general, ideological repetition of the directive, which does not give much in terms of strengthening our law, shows some directions. I hope that, as part of the committee's work, such problems will be resolved. We are also thinking about how to make this system more transparent and accessible to the average mortal. The idea of this whole system, which is to be created, is that it is easy and accessible to the average consumer, so that he can easily, inexpensively achieve the result, i.e. to be judged by his case, his problem. Either way, it's just the beginning of work. I think that the need to improve this system is cross-party and there will be no other problems than substantive ones. That is what I wish for and for all of you. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-21-sejm-26-1.u306	Thank you very much. Mr Jerzy Meysztowicz, the Modern Club, will now speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-21-sejm-26-1.u307	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Madam President! This is indeed a good project, because we are all aware of how the common courts are burdened. Therefore, any thing that will serve to make less of these cases available to the courts is appropriate. I am pleased to present the position of the club Modern for the report of the committee on the government draft law on out-of-court resolution of consumer disputes, print no. 630. This proposal, as has already been said, follows from the 2013 EU Directive. This new ADR model is to be based on a mixed approach in which both non-public and public ADR entities exist side by side. In order to obtain the status of an entity authorised to settle consumer disputes out of court, they must be entered in the register of entities authorised to be held by the President of the Office for Competition and Consumer Protection. The Act also applies to proceedings aimed at out-of-court resolution of domestic and cross-border disputes concerning contractual obligations arising from sales contracts as well as other contracts concluded with consumers by traders established in the territory of the Republic of Poland. The project sets out the requirements that are necessary for the management of an ADR entity. The basic principle of dealing with out-of-court consumer dispute resolution is to initiate this procedure at the consumer's request, but the ADR entity will be able to provide in its internal regulations for the possibility of initiating ADR proceedings also at the trader's request. The proposed ADR system is based on a voluntary principle that ADR procedures should be voluntary for parties and should not close the judicial path. The Modern Club recommends voting for this project. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-21-sejm-26-1.u308	Thank you very much. Mr Mieczysław Kasprzak, the club of the Polish People's Party, will now speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-21-sejm-26-1.u309	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour to express my support for the project presented here on behalf of the Polish People's Party Parliamentary Club. I think this is a good project, necessary, but, as the rapporteur Antoni Mężydło pointed out, it was a very difficult project because it required practically complete work. Technically, it is difficult for the average citizen, the consumer to understand, so I think it will require appropriate dissemination measures when implementing it. The project is needed because, as has already been said, I do not want to go into details, consent builds and what less we have these conflicts, the better it is for everyone - for consumers, for entrepreneurs. There are also cross-border cases, which means we are entering the international market. The quick handling of all these disputes is only beneficial, which is why I would like to express my gratitude to Mr Antoni Marzyda for this huge contribution of work, because in order to transform the entire project presented into a subcommittee, there was a need for huge constipation and great effort. It seems to all of us today after the committee meeting that this has been carried out perfectly. The Polish People's Party supports these solutions and hopefully they are implemented as soon as possible into our daily lives. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-21-sejm-26-1.u310	Thank you very much. Mrs Małgorzata Zwierzan will now speak on behalf of the Free and Solidarni wheels.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-21-sejm-26-1.u311	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Freedom and Solidarnia Circle, I am pleased to present my position towards the government's draft law on out-of-court resolution of consumer disputes. The draft law is based on the need to implement the legislative package, which was published on 18 June 2013. The legislative package is intended to enable the proper functioning of the internal market in the European Union and to ensure that consumers resolve disputes with traders without the participation of a court. Such a solution is beneficial for both consumers and entrepreneurs, who have so far wasted unnecessary time and incurred high costs in litigation. So far there is a mixed model of the out-of-court dispute resolution system in Poland. The system is based on two pillars: the Trade Inspection covering the whole country, among others. the mediation carried out by the provincial trade inspection inspectors, and by the arbitration courts. The second pillar forms the so-called. sector-specific ADR entities set up to resolve specific disputes in specific market sectors. They use mediation, arbitration or both to resolve disputes. These solutions were rarely used by Polish citizens. The scope of the draft law concerns consumer disputes involving contractual obligations arising from sales contracts and other contracts concluded with consumers. The draft law introduces rules to ensure fair treatment of the parties when resolving consumer disputes. During the work of the subcommittee, a fragment of the article raised a lot of controversy. Article 13 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 and 2 concerning the online and non-internet form in which consumer dispute proceedings may be conducted. This passage also raises our doubts. The Act introduces a very important regulation which ensures that the limitation period for a claim which is the subject of a dispute will not expire during all types of proceedings in the case of out-of-court consumer disputes. It should also be stressed that the proposed method of out-of-court dispute settlement does not close the road to legal proceedings. The Parties shall choose on a voluntary basis how to settle a dispute. The Act also sets out clearly the obligations of ADR entities as well as traders. The project sets out additional tasks for the President of the Office for Competition and Consumer Protection, including: monitoring the proper performance of their duties by entities empowered to settle consumer disputes out of court. The Free and Solidarni Members' Circle will vote in favour of the bill. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-21-sejm-26-1.u312	Thank you very much. Six Members joined the questions. I'm shutting down the voice mailing list. I'm setting a question time for one minute. Mr Jarosław Gonciusz, the Law and Justice Club, will be the first to ask a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-21-sejm-26-1.u313	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! According to Art. 17 draft law ADR proceedings are free of charge for consumers, but the rules of procedure may provide for the collection of fees from consumers if their combined value does not unduly hinder the consumer's access to out-of-court consumer dispute resolution. Please indicate the grounds for charging the fee, i.e. the possibility of applying an exception to the general rule of free of charge. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-21-sejm-26-1.u314	Thank you. The question is asked by Mr Grzegorz Piechowiak, club Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-21-sejm-26-1.u315	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! This law will undoubtedly contribute to the fact that these proceedings will be much faster, but I would like to ask a question in relation to the article. Article 14 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1, which states that the authorised entity ensures that persons conducting proceedings on out-of-court consumer dispute resolution will have knowledge and skills in the field of out-of-court or judicial dispute resolution, as well as general knowledge of the law and paragraph 1. 2 says that the minimum level of knowledge and skills will be specified in the Rules of Procedure. Because we know that out-of-court disputes are also mediation and that it is already defined who can be mediator and what conditions must be met, I wanted to ask what it means to be the minimum level of knowledge and skills, who this person can be. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-21-sejm-26-1.u316	Thank you. The question is asked by Mrs Iwona Michalek, club Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-21-sejm-26-1.u317	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! In Article 2, paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: 40 of the contested law states that the outcome of the proceedings on out-of-court consumer cases shall be presented to the parties within 90 days. My question is, why the 90 days? Is this the term imposed by the European Commission? Do applicants have data on the time taken to deal with cases at the moment? Are these 90 days real? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-21-sejm-26-1.u318	Thank you very much. The question is asked by Mr Mieczysław Kasprzak, a club of the Polish People's Party.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-21-sejm-26-1.u319	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! With such a technical act, I would also like to ask one technical question. When the districts were established in 1999, consumer rights spokesmen were set up in the Old Towns, who were also to deal with consumer disputes to a large extent. Is the position of the Ombudsman changing in the light of this law, or will there be any change in the position of the Ombudsman at the level of the district? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-21-sejm-26-1.u320	Thank you very much. The question is asked by Mr Waldemar Buda, the Law and Justice Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-21-sejm-26-1.u321	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have a question for the applicants, for the government. Are there any analyses that would indicate to what extent consumer out-of-court proceedings will relieve the courts and streamline the proceedings in all those cases that are brought before the courts and how this will affect the length of ongoing proceedings? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-21-sejm-26-1.u322	Thank you very much. The last question is asked by Mr Grzegorz Wojciechowski, the Law and Justice Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-21-sejm-26-1.u323	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Consumers in consumer disputes are meeting with the stronger and stronger other side. The companies they collide with in the event of disputes are growing, stronger, often further away, located far from the consumer's place of residence, so these disputes are difficult for the consumer and therefore less so. There will certainly be more disputes in this case, but my question is whether this law sufficiently safeguards the equality of the parties in the event of a consumer dispute with a large company with a large number of lawyers, attorneys, [[♪ The bell ♪]] experts, etc., who are able to perform in this process? Thank you very much, Marshal.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-21-sejm-26-1.u324	Thank you very much. You will now speak to the Vice President... [[My Lady, my Lady.]] Excuse me, Madam Vice President of the Office for Competition and Consumer Protection Dorota Karczewska. You're welcome, Chairman.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-21-sejm-26-1.u325	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Thank you so much for these questions. A brief word of reflection. Today we are talking about something new in this bill, we are talking about an alternative consumer dispute resolution system. Although we have heard that you have spoken about the system, I would like to say that there is no such system. It is only by implementing the Directive that this law introduces a system and a way of managing a consumer complaint. I would like to thank all the Members who worked in committees, subcommittees, because it was really difficult to process this law, because today such a substitute for these eligible entities, ADR entities somewhere in public entities we have and these resources had to be used to tailor a new system. It didn't always work, hence the hard work in the subcommittee, so that this patchwork system can be assembled together so that it can function. Let me now answer your questions. The first question concerned payment. Indeed, in principle, the Act provides that consumers are not to be charged a fee. This procedure is free of charge, although the rules of procedure may provide for the collection of a fee from the consumer. The Member asked for a reason. This condition is in the bill. She's designed in a negative way, but she is. Such a fee must not hinder the consumer's access to the system. According to our analysis, the fee for identifying such a dispute should not exceed 30% and 50%. I stress that the Act provides for a certain control, coordination of the President of the OMC, so if the rules of procedure provide for such fees, these fees will be subject to scrutiny by the President of the Office for Competition and Consumer Protection. Today we know that to a large extent the system will be built on the basis of public entities that will be created at the Electronic Communications Office, the Energy Regulatory Office, the Financial Spokesperson, the Financial Supervision Commission, the Civil Aviation Authority, the Railway Transport Office and the Trade Inspection Office. Today, these public bodies declare, in principle, that such charges will not be charged. The second question concerned requirements which would be brought before those who settle disputes in such eligible entities. The law actually creates these requirements in a general way. I would stress that the law does not prejudge that this form of out-of-court dispute resolution must only be mediation, if only arbitration, if only amicable judicial proceedings. This range is very wide, so these requirements will also depend on the form that will be chosen by the individual authorized entity. If the entity chooses mediation, then the person who decides in such a entity will, of course, have to comply with the requirements of the Code of Civil Procedure, i.e. here more soft predispositions... If the entity chooses a decision which is binding, those competences will probably have to be closer to knowledge of the law and to settlement. Finally, it will be the bodies empowered in their rules of procedure to determine these competences and, as I mentioned earlier, these rules will be subject to monitoring of coordination checks by the President of the Office for Competition and Consumer Protection. The third question concerned 90 days. Yes, it is the deadline for the directive. There was also such a question, Madam President, that it was not too short. Let me put it this way: from our experience, we know that the commercial inspection, which the President of the Office for Competition and Consumer Protection directly supervises, meets such deadlines, and this is an average period for resolving a consumer dispute, whether in the form of mediation or in an amicable form. The fourth question, which is very important, concerns consumers' mouths. Ladies and gentlemen, there is a reason why I am talking about a system for resolving certain consumer issues, consumer complaints, consumer problems. This is a system. On the one hand, These are the powers of the President of the Office for Competition and Consumer Protection, on the other hand, the spokespersons who provide individual assistance to consumers in the field, and the third element of this system is the alternative dispute resolution system, which is the system we are talking about today. These systems will be complementary, and judging by the number of consumer complaints affecting your offices, the Members' offices, I think I am able to say with full responsibility that no one will lack work: neither the spokespersons nor those who will settle consumer disputes in these ADR entities. The Member's fifth question concerned the relationship between the new ADR system and the cases dealt with there to the number of cases dealt with in the courts. Here's a curiosity answer, because, ladies and gentlemen, from our research... We have conducted studies at all on the tendency of consumers to submit to disputes in this alternative system, and these studies show that this system is not an alternative to the court at all. Why? Because today consumers with cases where the value of the subject matter of the dispute is not high, simply do not go to court. You do not go to court with a complaint of shoes, with a complaint of badly performed repair and construction service. The court is dealing with a polysolocata case, a franc, so today we do not have such data, although I assume that when this system is reviewed after some time, such data will appear. The sixth question was... [[The equality of the pages.]] ...equality of the parties of the trader and the consumer. Thank you, sir. In my view, this equality is more guaranteed in the new ADR system than before. So far we have a consumer who is lonely, unless he knows that there is a consumer spokesperson, and then he uses his help, and on the other hand we have a large entrepreneur with a staff of lawyers. It seems to me that what will happen in the alternative dispute resolution centers, i.e. a mediator or an amicable judiciary, or someone who will be independent here... This balance between the consumer and the trader will be preserved. [[That's all.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-21-sejm-26-1.u326	Thank you very much. The rapporteur of the committee, Mr Antoni Mężyłko, will now speak. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-21-sejm-26-1.u327	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I would like to thank all the clubs very much for their substantive approach to this subject of the bill, to this draft law and to the report of the committee, which has been very positive. Here some flattery, especially those addressed to me by Mieczysław Kasprzak, maybe they are entitled, but it's not just for me. They are most entitled to the Legislative Office, which has undertaken a difficult crossing through this law, as well as to the President of the UOKiK, who has agreed to such a procedure and has complied with the conditions imposed by the committee, should also be addressed to all members of the subcommittee. Here I see Mr Paweł Lisiecki, but also others who were very sympathetic to and accepted by the Legislative Office. I think we actually have a well formulated ADR project today. I hope that it will serve our market and protect consumers, but it will also help businesses. The work was actually difficult, it was a long-term settlement due to the deadline, because this bill was long-established. Interministerial and social consultations took quite a long time. Perhaps these soft regulations would be more flexible, while we - also due to habits etc. - we like tough regulations, tough regulations, not so softened. Our presence here, in the Seym, has also created the fact that, although there is a fashion for soft regulation in the world today, we retain this system of hard laws, regulations, and not descriptive regulations. Thank you very much. The biggest thanks are due to the representatives of the Legislative Office, who have worked constantly in a three-person team. This work not only during the subcommittee meetings, but also during the period between committee meetings was really very tedious and exhausting, so thank you very much to everyone. I would also like to thank you for understanding and not making any amendments to this report, because this report is really well worked out. Thank you very much, Marshal. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-21-sejm-26-1.u328	Thank you very much. The discussion is closed. We will proceed to the third reading of the bill in the voting block. We proceed with the examination of item 9 of the agenda: First reading of the government draft law amending the Law on the Military Property Agency (print No 841). I ask the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of National Defence, Mr Bartłomiej Grabski, to present the reasons for the bill. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-21-sejm-26-1.u329	Dear Marshal, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, The proposal submitted to the High House for a law amending the Military Property Agency Act, print No 841, provides for the extension of the powers of the Military Property Agency to provide services to organisational units subordinate to or supervised by the Minister for National Defence. From the existing provision in this regard - Article. 53th Act on the Military Property Agency - it appears that the Military Property Agency can provide services exclusively to the Minister of National Defence, thus at present it cannot provide such services to military units. The Agency and its subsidiaries could provide specialised critical infrastructure services. This is extremely important in view of the current threats of our country. For security reasons, a better solution is one that involves the provision of services for e.g. ammunition warehouses or other elements of military infrastructure by an entity under the full control of the Minister for National Defence. It shall be stressed that in accordance with Article. Article 14 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 2 of the Act of 22 June 1995 on the Accommodation of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Poland, which expired on 1 October 2015 pursuant to Article. 107 of the Act on the Military Property Agency, the Minister of National Defence, may conclude agreements with the Military Housing Agency for the provision of services not only to the Ministry of National Defence, but also to organisational units subordinate to or supervised by the Minister of National Defence. In view of the fact that the Military Property Agency was to perform the tasks of the Military and Military Property Agency after the merger, it is necessary for the Military Property Agency to be able to perform services and works, as well as for the repair of organisational units subordinate to or supervised by the Minister for National Defence, as well as directly to the Minister for National Defence. In addition, the amendment of the Act on the Military Property Agency gives the possibility, on the basis of a decision of the Minister of National Defence or the Minister responsible for Home Affairs, to transfer or dispose of military equipment or dual-use items and arms, as well as to dispose of military equipment or dual-use items and of strategic importance for the maintenance of international peace and security in the hands of organisational units subordinate to the Minister of National Defence or the Minister competent for Home Affairs. The proposed amendments are designed to reduce the time involved in deciding whether to transfer or dispose of military equipment or dual-use items free of charge. Previous practice in this area indicates that negotiation processes related to the conclusion of international agreements are too time-consuming and that the situation sometimes requires immediate action. The maintenance of decision-making procedures and processes may lead to the loss of the ability of foreign entities to dispose of military equipment or dual-use items and sometimes to take over a given contract or market. The amendment of the Act also includes the introduction of solutions that will improve the functioning of the Agency, as well as simplify and reform the principles of entrusting key posts with the Military Property Agency. The proposed solutions in this respect are similar to those adopted for other executive agencies, e.g. Agricultural Real Estate Agency, Agricultural Market Agency. The proposed provisions provide that the President of the Military Property Agency will appoint and dismiss the President of the Council of Ministers at the request of the Minister for National Defence. The proposed solution implies the scope of the Agency's tasks for defence and state security purposes, since the Agency carries out strategic tasks from the point of view of the national defence department. Resignation from the holding of competitions for the position of President and Deputy President shall not imply resignation from the requirement of those persons appointed to such important positions to have the qualifications laid down in the Military Property Agency Act. This is defined in Article. 11 laws. The fact that the Act of 10 July 2015 on the Military Property Agency contains a provision allowing the Minister of National Defence to appoint the first President of the Agency and its deputies without a competition. It's about art. 123th Military Property Agency Act. It is also proposed to simplify the procedures for the appointment of deputy presidents of the agencies and directors of regional branches. The Deputy Chairman of the Military Property Agency appointed and will be dismissed by the Minister of National Defence at the request of the President of the Agency, while the Directors of Regional Branches will be appointed by the President of the Agency. In view of the solution proposed in the draft law, it should be assumed that the proposed regulation will undoubtedly contribute to improving the functioning of the Military Property Agency. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-21-sejm-26-1.u330	Thank you very much. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would listen to the five-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and the circle. I'm opening a discussion. Mr Leszek Dobrzyński, the Law and Justice Club, will be the first to speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-21-sejm-26-1.u331	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! First of all, let us note that the project presented here is a complement to those changes that have been in operation for more than a year now in the newly established Military Property Agency. We are presented with a short but extremely important project, which is at the heart of several changes in the operation of the Military Property Agency. Thus, the provisions on the seat of management positions are being amended, as has already been mentioned here. Thus, according to this proposal, applicants rightly point out that, in the Agency, the performance of tasks for defence and security of the State, including trade with foreign goods and technologies of strategic importance for State security, the storage and trading of explosives, weapons, ammunition and military and police goods and technology, as well as cooperation with companies and entrepreneurs carrying out these activities, requires that the President of the Council of Ministers should be able to appoint and dismiss, at the request of the Minister of Defence, the President of the Military Property Agency and, consequently, to resign from recruitment in an open and competitive manner, i.e. competition. Then, going down in the hierarchy of management of the agency, the president was given the opportunity to quickly and effectively select the staff, which of course will also be a consequence of the resignation of the competitions carried out. The next point is a rather important point on the revision of the rules allowing the Military Property Agency to enter more actively into the arms trade and military equipment market. This is also a complement to those provisions which in July ub. r. have been introduced. The project also clarifies the powers of the directors of the regional branches of the agencies, thus removing the interpretative doubts that have been left during this period since July Ub. R. Signaled. The presentation of the financial plan shall also be subject to a change. According to this proposal, the Agency will present a single financial plan, not a set of regional financial plans. It would also be worth noting that it has been clarified, as far as the financial plan is concerned, the provisions that will allow for the revision of the plan. Ladies and gentlemen, in summary, the project presented to us allows us to improve the activities of the Military Property Agency and transform it into a modern and efficient office, capable of effective cooperation with the Ministry of National Defence and with other ministries and economic entities, an entity capable of effectively participating in the implementation of tasks and supporting the Polish arms industry and thus Polish defence policy. Finally, it is up to us whether we want the Military Property Agency to be associated mainly with the sale of land and buildings after eliminated garrisons or the trade in old underwear and gym shoes, or whether we want it to become an efficient instrument to meet the challenges. The Law and Justice Club will support these solutions. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-21-sejm-26-1.u332	Thank you very much. Mr Sławomir Nitras, the Civic Platform Club, will now speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-21-sejm-26-1.u333	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The bill, which was presented, should not be called the draft law on the Military Property Agency, should be called: the law on the taking into the Jasyr of the agency and its employees, because this law of the entire institution and its employees is taking, giving a kind of slavery to Minister Macierewicz. There will be no more competitions, no more rules for hiring and firing, no more Labour Code, and we are talking about employees, not slaves. You've gone so far that you've written in the bill that the parolees won't even have the right to go to the labour court. Yesterday we witnessed a great performance during which the Prime Minister bravely fought Mr Misiewicz's landing on the Polish Armoury Group. This landing was only possible because you eliminated the rules, the rules of employment and the rules of competence. Today, after this performance, Prime Minister, you are removing the same rules at the Military Property Agency and using the Sejm to do so. This is indecent. It is indecent for us to use the House in which we should be a good law, the House which should stand by the citizens for such an evil cause. The Seym is not a production plant for Misiewicz. And as a Civic Platform, we can't agree to that and put our hands on it. Our consent to such a bill will not be granted. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-21-sejm-26-1.u334	Mr Paweł Suski, the Civic Platform Club, will speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-21-sejm-26-1.u335	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I ignore the way in which the government introduced this project to the Sejm because the opposition Members have long been accustomed to persistent violations by the Law and Justice of the Rules of Procedure of this House. But the principle of Jarosław Kaczyński's party is just such a way of working on changes in the law, especially on laws that spoil Polish law, which perpetuate its authoritarian intentions and are a symptom of complete disregard for the High House. Submit on the eve of the sitting, not listen to the legislators, do not attend the Office of Sejm Analysis, do not check constitutionality, proceed briefly, quickly and preferably at night, give orders to the Senate, the President and forward, good change. The law on the Military Property Agency discussed today is another law for which this Sejm will be ashamed. It is an act that should never see the light of day. You're breaking the law for your own very specific purposes. All the media have already discussed Bartłomiej Misiewicz's issue, but the legal act has been prepared, also by a stoop, quietly, to legalize another jump to government agencies, to the Military Property Agency, which performs very specific and sensitive tasks from the point of view of the Polish Armed Forces. We cannot ensure that the elimination of competition procedures leads to the fact that the Misiewicz plague will eventually manage the multi-billion-dollar property of the State Treasury. This draft law in general creates a kind of superministership for Superminister Antoni Macierewicz, because it excludes the action of the Minister of the Treasury in this area, excludes, maybe does not exclude, but marginalizes the role of Prime Minister in the appointment of President, because previously candidates were selected in the form of a competition and the Prime Minister chose, and now has one only one that he has to accept in principle, and this is also a formula in which the role of Minister of National Defence is increasing. Not much, perhaps even on the pretext of this attack on the post you want to smuggle in this project the possibility of converting the Military Property Agency into an entity that will be a diamond or a powerful tool in the arms trade. Besides, in his explanatory statement, the Minister presented it as well. I say, "Why? It's not like the Military Property Agency is called to trade weapons. Yes, in the previous article. 57 was empowered to transfer or dispose free of such articles, explosives, weapons, but only under international agreements for the armed forces and the services of the States Parties to these agreements. This record is out, there is no record, which means that the Military Property Agency will be able to trade with any entity that will only come and show the concession or permission to conduct such a trade, including the international one. This is a very dangerous path, this is a path that can open doors, a gateway to uncontrolled trade or at least an uncontrolled state where terrorists may be using this weapon. [[♪ The bell ♪]] This is unacceptable. That's why the Civic Platform Club...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-21-sejm-26-1.u336	Thank you. You will take the floor of the Member...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-21-sejm-26-1.u337	...submits a motion to reject this project at first reading. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-21-sejm-26-1.u338	... Radosław Lubczyk, Modern Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-21-sejm-26-1.u339	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Another installment of a good PiS change. Changing the Military Property Agency Act can be called a Human Resources Act. Are we supposed to have another Bear in the country's defence sector? The PiS, by simplifying and de-formalising the rules for filling posts, understands inter alia. appointing people to steering levels without open competition proceedings. The PiS proposes to amend the article. Article 5 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 5 from which things such as the detailed tasks and powers of the President of the Agency and of the Directors of Regional Branches and the system of internal audit and control are deleted, with a view to ensuring the smooth performance of the Agency's tasks. Where is the internal audit and control system? Why the change? Why shouldn't the Minister of National Defence in the PiS government define in detail the tasks and powers of persons with executive positions in the Military Property Agency? Allow me to present a few changes relating to the staff of the agencies, which we believe to be impossible to allow for entry into force and lead to the application of this law of the staff bill. What was that? The President of the Agency shall be appointed by the Minister for National Defence in agreement with the Minister responsible for State treasury matters from among the candidates selected by means of open and competitive recruitment. The President of the Agency shall be dismissed by the Minister of Defence in agreement with the Minister responsible for Treasury matters. What's wrong? The President of the Agency shall be appointed and dismissed by the President of the Council of Ministers at the request of the Minister for National Defence. Do you think the Prime Minister and the Minister would like to cast someone they know in such high positions? Where's the competitiveness? Where's the open admission? Are the Prime Minister and the Minister afraid of something or someone? In addition, in Article 2, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 11 paragraph shall be deleted. 6 and 13, which treat, among others, to inform the public of the selection of the person concerned for his/her post, the recruitment methods and their conduct, the reasons for his/her selection. Another example is art. 14. It was that the deputy president of the Agency was appointed by the Minister from among candidates selected by means of open and competitive recruitment at the request of the President of the Agency. It is, however, that the Deputy President of the Agency appoints and dismisses the Minister for National Defence at the request of the President of the Agency. This is another example of the self-reliantness and deprivation of Polish standards of transparency and the competitiveness of competition proceedings aimed at employing skilled workers at high levels. And another example. It was: Regional branches of the agency are headed by directors. The director of the agency's regional branches shall be appointed by the President of the Agency from among the candidates selected by means of open and competitive recruitment. The President of the Agency shall dismiss the directors of the regional branches of the agencies. A is: Regional branches of the agency are headed by directors with the help of alternates. The directors of the regional branches of the agencies and their alternates shall be appointed and dismissed by the President of the agency. Ladies and gentlemen! With regard to staff changes, which should be fully transparent and public in the State Treasury subsidiaries, and which are publicly available, the PiS proposes that we repeal the article. 16 concerning the recruitment of Deputy President and Head of Regional Branches, which is directly correlated with Article. Article 11 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 6, 12 and 13 dealing with widespread information on recruitment, recruitment and recruitment techniques, their results, skills and qualifications. These are the same provisions which concern recruitment proceedings for the post of President of the Agency and which are to be abolished according to the amendment of the law proposed by the PiS as referred to in point (a). (b) concerning Article. 11, Act amending the Military Property Agency Act. This means that the public will not see the results of recruitment to a government-dependent agency in close cooperation with the Treasury. There will be no protocols, and transparency will disappear, credibility and rule of the democratic rule of law, too. In conjunction with democracy, transparency must go hand in hand with the conviction that the right positions have been selected and that people qualified for them have been employed. The entire recruitment process must be properly documented. Both the deputy president of the agency and the regional directors should be checked, verified and sorted in relation to their skills by a special team or group of persons who have the appropriate experience to deal with the recruitment process for executive positions in the agency. This team is treated by art. Article 11 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 The eight who should have taken care of it. The repeal of this Article is unacceptable. It will open the way for the next wave of stooling in the government administration. If this is to be a deformity and simplification, then I personally would like to thank you for this change. It cannot be allowed in such an important sector of state action. Transparency and qualifications certified in appropriate recruitment procedures must form the basis for the recruitment of agency staff. [[♪ The bell ♪]] If we want the agency to operate smoothly, and the citizens are sure that...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-21-sejm-26-1.u340	Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-21-sejm-26-1.u341	... It will be led by the right people who are qualified...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-21-sejm-26-1.u342	Mr Paweł Bejda, the club of the Polish People's Party, will now speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-21-sejm-26-1.u343	...we can't do anything... [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off]] The Modern Club will not support this project. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-21-sejm-26-1.u344	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-21-sejm-26-1.u345	Mr. Marshal! Gentlemen of Ministers! High Izbo! For the Polish People's Party, this law is the next stage in the ownership of the state, and that must be said clearly and clearly. It's like there's a second wave of these so-called ones. Misiewicz. [[Oh, Jesus.]] It cannot be so, ladies and gentlemen, that such a serious institution as the Military Property Agency can be managed by the Minister of National Defence, because what he does in the political space of the Minister of National Defence Antoni Macierewicz, is driving without hold, and what he is doing with the Military Property Agency at the moment, is driving without brakes. No brakes! Answer the Minister what can end up driving without a handhold and without brakes. [[Mr Józef Ruchrek-Żelazko: Elewarr.]] I think every reasonable person should think about how this could end. High Seym! Perhaps the time has really come for us to come to our senses - to come to our senses, because the Ministry of National Defence, I do not need to remind and emphasize this, is an important element in politics and internal and foreign Poland. It was supposed to be so cost-effective. It was supposed to be so transparent. It was supposed to be like this all over again. It was supposed to be a good change. What do we got? We continue to own the Polish state. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, ……]] Do we have a continuation of potentially manslaughter for people who can only be judged by whom? By Minister Macierewicz. I have this question to the Minister: What criteria and categories will the presidents, the directors, be judged to be in these positions? I don't need to remind you that the Military Property Agency manages a multi-billion-dollar estate. It's like someone gave the baby a grenade. The answer to what may arise from all of this is that of itself. High Seym! The Polish People's Party will not support this bill. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-21-sejm-26-1.u346	Thank you. Eight Members joined the questions. I'm closing the list of questions. I'm setting a question time for one minute. Ms Małgorzata Płępek, the Civic Platform Club, asks the first question.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-21-sejm-26-1.u347	And why, how do we accelerate? How do you justify that? How's one-and-a-half okay?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-21-sejm-26-1.u348	Just a minute.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-21-sejm-26-1.u349	No, it's not enough.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-21-sejm-26-1.u350	That's enough. Anything can be said.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-21-sejm-26-1.u351	And why are you restricting us?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-21-sejm-26-1.u352	We're used to a minute. [[No, it's not enough, Marshal. One and a half minutes, please.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-21-sejm-26-1.u353	There's no reason for you to give me a minute or so right now, 'cause it could be a minute and a half.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-21-sejm-26-1.u354	You never know what's gonna happen. We'd better stick to that time.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-21-sejm-26-1.u355	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo... One and a half. We're counting the time.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-21-sejm-26-1.u356	One minute. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-21-sejm-26-1.u357	The law brings with it changes maintained in the style of the rule of law and justice. There will be no more competitive recruitment for major posts in the Military Property Agency. Her president will be appointed and you will cancel Minister Macierewicz. There will also be no competitions for the posts of deputy president of the agencies and directors and deputies of regional branches. How does the government explain the need for these changes? Officially, it is a matter of simplifying the rules on management positions and the positions of directors of regional branches. Unofficially, it's another area for hiring people without experience, but it's from a party broadcast. We already have great examples, Poles see it. 25-year-old Paweł Kurtyka, architect, [[♪ The bell ♪]] Son of the President of the IPN sleep. Janusz Kurtyki, as Chairman of the Supervisory Board of the Military Property Agency.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-21-sejm-26-1.u358	Thank you, Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-21-sejm-26-1.u359	Or another example...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-21-sejm-26-1.u360	You didn't have time to ask a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-21-sejm-26-1.u361	...an advisor to the Polish Armed Group, i.e. the 25-year-old son of Euro MP Czarnecki.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-21-sejm-26-1.u362	The next question is asked by Mrs Zofia Czernow, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-21-sejm-26-1.u363	I have a question for President Kaczyński.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-21-sejm-26-1.u364	And yet... [[Let me finish!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-21-sejm-26-1.u365	How many more Misiewiczs... [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off]] ... Is the PiS going to sit on high stools?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-21-sejm-26-1.u366	Thank you very much, Member. We have set one minute, Madame. [[The Lord has appointed, not us.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-21-sejm-26-1.u367	Why do you, Mr. Marshal, limit Members' statements?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-21-sejm-26-1.u368	No, I'm not. You can say whatever you like for a minute. Mrs Zofia Czernow, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-21-sejm-26-1.u369	You have the perfect time...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-21-sejm-26-1.u370	Madam, please do not interfere with the proceedings.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-21-sejm-26-1.u371	You have half an hour, 35 minutes of acceleration. [[Applause]] [[Bravo, Member, bravo.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-21-sejm-26-1.u372	Mrs Czernow is not here. Mr Czesław Mroczek, Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-21-sejm-26-1.u373	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Something about the PiS went wrong. You're trying to get over it, convince the public that nothing bad happened after that first wave of filling up your own colleagues with Treasury companies, government jobs, and here, at the same time you're trying to make a good impression, someone is bringing in a bill that launches a second wave of guys. The sole purpose of this law is to abolish open, competitive recruitments for high positions in this agency. This is an example of an unusual, rude private dressed in the robes of a government law. That's the only thing you want to do with this bill. This is, like I said, a thing that never happened. This famous law or magazine is at the same time a finesse solution. One by one, you abolish the rules, leading to the state's institutions operating. [[♪ The bell ♪]] It's getting worse. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-21-sejm-26-1.u374	Thank you very much. The question is asked by Mr Jerzy Meysztowicz, the Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-21-sejm-26-1.u375	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Let me put it this way, it takes a lot of nerve to bring something like this up to the Sejm today. After the affair with Mr. Spokesman, when you've embarrassed yourselves all over the line, when the whole country laughs at you, you have the audacity and insolence to introduce today a law that duplicates these worst achievements. The Lord tells me here today that you will guard the competences, the experience of the people appointed to these positions, when you simply changed the statute of the Polish Armed Group to introduce the Ombudsman to the Supervisory Board. After all, it is simply laughter, what you are doing today, not to mention the form of the introduction of this law, Mr. Marshal - it is also, I think, unacceptable that in such a form such a law should be introduced and limited to 1 minute. I don't know why you're smiling at the marshal. I hope he disappears someday. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-21-sejm-26-1.u376	Thank you very much. Mr Piotr Pyzik, Club Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-21-sejm-26-1.u377	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Analyzing the proposed changes resulting from print No 841, i.e. from the government draft law amending the Act on the Military Property Agency, I would like to ask whether the proposed wording of the article. Article 57 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 2, imposing an obligation on the Agency to take into account in the process of determining the price of disposal of property, inter alia. the amount of expenditure incurred on the research and development of the property disposed of will not be a dead provision which will not be met due to the lack of tools by the Agency to determine the amount of such expenditure. Thank you kindly. [[President of the session includes Deputy Marshal Barbara Dolniak Sejm]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-21-sejm-26-1.u378	I would like to ask Mrs Bożena Kaminska, the Civic Platform Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-21-sejm-26-1.u379	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! The liquidation of the Military Property Agency is another leap of Law and Justice into positions. Are there gonna be more Bear employees? For 25 years, ladies and gentlemen, for the first time in history, the spokesperson of the Ministry of National Defence has been treated in the same way as the Deputy Minister and has owned a security vehicle of the Military Gendarmerie. Will there be any more Miesiewicze employed by the Minister of National Defence at the Military Property Agency? Single management of the Military Property Agency will lead to the same situation as the liquidation of the National Defence Academy - single management and dismissal of professors and people who have written in the history of higher education and national defence a proud card. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-21-sejm-26-1.u380	Thank you very much, Member. The question will be asked by Mr Paweł Suski, please, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-21-sejm-26-1.u381	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! That this project is a rude act, an attempt to embezzle positions in the Military Property Agency, all the previous speakers have already said. The fact that it creates the possibility of uncontrolled trafficking in arms is a curious example of incompetence, irresponsibleness in the creation of law. But on the occasion of this amendment, you are trying to exclude the operation of Public Procurement Law in relation to current activities in the operation of the agency, namely activities such as management and management of real estate, from carrying out investments, full preparation, running and carrying out renovations to all leisure, conference and training services. Well, it's not only that you're hiring guys, it's that you're gonna order guys to run services and billing, without the Public Procurement Law, which is really without direct verification. [[♪ The bell ♪]] This is an outrage.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-21-sejm-26-1.u382	Thank you very much. Mr Radosław Lubczyk, the Modern Club, will ask another question. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-21-sejm-26-1.u383	Mrs. Marshal! I would like to address the question to the authors of this bill. Ladies and gentlemen, will the level of remuneration of the Military Property Agency change? If so, how much? Will it grow or fall? I hope you have preliminary data on how this could change. I would also ask you to indicate the precise articles of the Act of 3 March 2000, which will concern the President of the Agency, its deputies, persons in the office and regional directors. And second question: Is the sale, as has already been said, of financing, sale of facilities or various areas through the Military Property Agency... Will this money, which will enter the Military Property Agency, fund the state budget and will it be allocated to your social programs, or will it be transferred to the Military Property Agency and transferred to the military service? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-21-sejm-26-1.u384	Thank you very much, sir. And the last Mr Sławomir Nitras, the Civic Platform Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-21-sejm-26-1.u385	Thank you, Marshal. Minister, two questions. First question about costs. Do you consider... Given your standards, we're afraid of mass dismissal of agency staff and hiring more. I wanted to ask, in assessing the effects of this regulation, did you consider the costs? Can you tell me how much it's gonna cost? And the other thing. I would like to ask, does this law mean when you are abolishing the Labour Code, when you are actually abolishing the Company Code, when the Public Procurement Law ceases to apply, when you are pulling out, you are doing such a little bit of martial law in this agency, does this mean that the full one-man responsibility for property - because there, we must remember, is the gigantic public property - takes over Antoni Macierewicz? Who's gonna be responsible for this? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-21-sejm-26-1.u386	The question asked by Mr Sławomir Nitras was that we have exhausted the list of members of the vote. I'm closing the discussion and... No, we still have an answer. I'm so sorry. Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of National Defence Mr Bartłomiej Grabski, please. You're welcome, Minister. I've been meaning to vote you off, but...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-21-sejm-26-1.u387	Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to remind you that the Civic Platform together with PSL has been making changes to the Military Property Agency for the last eight years. It was the country that sold the assets of the Military Property Agency, often not excessively... [[That's what the agency's called for.]] But to sell out, sir, without a head and at such low prices, it's really... [[How about some examples?]] [[The D.A.'s office, please.]] Of course, there will be examples. Application of the rules. What you claim is that the proposed amendments exclude the application of the Labour Code is not the case here. These provisions will not apply to employees, the President and Vice-Presidents of the Military Property Agency, as well as Regional Branch Directors. The requirements to which these persons must be subject are also set out in the Military Property Agency Act and we do not intend to leave these matters. As regards the appointment of the President or Vice-Presidents of the Military Property Agency, these are provisions so established as to give greater flexibility to the Minister of National Defence. As you said yourself, the assets owned by the Military Property Agency are of multi-billion-dollar value, so here this responsibility rests on the shoulders of the Minister of National Defence. As regards the allegations concerning the proposed content of the article. 57 talking about the sale of licensed property that it will take place in an uncontrolled manner, these are also misplaced charges. She's gonna make the most of the rules. The trafficking of weapons, the trading of dual-use equipment is strictly controlled and recorded in detail, so that there are no such threats as you have mentioned here. As regards the exclusion of the Treasury Ministry from the process of appointment of the President and Vice-Presidents of the Military Property Agency, I would like to remind you that the liquidation of the Treasury Ministry is planned at the end of the year. As regards remuneration, I would also like to assure you that the remuneration of the President, Vice-Presidents, as well as the directors of regional branches will not change. I would also like to remind you of the article. 123 of the Military Property Agency Act of 10 July last year, which allowed the Minister of National Defence to set up in transitional regulations without holding a competition of the President and Vice-Presidents of the Military Property Agency for 3 years. I would also like to remind you that, as far as the real estate agency is concerned - particularly to Mr Brejza, because in his mouth it is indeed a statement that Law and Justice, in particular, is ridiculous, reminding us of what happened in the Ministry of Agriculture and in subordinate and supervised individuals... [[My name is Pavel Beida.]] Excuse me, sir, sorry if I was wrong. [[It's time to learn.]] I would also like to remind you of what was happening at the Agricultural Property Agency, what was happening at the Agricultural Restructuring and Modernisation Agency, like the state... [[You don't read. You don't read.]] I'm out of my mind, sir, absolutely out of my mind.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-21-sejm-26-1.u388	Mr President, please allow me to answer that question. Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of National Defence Bartłomiej Grabski: So that here, when it comes to irregularities in agricultural agencies, I think there are so many examples in the last 8 years that there would really be no time to replace them. [[For eight months now, you've been...]] The other questions, Your Marshal, will be answered in writing. Thank you very much. The answers to the other questions, Members, as we have heard from the Minister, will be in writing. I therefore close the discussion. A motion to reject the draft law at first reading was put forward in the discussion. We will proceed to the vote on this proposal in the voting block. The Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development has submitted a report on the draft law amending certain laws to facilitate the eradication of infectious animal diseases. The report shall be published in the Official Journal of the European Union. Therefore, after obtaining the uniform opinion of the Senior Convention, the Marshal of the Sejm decided to supplement the agenda with a point including the examination of this report. In this case, I propose that the Sejm consent to the application of the article. 51 (3) of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm and in the discussion on this item, he listened to the five-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and the circle. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the proposals. I can't hear you objecting. We proceed with the examination of item 10 of the agenda: the report of the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development on the Government's draft law amending certain laws to facilitate the control of infectious animal diseases (prints 832 and 865). I ask Mr Krzysztof Szulowski to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-21-sejm-26-1.u389	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour to present a report by the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development on the Government's draft law amending certain laws in order to facilitate the fight against infectious animal diseases, prints 832 and 865. The first reading of the draft law took place at today's meeting of the Sejm. Today, too, the committee has examined the government bill. The aim of the Act is to increase the effectiveness of the fight against infectious animal diseases by introducing new obligations, inter alia. for animal owners, operators of the hunting industry, as well as the equipment of the Veterinary Inspection to impose additional orders, prohibitions and restrictions in relation to the eradication of infectious animal diseases, as well as the introduction of administrative sanctions for non-compliance with such prohibitions, orders and restrictions or non-compliance with obligations relating to the identification and registration of animals. Due to the presence of African swine fever in Poland, the adoption of the proposed solutions is a need for a moment and this view was dominated by the work of the committee. During the examination of the project by the committee, several amendments were tabled to the draft law. These included, in particular, allowing wild boars to be shot in health not only in hunting circuits but also in protected areas, such as, for example, wild boars. National parks, making it possible for the tenants or managers of hunting circuits or the Polish Hunting Union to pay back costs in a flat-rate form for carrying out sanitary fire. A lump sum should be granted in 70% to hunters and 30% to tenants, managers of hunting circuits or the Polish Hunting Union. The entire lump sum would be paid by a district veterinarian. They also concerned the extension of the scope of operators registered in the livestock register marked with entities included in the system of identification and registration of animals other than the seat of the herd, slaughterhouse, processing plant or incineration plant; amendments to the existing legislation concerning the employment of district veterinarians and their alternates in order to ensure the proper supervision of the provincial veterinarian of the district veterinarian and, consequently, the effective control of infectious animal diseases and the spread of such diseases. The operation of inspections in specific situations, and this is the need to combat African swine fever, requires immediate decision-making, efficient coordination, ensuring the smooth and rapid implementation of the instructions given, as well as a rapid response to the threat. The Commission has examined and accepted these amendments. However, the proposed amendment was not accepted in order to increase the liability of the tenants or managers of the hunting circuit in the event of a failure to order a sanitary discharge issued by the district veterinarian and sanctions in the form of a termination of the agreement for the lease of the hunting circuit. Following the adoption of the amendments, the Commission has adopted the entire draft law and recommends the adoption of a draft law presented to ladies and gentlemen in print No 865. The High Sejm announces the attached project. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-21-sejm-26-1.u390	Thank you very much. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would listen to the five-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and the circle. I'm opening a discussion. I will ask Mr Jan Krzysztof Ardanowski to speak on behalf of the Law and Justice Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-21-sejm-26-1.u391	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I would like to present the opinion of the Law and Justice concerning this undoubtedly very important law, which could be the beginning of effective control in Poland of African swine fever, a disease which, if not controlled, could seriously harm Polish agriculture. The regulations proposed by the government in several laws will, of course, also be useful in the future in the event of disease units other than African swine fever. The interesting discussion we had in the agriculture committee focused not so much on the need for this law - here at first reading and during the discussion in the committee actually everyone agreed - rather, whether this law is being introduced too late. This is a valid question, only that the chairman of the medical and veterinary chamber, a body undoubtedly competent in the field of epizootic phenomena, stated that the veterinary authority had already adopted resolutions in 2013 in which it informed, suggested what measures the state should take to prevent African swine fever in Poland, and I will remind you that the first such case appeared in February 2014. So the signals from the veterinary surgeons' environment were flowing earlier. It is not for me to assess whether the authorities' actions at that time were appropriate to the degree of risk. I would like to remind you that in the previous term of the Sejm, the agricultural committee has dealt with the issue of preparing Poland for a possible misfortune, which would be the emergence of the ASF virus in Poland due to its approach through the territory of Russia and Belarus to the borders of Poland. The measures taken at that time, according to the management of the Ministry at that time, seemed sufficient and adequate. I don't know, maybe it was like a 1939 situation when we were convinced that we were strong, tight and ready, we wouldn't even give up the button from the coat. It turns out that these actions were insufficient. Fires in Poland appeared and the spread of African swine fever. It's not fair to say that we managed to keep it in a few fires, because now it's spilling around the country. In these outbreaks it was not possible to eliminate this virus and unfortunately through vectors, which are roughly known, this disease is spreading throughout Poland. This law is therefore necessary and is therefore adopted in such an extraordinary manner. It may turn out that the recommendations and restrictions put in place here for all those on whom the reduction and eradication of the disease may depend will be insufficient and additional measures will have to be taken very quickly to reduce and eliminate African swine fever. It may also be appropriate to take bioinsurance measures in areas where African swine fever is not yet present. This is a matter to consider. Of course, the availability of resources must be taken into account. But saving, and history shows that maybe it was, or lack of resources, then when the fires were few, led to the fact that there would be a lot more, much more public funding to spend on it at the moment. It should be considered - and these questions are also raised by farmers - whether bio-insurance in pig holdings which generates certain costs for farmers and their economic situation is very difficult should not be supported by budget funding. This is a question that I also asked the Ministry of Agriculture at first reading. Finally, the law prejudices, and I hope that in an effective way, depopulation, reduction of the number of susceptible animals, in this case wild boars, specifying precisely the responsibility of users and owners of hunting circuits, and where the circuits do not cover any area - the Polish Hunting Union. By administrative decision of the district veterinarian, such shots shall be made with appropriate financial compensation. It seems that this law is in line with the challenges that are currently in place, which is why our club will vote in favour of this law and I also encourage clubs to do so. [[♪ The bell ♪]] oppositional. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-21-sejm-26-1.u392	Thank you very much. Mrs Dorota Niedziela from the Civic Platform Club, please make a statement on behalf of this club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-21-sejm-26-1.u393	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! As the previous speaker put it, the work on this project has actually been going on all day. Very interesting substantive discussions I judge very well, albeit on one condition. At the end of the process, a draft amendment appeared, an amendment which was voted by law and justice. This is an amendment that introduces a certain schizophrenia of this project, because here is a project that equips the Veterinary Inspection with tools, all kinds of instruments that allow to combat the spread of African swine fever virus. I would just like to remind you, sir, that it is possible to talk here about whether they were introduced or not prepared. I just want to remind you that there were two fires. Please see how difficult it is to introduce any restrictions at this moment that raises such strong objections. In the committee room, you saw a fight between the Minister of Agriculture and the Minister of the Environment. It was an inexplicable struggle, and there were constant arguments between these two ministers. Imagine what it looked like when there were only two fires, how difficult it was to drive anything. I just want to send you back to a great publication of the State Veterinary Institute. This is the entire publication on these four years of work on this phenomenon. And everything would have been great if it hadn't been for the amendment, by the way, by the Member who at some point gave us the opportunity to fire the district doctors, simply manual control, without any warning, without any normal disciplinary procedure, which the Minister explains is that certain doctors in the county are not doing their job. That's why, Minister, there's a charge, there's a release, there's a normal procedure. There is an amendment that changes the employment relationship of district veterinary surgeons, replacing the employment contract with the employment relationship on the basis of the appointment. All district veterinarians can be mentioned in this way. I don't know what the district veterinarians deserved when they're given such a great deal of work to do, when they're entrusted with so much work, and in the end they're deprived of the certainty, the certainty of this job, that is, the relationship of normal work. Once again, I appeal to you to withdraw from this. The Civic Platform Club will, of course, vote in favour of this law by submitting a proposal and making it conditional on withdrawal from this amendment concerning a truly shameful attitude towards veterinarians. Under the mantle of the fight against ASF, we just want to slow down county veterinarians a little bit without giving a reason. It is simply possible to replace the staff of district veterinarians quite quickly. I am apprehensive about the use of this record, sir. On the other hand, as far as the whole law is concerned, we also asked for the possibility of introducing bioinsurance throughout Poland, because this is a big problem. This is a problem that is spreading, and the bill itself will not secure it. District doctors and veterinarians will secure it and fight the spreading virus, but they will not be sure that at any time they will lose their jobs, so responsible, a profession so responsible for food security, food safety in this country. So, on behalf of the Civic Platform Club, I'm making an amendment. [[No. Really? The committee's tomorrow.]] I'm gonna make an amendment, and there's gonna be a committee tomorrow. Thank you very much. [[Thank you. They don't even give you a round of applause.]] [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-21-sejm-26-1.u394	I would like to speak on behalf of the Kukiz Club15 by Mr Jarosław Sachaika. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-21-sejm-26-1.u395	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! On behalf of the Kukiz club15, I would like to make a statement concerning a very important bill, a speciality that is supposed to help the government, but actually it is helping Polish farmers to maintain pig farming in Poland. The bill is being processed at an express rate. It's very good that she's in our parliament. It's only a pity that we haven't had these regulations in two years, because we've been fighting ASF for two and a half years. I wanted to say that in the committee we heard that the previous ministry said that we were prepared for all the different possibilities to fight ASF, but it turned out that we weren't. We've been in the new parliament for almost a year now. I think that this law should be a target law that will allow us to fight all infectious animal diseases, including ASF. As a Kukiz club15, we tabled four amendments at the committee meeting. Three of them were accepted, one of the most stringent to the hunting circles, was rejected. Maybe it really was too strict because it said that if the wheels did not carry out properly the hunting economy, and in fact they did not follow the recommendations of the district veterinarian on sanitary discharge, they might lose the hunting circuit. At the moment, according to what has been written so far, it can be so that the hunting circuit - the tenant consists of about 30, 40, 50 hunters - can pay the penalty and can still not carry out the shooting. Hence it was my idea to correct it so that it would be possible to supervise the hunting wheel. If it doesn't do a proper sanitary discharge, we take away his circuit, other hunters come in, another wheel makes a sanitary discharge. Since this most far-reaching amendment was not accepted, I would like to make three other amendments on behalf of the club. I would like to make three other amendments which are identical to the one which was tabled. I just wanted to increase the liability of the wheels from: one to three times - with a split of 4,000. or even 12,000, or the maximum amount, for 30, 50 hunters is not much - to: from 2 to 5, so that this responsibility, unfortunately only financial, is greater. The liability of the wheels for firing should be burdensome enough to make them want to do so. [[The hunters won't like you.]] I'm not to be liked by hunters, corporations, banks and all the other little aliens, not always friendly to us. [[Hunters aren't strangers.]] We need hunters very much, but I'm only talking about extreme situations where the wheel doesn't cause a sanitary discharge, which was recommended by the district veterinarian. The whole bill is a good bill. In this act, both hunters and district veterinarians as well as farmers are responsible for ensuring that ASF disease and other infectious diseases do not spread throughout Poland. Thank you very much. Marshal, I'd like to make these amendments.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-21-sejm-26-1.u396	Thank you very much. But who signed it? [[Agnieszka Chasing, Vice-President.]] Excuse me, but I... Unless we have some signature patterns. [[I'm sure we've got some prior files of hers. That's her signature.]] We're gonna check it out because we can't completely... [[Of course, check it out.]] Please bear in mind that until the Minister's speech is completed, you must make these amendments, and I must check it out, because this signature is not verifiable. This is not a signature that can be verified in some way unless we have signature patterns. [[Good.]] [[Anyone can be verified. What's she saying?]] Please, the Modern Club, Mrs Ewa Lieder.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-21-sejm-26-1.u397	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! The Act amending certain laws to facilitate the control of infectious animal diseases is absolutely necessary. As the Modern Posel Club, we absolutely agree with this direction. The amendments proposed in the Act aim to avoid future problems encountered by the Veterinary Inspection during the eradication of African swine fever. We are aware that this law should have been introduced long ago. I think we're a little late, but it's a good thing she is. One of the most important changes is the inclusion in the animal identification and registration system of all entities that carry out activities supervised under the Animal Health Protection Act of 11 March 2004 and the fight against infectious animal diseases in the organisation of fairs, exhibitions, demonstrations and animal competitions. The previous lack of registration of these operators made it impossible to recreate the history of animal breeders, thus increasing the risk of transmission of possible infectious diseases and no control over the spread of these diseases. At the same time, the amendments were added to the article. 3 point 3 of the Animal Health Act and the fight against infectious animal diseases provisions which enable the holder of the animal to take certain measures to protect the holding from the contamination of infectious agents in the control of the infectious animal disease. Those provisions will in particular allow effective action to be taken in the event of an infectious disease of animals subject to an obligation to control or to remove the effects of an infectious disease of animals. Another amendment to the provisions of the Law of 11 March 2004 on the protection of animals and the control of infectious animal diseases includes Article. 45 of that law concerning the issuing of acts of local law by a district veterinarian in the control of animal infectious disease. By the way, I would like to add, as I said at first reading, that I believe that it is a mistake not to take into account the requirements for marking bovine meat breeds, which have certain characteristics related to the whole-season pasture farm of this meat cattle, which is used for marking sheep. I think this is a mistake. It's a dead recipe. It is often because of this that breeders simply give up breeding - especially those who had previously raised dairy cows - precisely because of these difficulties. I think we're making a mistake here. Of course, I agree with the Parliamentary Club... [[The Civic Platform.]] ... The Civic Platform on the changes that have taken place in relation to Mr Ardanowski's recent amendment. It is once again good - bad change. I think you should definitely get out of this because this is an outrageous change. One more thing, bio-insurance. Mr Kukiz15 mentioned that bioinsurance should apply throughout Poland. This is the protection of Polish pig producers mainly, but also the protection of Polish consumers - not only farmers but also consumers. We should consider this very seriously. The Modern Posel Club will be in favour of this law because it is really necessary at the moment, but we ask you very much to change the decision on the last amendment. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-21-sejm-26-1.u398	Thank you very much, Member. And on behalf of the Polish People's Party Club, Mr Marek Sawicki. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-21-sejm-26-1.u399	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I listened to the club's speeches with interest, and once again I was amazed by Mr Ardanowski, who said that three years ago we were not ready to hit this disease and to fight it. I would remind you that for the next two years, Mr Bogucki and Mr Jurgel knew the recipes on how to fight the disease, and they are Members of the Podlaskie Voivodeship. They waited 10 months to propose further legislative solutions. Since those rules were enough for 10 months, I put a big question mark: Is it only the rules that determine the effectiveness of fighting the disease, or the involvement of people, discipline and mutual trust? In the light of the amendment tabled by Mr Ardanowski concerning changes in the conditions of employment of all district doctors, I wonder whether one of the reasons for this impact has not already been caused by the new ASF outbreaks in the Veterinary Inspection. This service as rarely as it needs peace and certainty of action, as well as discipline, vertical management. If changes were to take place in this direction, it would indeed be possible to look at it as a professional approach to disease control. And another thing that amazes me. I remember exactly how, during that term of office, colleagues from PiS demanded to reduce the population of wild boars and how strongly they stigmatized the hunting environment and the Polish Hunting Union. Today, I am astonished to hear in the committee that a spokesman for this environment - not for farmers and against farmers - is a Mr Bąk. So again, as you can see, the hunting lobby turns out to be stronger - this time it also showed its party tone - from the intentions declared publicly for several years... [[Help the farmers.]] ...for the protection of farmers and the rearing of pigs. So to be honest, if I was definitely in favour of supporting these changes in my first speech today, I will have to think deeply about what to recommend to the club of the Polish People's Party, because I do not see a pure intention here - I see another game of interest here. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-21-sejm-26-1.u400	Thank you very much, sir. On behalf of Mrs Małgorzata Zwierzan, Mrs Małgorzata Zwierzan, the Free and Solidarnia Circle of Members. You're welcome, my fellow Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-21-sejm-26-1.u401	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! The vast majority of the amendments proposed by the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development to the Government draft law amending certain laws to facilitate the eradication of infectious animal diseases are of an orderly and editorial nature. They do not affect the principles of the bill. During the committee meeting, however, a heated discussion took place in connection with the proposed change in the employment relationship between district veterinarians - from the employment contract to the appointment relationship. Assuming that these positions are chosen by people with a high level of knowledge and professional experience, we intend to support the proposed amendment. The efficient organisation of the veterinary inspection operation requires the effective execution of the instructions given in its organs. The current risk situation for infectious diseases of animals reveals the need to ensure a high degree of coordination between voivodship activities and district veterinarians, and the proposed change definitely serves this purpose. I would also like to point out that the meeting of the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development has enabled us in our opinion to find a compromise between the protection of game and safety in the face of the real threat of African swine fever. In view of the above arguments, the Free and Solidarni Circle will support the procedated bill. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-21-sejm-26-1.u402	Thank you very much, Member. We've exhausted the list of speakers who made statements on behalf of the clubs. Now, let's get to the questions. Eight Members have signed up. Therefore, I have a question: Does anyone want to sign up for this list? I can't see. So I'm closing the list. The first question will be asked by Anna Cicholska, the Law and Justice Club. Time - 1 minute. You're welcome. You don't have an MP? In that case, Mr Piotr Pyzik, also the Law and Justice Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-21-sejm-26-1.u403	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Infective diseases of animals, which are dangerous to spread, lead to economic losses and even risks to humans. This is not limited to those who are heard in the media. In my constituency, in the vicinity of Gliwice and Tarnowskie Mountains, we see the spread of malignant rottenness, very difficult to cure and easily spread bee disease. Veterinary surveillance destroys infected bee families, yet there are further cases. [[Maybe they're lying.]] According to the beekeepers, there is a lack of common and rapid information to protect hives from disease. I would therefore like to ask whether the proposed changes to the rules are sufficient and systematic in determining how to inform both breeders and residents in the areas where cases of disease occur about their occurrence, so as to enable early preventive action, which is far less expensive than treatment or even more serious eradication of breeding. Is cooperation foreseen in this area [[♪ The bell ♪]] with breed societies and non-governmental organisations of a similar nature? I would also like to ask whether the scope of veterinary supervision, particularly in cases of outbreaks of diseases crossing the territory of one county, has been adequately defined. Thank you kindly. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-21-sejm-26-1.u404	Thank you very much. Mrs Dorota Sunday, the Civic Platform Club, another question. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-21-sejm-26-1.u405	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Minister, question. In the face of this appalling amendment on the employment relationship, I just want to read it to you. I think we're all based on that knowledge. Among other practical aspects of the eradication of ASF in the area of liquidation, in the area of the outbreak... There are a lot of points here, but one of the important points I want to read to the Minister: to manage the risks properly and to act quickly and effectively in a crisis situation, the district veterinarian should know exactly the state of pig population, the number of farms in a sub-area and know the area. Like in a situation where there are staff shortages, you will find people called and how many cases of insecurity, poor work or various information about the wrong work of a county doctor? Let me remind you, there are about 300 or over 300 of them. How many cases did the Minister have in which [[♪ The bell ♪]] You may have been disappointed, which is why you want someone... Change his job relationship to immediate release?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-21-sejm-26-1.u406	Another question, Mr Zbigniew Ajchler, also the Civic Platform Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-21-sejm-26-1.u407	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! This bill is too late, it's been said, absolutely. It's a good thing he's in the shape he's in. She was supposed to be... PiS was supposed to have a set of laws that you can't see. She's made on her knee, and clearly, you can see it clearly. There's no fee here for collecting dead boars, which are a disease vector, or maybe they're the vector, the disease sower. You can't say that here... The minister discovered here, how quickly, that a virus had moved by 100 km, which means he doesn't know the issues, the situation and it wasn't done in this bill. This law does not give the possibility of prevention, bioinsurance, prevention - because it is always cheaper - in those farms where there is no outbreak, [[♪ The bell ♪]] Don't let it spread any further. There are penalties for farmers, owners responsible, and there are no penalties for state services who do not perform their duties. So what I want to say is that farmers who have been affected should judge this - there are already many programmes on this subject - but in general, I will say that it is good that this bill comes in, but it is bad that it is burdened with so many errors and quickness, it is done on the knee. And this is a fundamental flaw...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-21-sejm-26-1.u408	I'm gonna ask you another question.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-21-sejm-26-1.u409	...because today we have a 20th case, and the state...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-21-sejm-26-1.u410	Mr President, you have already crossed a significant...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-21-sejm-26-1.u411	I'm so sorry. You have, you have inherited three cases, one voivodship and after two years. And here's the answer to the question I'm asking. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-21-sejm-26-1.u412	Mr Jan Krzysztof Ardanowski, the Law and Justice Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-21-sejm-26-1.u413	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! When we discuss how to combat this modern Egyptian plague of African swine fever and protect Poland from possible other diseases, it turns out that the discussion concerns the activities of different lobbies. I hear there's another business with the farm lobby, another - the veterinary doctor's lobby, another business - the hunter's lobby. I think that in Poland it is necessary to ensure that our common lobby is a lobby for the good of Poland. I am also convinced that the veterinary service set up by Marshal Piłsudski, the state service, should be Zionised in its management - and that is what Minister Sawicki said - and that is what we are doing. On the other hand, on the part of the Ministry, I expect very decisive action, including rapid analyses, whether legal solutions adopted [[♪ The bell ♪]] are sufficient or a new, even stricter, approach to the fight against ASF should be introduced. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-21-sejm-26-1.u414	Thank you very much, sir. And another question, Mr Jerzy Meysztowicz, the Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-21-sejm-26-1.u415	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I thought the PiS wouldn't surprise me today, but still. [[Yeah, it is.]] Because who would have thought that a law to amend certain laws to facilitate the control of infectious animal diseases is another humane act. [[Slowing people down.]] I'm really impressed. You are proceding a law that is right, and you have opposition support, and at the very end of the process, you are throwing an amendment, which is meant to serve as a good cause so that the next non-employed activists of Law and Justice find new jobs. Why are you ruining something that seems logical, right? We very much ask you to reflect and withdraw from this amendment, because this law is really needed and we will gladly support it in this original form. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-21-sejm-26-1.u416	Thank you very much. Another question, Mr Leszek Galemba, club Law and Justice. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-21-sejm-26-1.u417	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! An epizootic situation beyond our borders, especially in Belarus and Ukraine, is very important for the development of cases and prospects for the fight against ASF. Does the crisis team have accurate information on this? Do the services of these countries provide us with information? Do the actions taken by them in the team's opinion offer hope for the fight against ASF in these countries as well? For if we have a continuous reservoir just abroad, it may not be possible to fight this disease to the end. And I have another question. What about border control in terms of ASF? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-21-sejm-26-1.u418	Thank you very much. And the last question will be asked by Mr Robert Telus, also by the Law and Justice Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-21-sejm-26-1.u419	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Somehow I'm surprised at those crocodile tears spilled over the fate of county doctors, veterinarys. After all, these best positions, functions in Poland are by appointment. That's when the person has, like, the best decision-making if it's called. After all, when we are talking about flexibility, about how this law is best implemented and how it works, we really need such good performance of the State's tasks. And then this person will carry out these tasks of the government, of the state, if he knows that if he doesn't do this task, he could be dismissed. And that's what this bill is all about, so that these veterinarians can function as best as possible and do the tasks of the government and the state. [[♪ The bell ♪]] I have such specific questions, Minister. Is this Special Law all there is to it? Does the Ministry have any other ideas on how to prevent this terrible illness? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-21-sejm-26-1.u420	Thank you very much. The list of Members registered in the vote has been exhausted. I will ask for your reply from the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development, Eve Lech. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-21-sejm-26-1.u421	Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to answer a few questions here, perhaps above all, this question, which raises the most doubts. or protests when it comes to changing the employment relationship under the employment contract into a vocation. Firstly, we do not change the requirements for the qualification of the district veterinarian. Nothing changes here. There's got to be the right course of study, the right internship, specialization. And I would like to say to Mrs Niedziela that it is not true that it is as easy to solve the employment relationship on the basis of a work contract as a vocation. [[What's the difference?]] First of all, it creates a lot of problems. [[Speech is justified.]] Reason, then really, when it comes to driving... [[You have to give a reason.]] You have to give a reason, but no one's appealing for a reason. I've also been canceled twice, and somehow my qualifications were enough... [[Voice from the room: It happened.]] It happened, and because of it, there is no despair. [[If it can be done, why change the bill?]] Anyway, I was canceled, I didn't work for a job contract. It'll really make things better. On the other hand, if I know what is the number of people who do not meet the requirements, which is actually not suitable for this function, I will answer yes. I've been working for a long time, 35 years in the field, auditing. In each professional group there are very good, good, medium and poor bosses. We're only talking about cases like this here. In a situation where we are dealing with the fight against ASF, we really cannot afford to give someone a chance. It is not a question of faith, whether you believe, whether it is a political purgatory or not, we are really doing it in the context of ASF and that is all we intend to do. I wouldn't want to argue with that any further. This amendment seems very right to us. As far as verticalisation is concerned, of course - Mr Sawicki spoke about verticalisation - such verticalisation will be carried out. I'm talking about combining inspections. That's where the calling will be. The district inspector will be appointed and cancelled, there will be verticalization. If we actually had a verticalization today, it wouldn't be difficult to move employees from the voivodship to the voivodship. [[That's where we agree.]] We have a problem right now, but it's not a procedure that can be done, for example. in this law, because it is a very complicated matter - property issues, admission of employees. So today it's impossible, but in the new act we're going to do verticalization. What else is there? The question of Mr Galemba is whether we have reliable data from Belarus and Ukraine. When it comes to the data we have, we do not necessarily give them faith. I don't think they're reliable to us. Even recently, I spoke to a representative of the Belarusian service who said they fired all the wild boars, but he said 8,000. They've got these wild boars at their place, so not exactly. [[And they don't collect dead bodies.]] And they don't collect dead bodies. They don't study. [[Yeah, the source of the infection.]] So we don't believe this data. The situation is similar in Ukraine. It's a mess out there, so unfortunately, we don't believe it. As for the question made by the Member concerning the labelling of bovine animals in pastures, I admit that I do not know what this is about, because there is no distinction between us in the labelling of bovine animals. Cattle must be marked with an individual earring, it doesn't matter if it's milky or meaty, so I don't really know what the problem is. [[It's reported by farmers, really, farmers.]] But we must take into account that these are also EU requirements. We adapt to EU rules. There is a regulation that requires individual marking, and there is group marking for pigs. So there's no apostasy here. So that in this respect I cannot declare anything. As far as border protection is concerned, this is obviously where the services have stepped up their efforts. I am referring mainly to customs, which check the luggage of travellers, as I said earlier, not only for the search for cigarettes and alcohol, but mostly for sandwiches and food that are confiscated. Here we are hoping for cooperation, and the Customs Service has been informed about it, and already such checks are carried out. I don't think there were any more questions. [[Bioinsurance.]] Oh, bio-insurance. When it comes to introducing bioinsurance across the country, of course we are thinking about it, but this law, among other things. gives the district veterinarian the opportunity to introduce bioinsurance rules by local law in the county or to specify specific requirements to isolate the holding from the virus. So far, he has introduced orders and prohibitions on the basis of an administrative decision in the place where he was fighting the disease. On the other hand, here he will be able to introduce these prohibitions and orders by local law and take specific action in the district. On the other hand, as far as several counties are concerned, such an act will be able to issue a voivode and to specify the same in these acts of local law. However, the compliance with these requirements will be enforced by the district veterinarian. [[But I'm talking about helping the state budget.]] [[Co-financing.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-21-sejm-26-1.u422	Mr President, this is not a discussion time, it is an answer to questions. Is that all, Minister, or is that all? Undersecretary of State of the Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development Ewa Lech: No, that's all. [[Applause]] [[Co-financing.]] In that case, thank you very much, Minister, for your reply. The discussion is closed. In view of the fact that, at the time of the second reading, the draft amendment was tabled, I propose that the Sejm re-direct this proposal to the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development in order to present a report. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. This concludes the discussion of the agenda items scheduled for 21 September this year. I would like to inform you that Members have come forward to make their statements. Would any of you and your fellow Members like to make a statement? No one's checking in. I consider the list of Members of this House to be closed. Please, Mr Andrzej Kryj, the Law and Justice Club. There isn't. Mr Jarosław Gonciusz, Club Law and Justice. There isn't. [[Voice from the room: There it is.]] Not in writing? [[No, I'll talk.]] Oh, my gosh, how about in writing? Please, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-21-sejm-26-1.u423	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! In my statement, I would like to refer to the World Health Organisation report on air pollution in cities in Europe. We can find as many as seven Polish towns in the top ten, and in the top 50 we can find as many as 33. This problem mainly concerns most cities of the Silesian Voivodeship. In the WHO opinion, long-term exposure to PM2.5 particulate matter reduces life expectancy. The effect of short-term exposure to high PM2.5 levels is also worrying, as this is the most common reason for increased deaths due to respiratory and cardiovascular diseases and increased risk of sudden asthma attacks and reduced lung function. The scale of the problem cannot be solved individually by one municipality. The problem of reducing low emissions requires the implementation of measures by state administrations, as well as effective decisions and solutions, including economic ones, allowing local governments to combat low emissions. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-21-sejm-26-1.u424	Thank you very much. And I was the one who was surprised, I must say, because there are five minutes to deliver. If all the statements were so brief and factual, it would be a pleasure to carry out this part. Mrs Joanna Borowiak, please. There isn't. Mr Krzysztof Szulowski. In writing, great. Mr Simon Giżyński. Are you an MP? There isn't. Mrs Józef Ratchurek-Żelazko.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-21-sejm-26-1.u425	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The World Sibirak Day is the anniversary of the Soviet Union's attack on Poland on 17 September 1939. The fate of all those who were sent to Siberia is mentioned throughout Poland on this day. Three large deportations took place in 1940. They also took place in 1941. The exiles were transported under very difficult sanitary conditions, under conditions of derogatory human dignity, resulting in high mortality. Many have lost their lives on inhuman soil, but those who have succeeded in returning to their homeland years later want to make sure that their history and thousands of compatriots are not forgotten. On 27 September 2013, the Sejm officially established Sybirak Day. Let us make every effort to ensure that the dramatic and important events of this period survive in the consciousness and memory of subsequent generations. Prayer and love for their homeland allowed the Sibirians to survive the fate of suffering and pain, to lift their spirits. We have a moral duty to remember those who have lost their lives who have gone through hell. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-21-sejm-26-1.u426	Thank you very much. [[May I ask the Marshal to speak?]] You'll have to wait for me to call the others. If you're late, you'll have to wait. Mrs Anna April. There isn't. Mr Waldemar Andzel. There isn't. There you go, Mr Simon Giżyński.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-21-sejm-26-1.u427	Thank you kindly, Marshal. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Wanting to cut political disputes and put the proverbial dot over the Venetian Commission, I decided to invite to Poland for a permanent stay in the Venetian Commission, and that is where its natural place and historical marina is, i.e. to Venice near Znin in Kujawsko-Pomorskie voivodeship. The Venetian Council has already prepared a bilateral meeting of the Venice Commission with the Venetian Council to arrange for both sides of successful cooperation, and the Mayor of Venice, the Italian one, has already sent a thank-you letter to his colleague, the Venetian Council of Znin. In the announced cooperation programme of the Venice Commission and the Venice Council we found among others. together, both groups of Venetian politicians sightseeing tour, and indeed, to Italy, at the beginning of the Warsaw ones. Thank you kindly. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-21-sejm-26-1.u428	Thank you very much, sir. That concludes our parliamentary statements.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-21-sejm-26-1.u429	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! On 18 September 2016, celebrations commemorating the 90th anniversary of the creation of the Volunteer Fire Service unit in Bochotnica took place. Bochotnica is an ancient town located in the western part of the Lublin Voivodeship, in the Puławy district, in the municipality of Kazimierz Dolny, on the rivers Bystra and Wisła. It is one of the oldest settlement centers in Małopolska, already inhabited between the 6th century and the 10th century. Today Bochotnica is a local tourist and service centre, as well as an important communication hub. It has an extensive rest and night base, thanks to which it serves mainly as a tourist and leisure function during the summer season. During the ceremony there was a collection of CSR units, a Mass during which the flag given to the unit was dedicated. In addition to firefighters from several units of the municipality Kazimierz Dolny took part in the ceremony. representatives of district and communal authorities, fire chiefs of various levels, police officers, well-deserved firefighters' mates, local social activists and local community. I, too, was very pleased to accept the invitation to this ceremony. The start of the CSR in Bochotnica dates back to 1926. It was then, on 26 May, that the organization of Mon was registered in the District Fire Association in Puławy and at the commune of Celejów. Volunteer Fire Department in Bochotnica. This decision was preceded by repeated meetings and findings of a group of enthusiasts, chaired by Bolesław Staroń, school head, a light man, a highly active, inspiring environment to face still new challenges. The founding members' membership consisted of 25 men. In the middle of the village, she allocated a 50-acre plot of land on which the farm system was built for the village's guard. The main equipment of the fire unit was a prop cart, two horses, two-wheeled water barrels with a capacity of 400 l, a ladder, a suction-pressing hand piss and barefoot. Each firefighter involved in the firefight was equipped with a combat uniform, a helmet, a seat belt and a hatchet. The house had an alarm signature and steel gongs. An effective alarm element was also the sound of a trumpet with a specific modulation. Currently, the Bochotnica TSO is a modern unit in the national fire protection and fire protection system with modern equipment, including a well-equipped medium tonnage car on the Renault Midlum 4x4 chassis designed for technical rescue and fire extinguisher and equipped with equipment for this purpose. Paramedics are equipped with personal protective equipment against various variants encountered during rescue operations, communication systems, rescue tools, saws and saws. Currently, the list of members and the composition of the Board of TSOs Bochotnica includes 16 members of ordinary members, 2 members of honour, 11 supporting members, 10 members of the youth fire team, 9 members of the Board and 4 members of the audit committee. For all firefighters who have earned their service in the service of the CSR in Bochotnica over these 90 years, I would like to offer my warm thanks and congratulations. To those who have left, I salute you. I wish my current fellow Members the happiness, happiness in their actions, satisfaction in their service and respect from the local community. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-21-sejm-26-1.u430	I'm ordering a recess until tomorrow, i.e. On 22 September 2016, by 3 p.m. 9. [[Adjournment at the meeting at 3 p.m. 18 min 57]]
