ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-28-senat-09-1.u1	I open the ninth sitting of the Senate of the Republic of Poland IX term of office. [[Marshal hits Marshal's staff three times.]] I hereby appoint Senator Rafał Ambrozik and Senator Waldemar Sługocki as the secretaries of the sitting. The list of speakers will be led by Senator Rafał Ambrozik. I would like to inform you that the Sejm at its eighth meeting on 15 January 2016 adopted most of the Senate's amendments to the Act on Tax on Certain Financial Institutions. In the absence of any objections to the minutes of the fourth meeting, I declare that the minutes of this meeting have been adopted. I would like to inform you that the minutes of the fifth Senate meeting in accordance with the Senate Rules of Procedure are prepared to be made available to the senators. If no one of your senators raises objections to it, it will be adopted at the next sitting. Mr and Mrs Senators, the draft agenda has been placed on senators' benches. I propose that the first, second and third items of the draft agenda be considered, although the committee's reports on these laws have been submitted at a later date than those laid down in the Article. Article 34 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 2 Senate Rules of Procedure. If I do not hear the opposition, I will find that the High House has accepted the proposal. In the absence of any votes against, I find that the Senate has accepted the proposal. Would any of your senators like to speak on the agenda? Senator Klich, you're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-28-senat-09-1.u2	Mr. Marshal! High Senate! Since, literally an hour ago, two committees, the legislature and the Human Rights Committee, have completed their work on a draft resolution tabled by the Civic Platform, a resolution which has been in the freezer for quite a long time, which concerns the appeal to the President of the Republic of Poland to take a vow from 3 finally elected judges of the Constitutional Tribunal, I request that the agenda be supplemented by this item. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-28-senat-09-1.u3	Senator, Professor Sewerinski, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-28-senat-09-1.u4	Mr. Marshal! High Senate! I am filing a motion to disregard Senator Klich's request because the Senate does not have the authority to adopt resolutions such as were the subject of the deliberations of both committees. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-28-senat-09-1.u5	Thank you very much. We shall proceed to the vote against the objection. Who's in favor of Senator Klich's request? Please press the "Za" button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 79 senators voted against, 26 votes against, 52 votes against and 1 abstention. [[Voting No 1]] In view of the results of the vote, Senator Klich's motion has been rejected. Would any of your senators like to speak on the agenda? I don't see any volunteers. I state that the Senate approved the agenda of the ninth Senate meeting of the Republic of Poland IX term. I would like to inform you that, after considering item one of the agenda: the law amending the Police Act and certain other laws, a two-hour adjournment will be ordered, followed by a vote on this law. The remaining votes will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. In addition, I would like to inform you that in the case of the adoption by the Sejm of the Law on the Public Prosecutor's Office and the Law on the Law on the Public Prosecutor's Office, the agenda of the current sitting may be supplemented by these laws. The session will resume tomorrow at 1 p.m. We proceed with the examination of the first item of the agenda: the Act amending the Police Act and some other laws. The text of the Act is contained in print No 71 and the report of the Commission In print No 71 A. I ask the rapporteur of the Legislative Commission, the Committee on National Defence and the Committee on Human Rights, the Rule of Law and Petitions, Senator Jarosław Rusiecki, to present a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-28-senat-09-1.u6	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to present a report to the three joint committees, the Legislative Committee, the Committee on Human Rights, the Rule of Law and Petitions and the National Defence Committee on the Law amending the Police Act and some other laws. [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[The meeting is chaired by Vice-Marshal Maria Koc]] The three committees met at a joint meeting on January 26th and attempted to amend the Police Act and other laws, because it is really about amending the 13 laws... [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[Excuse me one second. Ladies and gentlemen, please be quiet.]] [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators, please remain silent. Thank you. Mr. Senator, you're welcome.]] Thank you very much, Marshal. Thus, this amendment concerns the amendment of a total of 13 laws: the Police Act, the Border Guard Act, the Tax Control Act, the Law on Military Courts, the Law on the System of Military Courts, the Law on the System of General Courts, the Law on Military Gendarmery and Military Ordering Authorities, the Act on Internal Security Agency and the Intelligence Agency, the Act on Electronic Services, the Law on Telecommunications Law, the Act on Military Counterintelligence Service and the Military Intelligence Service, the Act on Central Anti-corruption Office and the Act on Customs Service. The amended provisions concern detailed operational control and access of the various public services listed, inter alia. in the titles of these laws, which will be amended, to broadly understood telecommunications data, postal data or postal correspondence, as well as Internet data. During the joint deliberations of the committees, an important issue, which was very often addressed, was a matter of time. Namely, ladies and gentlemen, this law must enter into force by 7 February 2016 at the latest, because on that date, following the judgment of the Constitutional Tribunal of 30 July 2014, the provisions governing these matters are repealed. Maybe here's a little bit of history. I would like to remind you that the Senate of the last term has made an effort to amend these provisions. A project was prepared that passed the Senate procedure and went to the Sejm. Unfortunately, the lack of time caused this amendment not to be adopted. Of course, the starting point was the judgment of the Constitutional Court. The course of the committee's work had the following pace. It is worth noting that this is a parliamentary project. Mr Krzysztof Łapiński, rapporteur, introduced the last joint committee meeting. Then Minister Maciej Wąsik, Secretary of State at the Prime Minister's office, made a description of this amendment. Then you presented your opinion to Director Adam Niemczewski, Vice-Director of the Senate Legislative Office, by submitting your conclusions on which you can benefit. They are in the stock of documents relating to this law. In general, reservations concern the question of not fully fulfilling the judgment of the Constitutional Court, the question of time of review, and the precision of supervision by the district courts. During the discussion, which was then held, I would like to point out that the discussion was very thorough and thorough, it lasted almost 3 hours in detail on the issues raised by your director, by your senators and guests invited to the committee meeting, by Minister Maciej Wąsik. In addition to the senators, guests, representatives of the Ombudsman, the National Council of Legal Counsels, the Panoptykon Foundation, the Batora Foundation spoke. In the course of this discussion there were 2 opposing, extreme conclusions. One is Senator Piotr Ziientarski's motion to reject the law at first reading, indicating that amendments will be made if this request is rejected. I would like to inform you that in the final part of the committee's meeting, the minority proposals were submitted by Senator Grażyna Sztark, and Senator Marek Borowski made his reservations. The second conclusion of these extremes is the proposal to adopt the law without any amendments tabled by Senator Robert Mammothov. I would like to say that Senator Piotr Ziientarski's request did not obtain a majority, and that the request submitted by Senator Robert Mammothov obtained such a majority. Therefore, in the report, ladies and gentlemen, in the resolution we have a proposal that the law on amending the Police Act and certain other laws of the Senate adopt without amendments, and there are proposals from minorities, a total of 14 proposals which were submitted at the committee meeting. There have been written opinions to this project, which are also at your disposal. They were presented at the committee meeting by the invited guests I mentioned. I would also like to point out that Minister Maciej Wąsik replied in detail And he's probably going to answer your senators' questions today, explain problems, reservations. So much for short. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-28-senat-09-1.u7	Thank you very much, senator. I ask the rapporteur of the minority of the Legislative Commission, the Committee on National Defence and the Committee on Human Rights, the Rule of Law and Petitions, Senator Grażyna Sztark, to present a proposal for a minority of committees. You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-28-senat-09-1.u8	Thank you very much, Mrs. Marshal. High Izbo, I would like to submit a request from a minority of the committee to delete in the article. 1... In the compilation of the amendments contained in the report of the Committee on Human Rights, the Rule of Law and Petitions, the Legislative Committee and the Committee on National Defence, these are Amendments 2, 4, 6, 8, 10, 12 and 14. Ladies and gentlemen, it goes on, among other things. It's that in the article. 1 in point 1 in point (a) h, in the mouth. 16 and the word "procurator" is deleted. I may read you the text of this provision so far: on the order of the court to allow the materials referred to in paragraph to be used in criminal proceedings. 15g (2), the prosecutor shall be entitled to a complaint; the rules of criminal proceedings shall apply mutatis mutandis to the complaint. On behalf of the minority, I would like to make a request to delete the word "procurator" because, please, we believe that this complaint is not only due to the prosecutor, but above all to persons under surveillance, lawyers, doctors, priests, journalists, notaries, etc. Art. 180 §1 k.p.k., according to the current wording of the Act... I may read this: persons who are obliged to keep secret classified information about classified or confidential or professional secrecy may refuse to testify as to the circumstances to which this obligation extends, unless the court or prosecutor dismisses those persons, etc. In §2 of this provision, we read that persons obliged to keep a notarial, barrister, legal counsel, tax, medical or journalistic secret may be questioned as to facts, etc. Ladies and gentlemen, in general, we also want to be consistent. The deletion of the word "procurator" refers, of course, also to the military prosecutor or general, depending on the law. Member States, the following provision shall be added: to allow for the use in criminal proceedings of materials containing information that constitutes secrets related to the pursuit of the profession or functions referred to in Article. 180 §2 of the Code of Criminal Procedure, not covered by the prohibitions laid down in Article. 178, Art. 178a and Art. 180 §3 of the Code of Criminal Procedure, excluding information on offences referred to in Article. 240 §1 of the Penal Code. In conclusion, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to stress that the obligation of secrecy and participation in criminal proceedings, as well as access to any complaint made by the parties, also concerns the parties I have mentioned. This is an essential requirement. We believe that in the event of non-adoption... And I ask that the amendment tabled here be accepted by the High House, as what we are talking about here is not only a fundamental principle in a democratic state of law, but also an obligation that would... that would definitely violate the Constitution. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-28-senat-09-1.u9	Thank you very much, Senator. I ask the rapporteur of the minority of the Legislative Commission, the Committee on National Defence and the Committee on Human Rights, the Rule of Law and Petitions, Senator Marek Borowski, to present a proposal for a minority of committees. You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-28-senat-09-1.u10	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I have only one proposal, albeit multipled, because the provision that this is all about should be included in the various articles of this law concerning subsequent services. I am referring here to the condition for carrying out operational actions towards citizens. This condition is the consent of the court. That's the consent of the district court judge. And that, of course, must apply to all citizens, that is clear. However, it must be borne in mind that since the activities of these services are generally covered by quite a deep mystery and very few people have access to them, there is a risk... And unfortunately with such risks, i.e. with its manifestations, we have already, in our short democratic history, dealt with. I mean situations where, for one reason or another, under one influence of the service, they are used to fight politically, in short: to fight opposition. We had this situation in the case of Prime Minister Oleksy, then on the occasion of the so-called land scandal, the case concerned Andrzej Lepper. And that way of using the services is particularly dangerous. For if the powers of the service are so expressed, abused against the ordinary citizen, then of course it is a pity, there is a violation of the law, there is discomfort or there are other, bigger problems of the citizen and he can pursue his rights in court. However, if the service is being used against the political opposition, it violates the very foundations of democratic order. Therefore, because, of course, it cannot be excluded that also Members and Senators Although I can't imagine. They may be involved in some criminal activity and may be subject to operational control, certain safeguards should be put in place so that the decision on the case in question cannot be taken under any pressure. I'm talking about a court decision here. There is currently one judge... and there is a risk that under one or another pressure he may consent to these operations and to the further consequences of such actions, although it would be unjustified and even harmful. That is why I propose that, on several occasions, in every article concerning a specific service, we add a paragraph such as the mouth. 15k... because he's following the paragraph that says operational control can be implemented with the permission of the district court judge. I propose to add such a provision: in matters relating to operational control and the use of materials from these criminal proceedings in respect of Members, Senators and President of the Republic of Poland, a decision shall be given by a district court composed of three judges. So not one, but three judges. And I would like to say that this case stood here, in the Senate forum, over six months ago, when the bill was discussed by us. She went from us to the Sejm, but the Sejm, as you know, didn't have time to praise her anymore. And this conclusion was then made and was generally accepted by all political parties, so to speak, because it is timeless. This is not a matter of this or another opposition, and during one term, we know it from history, it has been different when it comes to internal political agreements. At that time, the proposal was for the Supreme Court President to agree. The point was that it should be a court of some kind, which certainly no longer falls under anyone's jurisdiction. In addition, there were various kinds of comments, among others. Supreme Court. That's why I modified the application this time, leaving the district court I didn't reach higher than that. But I have proposed that, in such cases, he should give his consent in the composition of three judges, which, to a much greater extent, guarantees, you can say, independence and reliability of the decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-28-senat-09-1.u11	Thank you very much, Senator. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the senators of the rapporteurs. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? You're welcome, Marshal Borusewicz. Who is this question to? Please specify which of your rapporteurs.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-28-senat-09-1.u12	To the Senator of the majority of the committee. I have a question about the Internet. Mr. Senator, does the scope of this law make it possible to obtain the addresses of websites that Internet users use? When downloading this type of information about the website, can you separate the Internet data from the content that will be associated with this data? Because I understand that it's not about content, it's about whether or not they can be separated.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-28-senat-09-1.u13	Mr. Senator, at the time of the discussion, this problem was not addressed in this way. Rather, the aim was to ensure the safety of operating services while respecting Internet users. But this was not the case at the committee meeting. [[The meeting is chaired by Deputy Marshal Grzegorz Czelej]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-28-senat-09-1.u14	Senator, you're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-28-senat-09-1.u15	Thank you very much. I would very much ask the representative of the committee to answer my question about what definition you will use when it comes to online data. Please provide a precise definition of what you mean by Internet data. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-28-senat-09-1.u16	You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-28-senat-09-1.u17	Senator, let me put it this way: during the committee meeting, there was no such problem that Internet data had to be defined. I think that this is defined each time when operating institutions take action in relation to a task that is performed by public services.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-28-senat-09-1.u18	Thank you very much. Next in order is Senator Bear.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-28-senat-09-1.u19	Mr. Senator, I also have a question about Internet issues. Was there an issue at the committee meeting that seems very important to me, namely whether the data of the user of online banking will also be widely available to every policeman? Will Internet banking passwords also be able to be obtained through preventive measures? Was that discussed during the committee meeting? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-28-senat-09-1.u20	That's not the problem on the committee, but I don't think, Mr. Senator, that the service would operate so that there would be general access. Services are tasked with a specific, specific action, there is a whole procedure related to the acquisition, protection, control of these data and, of course, later in the criminal process it is defined for the purposes of the proceedings. But the problem wasn't at the committee meeting.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-28-senat-09-1.u21	Mr. Marshal Borusewicz, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-28-senat-09-1.u22	Senator rapporteur, you said that the services were given this opportunity within their remit, so I understood... Therefore, I have a question for you: does one of the military services receive a new competence to combat the illegal adoption of children?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-28-senat-09-1.u23	I will say again: such a specific issue at the committee meeting was not addressed, so this is a question for the Minister rather than for me. I don't feel competent to answer that question clearly. Thank you. [[Good. I'm gonna ask the Minister a question.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-28-senat-09-1.u24	Mr. Senator Klich.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-28-senat-09-1.u25	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Senator rapporteur, is the committee aware of the fundamental threat this law poses to civil liberties and has the committee considered the unconstitutionality of this law? I mean, as an illustration of the first thesis, I'd like to ask you this. The question of control by the district courts over the activities of the services, surveillance activities of the services, because this control will be fictional and not real. It is hard to imagine that a court which has only the right to gain an insight into the justification for its surveillance proceedings will benefit from this right in the amount of surveillance that can be imagined. Therefore, an optional follow-up check will be illusory rather than real. Has the committee considered this, and has it also taken into account that, in accordance with the ruling of the Constitutional Court, there are situations in which prior and not subsequent checks should be introduced? Does the committee also realise that the article will be violated. The Commission shall adopt implementing acts laying down detailed rules for the implementation of this Regulation. 3 and 4 of the Constitution, by the fact that the citizens after the proceedings were carried out, of course, not in the course of it, but after the procedure And surveillance won't be informed that they've been under surveillance? This is a violation of the civil rights enshrined in the Constitution in the article I referred to. This is what all the opinions we have here have been given before our meeting. And has the committee wondered how to avoid accusations or reservations about the unconstitutionality of the law? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-28-senat-09-1.u26	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-28-senat-09-1.u27	Thank you very much. As for the first problem, Senator, the committee was aware of this project and we discussed very widely and substantively, as the invited guests said... I also think that the Senate realises that we are in such a situation that the law must enter into force on 7 February, because without this law, any service acting in the interests of the security of the state, the security of citizens, will not have the tools to act effectively. And I answer the second question. Let me put it this way: in the course of the discussion, there was an awareness that the bill had some shortcomings. The Minister made a clear statement in response to the questions raised, inter alia, regarding the problem posed by your president, Senator, Professor Seweryński, whether the government and the Minister are ready to continue to improve the bill after it has been passed... And this assurance was received by the committee, so I think the concerns are too excessive. And I also think that a law in its present form can be passed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-28-senat-09-1.u28	Thank you very much. Senator Libicki.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-28-senat-09-1.u29	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. Senator rapporteur, I would like to ask what was the opinion of our Legislative Bureau on this project? Is it true that the Legislative Office says that there are records in this draft that are directly contrary to the judgment of the Constitutional Tribunal? And is it true that our Legislative Office has also raised reservations about the so-called transitional provisions contained in this Act? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-28-senat-09-1.u30	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-28-senat-09-1.u31	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Yes, it is. In the opinion submitted by the Director of the Legislative Office, such reservations are raised. However, I would like to say that these amendments did not appear directly during the committee's meeting on this subject. Such amendments appeared later, and were presented by Senator Shark. And you can read the opinion carefully. Such reservations indeed are.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-28-senat-09-1.u32	Thank you very much. Mr. Senator Tight.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-28-senat-09-1.u33	Mr. Senator, at what time, in what mode and how will the controlled person find out that he has been under surveillance and will know the reasons for this surveillance, as well as how the data thus collected have been used? And if he doesn't find out, why?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-28-senat-09-1.u34	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-28-senat-09-1.u35	Mr. Senator, this is again a question rather to the Minister about the operational operation. I think you can ask the Minister a question that will answer precisely, as it was during the committee meeting.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-28-senat-09-1.u36	Senator Libicki, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-28-senat-09-1.u37	There's something else I'd like to ask you. Because the Senator rapporteur said, in answer to my questions about the opinion of the Legislative Bureau, that there were no amendments in this regard. But is it true that a motion has been made to reject this draft law, which was subsequently rejected by a majority? [[The meeting is chaired by Vice-Marshal Maria Koc]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-28-senat-09-1.u38	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-28-senat-09-1.u39	I said that at the very beginning of the report, Senator. Indeed, these two extreme proposals have been tabled: Mr Ziientarski's motion to reject at first reading, subject to amendments being made, and Mr Robert Mamitov's request to adopt the bill without amendments. I think, by way of explanation, because this issue has been going through the whole session, as I repeat, over three hours, I would add that the main cause is time. The Minister spoke about the fact that the government is working on this proposal for a total of 8 weeks, and the bill must enter into force no later than 7 February, because without this law of service they do not have, as I say, a tool allowing effective action.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-28-senat-09-1.u40	Thank you, Senator. I ask you to ask Senator Piotr Wach's question.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-28-senat-09-1.u41	Thank you very much. I'd like to ask you about some details about the article. 19th, then, operational control. Paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 12 of this Article has been properly deleted and replaced. 12 and 12a. Paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 12 said that telecoms operators and postal service providers are obliged to provide technical and organisational conditions for the operation of the police at their own expense. Now this passage has been broken into two paragraphs. I would ask you to explain this. Paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 12 now says: "Telecommunication operator, postal operator and electronic service provider are obliged to provide technical and organisational conditions for the operation of the police at their own expense. So that's more or less what was written before. A mouth. 12a says: "A service provider providing electronic services is a micro- or small entrepreneur, etc. It provides technical and organisational conditions enabling the Police to carry out operational control of its infrastructure. I'm sure that wasn't done by accident. From this, it could be concluded that those entities listed in paragraph 1. 12, are obliged to provide at their own expense the possibility of carrying out wider operational activities than the infrastructure in question allows. What does that mean? What does that mean in practice? Give an example of what that might mean. Because it's a very suspicious record.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-28-senat-09-1.u42	Thank you very much. You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-28-senat-09-1.u43	Mr. Senator, this problem was not raised during the committee's deliberations. Maybe it's more of a question for the Minister, a question for operational action. I'm just gonna talk about one thing, maybe something related to it. Well, is it or was it a proposal? This was the opinion of Leviathan, but this request was rejected.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-28-senat-09-1.u44	Thank you very much, Senator. I ask you to ask Senator Jan Maria Jackowski a question. You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-28-senat-09-1.u45	Thank you very much, Marshal. Mr. Senator, I have a question. There's a special kind of mystery: doctor, lawyer, confession. Please tell us what the Act proposes in the event of such situations. I'm particularly interested in attorney-client privilege and confession.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-28-senat-09-1.u46	Thank you very much. Please, Mr. Senator. [[The secret of confession? Oh, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, ……]] [[Journalist.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-28-senat-09-1.u47	Mr. Senator, that problem was raised. Well, any such operation requires the court's approval. According to the Minister's statement, we cannot imagine the possibility for the court to agree to take such an operational action. [[But if this data is destroyed immediately, when he realizes...]] I mean...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-28-senat-09-1.u48	Well, maybe I'll ask. As I've heard, this data will be destroyed. If there's a record of this kind of data on some medium, it's gonna be... [[...torn down by the commission.]] ...protocolally destroyed. Is it true, or is it not true that it is written in the bill?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-28-senat-09-1.u49	Yeah, that's right. [[But who's gonna check it out?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-28-senat-09-1.u50	Thank you very much. I ask you to ask Senator Mieczysław Augustyn. You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-28-senat-09-1.u51	Mrs. Marshal! Mr. Senator! I understand we're here for this. The committee is also here for this. In order to ensure the creation of law in line with the Court's judgments, but also with European Union directives. Has the committee examined to what extent this proposal implements the 2006 Directive? Because GIODO indicates that there are no adequate safeguards for prior checking. Did you lean on it? And the other thing. In accordance with this Directive, the subsidiarity principle should apply, i.e. taking surveillance only, I stress, only when other measures... [[They're failing.]] ...have proved unreliable or ineffective. Have you examined this? What is the assessment of the bill's committee in this regard, or does the law contain such regulation?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-28-senat-09-1.u52	Thank you very much. Please, Senator rapporteur.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-28-senat-09-1.u53	Mr Senator, this issue has been highlighted by you by the Director of the Legislative Office in your comments on the judgments of the Court of Justice of the European Union. We have considered this, but the committee has decided in the vote not to make any appropriate amendments at this stage. But once again, I reserve that the Minister has declared his readiness to bend over to, among others, immediately after the adoption of this law. over those flaws that were raised by your director.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-28-senat-09-1.u54	Thank you very much. I ask you to ask Senator Bogdan Klich... [[Mrs. Marshal, I have not received an answer on the principle of subsidiarity. Which recipe regulates this?]] [[Yeah, it's in the bill.]] Thank you. You're welcome, Senator Klich.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-28-senat-09-1.u55	Mr Senator, in relation to the questions about the most dangerous solutions in this law, I would like to ask whether the committee was considering the consequences of such a change in relation to the current law on the provision of Internet services. Such a request will no longer be needed and proceedings will no longer be conducted, and therefore there will no longer be an obligation for the services and the police to inform about the acquisition of online data, because it is sufficient and sufficient to justify that the police or services are taking preventive action against a crime or to identify a possible crime, and then service providers will be obliged to provide all Internet data to the relevant services or police. In our opinion, I'm not just talking about my own, I'm talking about convincing our entire club. This is a gigantic threat to civil liberties. Because this kind of standard eliminates precision... It does not prevent services from panning out in the area of civil liberties, it will make the services actually operate without a specific proposal, without conducting specific proceedings, and therefore without justification why they expect the provider to make Internet data available. We believe that this is one of the most serious threats to civil liberties.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-28-senat-09-1.u56	Please, Mr. Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-28-senat-09-1.u57	Thank you, Mrs. Marshal. Mr. Senator, let me put it this way: I think there's a lot of exaggeration in the senator's words about this, of course, very important issue. It was with proper reflection at the committee meeting. Let me remind you that perhaps the greatest danger that may be put at risk by state institutions, services, police is that there will be no law after 7 February and then there will be no tool by which to take care of the wider understanding I don't want to get into the details anymore. Safety. However, once again I say These shortcomings are perceived and require further work on this law.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-28-senat-09-1.u58	Thank you very much. You ask Senator Tomasz Grodzki a question. You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-28-senat-09-1.u59	Mrs. Marshal, thank you very much. Mr. Senator, I have two questions. First. I would like to know how it was justified at the committee meeting not to have a prior check for follow-up, which we are aware of. It'll be fiction. Has it been tried to determine the situation in which, as a result of the follow-up inspection, it will be assessed that the surveillance was incorrect, incorrect and has affected an innocent person, will there be sanctions for those who carried out this surveillance? That's the first question. And the other. Did the committee lean on the official positions of the institutions to formulate such positions appointed, i.e. the General Data Inspector, the Sejm Analysis Office, the Ombudsman and the Senate Legislative Office? All these institutions raise numerous reservations. Why didn't the committee take them into account? That's my second question. And then there's the third thing. I'd like to say, Mr. Senator, that February 7th is an important date. And I agree that this law should be passed by then. But it's almost ready for the senate project. Moreover, the pace of legislative work in our House is so high that we are able to vote on all the amendments within 12 hours and set everything up thick before 7 February, so that is not an argument. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-28-senat-09-1.u60	Thank you very much. Please, Senator rapporteur.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-28-senat-09-1.u61	Thank you very much, Marshal. Well, Mr. Senator, it's a problem, though, because the case required broad agreement, and unfortunately, time runs inexorably. As far as opinions are concerned, those opinions which were attached to the project were taken into account by the committees. The representatives of the various institutions I mentioned also spoke during the committee meeting. The discussion, as the guests themselves pointed out, was substantive and in-depth.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-28-senat-09-1.u62	Thank you very much, Senator. The question is Senator Andrzej Biesiołek. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-28-senat-09-1.u63	Thank you, Mrs. Marshal. Mr. Senator, I have this question: was there any danger that this law could pose during the committee's work? Namely, some people using telecommunications and the Internet, in order to avoid falling under this law, can use phones, the internet of foreign operators. This can cause foreign operators to introduce special facilities for Poles so that they can simply use other networks. Therefore, Polish operators will lose, and foreign operators will gain from it. Was this thread moved?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-28-senat-09-1.u64	Thank you. Please, Mr. Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-28-senat-09-1.u65	Thank you, Mrs. Marshal. Mr. Senator, this thread was not raised at all during the committee's work.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-28-senat-09-1.u66	Thank you very much. The question is Senator Leszek Czarnobaj. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-28-senat-09-1.u67	Mrs. Marshal! Mr Senator, rapporteur! I'm going back to Senator Grodzki's question. Could you answer the questions again? First of all, is the determination of time... In the case of the State's decision, the Senators of Law and Justice, does time determine this, he decides that you will adopt every bill submitted? That's what you said. It follows that this determines the time and what has been submitted, you recommend that we adopt without any amendments. That's one thing. [[Voice from the room: Question...]] Secondly, I would like to say, Mr Senator, that of the 7 opinions I have, none of them leave a dry thread on this bill. Did you consider it at the committee meeting, or did you just read it and still vote your way out? Was there a discussion on the individual opinions of the institutions that express their views here, starting with the Legislative Office? And the third... Actually, I have these two questions for now, and then we'll see.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-28-senat-09-1.u68	Thank you very much, senator. Please, Senator rapporteur.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-28-senat-09-1.u69	Thank you very much. Mr. Senator, as far as time is concerned, I didn't say anything about all the draft laws. But we are... We have a very important document ahead of us, to implement an important law, which is a tool for the work of many important services taking care of the interests of the state with respect for the interests of citizens, and time is extremely important in this regard. This is the guiding principle that led the action after the discussion, as I said. These opinions were available. Representatives and guests, representatives of the Ombudsman, the Helsinki Foundation for Human Rights, the Panoptykon Foundation, the National Council of Legal Counsels participated in this discussion. The opinions submitted by the Legislative Bureau were also examined by the committee. So that this discussion was conducted in a profound, substantive and relevant manner for this law.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-28-senat-09-1.u70	Thank you very much, Senator. Senator Barbara Zdrojewska's question, please. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-28-senat-09-1.u71	Thank you very much, Mrs. Marshal. Dear Senator, I'm asking you a question. You haven't answered my previous question, and I don't know if there's another question I'd like to ask you, and you're going to answer me. We're listening, you're saying that the committee has carefully considered the comments that were... [[I can show you...]] Dear Senator, if you have undertaken to report this case on behalf of the committee, and I suspect that also on behalf of the initiators, who, I understand, are not here today... In any case, it was generally the case that the rapporteur in law and justice took responsibility and signed on to this project. You voted for this proposal to be adopted without any amendments, and you yourself just said that you have reservations about it and you understand that such reservations have been raised. The questions raised by the senators today have been put to the committee by very serious organisations and institutions. These are the opinions of the General Data Protection Officer, these are the opinions of the Supreme Bar Council, the National Council of Legal Counsels, the Ombudsman, the Panoptykon Foundation. The Lord says you've considered it fairly. Then why can't you answer the question of what is the definition of Internet data? And I'm sure you won't answer my question, what is the previous control in Poland and other countries? Finally, I would also like to ask you to refer to what I said about the procedure of the committee. Answer me the question. Because you said that the law required broad agreement with whom you agreed, since you did not even read the basic opinions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-28-senat-09-1.u72	Thank you very much. Please, Mr. Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-28-senat-09-1.u73	Thank you very much, Marshal. Senator, maybe I can reach the past. The bill appeared in the Senate last term. Working on... [[But not this one.]] [[Not this one.]] Last night's... [[Not that...]] [[Voice from the room: Not so...]] [[Not like this.]] [[Not this one and not this one.]] In any event, there was a project in the last term that required recovery after the judgment of the Constitutional Tribunal. And then, when this project came along, it was prepared by the Senate and went to the Sejm; it took several months, but there was no time to deal with it. And right now we have this situation, and I think we should be aware of that. Well, until February 7th, in a few days' time, the bill must pass so that the servants have the opportunity and the tool to act. This is... I know that this argument is insufficient for you. But he is. The services must not be helpless against the problems that concern their activities. You mention to the senator that the opinions raised during the sitting and the opinions delivered, of course, have an impact on the further discussion. And once again I say: this law requires, which is also indicated in the discussion, further work.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-28-senat-09-1.u74	Please answer my question. Because those are your words. You said that such a law requires broad agreement, and that is why we need to adopt it without amendment immediately. Please tell us what broad arrangements it is about, who has been agreed with this project.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-28-senat-09-1.u75	I meant the opinions that were submitted. Of course, everything also happens in agreement with Minister Wąsik.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-28-senat-09-1.u76	Thank you very much. You're asking Senator Grażyna Sztark a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-28-senat-09-1.u77	Thank you very much, Marshal. I was also a participant in yesterday's committee meeting, but I would like to get the following information. Didn't the senator receive information from the Minister during the committee's deliberations to justify the fact that, unlike the senate project we discussed, the information obtained by the police or other services in the project is not required to be removed without delay after the district court has determined that there is no basis for obtaining it? My question is: why is this limitation? Also, I'd like to ask... The Court of Justice of the European Union has only referred to the collection of records in the case of the most serious crimes, and the project refers to broad access, a broad catalogue, as well as prevention. What's with the extension? And finally, I'd like to find out. Because this was also raised in her speech by the Supreme Council of Lawyers Why, for example, is there such an extension of the rights of the Military Gendarmerie that it will be able to carry out operational control of acts such as the illegal organisation of adoption or acts against sexual freedom and customs, and therefore crimes unusual for the scope of its action. I know it's kind of next to the bill, but why so deep surveillance, why go into matters that don't even include this service? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-28-senat-09-1.u78	Thank you very much. You're welcome, Senator rapporteur.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-28-senat-09-1.u79	Thank you very much, Marshal. Senator, I don't think you're doing very well with the concept of surveillance. I think these are operational questions. Mr. Minister, I think, very precisely, as he answered during the sitting, will answer the question which the senator was kind to report.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-28-senat-09-1.u80	Thank you very much. I ask you to ask the marshal below. You're welcome, Mrs. Marshal.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-28-senat-09-1.u81	Thank you very much, Marshal. Dear Senator, the Internet is an omnipotent medium, actually everything is free in it, because you are unpunished. Has the committee tried to establish something like a hierarchy of the importance of threats? 'Cause, you know, like... slandering, spitting on people is more dangerous than many other cases, even concerning political correctness. What, according to the committee, is the most dangerous and should first be pursued by certain authorities? These threats are probably a lot of things, but what, according to the committee, is the most important thing, and what should be of the public's opinion, so to speak, first of all, pursued?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-28-senat-09-1.u82	Thank you very much. Please, Mr. Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-28-senat-09-1.u83	Mrs. Marshal, Professor, the problem of trying to hierarchise these threats was not raised during the committee meeting, so that I cannot answer precisely... That wasn't the problem. But I'm sure he's very important.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-28-senat-09-1.u84	Thank you very much. Senator Piotr Wach's question, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-28-senat-09-1.u85	Thank you kindly. One of the main features of this amendment That's how I see it after I've seen through it. There is a significant expansion of operational activities, i.e. surveillance, in the area of the Internet. My question also concerns the work of the committee: was there a comparison between the international agreement that the European Union intended to introduce in the Member States under the acronym ACTA and the content of this law during the committee's work? I would say that paragraph 17, which orders judicial activity in cases of violation of the Code of Criminal Procedure, actually imposes the need to respond to all offences that are revealed in the operational field or where there is a suspicion of such a crime. In short, does the comparison with ACTA... this law on Internet surveillance go much further than ACTA. The agreement marked with this acronym concerned mainly the commercial part, i.e. illegal infringement of copyright and cetera, and I would say a storm in Europe, which caused the withdrawal from the signing of this international agreement and its introduction in the Member States. Such potential, and even greater, in my opinion lies, among others. in point 15f of the proposed regulation. Has the committee considered whether there have been any questions on this matter? How did this happen at the committee meeting? [[The Commission didn't talk about it.]] [[The Commission does not know anything about this.]] [[Talking in the O.R.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-28-senat-09-1.u86	Please, the Minister would like to speak at this moment and answer this question... [[There will be time for questions for the Minister.]] [[The minister's time is not now, but then, now we ask the rapporteur.]] [[The Minister will refer.]] [[The rules apply.]] [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[I'll answer that, Mrs. Marshal, if you don't mind.]] [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[Rules!]] [[We're at a different point.]] [[In the next...]] [[Minister at the next point.]] [[We'll ask questions...]] [[We're gonna ask those questions.]] You're welcome, Senator rapporteur, to answer the question.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-28-senat-09-1.u87	This question should indeed be addressed more to the Minister, although I will immediately say that during the committee meeting there was no attempt to make the same reasoning and compare ACTA with the current law. That's what it looked like. [[Mrs. Marshal...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-28-senat-09-1.u88	Thank you very much. The senator has already answered the question, hasn't he? [[Yes.]] Excuse me, the legislator points out that I can give the floor to the Minister, but in exceptional cases, so, Minister, let's wait a little longer, the senators will ask questions to the Senator rapporteur, and then we will ask the Minister. [[Extremely!]] Yes, in exceptional circumstances, but the Minister can be given the floor earlier. I'm asking you to do the job... [[Mrs. Marshal, I'm so sorry. Ladies and gentlemen, these questions that the Civic Platform is asking do not concern what has been discussed...]] Mr. Senator... [[...at the committee meeting, Mrs. Marshal...]] I'm so sorry... [[You're not the rapporteur.]] [[You could have said that at the committee meeting.]] I'm so sorry, Mr. Senator... [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[Who authorized you...]] [[Voice from the room: There's nothing to talk about.]] I'm very sorry, Senator, but... [[Talking in the O.R.]] Ladies and gentlemen, please remain calm. Mr Senator, if the question you are asking was not the subject of the committee's deliberations, then the rapporteur has the right to say that this was not the subject of the deliberations. You address questions to the rapporteur's senator, and the rapporteur answers with regard to what was discussed at the committee meeting. If the contents were not moved there, it says they were not. Now you ask Senator Piotr Zientarski a question. You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-28-senat-09-1.u89	Mr. Senator, you have repeatedly said that there is a need for further work in this area. I imagine that further work is to amend and send it to the Sejm. That's the role of the Senate. Therefore, I do not really understand the justification for the proposal to adopt a law without amendments. Where's the rest of the job? That's the first thing. The second question concerns transitional provisions. This regulation leads to the situation that the provisions which have been declared non-constitutional, with a deferred period until 7 February... The Court allowed, by applying this exceptional solution, the deferral of the effectiveness of the non-constitutional law... As I say, this will lead to proceedings being initiated by 7 February on the basis of non-constitutional rules. This problem was raised at the committee meeting. How can such a solution be reasonably justified?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-28-senat-09-1.u90	Thank you very much. Please, Senator Rapporteur.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-28-senat-09-1.u91	Mrs. Marshal! Mr. Senator! The proposal to adopt the law without amendments is a statutory proposal. Such a proposal can be made and you have often made such proposals in different situations. As for the transitional provisions... [[I'm asking for motives, not formal issues.]] The transitional provisions need to be improved, but it is ensured that, after the adoption of this law, the government will immediately proceed to such work.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-28-senat-09-1.u92	Thank you very much. Senator Piotr Flork's question, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-28-senat-09-1.u93	Mrs. Marshal! Mr. Senator! Are similar online data acquisition solutions used in the EU countries, or are we not only in the European Union but also in Europe as a whole? This applies to each of us, data can be obtained about each of us. This could be an incomparable scale with the scale of checking those phone records that you often talk about. We won't even know it. The question is whether it is similar somewhere in Europe. And a question for the Minister. Since we all know this bill is flawed, there are errors... When will this law be amended: February or March? There was no mention of that at the committee meeting, but maybe the minister will answer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-28-senat-09-1.u94	That's when we're gonna ask the Minister's questions. You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-28-senat-09-1.u95	Mrs. Marshal! Mr. Senator! As for comparing the legal system in this respect between us and the European Union, I think that we do not deviate substantially... The European Union, but also the entire international community, is facing collusive problems at the moment. At this time, it would be extremely dangerous to deprive Polish services of tools for various types of operational activities.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-28-senat-09-1.u96	Thank you. You ask Senator Sławomir Rybicki a question. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-28-senat-09-1.u97	Thank you, Mrs. Marshal. I would like to return to the issue already raised today when I ask questions, namely the principle of subsidiarity, a key fundamental principle. I have a question: whether the committee... although not, because I already know this answer. Let me ask you this: why didn't the committee take into account the opinion of the Attorney General, who, after all, upholds the rule of law, and who suggested in his opinion that this principle should be included in the bill? I'll just remind you that this rule applies. . and there has been no restriction on the possibility of reaching for data when other measures have proved ineffective or may not be useful. The Attorney General took the floor in this case and this vote was not taken into account by the committee, as I know. Why?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-28-senat-09-1.u98	Thank you very much. Please, Mr. Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-28-senat-09-1.u99	Thank you, Mrs. Marshal. Mr. Senator, in the discussion and after the vote, this was the case. But I would like to point out that in every such procedure there is supervision of the district court, and in this way these issues are regulated. [[On a case-by-case basis.]] [[Exactly.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-28-senat-09-1.u100	Thank you very much. Please, Senator Jadwiga Rotnicka.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-28-senat-09-1.u101	Thank you, Mrs. Marshal. I would like to return to the issue of giving an operational officer the opportunity to assess whether the material obtained during wiretap, surveillance is the secret of a public trust person, i.e. a lawyer, a doctor, etc. Who's the authorized person? After all, such an assessment can be very subjective. Few of this, in connection with this assessment, I have no right or right to appeal against her or protest against the illegal conduct of such surveillance. So the question is, are you... [[But the D.A.'s office can.]] Well, the D.A.'s office can. But I would like to see that, in order to preserve civil liberties, my personal freedom in such a law as this one, I can guarantee me the right to, at least, protest that I disagree with this thing. Isn't that what's bothering you? And don't you think that the lack of such a possibility of protesting is actually deprived of the citizen's ability to defend himself? Did the committee ever talk about it? Do you not think that such an amendment should be included in the relevant provisions of this law? Did the committee even notice that? These are the two points: first, the one who has the right and that his assessment is subjective, second, that the one who is subject to this assessment should have the right to protest or appeal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-28-senat-09-1.u102	Thank you. Please, Mr. Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-28-senat-09-1.u103	Thank you very much, Marshal. Senator, let me put it this way: this problem was not addressed at the committee meeting. I think that these issues are the subject of a precise operational definition, and I think that the Minister will be able to respond to this and make an assessment. I don't feel competent to make such assessments right now.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-28-senat-09-1.u104	Thank you very much, Senator. Please ask Senator Władysław Komarnicki a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-28-senat-09-1.u105	Thank you, Mrs. Marshal. Dear Senator rapporteur, you very often use this phrase: respect for the citizens. I don't even, I don't hide it. I like it very much. But I would like to point out to you that your return often conflicts with the opinions that my previous speakers signaled today. I would like to point out in particular the opinion of the General Data Inspector, which points out that the Act does not provide sufficient guarantees for the protection of privacy and the confidentiality of communication between citizens and thus does not fully comply with the judgment of the Constitutional Tribunal of 30 July 2014. Dear Senator rapporteur, throw away this damn date you keep telling us about, and perhaps we will have a chance as Senate at least some of the provisions to improve. And I agree with the opinions of many of my previous speakers that it might be worthwhile to wait and show that the Senate can rise above what is called such deep divisions. I appeal to you. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-28-senat-09-1.u106	Thank you very much. Please, Mr. Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-28-senat-09-1.u107	Thank you, Mrs. Marshal. Mr. Senator, thank you so much for this appeal. With respect: you have the opportunity to take such an opinion, I present my opinion. I think we respect each other for that. I don't believe in any numerology, any power of dates. This date is real, this date allows services to operate, use tools. This is the situation here and now.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-28-senat-09-1.u108	Thank you very much. [[One sentence, I'm sorry... one of our senators offered. He also talked about our diligence, which was tested on Christmas Eve and New Year's Eve. Maybe we could try. Let's think about it.]] [[Try! Today, too.]] [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[Thank you very much, but I don't think we'd like to strain it.]] [[It can't get any worse.]] Ladies and gentlemen, please calm down, please calm down! I ask you to ask questions that concern this issue, and please do not exceed one minute. Senator Waldemar Sługocki's question, please. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-28-senat-09-1.u109	Thank you very much, Mrs. Marshal. Senator rapporteur, I have a question about whether the legal order in force was not sufficient to effectively conduct proceedings. According to the data we received from the Office of Electronic Communications, in 2014 services, courts and prosecutors made a total of 2 million 177 thousand 916 requests for telecommunications data. This means that they asked for data about every nineteen Poles. In one opinion, it is recommended that this check should be more restrictive to make it much sharper. In turn, you are proposing further liberalisation of the law in the legal act under review. So I have a question about what is at the heart of this project. And another question: is your aspiration to observe every 15th, 14th, 13th, 12th, every other or every Pole? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-28-senat-09-1.u110	You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-28-senat-09-1.u111	Thank you very much, Marshal. Mr. Senator, you're not gonna provoke me to any political speeches. I am the rapporteur. Once again, I would like to state categorically that you are abusing the word "surveillance." I just want to point out that any procedure relating to the operation of the services is supervised by a district court. You must have great confidence in the courts in Poland, so I think that there will be no harm here. [[But, Mr. Senator, I also asked... excuse me, Mrs. Marshal.]] [[Please...]] [[I also asked the senator if the existing legal order was insufficient to allow the prosecution and courts to work in accordance with applicable law.]] [[Secretary of State at the Chancellery of the Prime Minister Maciej Wąsik: There is a judgment of the Constitutional Tribunal.]] [[Please...]] Mr. Senator, if you were to get to know each other exactly... The cause of interest is the judgment of the Constitutional Court. This is the basis for amending these laws.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-28-senat-09-1.u112	But you are questioning precisely those provisions on which... your proposal goes much further, not just a change of the rules that were in force and which the Constitutional Tribunal questioned. I therefore think that it is up to you, I think, that you should definitely pay more attention and reflect on the judgment of the Constitutional Court. Isn't that right?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-28-senat-09-1.u113	Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-28-senat-09-1.u114	Mrs. Marshal! Mr. Senator! I am the rapporteur, and that is rather the question to the applicants. I think the Minister will also be able to make a precise reference to the data that you submitted, which are data from the past.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-28-senat-09-1.u115	Thank you very much. You're asking Senator Bogdan Klich a question. You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-28-senat-09-1.u116	Senator rapporteur, in the judgment of the Constitutional Court, from which work on the bill began, there is no question of internet surveillance. The Internet should become an area of freedom as it has been so far. So I would like to ask you what is the motivation to eliminate freedom on the Internet. Because, for example, a solution that we haven't talked about today, namely the ability to function so-called. a rigid link between police and services on the one hand and Internet service providers on the other hand gives the services and police unlimited control over all the activities of citizens on the Internet. What's all this for? What's going on here? Could they not remain those solutions which were earlier and which, as I say, would have to be applied every time and would have been a clear procedure? Did the committee ask the applicant's representative about this? Have you ever considered whether the actual elimination of freedom on the Internet is essential for the smooth functioning of the State and its security as referred to in this Act? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-28-senat-09-1.u117	Thank you very much. Please, Senator rapporteur.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-28-senat-09-1.u118	Thank you, Mrs. Marshal. Senator, in a precise sense, this issue was not discussed at the joint committee meeting. I want to assure you that restrictions on freedom will not be as much as you say when talking about threats. And I would not like to go beyond the role of rapporteur and judge your political statements.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-28-senat-09-1.u119	Thank you very much, Senator. [[Ad vocem.]] I'm so sorry... [[Mrs. Marshal, ad vocem.]] There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-28-senat-09-1.u120	Honesty for Honesty Because you're honest, Mr. Senator, and I appreciate that very much. So, what were you guys thinking at this committee meeting when almost every question we're asking is the answer that you've either touched the problem or haven't thought about anything at all? So, what were you guys discussing? [[Talking in the O.R.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-28-senat-09-1.u121	Please, Mr. Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-28-senat-09-1.u122	The subject matter of the work of the three joint committees was the print project 71, and the print number 71 A, which we are presenting today, and which will be the subject of your evaluation today through our joint vote.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-28-senat-09-1.u123	Thank you very much. I ask you to ask Senator Leszek Czarnobaj. You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-28-senat-09-1.u124	Thank you, Mrs. Marshal. Mr. Senator, I have a quick question. I don't think it's gonna cause you any trouble. Please be honest: was any positive opinion presented at the meeting of the Joint Committee In addition, of course, to the views of the Senators of Law and Justice and the Minister With regard to this draft law?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-28-senat-09-1.u125	Please. [[Look deep into your memory... and if it wasn't, we'll accept that it wasn't.]] Please, Mr. Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-28-senat-09-1.u126	Mrs. Marshal! Mr. Senator! The value of the discussion itself is something positive and I think it is already such a very important point. And the second point: this particular project, these records are a necessary document, it will enable different institutions, services to act after 7 February. And that's also a good thing you can't lose. [[Talking in the O.R.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-28-senat-09-1.u127	Thank you very much, Senator. You're welcome, Senator Andrzej Bear. You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-28-senat-09-1.u128	Thank you, Mrs. Marshal. Mr. Senator, let me refer to the article. 20c of this bill. And in order for my question to be well understood, let me quote some brief parts of this article. Art. 20c says yes: to prevent And then there's something else. The police may obtain data and process them without the knowledge and consent of the person concerned. And in the mouth. 2 is said: the telecommunications operator, postal operator or electronic service provider shall make the data in question available free of charge And now, point 2 on the oral request of a police officer holding a written authorization. In this situation, as I understand it, a constable or a constable who holds such an authorisation shall be reported to the operator and shall request the disclosure of the data orally. What does "oral" mean? That means it won't be recorded anywhere. He has this knowledge, but there is no paper, there is no document. That's what it says in the article. Article 23 (2) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 2 point 2: at the oral request of a police officer holding a written authorisation. Therefore, this makes it possible that practically any authorized policeman can obtain this data at the oral request, i.e. without a trace. [[That's not true! What are you talking about?]] What's he gonna do with them now? That's the question. Has the committee considered this subject? This is an extremely dangerous way of surveillance, extremely dangerous, leaving no trace of this... [[Absolutely not. Mrs. Marshal...]] ...that someone was asking for data. [[Secretary of State at the Chancellery of the Prime Minister Maciej Wąsik: These regulations are now in operation.]] [[Mrs. Marshal...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-28-senat-09-1.u129	You're welcome to ask questions. [[Voice from the room: Please talk about it, Senator.]] Now I'm asking for an answer. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-28-senat-09-1.u130	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! Mr. Senator! I think the question you're asking here is too much. There's nothing different about the operation of the services, especially the police, although this is the type of operation. I think the Minister will answer this question precisely. Once again, I would appeal to you to use the word "surveillance" in a cost-effective manner, because this does not reflect what this project is talking about.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-28-senat-09-1.u131	Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, it indeed seems that most of the questions will be addressed to the Minister. So please ask the rapporteur a very precise question, and the Minister is, waiting, and he will answer all your questions. So, please... [[Voice from the room: But the question is...]] ...to ask questions about the committee's work. Please, the question is asked by Senator Mieczysław Augustyn. There's no senator. [[He resigned.]] You're welcome, Senator Jan Dobrzyński. Mr. Senator, you're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-28-senat-09-1.u132	Thank you, Mrs. Marshal. Gentlemen of the Platform and the ladies of the Civic Platform, these questions are for a press conference. Have a press conference... [[I want you to ask me a question, a question.]] [[Voice from the room: Ask question.]] ...and tell me all about what you're talking about here. At the committee meeting... [[Mr. Senator...]] Mrs. Marshal, I'd like to ask Mr. Borowski a question. [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[Everyone, please be quiet.]] Mrs. Marshal, I wish these people wouldn't bother me. [[What people?]] [[Senator Maria Panczyk-Podziej: These are people as chosen as you.]] [[Mr. Senator, please...]] I'd like to ask you a question to Marshal Borowski. [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[Ladies and gentlemen, if you'll excuse me. Quiet, please. Ladies and gentlemen, please be quiet, because this is... Senator, please ask the senator of the rapporteur to ask a question. Do you have a question for the Senator of the rapporteur?]] Mr. Marshal Borowski, Senator Borowski. [[Oh, I'm sorry. That's a question for the senator...]] To the rapporteur of the minority. Yes. [[...the minority reporters, Senator Borowski. That's very nice of you, Senator Borowski.]] Not yet, Mrs. Marshal. It's gonna fall. [[Good. Then I'd like to ask you a question.]] In principle, Mr Zientarski and Senator Borowski discussed the joint committees in a substantive manner. Mr. Senator, this particular amendment that you tabled, I'm judging positively, it suits me. But you pointed out here that there was a previous proposal that the Supreme Court should decide on the matter, in general, Members and Senators, but the Supreme Court was negative. Do you know anything about this? I'm asking because I don't know anything about it. Is this something you can find? I'd like to know what the Supreme Court in your amendment questioned. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-28-senat-09-1.u133	Thank you very much. I'd like to see the senator of the minority rapporteur, Senator Borowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-28-senat-09-1.u134	Thank you, Mrs. Marshal. Mr. Senator, as we are sitting in a rather urgent manner, I have not been able to reach out to all these materials to remind myself exactly what it was like there. In any event, it was not only the Supreme Court that questioned this, but there were other comments, because of the tasks of the Supreme Court included in the bill or the structure of the Supreme Court. So I thought that because such comments could also occur now... Mr Wąsik also had a critical remark on the above-mentioned issue at the meeting of the Government at the time, that the Supreme Court... etc. So... I didn't have time to reach for it anymore. But in the situation in question, I thought that in order not to make the same remarks again, please, we can, so to speak, go down below, but the said court should be in the composition of 3 judges. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-28-senat-09-1.u135	I thank the rapporteur very much. You ask Senator Leszek Infantry a question. [[Mrs. Marshal, I'm on a formal issue.]] Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-28-senat-09-1.u136	I would ask you very much to pay Senator Dobrzyński attention to the words of people and worse sort, because it simply does not fit. We're just like Senator Dobrzyński elected senators, and it's not... It was never a good custom in the Senate to behave in such a way. Thank you. [[Worse?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-28-senat-09-1.u137	Thank you. Mr. Senator... [[Talking in the O.R.]] Quiet, please. [[If the Platform is offended by the name of this part of senators, then I am very sorry.]] [[It's perverse.]] Ladies and gentlemen, please remain calm. Let's not give in to emotions. Discussion is underway, questions are underway for the senators of the rapporteurs. I'm asking you to respect the rules. Please, now you ask Senator Leszek Infantry. Senator, which of the senators of the rapporteurs would you like to address your question?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-28-senat-09-1.u138	I would like to address the question to the rapporteur... [[Voice from the room: In total.]] I am still referring here to a matter that has just been considered, because I am still interested in this matter. What were the reasons and reasons for not obtaining the consent for operational control in the case of Members, Senators and President of the Republic? I refer to the original law, which was prepared by the Senate and adopted probably in July of that year. Why am I so interested in this issue? Because I am referring to the protection of the data of the person who gave the information or presented the opinion to the Member or Senator in accordance with Article. 21 Act on the implementation of the mandate of Member and Senator. Such a person shall be protected in a special way, even in the form of an article. The 180 Code of Criminal Procedure cannot be released from the secret of the Senator or Member; I am not talking about the information given to him. And now, in light of the laws in force... [[Talking in the O.R.]] Could I have your marshal... Because it really bothers me. In the light of the current law and this additional provision about the so-called preventive control carried out by the police or the CBŚ against every citizen for his own good, as well as about the possibility of browsing websites and telecommunications data, I am afraid... [[Talking in the O.R.]] It's very difficult for me, Mr. Marshal Borusewicz, to present the case... [[I'm sorry.]] It's just... There may be a questionable or, in fact, illusory situation in terms of fulfilling the mandate of a senator or a Member, because there will simply be a concern on the side of potential people coming to the office and wishing to intervene to disclose classified information. [[That's the question, isn't it?]] That's the first question. I've got another one. If your marshal would allow it, I'd ask it, too.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-28-senat-09-1.u139	Mr. Senator, that's next, okay? Because you asked a pretty long question. [[Okay, I'm going to the next round. Thank you.]] You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-28-senat-09-1.u140	Mrs. Marshal! Mr. Senator! In matters relating to parliamentarians, the court's consent is required. As for what you said to Marshal Borowski about the project from the previous term of office and during the discussion during this term of office, at the last committee meeting... There was a record of the President of the Supreme Court. This is about maintaining the equality of each citizen against the law. I know that at the committee meeting there was polemicism in this area. Marshal Borowski modified the provision in question by amending the minority, but I would like to assure you that the area of freedom is not restricted by this law, I think that the area of freedom in relation to what was before is even extended.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-28-senat-09-1.u141	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-28-senat-09-1.u142	I'm just ad vocem, if you don't mind, Mrs. Marshal. I think a similar answer to the question in this regard, a little messy, fell in the Seym. This is not about equality between Members, Senators and citizens with regard to the law, but we do not protect parliamentarians with this provision, but we protect citizens who come asking for intervention. So it was a terribly messy answer that we cannot increase the level of protection of our data because we are to be treated the same as all citizens. That's not the point. The point is to protect the citizens who are asking us to intervene. So I'd ask you not to use that kind of rhetoric. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-28-senat-09-1.u143	Thank you very much, Senator. [[Mr. Senator, I wouldn't agree to the statement that it's messy... I don't think it is.]] Thank you very much. The question is Senator Jerzy Wcisla. You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-28-senat-09-1.u144	Senator, first of all, I would like to say that I share the doubts expressed by Senator Bogdan Klich. However, the Commission should deal with the political aspect of the law, because the political use of these rules may not be in line with the objectives that this law should serve, and in this way it may result in the use of data of persons who, by chance, sometimes may or may not be justified, are included in the list of persons under surveillance. I would like to ask the senator whether the committee was dealing with the issue of data which will be collected without justification and have no connection with the case in which the surveillance was conducted. This is a very important aspect, because it concerns the freedom and right to the protection of personal data of all Poles who can be monitored not always unjustly, but formally in a manner which does not find justification. Our task is to protect such persons from unjustified surveillance, as well as those data that will be collected, because, as far as I know, mandatory procedures for the destruction of such data are not foreseen in the Act. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-28-senat-09-1.u145	Thank you very much. Please, Mr. Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-28-senat-09-1.u146	Thank you very much, Marshal. The problem was raised. This is provided for in the Act on the destruction of data which are not used for procedural proceedings. [[So the procedure is settled, right?]] Yes.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-28-senat-09-1.u147	Thank you very much. You're asking Senator Grażyna Sztark a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-28-senat-09-1.u148	Thank you very much. For starters, Mr. Senator, I would like to say that as far as the word "survivor" is concerned, you also asked me to restrict the use of that word. It means absolutely nothing against the law or anything wrong. It comes from a Latin word that means watching over something or following or monitoring human behavior. But what's important is who's doing monitoring and what's the point. And here it is... So it's not a word that has bad connotations. Unless you don't know who's doing it or why. And now I would like to return, Mr. Senator, to the issues of rigid connections that have been mentioned here. In response to the Minister's questions We will eventually redirect this question to the Minister. It was not mentioned whether there was a possibility to monitor Internet users on the basis of service agreements that would be able to track traffic on the Internet 24 hours a day. What's that for, and isn't that a threat to Internet users? Did she mention that?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-28-senat-09-1.u149	Thank you very much, Senator. You're welcome, Senator rapporteur.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-28-senat-09-1.u150	Mrs. Marshal! Senator! Well, I don't want to lecture here on how to use specific words. Well, every word is used in a specific context, and any word used in excess under certain circumstances can distort the essence of the issues taken. I mean, sometimes a word is like a sword. You can kill with it. So we should use the word sparingly in different contexts. As for the second point raised by you... Well, you yourself said that the question was asked to the Minister who answered at the committee meeting. I think the Minister is able to answer again the question that the senator has asked.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-28-senat-09-1.u151	Thank you very much, Senator. The question is Senator Andrzej Biesiołek.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-28-senat-09-1.u152	I have such a question for the senator: was it noted during the committee's deliberations that this law goes much further than ACTA, which, as we know, was a very hot part of the public debate? Did the committee pay attention to this? [[The fifth question...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-28-senat-09-1.u153	There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-28-senat-09-1.u154	Mrs. Marshal, Mr. Senator, as Senator Dobrzyński said, this is the fifth question on the same subject. There was no analogy. And once again, I say: Following the Minister's words, who also, rather in the course of the discussion, commented on the matter The area of freedom is the provisions of this law extended to what was before, and I also think that the guarantee is judicial review in this matter.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-28-senat-09-1.u155	Thank you very much. I ask you to ask Senator Leszek Piechota. You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-28-senat-09-1.u156	Thank you, Mrs. Marshal. I have a question for the Senator of the rapporteur: was there an explanation of why at the Parliament meeting in August last year, at the first reading of the Senate bill, Members of the PiS voted against this bill at first reading? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-28-senat-09-1.u157	Please, Mr. Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-28-senat-09-1.u158	Mrs. Marshal, Mr. Senator, with all due respect... I do not want to answer this question to my fellow Members. Maybe there's a question somewhere in the clowns...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-28-senat-09-1.u159	Thank you very much. Senator Leszek Czarnobaj.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-28-senat-09-1.u160	Mrs Marshal, I am part of the rapporteur's request that the questions be brief, I repeat my question, and I hope that I will receive a short answer. I accept what Mr. Senator said was that this was an important bill, and on 7 February he must enter into force, I only ask again, and please answer, if yes, then yes, if not, it is not: was there any positive opinion concerning this law, of course, in addition to the opinion of the Senators of the PiS The opinion of some institution, organization, etc.?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-28-senat-09-1.u161	Is that the end of the question? You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-28-senat-09-1.u162	Mrs. Marshal, Mr. Senator, once again, I think the bill itself is a good thing in the hands of institutions that need such a tool. And I'll remind you what the beginning was and where the interest came from... The interest emerged from the Supreme Audit Chamber, and the meeting was attended by Director Marek Bieńkowski and the general expressed his positive views on this bill.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-28-senat-09-1.u163	Thank you very much. Please, Senator Mieczysław Augustyn.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-28-senat-09-1.u164	Two questions. First: does this law also include the President of the Republic of Poland, or does he also, without any prior consent of anyone, be under surveillance? The second question: how do the provisions of this law ask for a very precise response to the weblogs of websites that are frequently visited by Internet users regarding buying, viewing, searching? Will this data be able to be peeked without any prior check?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-28-senat-09-1.u165	Thank you very much. Please, Mr. Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-28-senat-09-1.u166	Thank you very much, Marshal. Senator, the legal order in the Republic of Poland is that all citizens are subject to laws. Again, I say once again: in no way is the area of freedom restricted on the Internet worse than it was with previous records. [[If you don't...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-28-senat-09-1.u167	I'm sorry, Mrs. Marshal, but, as we know, some of the people in the state holding the election function may have been subject to this kind of procedure before, it was necessary to agree, if I remember correctly, the President of the Supreme Court. There is no such thing, so now in the ordinary operating mode will it be possible to observe the President of the Republic?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-28-senat-09-1.u168	Mr. Senator, please. [[Voice from the room: Constable will be...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-28-senat-09-1.u169	Mrs Marshal, Mr Senator, the rules of Polish law cover all citizens. The President's person will certainly be respected in Polish law. [[Voice from the room: A procedure...]] I've already answered that. I repeat, I've already answered.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-28-senat-09-1.u170	Thank you very much. Senator Joseph the Hare, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-28-senat-09-1.u171	Mrs. Marshal! Mr. Senator! On the basis of mathematics, there is such a way to proceed, that if a claim made for a set turns out to be wrong or has certain gaps and starts to remove elements from this set, so that it remains true, and too many elements are removed, then such a claim ceases to have value. And here I have the general impression that under the action of the constitution governing the general functioning of the state, society, etc. We remove by our laws more and more of these elements, I'm sorry, this is my personal feeling. So maybe we need to change the system, maybe we need to change the constitution. Because in the end, as it turns out, the elements removed by the various laws are so much that... During my operation here, and I am here for a second term, we are actually still dealing with the fact that we are making some laws, we are making regulations that break something out of the Constitution. And this one group will have other rights... [[Mr. Senator, ask me a question.]] ...and the second group will be concerned with some exceptions, etc. And now the question. In connection with the provision of the article. 20c, 20c, 20c, 20c, 20c, 20c, 20c, 20c, 20c, 20c, 20c, 20c, 20c, 20c, 20c, 20c, 20c, 20c, 20c, 20c, 20c, 20c, 20c, 20c, 20c, 20c, 20c, 20c, 20c, 20c, 20c, 20c, 20c, 20c, 20c, 20c, 20c, 20c, 20c, 20c, 20c, 20c, 20c, 20c, 20c, 20c, 20c, 20c, 20c, 20c, 20c, 20c, 20c, 20c, 20c, 20c, 20c, 20c, 20c, 20c, 20c, 20c, 20c, 20c, 20c, 20c, 20c, 20c, 20c, 20c, 20c, 20c, 20c, 20c, 20c, 20c, 20c, 20c, 20c, 20c, 20c, 20c, 20c, 20c, 20c, 20c, 20c, 20c, 20c, 20c, 20c, 20c, 20c, 20c, 20c, 20c, 20c, 20c, 20c, 20c, 20c, 20c, 20c, 20c, 20c, 20c, 20c, 20c, 20c, 20c, 20c, 20c, 20c, 20c, 20c, 20c, 20c, 20c, 20c, 20c, 20c, 20c, 20c, 20c, 20c, 20c, 20c, 20, 20, 20c, 20c, 20c, 20c, 20c, 20c, 20c, 20c, 20c, 20, 20, 20, 20, 20, 20, 20, 20, 20, 20, 20, 20, 20, 20, 20, 20, 20, 20, 20, 20, 20, 20, 20, 20, 20c, 20, 20, 20, 20c, 20, 20, 20, 20, 20, 20, 20, 20, 20, 20, 20, 20, 20, 20, 20, 20, 20, 20, 20c 2, which states that the telecommunications operator, the postal operator or the electronic service provider makes the data available free of charge, I would like to ask what is the foreseeable impact of the proposed provisions on the economic and financial Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-28-senat-09-1.u172	You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-28-senat-09-1.u173	Thank you, thank you very much. Mr. Senator! Professor! The first question is, I think... It may be the subject of a paper at some conference on the Constitution, and I think it would certainly find interest. As to the question raised, the parliamentary project, as you know, does not require these financial assessments. But let me remind you: in the documents submitted for work at the committee meeting there was a relevant request, submitted by the Leviathan, if I remember correctly... The situation of those who would have to carry out this action at the request of the relevant services or public institutions will not be affected.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-28-senat-09-1.u174	Thank you very much. Senator Leszek Piechot has signed up and wants to put a question to Senator Leszek Piechot. Mr. Senator...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-28-senat-09-1.u175	Thank you, Mrs. Marshal. I have a question for the Senator of the rapporteur. Did the committee, in the course of its final decision on the adoption of the resolution, have knowledge of the last judgment of the European Court of Human Rights in Strasbourg concerning the Hungarian Police Act, in which it stated that this Police Act infringes the right to privacy? Do you know that sentence from January this year? The Act is similar to ours, and it dates back to 2011. It was Szabó and Vissy's case against Hungary. The judgment which has now been announced makes it clear that the provisions on the powers of special services should provide for strong control over their activities and inform citizens of the subject of surveillance. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-28-senat-09-1.u176	Thank you very much. Please, Mr. Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-28-senat-09-1.u177	Thank you very much, Marshal. Mr. Senator, this was not the subject of any discussion. I would like to remind you that the judgment of the Constitutional Court in this case is from 2014 and the Court of Justice also from 2014. This is the subject of this amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-28-senat-09-1.u178	Thank you very much. Are you Senator Infantry yet? [[Yes.]] You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-28-senat-09-1.u179	One more thing. Were the members of the committee informed of a similar judgment of December that year in a similar case, the Russian citizen's case against the Russian State in the field of police law, surveillance which does not provide adequate protection of privacy? And then... You quote the judgments of the Constitutional Court, and I am talking about the judgment of the Court of Human Rights in Strasbourg. I asked that question not without a goat. I mean, if, knowing the verdict and his thesis, they were included in this new law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-28-senat-09-1.u180	Thank you. Please, Mr. Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-28-senat-09-1.u181	Mrs. Marshal! Mr. Senator! It wasn't an object... As I said, this amendment refers to the judgments I mentioned. The issues on the basis of which you are building a certain philosophy here do not have anything to do with this bill.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-28-senat-09-1.u182	Thank you very much. I ask you to ask Senator Andrzej Bear. Mr. Senator, please. [[Mrs. Marshal, I have no question. I'd like to make a formal motion.]] What's the conclusion, Senator? Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-28-senat-09-1.u183	Mrs. Marshal, based on Art. Article 36 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the Senate we submit a request for the adoption of the confidentiality of proceedings in the first item of the agenda: the Act amending the Police Act and certain other laws. The motion is signed by 18 senators. Brief justification for this request. We would like to know the true intentions in this matter, and in order to be able to know them, we need to ask questions to which answers may pose a threat to the state... [[It's for national security.]] Yes, for the safety of the state. That is why we would like this item to be classified. I'd like to speak to your marshal. [[Meeting or voting?]] Meeting.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-28-senat-09-1.u184	Thank you very much, Senator. Ladies and gentlemen, I will submit this request to the hands of the marshal. I now declare a half-hour break by 1:30. During this time, the Senior Convention will be held. Thank you, ladies and gentlemen. [[Adjournment from 12 minutes 59 to 13 minutes 28]] Ladies and gentlemen, I'm extending the recess until 3 p.m. [[Voice from the hall: Will there be a break again at 3:00 p.m.?]] There'll be an announcement at 3:00, and you'll know everything. [[Adjournment from 13 minutes 28 to 15 minutes 00]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-28-senat-09-1.u185	I'm reopening the session. Ladies and gentlemen! High Izbo! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, in connection with the request for secrecy under the Rules of Procedure. Article 36 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 2 of the Senate's Rules of Procedure will be adjourned in a moment in order to prepare a sitting room to hold a classified part of the ninth Senate meeting, in accordance with Article. Article 36 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 Three Senate Rules of Procedure. I would like to inform you that this part of the sitting will not be transmitted and that the transcript from this part of the session will not be published. The proceedings of the meeting shall be established in accordance with the rules applicable to classified meetings. Only senators and staff with access to classified information at a restricted level may attend this part of the meeting. This also applies to the Ministry's representation. In addition, I would like to inform you that during this part of the meeting, no notes can be taken, images and sound recording and communication can be made through multimedia devices. I kindly ask you to remove all documents and files and handbags from the room and not to bring them to this part of the sitting. I would like to inform you that during the break from the sitting room all the materials will be cleaned up. Before entering the room, you will need to transfer to the deposit a device that allows the recording or transmission of images and sound and communication, as well as other devices that allow the disclosure of information. The presence in the section of the secret sitting will be confirmed on a separate attendance list. Ladies and gentlemen, the confidential part of the meeting will include the justification of the request and the hearing of a possible vote of objection. After part of the secret session, a 30-minute break in the session will be ordered for the preparation of voting apparatus. The vote on the request for classified voting shall take place in accordance with the Rule. Article 53 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 2 Rules of Procedure of the Senate, in an open part, by means of voting apparatus. I'm ordering an adjournment until 5:30 p.m. At 5:15 p.m., you're welcome. A meeting of the Senior Convention. Thank you very much. [[Adjournment from 15 minutes 03 to 17 minutes 30]] [[A fragment of the transcript classified pursuant to Article. Article 36 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 3 Rules of Procedure of the Senate]] [[Adjournment from 17 minutes 42 to 18 minutes 17]] I'm reopening the session. I ask the senators of the secretaries to take their seats at the president's table. [[Mr. Marshal, I have a question.]] Mr. Senator, I was about to read the formula for joining the vote... [[But even before the vote... it's about the legal basis of the vote, it's about the article. 36.]] Mr. Senator, I ask you to recall the number of the article, and I will explain.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-28-senat-09-1.u186	Mr. Marshal, I have a question and, above all, a very serious question. We're already equipped with cell phones, etc., so secrecy, so to speak, has already been repealed. Art. Article 36 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 3 clearly states: The Senate shall decide on the confidentiality of the deliberations at a secret meeting. I have a question. We don't have a secret hearing right now. As in this situation, according to the lips. Three, you want this to look like a vote? Therefore, before the vote, I would like to draw attention to this regulatory issue.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-28-senat-09-1.u187	I understand, Senator. Senator, you're welcome. [[I'd like to say, if you'll allow me...]] Please, please, please, please, please, please, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-28-senat-09-1.u188	...how I interpret this recipe. The secrecy of the deliberations was decided at a secret meeting and the deliberations and votes are separated in the Rules of Procedure. I don't know if that's what Senator... [[Talking in the O.R.]] In my opinion, the deliberations and the vote are divided.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-28-senat-09-1.u189	Ladies and gentlemen, we will not have a debate on this issue. I, ladies and gentlemen, decided this at a meeting with our lawyers and informed this very detail at the Senior Convention meeting, where Senator Klich and Marshal Borusewicz were also present. They didn't raise any doubts. Mr. Senator is calling into question. Then I'll quote you to Senator Art. 53, which speaks of the voting procedure. Please, page 29, Article. 53: the vote is open and takes place by raising the hand and pressing the electronic apparatus button. We're just... [[But, Mr. Marshal...]] I didn't interrupt you, Senator. I didn't interrupt you, and I'm really asking you not to interrupt me because I'm not done yet. [[I'm sorry.]] We're voting right now. Previously, we decided, we talked about why this request was being made, there was a justification and a voice of opposition, and for this we needed a form of secrecy of our sitting. The vote alone doesn't have to be classified and it's not classified. It is only secret in personal matters, which is written in the Rules of Procedure. And if there's any doubt... We will not discuss and debate on this subject, ma'am, because it is written in our Rules of Procedure, because if there are doubts, these doubts are settled during the vote of the marshals. And I believe that we can proceed to the vote, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure and in accordance with this point in the Rules of Procedure, which clearly states that all votes are public. Besides, the Senate should always sit transparently and so that citizens can know who, what and how he said. When we were talking to the senator about your proposal, I expressed my opinion that during the legislative work, the secrecy of the session was In our sense, in my sense, It's illegal, but I've already allowed it, although if I were in the middle of a debate, I don't know if I would have said that. You could have, and that's what I told the senator, used a different formula, but not a legislative formula. Because we would be dishonest with our citizens if we kept our deliberations secret. After all, we are to act openly, transparently, and this cannot be done. The vote, according to the record... Which article was it? Art. 52? Excuse me... [[Art. 53.]] [[Art. 53 is lex specialis.]] The voting act, in accordance with the Rule. 53, it's always public, it's all about voting, it's clearly written in the Rules of Procedure. There are doubts, the marshal in charge settles these doubts, I decide so that we vote openly. We therefore proceed to the vote on the motion of the senator group to waive the confidentiality of the deliberations on item one of the agenda... [[A resolution.]] [[Voices from the room: Approval.]] About the adoption... [[It's a secret pass.]] ...on the adoption of the confidentiality of the deliberations in item one of the agenda. I would like to remind you that the Senate shall adopt a resolution on this matter by an absolute majority in the presence of at least half of the statutory number of senators. Who's in favor of this motion? Who's against it? Who's holding back? We'll get the votes back in a minute. Please report the results. 92 senators voted in favour, 28 senators against 62 senators abstained. [[Voting No 2]] The absolute majority of votes required shall be 47. In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has rejected the request and has not adopted a resolution on the confidentiality of the deliberations on the agenda item one. In view of the results of the vote, the Senate has passed a resolution... No, I'm sorry. [[Voice from the room: He didn't.]] Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you that the Senior Convention has today decided to set an additional day for this meeting. This is January 30, this year, Saturday. We return to the examination of the first item of the agenda: the Law amending the Police Act and some other laws. [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[That's how much they've won.]] I would like to inform you that the vote will begin at 8 p.m. in the Sejm. At that time, the Senate will not be able to attend a representative of the government. We are now returning the questions to the rapporteurs of the committee. Would any of you senators like to ask such a question? [[Who?]] [[To the rapporteur.]] [[There's no...]] There are no volunteers. The draft law was introduced by Members. The Minister was authorised to present the position of the government in the course of parliamentary work, a member of the Council of Ministers, a coordinator of special services. Welcome to the Vice Minister's meeting, Mr Maciej Wąsik. Does a government representative wish to speak on the bill under consideration and present the position of the government? Yes, sir. You're welcome, Minister, to the podium. And please take the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-28-senat-09-1.u190	Mr. Marshal! High Senate! Thank you very much for the opportunity to speak in the debate on a law that is being examined by the High House. Ladies and gentlemen, before I move on to your questions and questions that have been raised here, I have been with you all day today, with a brief break in my private session, listening to this debate, taking note of questions in my head, and I will try to address them immediately. I'm going to say something about the origin of this bill. This law executes the judgment of the Constitutional Tribunal. The Constitutional Tribunal, after considering the complaint by the Ombudsman and the Attorney General, issued a judgment repealing several provisions of the Police Act, the Border Guard Act, other uniformed services and secret services. This judgment was delivered on 30 July 2014. The Court gave Parliament 18 months to amend the rules to amend the rules. 16 months out of those 18... [[Fix it.]] Yes, correct. 16 months of these 18 months were the rule of the Civic Platform. I firmly believe that such an important project, which affects such important issues and arouses such emotions, should be deeply consulted, starting with government work, through public consultation, inter-ministerial arrangements, and then, of course, in the Seym and Senate. But that did not happen. The government, at the beginning of Donald Tusk and then Ewa Kopacz, did not prepare the project. Thanks to the responsibility of the Senate last term of office, the project was created. The Senate has shown a legislative initiative, this project has been developed and sent to the Sejm. In August 2015, the Sejm received this request. Unfortunately, there was no special meeting on this draft committee. There was no political will, no courage to hold such a debate. The Sejm didn't take care of the Senate project. After the Autumn elections Law and Justice took over, we were forced to develop a project in a short time, which will execute the sentence, because on 7 February Polish services, the police, if this law is not adopted, will not have eyes or ears, will not be able to carry out operational control. All checks will have to be interrupted. Few of these services will not be able to download the data that is necessary to carry out the most important activities. Your Senate, this simply cannot happen. This year we are the organizers of the NATO Summit, there will be World Youth Days, a visit from the Holy Father. There is no way that Polish services or the police could not carry out their tasks. That is why the parliamentary project has been notified. There was no time for the government project, although, of course, the government participated in the work on this project and the rules are thought out. I'd like to reassure you. After listening to this debate, especially the votes of the Senators of the Civic Platform, I will say this: most of your concerns... In fact, all your concerns are burning. The project in question limits the powers of the services, restricts access to certain information and imposes social control on certain activities. I hope that your doubts are the result of a real concern about the state, not a cynical game. I understand the senators' questions, but I cannot understand the questions of the person who supervised the military service, regretting that certain data will be made available without the permission of the court. Unfortunately, Minister Klich left, but... the only way I'm going to tell you is when Minister Klich was a minister, the military services under his command several dozens of thousands of times reached for Internet data. Several tens of thousands of times. Every year over the last eight years, the police have reached for Internet data on average sixty thousand times. And there's an appropriate legal basis for that. There is a law on the provision of services by electronic means in legal transactions. It is a law adopted in 2002, revised, if I recall correctly, in 2011 and 2012. And in this bill, I am speaking to Marshal Borusewicz here. It is precisely stated what is so-called Internet data. In Article 2, paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: Article 18 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 One thing that is precisely stated is why they can reach out to the ministry. Not why they'll be able to reach from April 7th, but why would they reach out when Mr. Klich was Minister and overseeing military services and gendarmes for what they were reaching for when Mr. Schetyna was Minister of Home Affairs. And the police always went for this data, fighting all kinds of crimes, carrying out their statutory tasks. Without the possibility of downloading such data, police officers could not carry out their tasks, their mission towards society. [[With the court's permission.]] No, Senator, not with the permission of the court. Not with the court's permission! Under the current rules, data may be made available without the consent of the court. I'll take that record. Like I said, in art. Article 18 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 The Act on the provision of services by electronic means is very specific as to what Internet data is. Internet data is the name... It's a designer's license. And in the mouth. 6 it is written, note, I will read thoroughly: The service provider shall provide information on the data referred to in paragraph. I would stress to the authorities of the State: the authorities of the State for the purposes of their proceedings. I repeat: state authorities. If we insist, the police or chief of police, as an organ, would be able to download the data. And for what kind of proceedings? For instance, in cases of misdemeanor. And I don't rule out, Mr. Marshal, that in your day the police used to take data like this. I don't rule it out. Today, this law does not provide services with this possibility, it only restricts them to crime. Is there an increase in service capacity? No. To sum up, this data has been available since 2002. However, the Court notes that provisions giving powers to services are scattered because some of the provisions are in competence laws and some of the rules are elsewhere. And the Court said: it should be catalogued. And what we're doing here, it's nothing more than cataloging all the service privileges in one place. There was such an amendment to the Civic Platform Members who said: "Let's delete the Internet data from the bill here, throw it away, why do they have it there?" Well, I'm already saying why: this Internet data is equivalent to telecommunication data; e-mail billing is equivalent to telephone billing. Therefore, since the Court has ordered the destruction of telecommunications data which will not be used in criminal proceedings, I believe that we should also destroy Internet data. Right? It's obvious. Same with the postal records. And if the Internet data were not included in the Act at issue here, state authorities could still request Internet service providers providing electronic services, all data, to process it without any restrictions. There would be no control over them, Mr. Marshal, there would be no control over them as it is now and has been for the last eight years. [[More.]] More than eight. [[More, since 2002.]] Since 2002 [[I'm here on a formal matter. May I?]] [[The meeting is chaired by Deputy Marshal Grzegorz Czelej]] [[Mr. Marshal...]] [[I didn't ask you any questions...]] [[How can you not? What about the Internet?]] [[There'll be questions in a minute.]] [[You were talking about the Internet.]] [[I'll be in in a minute.]] Mr. Marshal, if you'll excuse me for anticipating certain matters, but I have heard this debate, I have heard a discussion, and I have presented my position, so that there are no unnecessary questions, I want to clarify certain matters, things that are most important. [[But they're still gonna be the same...]] Ladies and gentlemen! High Senate! The Act on which the High Chamber is prosecuting is implementing the judgment of the Constitutional Tribunal shall specify the list of offences for which the Internal Security Agency may apply operational control. It was a requirement of the Court. That law lays down procedures for services in the event that information which may constitute a secret arises during the application of operational control. The Court points out that there are no provisions in the law of competence of the services that speak about what the service should do at a time when, for example, it appears. Defender's secret or attorney's secret. Now the law states that absolute prohibition of evidence is to be destroyed immediately, and that relative bans, whether or not they can be used in proceedings, are decided by the court. The Court points out that services have also been collecting data of different types for the last 8 years, not destroying them and not knowing what is happening to them. [[Longer than eight years.]] [[Eight years, eight years.]] [[Quiet, please. The Minister has the floor at the moment.]] [[And yes, you don't get it anyway.]] [[The voice from the hall: Minister, it's...]] The Act introduces an obligation to destroy all the data that will not be used in criminal proceedings, with little exceptions, is the data that it collects counter-intelligence, in colloquially speaking. Let me put it this way: if the services collect data which will prove to be useless later in the preparatory proceedings, then the phone records, location data, whether collected from the telecommunications, internet or postal operator, will have to be destroyed by protocol. It will not be possible to use them for other purposes or to process them. That's what the bill says. Is this an extension of the freedom of service? No, that's a limitation on the authority of the service. The Court pointed out that the process of data collection must be subject to scrutiny. He didn't say what kind of control. Like the Senate of the previous term of office, we have also considered that the procedure for the follow-up of the judicial review of this process is appropriate. Therefore, the services will first have to keep a record of the downloaded data. It's a new duty. Today, for example. The CBA does not keep such a register. [[He's driving.]] He doesn't drive, although he was driving in the days of Mariusz Kaminski. Once every six months, this register will have to be transmitted to the court and the court will be able to carry out a review of whether the data have been taken properly, or the ones that weren't used, were destroyed... [[Voice from the room: Two in one.]] ...that the service does not actually go too far in relation to the needs of the proceedings. It is not enough that we have decided that certain recommendations of the Court need to be followed, which are not in the operative part of the judgment. We thought it necessary to introduce a limit on the duration of operational control. The Senate Act didn't foresee that. In fact, it's supposed to be like this, you could even carry out operational control forever. This bill says no, no, only with the permission of the court and 18 months, except for counterintelligence cases. With the permission of the court, 18 months. Is this an extension of the authority of the service? No. This is not an extension, this is a limitation of the service's ability to operate. It was said here that the crime catalog is too wide. Well, ladies and gentlemen, I'm showing here that, theoretically, some of the services may have been able to access Internet data in criminal cases now. Let me put it this way: if you compare the possibility the police have, the downloading of data without the consent of the court in the Senate Act of the previous term and in this law, it turns out that this directory is narrower here. Don't shake your head, Senator, because it's just written on the pages. I can quote the provisions of the article. 20c contained in Article 1. [[Voice from the room: I'm glad.]] The questions have been raised here as to why the M.E. can handle certain things. I think Senator Zientarski will help me answer that question, because this particular provision is precisely prescribed by the Senate Act. But I'll tell you why, maybe I can do Senator Ziientarski. If this had not been the case, it would not have been equal to the law, because it would not have been possible for soldiers to apply to certain matters of operational control which is applicable to civilians. And that's all this recipe does. Mr. Marshal! High Senate! I would like to stress the following: this law neither by a millimeter increases the authority of the operational control or data collection services, nor by a millimeter. I would like to stress that this law limits the capabilities of the services and their powers. And I would like to stress that there is no reason to build social emotions on this. [[Everyone's wrong.]] This is extremely irresponsible. I'll admit, I'm kind of disgusted by this build-up of emotion on the untruth. [[In a lie.]] On a lie, that's the way it is, it's just a lie. [[The Legislator's office is lying?]] [[Voice from the room: He's lying.]] [[And all the organizations.]] [[Voice from the room: Everyone lies.]] [[The Ombudsman is lying.]] [[Ladies and gentlemen, there will be a discussion in a moment. Minister, you're welcome.]] Mr. Marshal! High Senate! I think I'm gonna answer a lot of questions and clear things up. But I'm keeping you from one thing. It is simply irresponsible to support your motion to reject this law. You may have different opinions, you may disagree with certain things, but you can't make them paralyze the work of the department and the police because they're keeping our safety safe. And if you are afraid of surveillance, I will say this to you: fear not, and measure all things with your measure. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Voices from the hall: Ooh!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-28-senat-09-1.u191	At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of questioning to a government representative related to this item on the agenda. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? Senator Jackowski came in first. Minister, come in. I'm sure there'll be a lot of questions. [[Secretary of State at the Chancellery of the Prime Minister Maciej Wąsik: I will write down.]] [[Voice from the hall: Minister introduces his customs.]] Welcome to the podium. [[It's not like that in the Senate.]] [[Voices from the room: No.]] [[It's not the Seym.]] [[Chair.]] [[Water.]] [[Voice from the room: Record of stamina.]] Minister, you're welcome to the podium. I'm asking you to answer the questions from here. One question... [[Secretary of State at the Chancellery of the Prime Minister Maciej Wąsik: Of course I do not evade, but I would like to write questions...]] Here you go, you can write it down. Mr. Senator Jackowski. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-28-senat-09-1.u192	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. Minister, I have two questions. I've already asked the Senator the rapporteur first, but I'd like to hear it from you. It's a matter of secrets. You mentioned in your introduction... I mean mostly attorney-client privilege and confession. I'm asking you to give a detailed description of the procedure, what will happen in the event that the content of a conversation in which such mysteries were contained is obtained in an operational manner. What is the procedure further, in the light of the provisions proposed by the group of Members in this draft law? The second question I'm asking is a matter that's been troubling me lately. You mentioned it in your speech, so I'll ask you that. I'm talking about the so-called. operation of the 2008 fork. What do we know about this? And what could the Minister say about that? This includes a group of 730 players who, according to media reports, were treated in an absolutely incompatible manner with any European Union Member State's standards. And it was at the time when Grzegorz Schetyn was head of the Home Office. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-28-senat-09-1.u193	Two questions, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-28-senat-09-1.u194	High Senate! Dear Senator, I'll start with the first question. At a time when the service will have an absolute ban on evidence, which is the secret of confession or defender, these materials must immediately be destroyed by protocol. If the ban were relative, there would be another mystery. The medical, counseling, attorney-at-law is about the possibility of using these materials, and here we are talking about operational control, would be decided by the district court competent for the service. In the case of secret services, the Warsaw District Court would decide whether to use or order destruction. This is the procedure laid down in the Act and resulting from the judgment of the Constitutional Tribunal. As for the action of the Fork, Mr. Senator, this is extremely sad. I don't know the details of this action. I think the police audit is gonna do a lot. All I know is the media. If these reports were true, the D.A.'s office would have their hands full to determine the perpetrators of what was going on there. If this is true, it was an absolutely unacceptable act, breaking human rights and human dignity.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-28-senat-09-1.u195	Thank you. I'd like to ask you a question from Marshal Borusewicz.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-28-senat-09-1.u196	Minister, you said that the bill you're presenting restricts the application of... Yes? And does it introduce, in addition to the category of proceedings, the possibility of operating techniques, previews, wiretapping, also to prevent crime and detect crime? With regard to the CBA, which you know very well, is it also possible to collect such information for analytical purposes? Does this bill propose that? Is it or isn't it? That's one question. [[Maybe he should answer, 'cause it's been too long...]] There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-28-senat-09-1.u197	Two more questions.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-28-senat-09-1.u198	I'll answer right away, Mr. Marshal. If there's a custom in the Senate, maybe I won't wait for three questions, but I'll answer right away. Mr. Marshal, the laws that have been in operation for the last eight years are talking about different duties of the service. In addition to prosecuting crimes, Mr. Marshal, there is also prevention and recognition. Prevention and recognition. The rules do not change, but in this case the scope changes, e.g. The police are downloading the data. According to current regulations, the police's download directory is wider. In addition to prevention and prosecution, there is still the fight, recognition and preservation of evidence. I would like to say that these proceedings, which are, remain in the Electronic Service Act. I can say with full responsibility that under no circumstances is the possibility of downloading data in this area extended. So that I will be pleased to hear from the marshal, I hope when I say that the services will not be able to access new data through this bill. There will be nothing that they could not do so far, and in some cases there will be less, allowances will be less.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-28-senat-09-1.u199	Thank you very much. I ask you to ask Senator Blackobay's question.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-28-senat-09-1.u200	Mr. Marshal! Minister! If I may, I would ask the Minister to answer the following question. We are in possession of 7 different opinions, which are a shortcut. It's against what the Minister says. So I have a dilemma, I don't know who's right. I understand that... [[Talking in the O.R.]] Yeah, who's telling the truth. I would just like to know, I would like to know your opinion on these 7 opinions. I understand that these are the grammar and opinions you know. Therefore, I would like you, not to go into detail, to say: yes, these opinions are wrong, I am right. That's one thing. [[Secretary of State at the Chancellery of the Prime Minister Maciej Wąsik: Excuse me, Mr. Senator, if you could exchange these opinions, I could refer to this, because if...]] I can give them to you. Then I understand that you do not know these opinions, Minister. Yes? [[Secretary of State at the Chancellery of the Prime Minister Maciej Wąsik: I do not know what opinions you are talking about. For God's sake, seven opinions...]] I've got it all figured out, so maybe I'll give you everything... [[Voice from the room: That's already been done.]] I'll read you, Minister, whose opinions these are. First General Data Protection Officer. [[He's wrong.]] He's wrong. Two... [[The question is 1 minute.]] [[On page 1, you have it written.]] [[Voice from the room: Yes, on page 1.]] Oh, yeah, on page one, so you don't roll over. The opinion of the Supreme Council of Attorneys... [[He's wrong.]] ...the National Chamber of Legal Counsels... [[He's wrong.]] Yeah, he's wrong. The Ombudsman of Civil Rights... [[Voices from the O.R.: He's wrong.]] [[Quiet, please.]] ...the Panoptykon Foundation and the most important issue, the opinion of the Senate Legislative Office. [[Voices from the O.R.: He's wrong.]] [[Four for now and three for now.]] If the Minister does not know these opinions, I propose that a recess be made so that the Minister may become acquainted with them and may refer to them. If you don't know them, then what are we going to debate here?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-28-senat-09-1.u201	I know, I've read, and I'm very pleased that you senators have already answered this question. [[No, that's one thing.]] Ladies and gentlemen, I will say yes. There are different opinions and content of opinions that you have quoted, which do not coincide. I will say this: the Senate bill, which you pushed in the last term, also had negative opinions of similar bodies, was also criticized by the Panoptykon Foundation. The Panoptycon Foundation pointed out this law at the meeting of a representative of the Panoptykon Foundation. That the data destruction procedure is not covered e.g. Internet data. ♪ And we're gonna ♪ We did, we used some of those opinions, actually critical of your bill, here. There have been opinions with questions about why there is no limit to operational control. We have introduced this limit, as suggested by the Court, which was not foreseen by the Senate Act in the previous term. But there are comments in these opinions that we simply disagree with. We just disagree, we have a different opinion on this. [[What's that?]] I'll tell the senator. That's at least two things. It is a duty to inform the person to whom the operations were carried out... [[But whose...]] [[Don't disturb me.]] [[Mr. Senator, I'm about to give you the floor to ask a question. Now the Minister answers that question.]] We do not agree with this, like you, Senator, because you did not make such suggestions in the Senate Act. The services in the project from that year were not obliged to inform people that they had operational activities, and now it is very disturbing to you. The fact that it's not on this project. We disagree, for example. with the subsidiarity of data collection, but it is a subsidiary element. I will remind you that the principle of subsidiarity is used in the law on services in relation to operational control. If everything is the ultimate method, nothing will be the ultimate method. We believe that it is not the collection of data that is final, but the operational control is final, this most intruding civil freedom means of operating, this most severe measure when we register any correspondence, for which we need the court's consent. This is a subsidiarity measure, not data collection, because often data collection allows to say: I exclude, there is no need to use operational control. And that is not just our opinion, because I heard such an opinion from Paul Wojtunik, your head of CBA service.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-28-senat-09-1.u202	Please, Senator, another question.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-28-senat-09-1.u203	I did not interfere with the fact that the Minister had taken my word for it, as a cultural man without protests, I allowed the Minister to speak, although he did not speak on the subject, and now I would like to ask questions again. Minister, a man has two ears, one mouth, to listen twice as much as to speak. I appeal to everyone here, to you, too, to... I asked you a specific question, so please don't talk about Mr. Wojtunik here about projects that aren't there because that wasn't the subject of my question. My question is as follows, Minister. There are seven negative opinions. Name one positive one. I was just asking, that's all. That's the first question. And second question. You said in your exposé, in your statement, that the bill is restoring I'm the one who wrote it down. Social control of services and their work. Could you elaborate on that? He is very interesting because perhaps seven institutions are wrong, and this social control is so hidden that you can't see it. I am very interested in the combination of those two sentences which the Minister was gracious to say. Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-28-senat-09-1.u204	You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-28-senat-09-1.u205	Mr. Senator, that's a good question, thank you very much. I will tell you that for the first time, the Minister of Justice will be required to provide the Sejm and the Senate with the information that telecommunications, postal, online services have downloaded and for what purpose, and this will be subject to social control, because it will be made public, it will not be classified information. You can't base it any more. on information collected from the services by the Panoptykon Foundation I'm talking about the 2 million 100 thousand data collected in 2014. Now it will be the Minister of Justice who will present such information and will be clearly subject to social control. That's what I'm talking about. In addition to the judicial review which the court will have as much as possible, it will be a follow-up check, and at the moment there is no control over the work of the services in this regard. [[Question about the opinion...]] Many of the people we talked to, both theorists and practitioners in the field of service work, expressed a positive opinion. We don't need pads, we know what we're doing. We have a judgment of the Constitutional Court and this judgment is executed literally. Of course, there are certain institutions defending human rights, caring for personal data that believe that it is not possible to interfere at all with the freedom of citizens, that this balance between freedom, privacy and security must be tilted towards privacy. I think it's irresponsible, I don't agree. The State must be able to intervene in privacy. Under social and judicial control, of course. If the security of the state and citizens so requires.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-28-senat-09-1.u206	Thank you very much. Senator Augustin's question, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-28-senat-09-1.u207	Minister, in these opinions Also in the opinion of the Legislative Office, but not only, because also in those concerning the scope of the implementation, or actually the failure to comply with the judgments of the Constitutional Tribunal, it is still pointed out that the law eliminates itself to a large extent so-called. prior control, i.e. prior control of wiretapping, data acquisition, etc. I'd ask you to take that into account. The follow-up control, although illusory, exists, means there will be some register, probably powerful, from which nothing will arise, but it will indeed be succeeding. And it's about pre-control. I have already asked this question to the rapporteur, because, to my knowledge, at least as far as parliamentarians and presidents are concerned, the application of these operational methods so far required consent, as I recall, from the Supreme Court. Will this kind of agreement be needed for the president and parliamentarians now, or will it already be possible to apply these operational measures without any prior control? And finally, as far as I'm concerned... I was trying to figure out who really killed that senate bill. It turns out that this was Mrs Sobecka's request from Law and Justice. And with the votes of PiS plus PSL, unfortunately, we managed to complete the work on this project. That's too bad. Do you confirm that you did? [[Secretary of State at the Chancellery of the Prime Minister Maciej Wąsik: Yes, yes, I will answer.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-28-senat-09-1.u208	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-28-senat-09-1.u209	Mr. Senator, well, I'm fighting myself. I'm really fighting myself whether to be mean or not. I'll try not to be... [[But don't be embarrassed.]] First of all, Mr Senator, he killed this bill by Mr Wójcik from the Civic Platform. Well, a special commission was set up in the Sejm for her to consider this matter. And this committee had a deadline for a meeting to draft a bill. But she didn't. Mr Biernacki has sent desperate letters to President Wójcik, who is helping you here today very much to formulate questions, and I have seen him sitting in the back. But it's a person who... [[I have this information from Mr Wójcik.]] [[But who's he helping?]] I'm so sorry. [[But to whom...]] Excuse me, may I answer this question, or do you not want me to answer? Because I think that's a good question. And Minister Biernacki... these writings are, we saw them, he showed them to us. He sent desperate writings asking the Sejm to take care of this senate project. But Mr Wójcik never called a committee meeting once. And here's the score. There was a motion to reject this project, but there were seven more... [[A project that wasn't there.]] No, at first reading in the Seym... Because there was a first reading in the Seym. And then it was rejected. I do not know what vote you are talking about, that the PSL PiS voted in this regard. It's just not true. [[In the Senate...]] In the Senate, the whole procedure went through. But... [[In the Senate... okay!]] But... Excuse me, Mr. Senator, I'll finish. The Supreme Court issue. There is no provision in this regard. Everyone at the moment is equal to the law, regardless of whether the case affects a miller or an uncle or a Member or a Senator. The application shall be headed by the Head of Service of the via Attorney General, the decision shall be taken by the competent district court. And that's what's gonna happen. We considered that there was no need for additional provisions on Members and Senators because of the equality of citizens with the law. But I'll also tell you... [[And the president?]] Same. And I will also tell you, Mr. Senator, that, in view of these regulations in the Senate project... Because there were records saying that the first president of the Supreme Court... [[And yet they were.]] But it was in the senate project, and there's no such thing in the law. And there was a government opinion about this project, which was extremely negative about this record. And this was the government of Ewa Kopacz, the Civic Platform. [[But what was that opinion about?]] She said that this record was undesirable, incorrect, bad. And we thought it wasn't supposed to be. We can argue about this here, but please don't say that the current legal situation is different. We just don't change it. Mr. Senator, and here my malice is really... [[Go ahead, go ahead.]] Well, read the project. I wrote it down... [[Go ahead.]] ...that eliminates prior control in the field of operational control and data collection. Come on, Mr. Senator, give me a rule that eliminates pre-control in the field of operational control. It's still gonna be like this, before we use the wiretap, operational control will have to be agreed by the county court. Well, for God's sake, let's work on the project, not the newspaper articles or the hints of an reluctant colleague in the lower chamber! [[He doesn't even know what this bill is all about.]] There are no rules. And I strongly protest to pick things up, because it's just not true. [[But I asked...]] [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[I'm asking you a question...]] At the moment, there is no control over the data collection process. That's the legal situation. We're putting in a follow-up check. Please distinguish the operational control from the data collection process These are two completely separate processes. The collection of data shall under no circumstances relate to the content of correspondence. Here was one good question, one of you, senators, about whether the service can take over the code we have entered into the bank account without the permission of the court. I'll say no, they can't. If necessary, they'd have to have the court's approval. No way, because this is an electronic transmission that has to... It is correspondence on the line: the human machine. The services must have the court's approval. That was a good question, asked with concern. I'll settle it right away.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-28-senat-09-1.u210	You're asking Senator Tight.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-28-senat-09-1.u211	Strictly, Mr. Marshal. I'd like to ask... [[That's what I said.]] [[Well said the marshal.]] I heard it tight, but it doesn't matter. It is more important that when I asked the senator the rapporteur a question, he sent me back to the Minister and, although he listened carefully, he somehow did not note this question. I would like to ask, in what mode, and at what time, the person under surveillance will find out that she has been under surveillance, learn about the reasons for this surveillance, how the data collected were used, and also whether the data collection was unfounded. I have another question for the Minister, which, as a matter of fact, comes from the answer you just gave. You said that every six months, the court has the right to control the data collected. Please specify... Because the information we have received from the General Data Protection Officer shows that, yes, the court has the right to do so, but there is no obligation to do so. Does the court have a right, or does it have a duty? Can the court determine whether or not any data has been collected unjustly? What happens to cases where data has been collected unjustly? Who is responsible for such unsubstantiated decisions? What kind of sanctions are they subject to? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-28-senat-09-1.u212	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-28-senat-09-1.u213	Mr. Senator, when I answer these questions, I'm gonna say yes. The collected data, which will not be used for criminal proceedings, will be destroyed by the provision of the bill. These data, which will not be used as evidence, will be destroyed, except for certain counter-espionage situations, but this is a completely different subject. If the court finds that the actions have been carried out unjustly... This is a crime of exceedance and is codified: Article. 231 criminal code. There is no need to codify it in an additional way. The same will happen if the servants are illegally eavesdropping... This is a crime of illegal wiretap. [[But as in social interest, not anymore.]] The person who is being eavesdropped operationally in accordance with the current state of law by the police or the services shall not be informed of this. We are maintaining this state of affairs, but I must tell you that the Court of Justice does not order such a provision to be introduced in the operative part of the judgment. He suggests in the explanatory memorandum, but in the operative part there is no such arrangement. I'd like to reassure the senator. If you think that this provision is wrong that the Ombudsman challenged this provision in December and the Court will consider the issue of such an obligation. But we don't want to anticipate and introduce such a rule here. In my opinion, he wouldn't be right. [[One more question I didn't get the answer to. What's with the court review? Is she mandatory or optional?]] In my view, it should be mandatory, but how broad this check should be depends on the district court. The court has instruments... I'll remind you that this is the same court that consents to operational control. It's not a coincidence it's the same court. This is a court competent to work with the services, to issue approval for operational control. This is a court that is competent in the field of operations. [[But de facto there's no such obligation?]] Excuse me? [[But in fact, there's no obligation to do...]] In my view, he is obliged to check, only that the width of this check is not defined. [[That's not what the General Inspector says.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-28-senat-09-1.u214	Senator Dobrzyński's question, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-28-senat-09-1.u215	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Minister, do you have any knowledge of how much information you've been getting about the number of wirets you've been using in the last 10 years? I am referring to 2006 and 2007, but above all 8 years of governance of the Civic Platform. If you can't answer that right now because you don't have that kind of knowledge, I would ask you very much to answer this question in writing, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-28-senat-09-1.u216	Mr. Senator, I don't have accurate data on this, but the number of wirets... Besides, this information is provided by the Attorney General. I remember those numbers for the last three years. In 2012 there were about 3 000 800, in 2013 4.5 thousand and in 2014 more than 5 thousand. So that the number of bugs in recent years In 2012, 2013, 2014 grew. From what I remember, it has generally been growing for years, and the number of data collected has also increased, although there was no obligation to collect these data. This law introduces an obligation for the Minister of Justice to submit to Parliament on the basis of data which he will obtain from the courts, which data and for what purposes have been collected by the services. However, this is social control. From now on, we will be able to watch the service work in this area. [[What about the military, Minister?]] That's the aggregate data. I know well that when Senator Klich He wasn't in the courtroom when I told him that he was a minister, and the services he served several dozens of thousands of times reached for Internet data. Several tens of thousands of times. Of course, without the court's consent, because there was no such requirement, and without any control, because there was no such requirement either. Now this check will be. [[Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-28-senat-09-1.u217	Thank you very much. I'd like to ask Senator Infantry's question.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-28-senat-09-1.u218	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. I would like to ask the Minister to comment on such a situation. You spoke in your preliminary exposé about the lack of political will of the Civic Platform of the previous term of office to conclude the draft Senate Act. I see you've been monitoring this legislative process. I mean explain why I'm going to tell you exactly why. On 5 August 2015, at 20.29 p.m., all Law and Justice voted against the draft Senate Act at first reading. Of course, the same vote was made at that time by part of the PSL, SLD, Palikot Movement. Sort of... [[As part of a sense of responsibility.]] I'd ask you not to comment. I'd just like to hear it from the Minister. 'Cause it kind of contradicts the thesis. I understand... Here is the name of Mr Wójcik, who no longer piloted it. I suspect that the colloquials of the trial are such that there was simply no political will even among our coalitioners, so the process was not continued. But I'd like to know the essentials. I'm sure you know this case. I'm sure you were interested. You're a professional and a very well-informed man, I see, in this legislation. What were the substantive reasons for rejecting this? Because now you're accusing us of not being on the platform's side. political will. That's one question. [[Irregularities.]] And fast second, because I'm afraid I'm not gonna make it. This question, which I am now going to ask, has also been raised with regard to the rapporteur's senator, but the statement simply has not been clearly stated. I thought that... And according to your statement, there's no understanding of the bill... [[Talking in the O.R.]] Could I have the silence, please? ...on the implementation of the mandate of a Member and a Senator, which in Article. 21 makes it clear that the senator or the Member is not obliged to disclose the data of the person who provided the information or presented the opinion. I will say more: this person is more protected than in the case of attorney-client privilege, because there is no Article in this regard. 180 Code of Criminal Procedure, so the prosecutor or the court can't release us from this mystery. And you say, Minister, that there are no special rights or reliefs with regard to senators and Members, because we all have equal rights... [[One minute, Mr. Marshal.]] ...but I'm sorry, this isn't about protecting ourselves, this is about protecting our informants. The point is that citizens should not be afraid to come and talk about things. Because they're afraid that for some title... If, for example, The current authority will commit some misdemeanor of their responsibilities, and now they will be afraid to inform. Earlier they knew that their personal information was protected, information about these people... I couldn't reveal it, even if I continued to pass the case on. And now, in the absence of any other formula, sharpened that, for example, the President of the Supreme Court or, as you propose, Marshal Borowski, three judges of the district court... In this other formula, there is no way to protect these people. And as if there is no understanding, I see it after your speech, for protection and for the proper fulfilment of the mandate of Member and Senator. Thank you, and I'm asking you for an answer. It's a first. And second of all, I'd ask for one more thing, because I see you're a funny man... [[Secretary of State at the Chancellery of the Prime Minister Maciej Wąsik: No, Mr. Senator, I don't have that memory, I won't remember...]] No, no... Sir, I see that you are a witty man, and you here often refer to such casuistics, various and strange, so I would ask you, in our discussion, in this discourse, not to make this argument from the 1970s. The point is, when Gierek once talked to Ford and Ford accused him of things, Gierek answered: "And you are being beaten by Negroes." [[Joy in the Chamber]] I just wish it wasn't just some sort of flipping... Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-28-senat-09-1.u219	Excuse me, Minister. Ladies and gentlemen, we are at a stage where senators can ask no longer than a minute of questioning to a government representative related to this item on the agenda, not to the history of our country, even the funniest one, Senator. You're welcome, Minister. [[Voice from the room: It was a question asked on foot...]] Mr. Senator, please don't take any personal trips!
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-28-senat-09-1.u220	Mr. Marshal, High Izbo, I really respect the importance of the Senate. Forgive me for the smile that sometimes appears on my face. I am replying very seriously to the senator: I have not found in this bill a provision which amends the law on the implementation of the mandate of Member and Senator. Nothing changes in this regard. [[The voice in the room: He doesn't know it yet...]] If you've dealt with this situation so far over the years, and people haven't been afraid to come and come to you, then... Now nothing changes, no recipe changes. I don't understand this question, I don't understand your concerns... I mean, I understand the question, but I don't understand your concern. Nothing changes in this regard. We're not changing this bill, security... [[A voice from the courtroom: But you just said that everyone is equal...]] About... [[Mr. Marshal, I must ask you a question...]] Mr. Marshal, please... I'd like to answer, I'm serious about this place and my function. [[I'd like to ask you a question. Maybe the Minister won't mind.]] [[Mr. Senator, you've been asking a question against the rules a lot longer, and I haven't stopped. Now I ask you, Senator, not to interrupt the response of the Minister. I'll give you the floor again in a minute. You're welcome.]] Mr. Marshal, High Senate, Mr. Senator, I answer your first question. I wasn't a member of the last term, but I'm not avoiding some responsibility. If I were an envoy, perhaps I would recommend another solution to my colleagues at the club. Mr Marshal, like Mr Biernacki, voted in the parliamentary vote in a completely different way from the Civic Platform, and some of your fellow Members also now voted in the vote on this law. They behaved responsibly, in my opinion. And here's what I'm gonna say: I've read the speech that a member of the Law and Justice Club gave in support of this proposal. And there was, in fact, a disappointment not by the provisions of this law, but by the disappointment that it was not a government project. Because it should be a responsible government project. And that's what I'm talking about. And that was probably the reason for such a vote, not another vote on this matter. But I say again: I was not an MEP, I was not at a club meeting when these matters were agreed, and if I were, I might recommend another solution in this regard. And I would like to emphasise one more thing, Mr. Marshal: then it was probably 6 or 7 months until 7 February, and today we have 9 days, and in a few hours it will be 8 days. This is a completely different situation.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-28-senat-09-1.u221	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to remind you that we are asking questions about this item on the agenda. The next person... [[Mr. Marshal said he would allow me to explain...]] Yes, please, of course. [[Because the Minister said he didn't understand.]] You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-28-senat-09-1.u222	Minister, I repeat: in my opinion of this law, the person who gives me opinions or information should be protected even more than the one who is bound by attorney-client privilege... [[Voice from the hall: Is the secret of confession...]] ...or the secret of confession. 'Cause there's no way to get fired in this mode at all. That's how it's written. And I think that's very good. Because it just gives you full transparency. We represent the nation and those who turn to us simply must be protected. I'm asking what's going to happen in this situation. You said that the data obtained incorrectly or accidentally, related to attorney-client privilege or confession, were immediately destroyed. I'm asking you what you're gonna do with the information that reveals my informant.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-28-senat-09-1.u223	You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-28-senat-09-1.u224	I'll say otherwise, Mr. Senator. You are not the first senator's term, and in your last term you were a senator, you had the majority ruling, you had the majority in the Senate as a club. You could have solved this problem already in the senate project, you really could have, if you thought it was a problem, because I really don't see the big problem there. Well, excuse me, but you could have done it. [[It was solved with a record of the Supreme Court President's consent, it was. Thank you very much.]] Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Excuse me, sir, but it was a matter of consenting to the application of operational control to the President, Senators and Members by the first President of the Supreme Court. Do you think this agreement would limit operational control of Members and Senators? [[Right.]] Yes? [[Voice from the room: What control?]] There's a district court review. And the laws that have protected you for the last four years haven't changed, we're not amending this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-28-senat-09-1.u225	I ask you to ask Senator Grodzki a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-28-senat-09-1.u226	Mr. Marshal! Minister! Thank you very much. I'll try to fit in a minute, but I have to say that there's already a joke in the neurologist community that this bill will really help Alzheimer's patients, because it'll be enough to call you and see where. He was sick and what he was doing two days ago. [[Joy in the Chamber]] This is obviously a joke, Minister, but... [[Secretary of State at the Chancellery of the Prime Minister Maciej Wąsik: Weak in addition.]] I'd like to ask you one more favor... [[Secretary of State at the Chancellery of the Prime Minister Maciej Wąsik: I wouldn't really joke about Alzheimer's, Mr. Senator. But that's your problem.]] I would ask you not to suggest that we don't shake our heads, because in the mouth of a man with that function you have, it sounded like anything ominous. [[It's dangerous.]] About the question... Apart from the social concern that the Internet will be under surveillance, I would like to ask you to answer the following question. The people appointed to this, not the social organizations that we respect, but about which we know that, let's say, they can present their interests... The head of the Sejm Chancellery, Mr. Lech Czapla, writes directly: "The subject of the Parliamentary draft of the law is not a government project either." The amendment of the Police Act and certain other laws falls within the scope of European Union law. The proposal is contrary to European Union law to the extent indicated in point 3 of this Opinion; this point 3 contains very many paragraphs. In the opinion of the Senate's Legislative Office, signed by the Vice-Director, we have the title in point III, Section 1, of the title: "Laws in violation of the judgment of the Constitutional Tribunal." I'm a surgeon, I like to rely on facts. I have a simple question for the Minister. For, I do not know, a meeting of the College of Services, at a meeting or otherwise you discussed these reservations and said: "A, well, we disagree, we do things our way, or has there been an in-depth discussion on how to address this? Because these are the formal bodies appointed to evaluate legislative acts. That's the question. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-28-senat-09-1.u227	Thank you very much. You didn't want to exceed a minute's time to ask a question, and you crossed it by the senator three times. [[I'll do better.]] You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-28-senat-09-1.u228	Mr. Marshal! High Senate! Mr. Senator! I would like to say that the government leaned over this law and passed its position to this law. And it shows that it was leaned over and analyzed. But I would like to point out to you that we disagree with the comments you have made. Why? [[Voice from the room: 'Cause no.]] Well, the first case is, as I understand it, the so-called. 18 months of operational control... [[There are a lot of paragraphs in there, Minister.]] Then you can quote them as you wish, and I'll refer to everyone. What about 18 months of operational control? The Senate's Legal Office claims: but after all, the ABW and SKW do not have this period of 18 months. But I would like to remind you that the Court also stated in the explanatory memorandum that the rules may be different to those who have Polish citizenship and to foreigners. And AWB, and SKW don't have that limit just because they're investigating counterintelligence, it's about state security and state defence. And this 18-month deadline is just not enough. That's why we execute the sentence, we execute it, but we read it thoroughly. The so-called... well, the question is not called, but the question of the judgment of the European Court, and it is the so-called serious crimes. Yes? In the Polish legal system we have prohibited acts, which are divided into offences and crimes. We here eliminate the possibility of reaching for, for example, Internet data due to offences. Serious acts are crimes, little of that, and not all of them, because the servants have... Each law shall state when they may apply operational control in respect of which offences. It's not like they can for everyone. So this is in some way the answer to the question that the senator asked. [[Can I just make it up?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-28-senat-09-1.u229	You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-28-senat-09-1.u230	Thank you very much, Minister. You said that you read these opinions of the Sejm and Senate Chancellery, which is why I didn't repeat them, because it would take more than a minute to read these doubts. Because one opinion is 4 pages and the other opinion is 3 pages. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-28-senat-09-1.u231	I ask you to ask Senator Shark a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-28-senat-09-1.u232	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. [[Talking in the O.R.]] Mr. Marshal... I have a question, Minister. You mentioned at the beginning, personally referring to former Minister Klich, that at the time when he was Minister of National Defense, the wiretap was set up several tens of thousands of times... [[It's not about the wiretap!]] [[Secretary of State at the Chancellery of the Prime Minister Maciej Wąsik: No, no, no, sorry, I want...]] Then correct it.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-28-senat-09-1.u233	Several dozens of times in his service were downloading data. Well, don't confuse operational control with data downloading. [[Oh, data, okay, okay.]] It might as well be said that in 2014 2 million 100,000 wirets were wired. That's not true. I also said today that a little over 5,000 wirets were in 2014. Please be precise, because the matter here is extremely delicate.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-28-senat-09-1.u234	Yes, Minister, that's why I'm asking nicely. Minister, in this connection, please tell me: what is the point of knowing... You've already answered, but I'd like to clarify. According to the project, the Military Gendarmerie will be able to conduct operational control of acts such as illegal organisation of adoptions or acts directed against sexual freedom and morals, and therefore probably crimes unusual for its scope. Why this knowledge of the current minister? It's like I'm putting this right here. National defense? Second thing. However, I will return to this proposal, which I have made today, to the request of minorities, and this concerns the famous deletion of the word to the attorney and the inclusion of people under surveillance here. This also applies to doctors, priests, journalists, notaries, etc. It was on the previous project, Minister. And this is... I'll go back to art. 180. Why isn't there such a sharpening? I think that an insertion or an attempt to write accurately in this article would probably eliminate... This would clarify the precise possibility for the other persons to raise objections. Here, I'll take a little bit to the end... You have observed us here many times before being overly optimistic, this is about surveillance. Minister, some people of our age have survived martial law, and that's why we're a little afraid. I warn against being too optimistic, for in the previous term some of our ministers thought that it was simply not possible for them to be recorded, but it was different. Surveillance can apply to everyone. And that's why our inquisitive questions and suggestions to clarify these records as much as possible. This isn't an attempt to complicate things. We also know that the deadline is running. But, Minister... [[It's been a minute.]] ...if we'd put the current project on the previous one and we'd get back to it. We've got a few more days. We can work. That wouldn't be a bad thing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-28-senat-09-1.u235	You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-28-senat-09-1.u236	Mr. Marshal! High Senate! Dear Senator, Well, I'm surprised at your opinion on that, because I was telling you exactly why the rules on the gendarmes are like that, not different. Anyway, I'd like to stress that again. They are exactly a copy of the Senate Act, which was conducted by Senator Zientarski. Because there was a need for soldiers and civilians to be leveled against the law. [[But why?]] Operational control against soldiers could have been carried out to a lesser extent than against a civilian. And it was you who recognized it in your last term of office. You're right. You're right. You're right. It is necessary to extend these provisions. We're not touching it. If that's the right thing to do, then why should we change it? [[But they were supposed to be better.]] It's a good solution, and it's yours. These rules are because we thought what the Senate worked out in last term was good. I don't understand what kind of sharpening you're talking about when it comes to doctors, lawyers. What kind of sharpening? After all, everyone is affected by the exact same mode. He's always been like this, he's not changing. And I'm sorry about the secret, but I don't think there's a better courtroom than a district court. There is no better way than to give the district court, which is a court, the possibility of deciding whether medical, notarial, journalistic, attorney-client privilege, and here there is no absolute prohibition of evidence, can be used as evidence. This court will decide that yes, there's a murder here, and we can use that evidence. I don't see the possibility of introducing any other sharpenings here, this recipe is good. Anyway, I think it's pretty much like that senate... [[No, no.]] [[It's similar.]] [[But it's gonna be a written court.]] And I'm saying... it's about the possibility of appealing the person to whom operational control is applied? For God's sake, I explained that to you once in committee. I mean, it's an operational control system. It's completely private. The person to whom operational control is applied must not know that. So how is she gonna appeal? [[Because it's a secret.]] Senator, here's what I'm going to say: I think the rules are good, constitutional, and they comply with the Constitutional Court's judgment.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-28-senat-09-1.u237	Thank you very much. Senator Zdrojewska's question, please. [[Just a question...]] [[I'll be back in...]] Turn on the mike, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-28-senat-09-1.u238	I'm turning on the mike, yes. I'll get back to that definition of Internet data. You defend yourself against this question by saying that this data is specified in the Electronic Service Act. It's true. I just don't know if you've read their definition or if you remember it exactly. This definition has been considered very vague for years, the same definition itself. Now that we're making a bill that concerns the services, which is what comes in the most... It's not about some data trading, selling data or anything, because we're talking about surveillance of citizens here. If we are monitoring citizens, the definition is very important, and this is inaccurate, general. It was necessary to create a definition in this law that would give certainty to the citizen. To ask a question, I'm gonna say yes. The difference is fundamental, because according to the U.S.U.D.E., the Act on the provision of services by electronic means, a request for information is necessary. This is to be a specific procedure for which such information is provided. In a word, you have to follow a certain procedure. That's how it's written in the U.S.A. Why there doesn't have to be any proceedings at the moment, and the data can still be checked, collected, processed, because it's e.g. necessary for the identification of a specific type of crime? Here, this range is quite different from the one in the bill, and you invoked it. Are you going to apply those rules or the ones that are in this bill? Tell me.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-28-senat-09-1.u239	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-28-senat-09-1.u240	Mr. Marshal! High Senate! Dear Senator, I'm not gonna agree with what you're buying. We do not remove the provision that allows data to be made available by electronic means in the Act on the provision of services. We're slightly modifying it, but we're leaving it behind. Read the bill. We leave the proceedings... That's one thing. Second thing. I can read you the definition of Internet data. And I think I'll do it. You tell me if it's accurate or not. I think it's extremely precise. I have this bill in front of me... [[I've got one too.]] It's precise. Then let's not discuss it, because it's very well described. [[Everyone has the right to...]] And so: the name of the recipient; the registration number of the PESEL or, where this number has not been assigned, the passport number, identity card or other document confirming the identity; the address of the permanent stay; the address for correspondence, if different from the address referred to in point 3; the data for verifying the electronic signature of the recipient; the e-mail addresses of the recipient. And further: the identification of the recipient on the basis of the data referred to in paragraph. 1; identification of termination of the telecommunications network or the information system used by the recipient; information on the start, end and extent of each use of the service provided by electronic means; information on the use by the recipient of the services provided by electronic means. It's extremely precise... I'm sorry, I'm tired, I've been here since 11:00... [[So do we.]] [[We've been here all morning.]] [[We've been here since 8:00.]] ...and maybe I'm reading indistinctly. Sorry, I'm in a hurry. You're in a hurry when you're tired. That's a very precise definition. How can you imagine being more precise? You said it was an imprecise provision. He's been there for the last eight years... If he was imprecise, you should have changed him. We change it, we modify it, we limit it, but we leave the proceedings, because these proceedings are... Here's what I'm going to tell you: the procedure is extremely broad, because also in cases of misdemeanor... So far, for the last 8 years of service, e.g. The police, they could be collecting data in criminal cases. Now they can't, because the second bill says what crimes... I would like to remind you, as far as data collection is concerned, that this law we are investigating is narrower than the one the Senate has prepared. I'm talking about this wider scope of the Senate Act. I don't think it's a big flaw, but we thought it would be better if it was less... To at least calm the social emotions to show the services that they need to limit themselves.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-28-senat-09-1.u241	Does the senator want to clarify the question? [[Yes.]] Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-28-senat-09-1.u242	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. I don't think you understand what I was asking. I asked you which one of these laws you're going to apply. They're not identical, they're talking about something else. I'll also quote exactly... Listen to what the police are doing, they can access the Internet. I read: to recognize, prevent, fight. Sir, prevention is not... [[Secretary of State at the Chancellery of the Prime Minister Maciej Wąsik: No, ma'am, there is no fight in the project.]] But, Mr. Marshal, you're welcome. [[Secretary of State at the Chancellery of the Prime Minister Maciej Wąsik: But there is no fight. There isn't.]] But please, I'm asking you... [[Minister, let me finish the question.]] Please explain to me and don't interrupt, Minister. Please explain this to me. In my opinion, prevention of crime is excluded from the proceedings. Please refer to it. Because it's different to prevent a crime. We can explain why we need this type of data. It's not like we're going to do anything else. Please answer this question very carefully and precisely. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-28-senat-09-1.u243	Mr. Marshal! High Senate! Senator! Give me the recipe you read. [[This is...]] [[20c.]] [[Please turn on the microphone.]] [[It's an art. 20c, which indicates what data can be obtained for what purpose. In order to identify, prevent, combat, detect or obtain and consolidate evidence of crime, either to save lives or human health or to support search or rescue activities. I ask for this one task, prevention. How did you...]] [[It's an old bill.]] Yes, sir. [[It's an old print.]] Dear Senator... [[Do you think that the procedure and prevention are two completely different cases? Explain that to me.]] Dear Senator, I would like to say that there is no provision that you have read in this bill. I propose we start a debate on a project that the Senate is considering.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-28-senat-09-1.u244	I merely remind you that the questions are related to the agenda item and to the law we are debating, not to another. [[They ask, and they don't know what's going on.]] Maybe I'll read the names of the people who signed up to ask questions. To make sure you're prepared. Senators are listed in order: Florek, Ryszka, Wach, Bear, Augustine, Zientarski. Now, Senator Hare. You're welcome... [[I've been notified before.]] Excuse me, Mr. Senator. Mr. Secretary writes it down. If we haven't noticed, I'm sorry. I'd like to ask Senator Hare's question. [[Maybe a little lighter caliber...]] [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[Mr. Marshal, I'm so sorry...]] Senator, in a minute. Now you're asking Senator Hare a question. [[But we have an art. 20c on the project. Why are you lying, Minister?]] Senator, in a minute. Now you're asking Senator Hare a question. I'll give you the floor in a minute. Mr. Senator, you're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-28-senat-09-1.u245	Assuming this bill comes into force, I ask whether I will be able to find out why this phone has been being eavesdropped for more than four years... [[But it's for my friends.]] ...for which I have proof. [[The nail.]] [[Eight years.]] [[It's a nail.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-28-senat-09-1.u246	You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-28-senat-09-1.u247	Mr. Marshal! High Senate! Mr. Senator! No, you won't have the opportunity. [[And today you said that you...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-28-senat-09-1.u248	Senator, you're welcome. [[Exactly.]] [[Secretary of State at the Chancellery of the Prime Minister Maciej Wąsik: If of course...]] Senator Zdrojewska, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-28-senat-09-1.u249	I'd like to... [[Some kind of mysterious phone call. Mine's been bugged for eight years.]] [[Everyone's here.]] [[Quiet, please.]] I'm going to read to the minister, just like I said, Art. You can open a law that I understand you have in front of you to prevent or detect crimes... [[Secretary of State at the Chancellery of the Prime Minister Maciej Wąsik: And this is the correct article. And you've read a completely different one.]] ...or in order to... But, sir... [[You read about prevention all the time.]] ...In order to save life or human health or support search or rescue operations, the police may obtain data not forming the content of, respectively, telecommunication transmission, mail or transmission, etc., etc. Let me rephrase the question precisely. In my opinion, prevention is out of the question. Please answer this question very clearly. Because you said it's all the same in both laws. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-28-senat-09-1.u250	You're welcome, Minister. [[But that's not in this bill.]] [[Exactly the same one.]] [[Same one.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-28-senat-09-1.u251	Mr. Marshal! High Senate! Dear Senator, Gentlemen don't argue about the facts, so I'll admit that you've actually read a good bill now, and I'm not going to say what recipe you read before. But he was different. Never mind. Here's what I'm gonna tell you. [[It was the same recipe.]] I can argue with Minister Klich. You've read the provisions of the Senate Act in the previous wording. Yes, Minister. And that provision is now in the Police Act, that's art. 20c. [[Art. 20c, 20c, 20c, 20c, 20c, 20c, 20c, 20c, ……]] Yes. [[Senator, I didn't give you the floor.]] The services shall carry out their tasks by conducting various procedures in accordance with their respective competences. And any action shall be taken in the proceedings Whether it's a pre-trial procedure, whether it's an operational procedure, whether it's a review procedure, whether it's an infringement procedure, or an investigation procedure. In cases where there is a threat and there is a need to prevent crime, the services initiate proceedings, most often operational, but also others can. The services shall carry out their tasks in the conduct of proceedings. Conduct is an extremely broad concept. Incredibly. And according to that provision, in the Act on the provision of services by electronic means, the services could collect data in connection with all proceedings, even those relating to offences. I would like to stress that even misdemeanor. That's not gonna happen now. Because in the article on the Police Act that you cited, the second time, correctly, it's said that only crime and saving lives or health... I hope this will calm you down.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-28-senat-09-1.u252	Senator Florek, please...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-28-senat-09-1.u253	Excuse me, Mr... I just want to tell my friends... 'Cause I did by mistake... I prepared a question for myself next door about... But I asked you a question about prevention. You said there wasn't any... Meanwhile, prevention is... [[Secretary of State at the Chancellery of the Prime Minister Maciej Wąsik: Prevention is here and here. Because it's the job of the service to prevent crime.]] Thank you very much. As you can imagine, I am completely dissatisfied with your statement. But actually... I read the previous version earlier. But in the current project there is indeed still a prevention. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-28-senat-09-1.u254	We agreed, it's already... I would like, Senator, if I may, to use your wolf's right to speak here, to say yes: please note that the previous version, the Senate version, is wider. Fighting, reconnaissance... These are broad concepts. It's narrower here.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-28-senat-09-1.u255	I ask you to ask Senator Flork's question.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-28-senat-09-1.u256	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Minister, I admire you for remembering very well who voted, who was when he was a Member or what was in the bill eight years ago. I really don't know how you do it, but I admire you for it. Maybe you'll agree with me on other matters, too. We have been discussing the Constitutional Court here recently. There was a question of 13 judges, a judgment by order, etc. It is known that the Court is paralyzed and will not function, will not work, we repeat this all the time. And that's how it's gonna look. I don't know if you'd agree with that. But, sir, you invoke... we all invoke the ruling of the Constitutional Tribunal. Then I'd like to know if you agree with me... Because getting online data without prior control... So this check... You said that, in your opinion, this follow-up check was correct. So, if we take, for example, cases related to the prevention that we were talking about... Well, there's no doubt that any of us who use the Internet might be suspicious someday, as part of this preventive check, that he's talking to someone there, discussing that there might be something there... So, about that... It could probably be a staff of people, we could call these people... we could say that this is some kind of Internet surveillance, so that, if necessary, we could conduct an operational control. And in that case, I don't know if the Minister will agree with me here, but it is my duty that there be no doubt, the Constitutional Tribunal, because, as you said, we are obeying the order of the Constitutional Tribunal. Therefore, this surveillance, such possibilities in this regard after this change, is actually the fault of the Constitutional Court. Do you agree with me on this?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-28-senat-09-1.u257	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-28-senat-09-1.u258	Mr. Marshal! High Senate! Mr. Senator! I will stress this once again: the service does not have any new authority here. And you're either the person who didn't read the bill or the person who cynically wants to play with social emotions. No surveillance, just action for citizens, prosecution of crimes. [[What about the communes?]] [[Voice from the room: What do you know?]] Ladies and gentlemen, I give you a heads-up... [[You have communists in your home.]] [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[Quiet, please, Senator.]] I would like to tell you that we are executing the judgment of the Court, which is final. Without it, this sentence would make it impossible for the service to carry out operational control on 7 February. It's not just that they couldn't control the new ones. They would have to interrupt all existing data, they would not be able to download data. What would you say to the mother who was kidnapped or whose child was missing? If it had a phone, it wouldn't be possible to determine where this child is based on the last phone logged in. Prior checking is, apart from a huge amount of data, also time. I just got off the phone with a cop looking for missing persons. He said this: for me the first 12 hours are the most important; if we establish something within these 12 hours, this is an opportunity for effective action. You want this check to look like this: okay, the kid has a phone, so we're filing for the court's consent to release the data... only that we have, for example. Friday, 8:00 p.m. The court will consider this request on Monday at the earliest. And yet he needs to be let down, folded, implemented. And it's been a few days. I appeal to you for some responsibility. We don't offer anything that hasn't been there in the last eight years, nothing. And don't pretend you don't know... Either you haven't read this bill, Senator, or you're acting cynically with your emotions.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-28-senat-09-1.u259	I ask you to ask Senator Ryszka's question.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-28-senat-09-1.u260	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Minister, a brief question about the Internet's control operations. Is it true that the Paris bombers, which was only later discovered, communicated online through the communications contained in computer games? Please answer, possibly expand this topic.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-28-senat-09-1.u261	Mr. Marshal! High Senate! I don't know exactly about this case, but of course it's possible. Criminals will always be one step ahead of the services. They always have it easier, they know the news. I am a huge supporter of strong control over the services so that the service can work. The services must act, they must have instruments to do so. This bill maintains instruments for the service, maintains... Otherwise, they'll be gone soon, February 7th. In the name of responsibility, I encourage you to reflect on your own position and, preferably, withdraw the motion to reject this law. [[They're not gonna win anyway.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-28-senat-09-1.u262	Thank you. Senator Wach, you're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-28-senat-09-1.u263	Thank you kindly. Minister, the entire segment of Internet traffic concerns encrypted information. This information is encrypted, e.g. bank, they're encrypted in a way that... they're known to be encrypted. They're usually marked with a lock like this. Perhaps there is also a lot of information encrypted in private. Please describe to what extent the services deal with encrypted information, especially encrypted lying or in an open encrypted manner. Do they have access to or may require access to the codes of the institutions that encrypt this information or are they asking for results, i.e. the result of decrypted correspondence? Here in the bill on this subject of course there is nothing, and this is a very important issue. What is done during operational control with encrypted information, including banking and others, which we consider safe?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-28-senat-09-1.u264	In the middle of an O.R.? [[Yes.]] To be honest, I wonder if I can answer that question at all. Forms and operating methods are classified. Judgment of the Court... [[We wanted to keep the sitting secret at this point.]] Mr. Senator, the Court's judgment does not concern this. This bill doesn't apply either. I'll allow myself to refuse to answer that question. [[Why?]] [[I don't agree to that answer. Excuse me, Mr. Marshal, but we have requested secrecy... please respond in writing, then.]] Mr. Senator, as I understand it, there will be a detailed question. Then we'll decide if we can answer that question. [[You're gonna get away with this, Minister.]] [[Voice from the room: It doesn't slow down...]] [[Talking in the O.R.]] Mr Marshal, I would like to point out that I am forced to leave the Senate because of the implementation of the mandate of the Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-28-senat-09-1.u265	But first, let's put an end to this question. I understand you'll respond in writing. [[Secretary of State at the Chancellery of the Prime Minister Maciej Wąsik: If such a question arises, we will answer in writing.]] [[Talking in the O.R.]] Quiet, please. [[Secretary of State at the Chancellery of the Prime Minister Maciej Wąsik: Mr Marshal, High Senate, thank you very much for the opportunity to present the position of the government. I hope...]] Minister, let me... [[Who's gonna replace you?]] Minister, the question has been asked from the Chamber, and therefore it does not have to be asked again in writing. I have a request for an answer to Senator Wach's question in writing. Thank you very much. [[Secretary of State at the Chancellery of the Prime Minister Maciej Wąsik: Thank you very much, Mr Marshal. We will answer that question in writing.]] There are other questions, and we need to make a break. [[I volunteered at the very beginning.]] [[I have a question too.]] Do you know when he'll be back? [[They'll be voting by midnight.]] [[Secretary of State at the Chancellery of the Prime Minister Maciej Wąsik: I heard that by 2:00 a.m., but I'm not sure it's real...]] [[I volunteered at the very beginning.]] [[Voice from the room: I also had a question.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-28-senat-09-1.u266	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. I would like to thank you very much for the opportunity to answer your questions and present this information to the High House. I hope they were valuable to you. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-28-senat-09-1.u267	Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, I have read the persons who are written to ask questions. If, in the wrong order, Mr. Secretary wrote it down, we apologize. I gave the floor in the order I had written down. Now, let's get to the discussion... [[How's the discussion going?]] We can, Mr. Marshal, move on to the discussion now. A group of senators joined the discussion. [[But, Mr. Marshal...]] After the Minister's return... [[Voice from the room: What time? Two o'clock?]] ...we'll go back to asking questions. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-28-senat-09-1.u268	The discussion should take place in the presence of the Minister, because then he can answer... Well, it can't be that he's not here. [[He can respond... how can he react if he's not there?]] [[It's a break until tomorrow.]] Time-out till tomorrow... [[Talking in the O.R.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-28-senat-09-1.u269	Mr. Marshal, he may comment on the discussion, but he doesn't have to. [[But it should be.]] [[But there's no obligation.]] I suggest we move on to the discussion. The first person to join the discussion is Senator Klich. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-28-senat-09-1.u270	Mr. Marshal! High Senate! Well, I'm actually very sorry the Minister isn't in the courtroom right now. I have a custom, as you have noticed in the last 4 years with a piece, that I try not to address anyone ad personam, but if someone is addressing me ad personam, I answer to him. If it is true that several tens of thousands of Internet data were collected by my services at a time when they were Minister, they were obtained in accordance with the law that has so far been in force, i.e. in accordance with the Act on the provision of Internet services, which provides for very precise conditions for obtaining Internet data from service providers, very precise. And that is the problem that we are facing right now, and over which the Minister wanted to move on to the agenda, just like that, to the agenda, as if nothing had happened. Well, the difference between the Minister and me in this case is that the Minister likes surveillance very much. What you can see with the naked eye. And I, in turn, because I was under surveillance between the age of eighteen, i.e. from 1978 to 1990, until April 1990, I do not like surveillance. And that's the difference between the Minister and me. The Minister prefers operational control, and I prefer judicial control. And that is why you will allow me to concentrate in my speech on matters related to the control of service activities. Because as to the fact that the service must act, that the police must provide us, the citizens, security, there is no doubt. But the fact that the services must be under control and that the police must also be effectively controlled in their actions is even more important. I mean, this is even more important. As far as the Internet is concerned, for many of us, and certainly for most of our children, for grandchildren too, it is an area of freedom. This is the area of freedom that they use, well, sometimes even, I would say, overly, but they do, because they think this is the space where they can move freely. And now in place of procedures that are in the Act on the provision of electronic services, and according to which there must be a request That's what one of my friends mentioned, Senator Zdrojewska or Senator Sztark... Now, instead of the necessary proposal... instead of the necessary justification in the form of ongoing proceedings, the concept of prevention arises. Because prevention is prevention. But if prevention is to be sufficient to obtain online data and establish a profile of young or old or middle-aged citizens on this basis, then I must say that I am deeply opposed to it and I am deeply opposed to it as a citizen. Because it can't be that under the pretext of prevention or prevention... I'm going back to art again. 20c, 20c, 20c, 20c, 20c, 20c, 20c, 20c, 20c, 20c, 20c, 20c, 20c, 20c, 20c, 20c, 20c, 20c, 20c, 20c, 20c, 20c, 20c, 20c, 20c, 20c, 20c, 20c, 20c, 20c, 20c, 20c, 20c, 20c, 20c, 20c, 20c, 20c, 20c, 20c, 20c, 20c, 20c, 20c, 20c, 20c, 20c, 20c, 20c, 20c, 20c, 20c, 20c, 20c, 20c, 20c, 20c, 20c, 20c, Yes? He was trying to tell us that there was no such thing. According to art. 20c, 20c, 20c, 20c, 20c, 20c, 20c, 20c, 20c, 20c, 20c, 20c, 20c, 20c, 20c, 20c, 20c, 20c, 20c, 20c, 20c, 20c, 20c, 20c, 20c, 20c, 20c, 20c, 20c, 20c, 20c, 20c, 20c, 20c, 20c, 20c, 20c, 20c, 20c, 20c, 20c, 20c, 20c, 20c, 20c, 20c, 20c, 20c, 20c, 20c, 20c, 20c, 20c, 20c, 20c, 20c, 20c, 20c, 20c, 20c, 20c, 20c, 20c, 20c, 20c, 20c, 20c, 20c, 20c, 20c, 20c, 20c, 20c, 20c, 20c, 20c, 20c, In short, no. I don't know how the rest of the country thinks, but in me, it's all rebelling. Second, since it's art. 20c, 20c, 20c, 20c, 20c, 20c, 20c, 20c, 20c, 20c, 20c, 20c, 20c, 20c, 20c, 20c, 20c, 20c, 20c, 20c, 20c, 20c, 20c, 20c, 20c, 20c, 20c, 20c, 20c, 20c, 20c, 20c, 20c, 20c, 20c, 20c, 20c, 20c, 20c, 20c, 20c, 20c, 20c, 20c, 20c, 20c, 20c, 20c, 20c, 20c, 20c, 20c, 20c, 20c, 20c, 20c, 20c, 20c, 20c, 20c, 20c, 20c, Since the provision also states that without the participation of the service provider's representative and the police can obtain Internet data, I would point out: without the representative's participation, i.e. automatically, that means that these long-term contracts signed by the police or services on the one hand and service providers on the other hand will act as a vending machine. It's going to be a link, right? No one will have to ask for data from the service provider, and the service provider will have no control over what data is obtained from, so to speak, its services. It is a provision that raises doubts, and it is not only our doubts, senators, at least some, but it also raises doubts at least those institutions and bodies which one of our colleagues referred to here. Leszek Czarnobaj, I think Senator Czarnobaj mentioned institutions that expressed doubts. Thirdly, I would like to talk about judicial review, which seems to me fictional and not real, because if the court is to receive a large package of information from the automatic machine every 6 months, I would say, statistically, in which there is information about the number of actions carried out, about the type of data obtained and finally about the legal qualifications that it has the right, but only has the right to inquire into what is the motivation of the services and police to collect these data, it is necessary to assume, and this, unfortunately, with great probability, that it will not enter into it, and that means that it will be satisfied with statistics and will not do what is optional. Yes? Thus, this optionality, the fact that a court can obtain a justification from the services and from the police about the activities carried out, does not protect the citizen from the self-will of the services or excessive, so to speak, the activity of the services. Finally, the last issue that raises doubts is not only pragmatic but also constitutional, and I believe it violates one of the articles of the Constitution. It is a matter of lack of information post factum for the citizen, whether he was or was not... That means he was under surveillance in case he was. The citizen should know whether he has been under surveillance or whether the data relating to him from the Internet has been downloaded or not. A citizen has a right to know that. If there is no such mechanism provided for in this Act - And he's not here. This means that this law, this draft law, violates Article. The Commission shall adopt implementing acts laying down detailed rules for the implementation of this Regulation. 3 and 4 constitutions. If these four things... There are probably even more reservations that we are about to discuss in the debate. But if these four issues are not changed, this bill unfortunately, at least in the online segment... It will cause the Internet to cease to be an area of freedom, and it will become an area of self-reliant service. And that's the problem with this bill. Because the Constitutional Tribunal has ordered us, legislators, to make changes for citizens Yes, for citizens, not for changes that narrow the area of civil liberties. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-28-senat-09-1.u271	Please take the floor of Senator Jackowski... [[Mr. Marshal, on a formal matter.]] Yes, hello? [[Formal conclusion.]] I'm listening.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-28-senat-09-1.u272	I'd like to request a recess until Minister Wąsik returns. Because the kind of practice you're using is the first practice you've ever used in the Senate... [[But what good will it do you to be Minister? What good is that gonna do?]] This is the first practice applied in the Senate that first there is discussion and then there are questions. After all, the senators who want to ask questions want to ask them so that they can get information and answer before the discussion. And if we adopt that rule, we could also introduce the principle that first the representative... [[That we're voting...]] ...that there's a vote first, and then there's everything else. As a result, I'm applying for a recess until it's possible... [[By the time we get back...]] ...until the Minister returns. [[Mr. Marshal, what did you not understand the Minister's statement about?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-28-senat-09-1.u273	Mr. Marshal, you know very well that at the December meeting we held the same session. And then it didn't bother you. So it's not true that this is a practice for the first time. That's not true. [[But then we ran out...]] We used it in December. [[We're exhausted...]] No. [[We're exhausted.]] No. When we asked questions, we moved on to the discussion, and when the minister returned, we returned to asking questions. [[And what was that about?]] [[Voice from the hall: It was so, the law on the education system.]] [[But not in such an important bill...]] [[Talking in the O.R.]] If that's what you want... [[It was in December?]] Yes. I'm this guy... [[On Christmas Eve?]] I'm sure of it. [[Talking in the O.R.]] If you want, we can check... [[New customs...]] ...when it was. [[PiS is introducing new customs.]] [[Not the PiS, because you were a marshal. Mr. Marshal...]] [['Cause in December, of course...]] [[...you're missing the point.]] [[But that requires permission.]] [[...PiS was driving...]] Mr. Marshal, we'll set this up in a moment, and I'll pass it on. [[But my formal conclusion is maintained, it's up to date.]] The Education Act, I'm telling you exactly. [[It's against the law.]] A counterclaim? I'm in charge of... [[Mr. Marshal...]] Mr. Senator Borowski. You're welcome. [[I'd like to justify it.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-28-senat-09-1.u274	One word, Mr. Marshal. Of course, this may happen, as your marshal said, that for one reason or another a government representative must leave us, and we are debating further, but this requires general agreement. There are laws and there are issues where everyone believes that there is no need for a presence and understands the need to leave a government representative. But in the case of this law, when you really need to get a lot of explanations and then take the floor, I think you have to wait. The Minister has gone, as I understand it, to the vote, but these votes will be over. They won't last forever.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-28-senat-09-1.u275	Ladies and gentlemen... [[You can find out when it's over.]] Mr. Marshal, yes, of course. You're welcome, Senator Jackowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-28-senat-09-1.u276	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. I'm filing for a recess because I understand that there's a motion from Marshal Borusewicz for a recess. In contrast, the application is based on the following arguments. In my opinion, the opposition conducts destructive actions and wants to lead to the failure of this law, so that the Polish state... [[No, no.]] ...on February 7th, there was no applicable law... [[No, no, no, Mr. Senator!]] [[That's insulting!]] ...and the Secret Service were deaf and blind. And that's conscious action. That's why I'm filing a counterclaim. [[How insulting?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-28-senat-09-1.u277	Senator Zdrojewska. Very... [[Talking in the O.R.]] But please be quiet. [[You're welcome...]] [[Talking in the O.R.]] Quiet, please. Senator Zdrojewska. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-28-senat-09-1.u278	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. Dear Senator, I think what you have said is offensive, so maybe I'll try to explain why I'm supporting Marshal Borusewicz's motion. [[But there are two formal proposals to vote on.]] [[Talking in the O.R.]] But can you... [[But please be quiet.]] Ladies and gentlemen, why don't you listen to the arguments, and maybe someday you'll change your mind. [[We don't have to justify it.]] [[You've been doing this for eight years.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-28-senat-09-1.u279	But, Senator, I'm sorry. We are taking the floor on formal proposals. If you have a formal motion, you have the floor. If not, Mr. Marshal Borusewicz can justify his own motion.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-28-senat-09-1.u280	I, too, have a formal proposal to conduct the deliberations, and I would like to speak on this subject in a similar manner as Mr Marshal Borowski had just said. [[Borusewicz.]] And I would like to draw attention to why not first the discussion and the late question. First of all, if the senators don't agree, it's because then the minister may have the last word and not the Senate, which That's what I think. It is not good for the seriousness of our House. [[We're voting!]] Secondly, I'd like to say that then... I have prepared some very important, very serious questions for myself, and I am simply addicting myself to these questions in the discussion, and I have submitted myself to the discussion. That's the reason. Thank you, Mr. Marshal.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-28-senat-09-1.u281	Ladies and gentlemen, in reply to the question and voice in the discussion by Marshal Borowski and Mr Marshal Borusewicz, I would like to point out once again that such a practice was in December. Here's another thing. We only have four questions left. I understand there may be another 40 after these four. Yeah, I agree, that's fine. But I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the Minister is not responding to the discussion. It shall only refer to proposals of a legislative nature which it may familiarise itself with. That's the argument side. With regard to the Minister's answers to questions and their inclusion in your statements, yes, this is a valid argument, because depending on how the Minister answers questions, your voice in the discussion may be different. That's absolutely right. Except I'd like to point out two facts. If we continue the discussion now, we will return to asking questions when the Minister returns, so that is not a restriction on your right to ask questions. And after we've exhausted the questions, we'll get back to the discussion, and each of you will have the opportunity to... Those who have not spoken in the discussion will be entitled to a full speech of 10 minutes, and those who have spoken and eventually wish to expand their speech or voice in the discussion will be entitled to another five minutes' speech. And as you may remember, with short periods of time we do not make this a problem as we did when we asked questions. So my request not to end the discussion is merely because of taking care of our time, and there is no... [[Talking in the O.R.]] Let me finish, Mr. Marshal, two more sentences. Therefore, my proposal is not a restriction to any extent of your vote, either in the discussion or in the event of questions being asked. We can only use these 2 or 3 hours to continue the discussion. If Once again, I would like to stress this. Then, with further questions, you will want to complete your statement, once again you will all have this opportunity. We'll just save a few hours during our deliberations. But, of course, if you decide that you do not, we will settle this by announcing a break or by not announcing a break. Mr. Marshal Borusewicz, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-28-senat-09-1.u282	I understand that after these questions we will return to the discussion. This is important because legislative proposals can be tabled by the end of the discussion. If so, I resign and withdraw from the discussion right now, I will sign up when the questions are over. [[Voice from the room: Me too.]] I'll have your secretary...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-28-senat-09-1.u283	That's right. Ladies and gentlemen, once again, in order for us to be precise: those of you who wish to speak now have such a right, to those 10 minutes, and we will exhaust this point... If the Minister isn't here by then, I'll order a recess until he gets back. When he gets back, we'll go back to asking questions. After all the questions have been exhausted, we will return to the discussion. All of you will be able to take part in a full or shortened discussion, 5 minutes after the end of the questions. And only after the end of the discussion will the legislative phase be completed. This is the moment when I have given my opinion: 'I close the discussion.' That's not gonna happen until after these elements. Does that satisfy you? [[Mr. Marshal, after this explanation, I withdraw my request for a recess.]] Thank you very much. Mr. Senator Jackowski. [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[Mr. Marshal...]] Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-28-senat-09-1.u284	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Speaking of my previous speaker, Senator Klich, I would like to say this: I think there is nothing to bid on, who was more under surveillance, and who was less under surveillance, I can assure you that earlier than he was under surveillance by the services of the PRL coercion apparatus, I have the status of the victim and for this reason... [[Voice from the room:...Before...]] Earlier, because Senator Klich said he was in 1978, and I was earlier, and that's what the IPN file says, so... [[Talking in the O.R.]] We can talk about those files, too. That's another topic. [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[Quiet, please! Mrs. Senator...]] But I would like to say that I draw other conclusions, and I believe that the comments made to Minister Wąsik, like I was on this side, and you are on the other side are not... [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[Senator Zientarski, please be quiet.]] I repeat: the comments made to Minister Wąsik are inappropriate. The comments that he was on the other side, and you were on the right side, this is a really pointless discussion, it does not bring anything substantive to the debate on the law that we are currently working on. I would also like to point out that we have two special international events this year: the World Youth Days and the NATO Summit, which will take place in Warsaw. Both of these events are important because it is known that such events may be a threat to the security of the state or to the security of individual citizens. It is therefore clear that, since the Civic Platform failed to implement this law at a time when it could have been done calmly for months after the judgment of the Constitutional Tribunal of 30 July 2014, it is a sign of responsibility that the current government or the current parliamentary majority Because it's a parliamentary project, she's prepared an appropriate bill and that we're going to process it. And I'm going to develop what I said. Formal requests for interruptions, for secrecy, without justification, are, in my deepest conviction, an obstructive action that involves extending work and poses a threat to the security of the state. Because if this law had not been passed in due time, so that the President could sign it, on 7 February we would have a state that is paralyzed in an important aspect of its functioning. [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]] [[Applause]] And since I have already said so, I would also like to say that all this tirade about defending civil rights here, the use of such a highly elevated rhetoric, in my deep conviction, is not justified. Why? For a very simple reason. Because under the coalition, the Civic Platform (PSL) has dramatically increased the number of wiretappings. Today, Platform politicians, attacking the current government, are trying to divert attention from practices in the times of the government of Donald Tusk and Ewa Kopacz, when people were under surveillance on a massive scale. E.g. In 2011, the prosecutions, police and services, but also the courts applied for phone records exactly 1 million 856 thousand 888 times. The groundbreaking year was 2009 when police, courts, prosecutors and servants gained more than 1 million knowledge about Poles, which can be read from information about telephone calls... [[Talking in the O.R.]] Mr. Marshal, is there any peace? Because it's hard for me to speak in that face. [[Quiet, please, once again.]] I'll start again. In the days of the government of the PO PSL drastically... [[I wasn't allowed to ask questions for two hours...]] (Senator Secretary Rafał Ambrozik: Have you submitted for discussion?) [[No, I didn't volunteer.]] Mr. Marshal, I'm asking you to count off this time, because I can't speak... [[Again, Mr. Senator, very...]] [[When I was here with you?]] [[You're written down for questions.]] [[Voice from the hall: Bear, in place!]] [[You have to...]] [[Yes, but not for debate. I was the third person to ask questions, and for two and a half hours, I didn't get...]] [[Excuse me, you're checking in after six, how do I get...]] [[I think I'm being chopped up, and I'm gonna report it...]] [[There you go.]] [[Oh, how poor all of you are.]] [[Please continue...]] I hope, Mr. Marshal, that time has been deducted. I'll start the second paragraph of my speech again. It was during the PO-PSL government that the number of wirets increased dramatically. Today, Platform politicians, attacking the current government, are trying to divert attention from practices in the times of Donald Tusk and Eve Kopacz's government when people were under surveillance on a massive scale. E.g. In 2011, prosecutors, police, servants, but also the courts applied for phone records exactly 1 million 856 thousand 888 times. The groundbreaking year was 2009 when police, courts, prosecutors and servants gathered more than a million times the knowledge about Poles, which can be read from information about telephone calls. A record has already been set on the scale of the European Union. I stress: a record on the scale of the European Union. These institutions asked mobile and fixed network operators for a list of calls, i.e. phone records, but also for a list of the places where the subscriber was located when his cell was logged in by BTS, the base station, together with the start of the call and the duration of the call. Questions were also related to text messages sent. [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[Mr. Marshal, please be quiet.]] In addition, it turned out that during the time of the PO-PSL government, a secret group of police officers were supposed to listen to journalists, their families and their lawyers. The purpose of these, to a large extent illegal, was to monitor people who were considered to have anything to do with the so-called. It's a tape scandal. This kind of action shows that it was during the time of the PO that procedures were broken and an attack on the democratic rule of law was carried out. Therefore, the allegations of opposition to the current revision of the police legislation are hypocritical. The new law fully takes into account the recommendations of the Constitutional Tribunal and does not give uncontrolled access to citizens' telecommunications data, ordering and civilising data collection procedures which do not require the consent of the courts, procedures for the destruction of data which the services have not used for the purpose of the criminal process, and, finally, procedures for the destruction of evidence and professional secrets. The secret of confession and attorney-client privilege is fully protected. The fact that they will be controlled emails is completely false and calculated on fuelling the atmosphere of the threat, while the allegation of lack of independent control over the activities of the services is not true, because the courts will always be the authority that supervises the proceedings. It is worth noting that a register of all downloaded data will be created with a list of the purposes for which it was used, how much and when. This register will be passed to the court. The court will be able to review it, and the audit will be made public. Few of this will have to be reported once a year by the Minister of Justice, as I stress, on how, how, how and what the data used to download the services were used for. NGOs will not have to pull them out in the form of public inquiries, the public will be able to evaluate them, everything will take place at the open courthouse. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-28-senat-09-1.u285	Thank you very much. Please take the floor of Senator Rybicki.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-28-senat-09-1.u286	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Art. 5th Basic Law states that the Republic of Poland protects the independence and integrity of its territory, ensures the freedoms and rights of human and citizen and the security of citizens, art. 47 assists this obligation with the right to legal protection of private life and Article. 49 provides freedom and protection of the confidentiality of communication. These fundamental principles guaranteeing our rights and freedoms may be threatened if the law of law and justice applied enters into force in this form, in this form. Many provisions raise constitutional and interpretative doubts, many provisions that would guarantee our rights and freedoms, in this law simply do not exist. I would like to draw the attention of the ladies and gentlemen of the senators to a few. First of all, this refers to insufficient control of the acquisition of telecommunications, postal or internet data. Practically, checks may take place twice a year, on the basis of a report drawn up after data collection. So it's a follow-up check. If such obtaining of data were to take place in bad faith, for example, it would be done by an officer who is corrupt, then the damage done to a citizen, even after being disclosed by a court, could be irreversible. The effectiveness of such controls is also doubtful. Every year there are about 2 million speeches about telecommunications data. Only 42 district courts will have control powers. This means that there may be an average of 50,000 cases per court to be investigated. There is a legitimate concern that, in view of such a number of cases, judicial review will be illusory, because if it were to be fair, it would threaten to paralyse those courts. The next question, perhaps the most important, concerns the undefined concept of Internet data in the law. The authors of the Act refer to the Act on the provision of services by electronic means. However, this law was adopted in 2002, at a time when the services provided on the network were without comparison less accessible and expanded than at present. Since then, further web portals, electronic shops, auction houses, websites for passionate or hobbyists and many more have been created. And contrary to what Minister Wąsik said in this Chamber, the amendment of the law discussed here does not fully safeguard the rights and freedoms of Internet users. What falls within the scope of the use of... and the characteristics of the services today may relate to intimate, sensitive matters whose content cannot be disclosed without a clear court order. Leaving in the law the concept of Internet data without a specific, explicit definition separating the technical data on the connection from the transmitted or downloaded content threatens a serious violation of human rights and, of course, a violation of the Constitution of the Republic of Poland. The bill raises more doubts and questions. What about the journalism, the medical or the lawyer's secret? What will happen to operational materials containing content covered by business secrets? How will materials be protected that are particularly important for protecting the privacy of people who are accidentally in orbiting police or service interests? Why didn't the law include the principle of subsidiarity, despite the comments of the Attorney General, who upholds the rule of law? There are many questions, of course, many of them, although there are very few specific answers. High Izbo, a separate but very important issue that I want to raise, is the relationship between the law on police and the law on the prosecution, which may be going to the Senate tomorrow. What may be the consequences of the relationship between the provisions contained in both laws? Well, in the bill on the prosecutor's office, we read that the office of attorney general is held by the Minister of Justice. Such a solution has serious consequences, for assessing the importance of the most serious mysteries of citizens will be allowed to be the policies indicated by the governing party, not the professional, set out in an objective competition. A similar concern is also raised by a regulation of the President of the Council of Ministers, which equips the Minister of the Special Services Coordinator with the right to request information from special services, including classified information, documents, analyses or periodic reports, or concerning a specific case. In the context of these powers and the politicisation of the prosecutor's office, there is concern, uncertainty, concern whether the thin line between ensuring state security and the political needs of the government will not be exceeded. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-28-senat-09-1.u287	Thank you very much. Please take the floor of Senator Zientarski. [[Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have a lot of material, I'm afraid in one speech I won't be able to exhaust the issues. I think it will also be necessary, in the presence of the Minister, to return to the discussion after a series of final questions have been asked. But...]] I'm sorry. I would like to apologize if we misplaced Senator Andrzej Biesiołek in determining the order of questioning. It wasn't because of bad will, and as you were afraid of sequencing, it was just me reading according to the list, so if we wrote the Senator's order wrong, then I'm asking you to pass on my apologies. You're welcome, Mr. Senator. [[The meeting is chaired by Vice-Marshal Adam Bielan]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-28-senat-09-1.u288	For a good cause, I'm just starting right now. High Senate! I can't ignore the Minister's opinion. It was already slightly toned, but at the committee meeting it was very much exposed that it was almost entirely a senate proposal, and if changed, it was only to a limited extent, i.e. a pro-Citizen's version... Well, I absolutely can't agree with that. I deny it in a decisive way. And there were questions and there was... Well, I don't want to judge that, but thanking the Senate, while actually then the Senators of the PiS, and then the current parliamentary majority, were opposed to this formulation... I think this thank you is inappropriate. But I'm skipping it. Indeed, we have full responsibility and that is why it was primarily the two terms adopted earlier, on the initiative of the Marshal of the Senate of Bogdan Borusewicz, that the decision of the Constitutional Tribunal was implemented. This was due to our compliance with the rules and obligations we imposed on ourselves. • enforcement of judgments. And indeed the matter was very complicated. It seemed like there must be cooperation with the government, and that's why we started a little late, but seeing that there's no... First of all, in our sense of duty to what we have done consistently In our previous term of office, we have prepared about 100 initiatives for the implementation of the judgments of the Constitutional Tribunal. We have prepared this... Of course, it's not our bill. This is our initiative, which at the time, and I pointed out this in the committees, required some additions in the Sejm, for example, to inform citizens about the ex post surveillance carried out. And it wasn't, but we talked about it. You can call the bill senate when she comes back to us and we... Because, like I said, if it wasn't done in the Sejm, we would, of course, have made that amendment. And only in this respect What was noticed, but by us We have failed to comply with the Court's ruling. Otherwise, the opinions were clear: we carried out the ruling of the Constitutional Court. That's enough. We've seen the need. and this discussion continued The amendment of the law in the near future, but not the urgent execution of the ruling of the Constitutional Tribunal. Besides, we're not allowed to do that by the regulations we've adopted ourselves. Only in the enforcement of the judgment, not in the wider sense. Therefore, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, we did not address the Internet problem because the Internet problem was generally not the subject of a ruling by the Constitutional Tribunal. And that's why we're repeating it. They didn't ask for that... But in the discussion we knew that there was a need for such a law. Of course, it needs to be prepared, but seriously, not only after listening, formal, often very formal, but also taking into account authorities. Because, ladies and gentlemen, who's warming up the atmosphere, I'm asking. We? After all, we did not say words until the opinions of all the institutions mentioned here came to pass, all the corporations, organizations, Helsinki Foundations, Panoptyons and other civil organizations which we listened to two days ago in a civil hearing. The representatives came, e.g. Democracy action and brought over 10,000 signatures of citizens who protested then who warmed up the atmosphere And they believe that the internet absolutely cannot be surveilled in such a form. Of course, we know that there is an existing law that allowed this, but not in such a form and not in such a way. I would like to mention a few differences between what we have done in the course of the Court's ruling and today's submission. Firstly, as I said at the beginning, operational control will also be subject to the acquisition and preservation of data contained in IT data carriers, IT and ICT systems. The Senate project did not cover this issue, it does not constitute the execution of the judgment. And that's a basic charge. Second, the small thing The Heads of Service may authorise their alternates to submit applications. No more bosses, no more bosses, no more deputies. This is very important to the rank of certain activities, as it was important to us whether the Supreme Court or the District Court... This is very important. After all, there have been judgments, we remember that the signature of the Deputy Minister calling the judge is invalid, because there must be the signature of the minister himself. These are small things, but important to the rank of the problem, for him, so to speak, width. What does that mean? That the minister couldn't sign, that he could authorize so many... That he can't control the situation? Thirdly, the Senate project defined what was the documentation of the materials collected during the operational control. And it was precisely defined, so it was known what could possibly be destroyed as unnecessary. We don't know that for sure right now. We don't have a catalog like that. Fourthly, the issue of access to phone records and location data sensitive to the rights and freedoms of citizens. The senate project only allowed such data to be obtained when the measures used to identify, combat, as the senator quoted here today, and to detect crimes proved to be ineffective. This is, ladies and gentlemen, the principle of subsidiarity, which practically all professional opinions speak of. I repeat, all of them. This is a very important issue that needs to be introduced. She doesn't just follow the ruling of the Constitutional Court. As you can say, please, that this form is light in relation to our submission, if, according to him, on a subsidiarity basis, we first take light measures, so to speak, and only when they prove ineffective... Of course, in urgent, important, urgent situations concerning state security, the situation is different. But we're talking about some rules. That is why we propose that in all these cases the principle of subsidiarity be applied to data, according to which telecommunications data can only be used if other measures have proved ineffective or useless. And general attention. Ladies and gentlemen: we cannot be accused of being irresponsible for the security of the state. For us, state security is equally important, at least as important... We're the ones in the opposition, and the opposition might be more afraid of surveillance. And it's natural, resulting from the essence of things. It is such an important bill that... Ladies and gentlemen, within 24 hours of the idea for the President's signature, there have been laws here that did not have a deadline, which were not I'm not gonna judge their validity here. It is urgent in the sense that without them state security will collapse, that it will collapse, and not that the state will function better... I don't want to talk about any other problems right now, so I don't want to bring in any other threads here. Ladies and gentlemen, since we're holding an extraordinary sitting, we're sitting at night at the expense of Christmas Eve and New Year's Eve. And now it's Saturday. This, I'm sorry, but there may be an extraordinary meeting of the Sejm, which will accept our amendments. Is it an expression of irresponsible that we want not only according to the will of many citizens, but above all professionals, ladies and gentlemen, lawyers... This is a legal instrument. I will then ask the Minister, who is not a lawyer, who completely confuses legal concepts and shows himself to be total, I will simply say, a legal dilettance which says what is to be in the Court's ruling... [[Mr. Senator, get to the bottom of this.]] Actually, I'm in a quarter of what I want to say. [[But it's been ten minutes.]] Ladies and gentlemen, I make many amendments, which generally introduce the principle of subsidiarity, introduce the possibility of ex-post learning, thanks to the judgment of the court, about surveillance, improving the rules... I have not presented all the differences between the original project and the present one, and they are, ladies and gentlemen, six more, very important ones that I have written here. Ladies and gentlemen, the Minister said at the end of the committee meeting that it's actually not the same, it's based on... Well, ladies and gentlemen, on the same foundations you can build a completely different house. On the basis of a similar project you can build a beautiful house and you can build a house without windows. Right? And in the beginning, it's like... Ladies and gentlemen, these are not nuances. These are very important matters. That's why I'm making a lot of amendments. It's on 20 pages, because it's about nine laws. I am making these amendments to the hands of the Marshal and reserve that the next part of the speech will be... Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-28-senat-09-1.u289	Thank you very much, Senator. Now please take the floor of Senator Flork.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-28-senat-09-1.u290	Mr. Marshal! High Senate! I think we're about to cross another frontier, another Rubicon. You might even ask: quo vadis? Yeah, that would be a good question. The Constitutional Court Act, an important law... The effect is known: the Constitutional Court is virtually gone and will not function for the next time. Or by the end of your term? Let's see how this goes on. Civil Service Act. We've been investigating her recently. We talked about the fact that at the moment there is no need to show any experience, better party membership. Exchange in civil service posts is underway. A lot of people are afraid for a job, they're retiring. I know a lot of people who report that even though they're retired, they'd work, but they'd rather retire. Probably this year, when we sum it up, we'll see how many more people have retired. And given the fact that you want to reduce your retirement age to 65, I'm starting to worry about those pensions. Next thing you know, it's a media bill. You can also see what changes are taking place, what is the kindness, how one television of another makes the connection available. Well, ladies and gentlemen, you can see a lot of what's going on. That's not how we feel about it, and it wasn't meant to be. Today we are investigating this bill, but there is one more important issue, as my predecessor mentioned here, which is the question of combining the role of the Attorney General and the Minister of Justice. This is what I'm sure we'll be working on quickly, unexpectedly, I don't know whether tomorrow, day after tomorrow, night or day without preparation, because I don't feel prepared for it. I didn't have time, I didn't know we were gonna be discussing this at this Sejm meeting. So, of course, I'm going to protest against such a sudden procedure, all the more so that I can rely on the constitution here, on the article. 123 constitutions, which clearly states that government laws are the fast path that can be implemented eventually, in the case of proper justification, etc., and we are proceeding over the Law of Members at some extra rate, on the basis of a provision that we have in the Statute, which states that these terms can be shortened. Now I'm going back to today's discussion. Ladies and gentlemen, I didn't answer because I didn't want to go down to some level that the Minister went down to when he told the child about the threat of life and health. The Prime Minister also recently talked about starving children in Poland, and she talked about it in Strasbourg. I don't want to play those instincts. Ladies and gentlemen, it is clear and clear as to the changes that are being made in this law, that follow-up control, prevention will result in a great deal of surveillance. This can only be verified on the basis of a six-month summary, because the court will have no way of verifying whether it was the right thing to do or the wrong thing. I'm sure every one of us has a chance to be in a position, I don't know, I might be in position 3 million 541 thousand 832 that can be tested, but because there's no time, it won't be clear if it was justified or not. That is why I asked the Minister whether this was the case with the Court. I asked because I would now like to go to my constituents and say, yes, ladies and gentlemen, you will all be under surveillance on this Internet, especially here, I am not talking about other matters anymore, and the culprit is The Constitutional Tribunal, because he ordered it. Of course, that's not true. As Mr Piotr Zientarski said before me, the issue of the Internet is a completely separate matter, in the previous proposal it was not particularly articulate. And what solutions will be here, of course, depends on you, on all of us who will vote on this bill. The question remains whether this bill will be adopted. We sometimes process very quickly, it happens to us that the law passes through the Sejm and the Senate in 24 hours, another in 36 hours. You're saying that February 7th is coming, and I can tell you that it's coming, but there's still a little bit of time. The question remains, should we proceed like this, or when we know in advance, and such announcements are that this bill will still be amended, and it is only a matter of time... I asked if it would be in February, whether it would be in March, because it must be updated, because there are formal errors in it that I don't even want to talk about anymore, but I know what mistakes are in this bill. If you don't notice, it's your loss. But this bill will be revised and, therefore, the question remains whether we are really to cross this next frontier of Rubicon on Saturday, to cross the next frontier... Are we going in this direction and is this the way to shape the law in Poland? Well, I don't agree with that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-28-senat-09-1.u291	Thank you very much, Mr. Senator, although I don't think we're crossing the Rubicon border. Senator Infantry. [[But the Rubicon we cross...]] Yes, Mr. Senator, because Rubicon is a river. I was referring to Senator Flork's words. You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-28-senat-09-1.u292	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I would like to make amendments to the amendment of the Police Act. I do not hide that they are similar to the previously tabled amendments, some of which were withdrawn by Marshal Borowski, and are extended by one more point. I am referring to the following: In matters relating to operational control or the sharing of telecommunications and postal data or the use of materials from these activities in criminal proceedings with regard to Members, Senators and President of the Republic of Poland, the First President of the Supreme Court shall issue a resolution. I would like this amendment to be included in the article. 1 point (1) (a) h after mouth. 15j. Same in the article. I will no longer list further sections of this law. and in Article 2 (1) (a) (ii) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013. 3, Article 6, Art. 7 and Article 7 12. In addition, I propose the following entry: "In matters relating to the data referred to in paragraph. 1 and Article 4 (1) (b) of Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council [1] shall apply mutatis mutandis. 20cb, 20cb, 20cb, 20cb, 20cb, 20cb, 20cb, 20cb, 20cb, 20cb, 20cb, 20cb, 20cb, 20cb, 20cb, 20cb, 20cb. 1. With regard to Members, Senators and President of the Republic of Poland, the order shall be issued by the First President of the Supreme Court. Maybe I'll allow myself to read a longer explanation on this issue. I think if I read it, it'll take a little longer. In its previous case-law, the Constitutional Tribunal has repeatedly expressed its views on the constitutionality of the rules governing interference in the privacy of individuals and the breach of the confidentiality of correspondence in connection with the conduct of operational and exploratory activities by authorised services. In its case law, the Court did not deny the admissibility of such methods in a democratic state of law, and even repeatedly stressed that operational control would prevent and improve the detection of criminal offences. This is closely linked to the changing characteristics of criminal activity and the use of new technologies by criminals, which makes traditional law enforcement methods less effective. In view of the fact that the authorisation of the use of such operational techniques constitutes a form of limitation of individual freedom, the Court strongly stressed that it was necessary to regulate precisely the scope of possible restrictions and procedures in a normative act at least the rank of the law, in such a way as to ensure predictability of the decisions given by public authorities. From the article. Article 31 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 3 of the Constitution clearly implies the need for the statutory regulation of restrictions on the right to protection of privacy, as set out in Article. 47, freedom and protection of the confidentiality of communication referred to in Article. 49, and the autonomy of information guaranteed by Article. The Commission shall adopt implementing acts laying down detailed rules for the implementation of this Regulation. 1st Constitution. The Court has repeatedly pointed out the need to ensure judicial control of the conduct of operational and exploratory activities, which is intended to ensure compliance with the law and to eliminate cases of abuse in this area. Ensuring such control as one of the basic standards of a democratic rule of law should not raise any doubts. Therefore, it should be stated that leaving the Act amending the Law on Police and certain other laws without the proposed amendments adopted by the Sejm of the Republic of Poland at its eighth meeting on 15 January 2016 creates a situation in which Members, Senators and President of the Republic of Poland are particularly exposed to a far-reaching limitation of the secrecy they are obliged to retain. Art. 180 of the Code of Criminal Procedure introduces significant restrictions on the range of subjects who are free to testify. This limitation is not only related to the need to guarantee attorney-client, notarial, legal counsel, medical counsel, but also to ensuring the free exercise of this right to all persons obliged to keep professional secrecy, the secrecy associated with the office. The provisions laid down in the Code of Criminal Procedure are compatible with Article. Article 21 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 2 Act on the exercise of the mandate of Member and Senator, which provides that a Member or Senator may not be obliged to provide information on the person who has provided him with certain information or has presented an opinion. Both of these provisions should be regarded as complementary, since the regulation contained in the Act on the exercise of the mandate of a Member and a Senator ensures the right not to disclose sources of information, and the Code of Criminal Procedure guarantees secrecy in general in its processes, irrespective of the procedural role exercised by the parliamentarian. Accepting the law adopted by the Sejm in its present form makes it virtually impossible to comply with this provision. Such information could actually be obtained without the knowledge of parliamentarians interested in not revealing information about persons who provide information and opinions to them. In this case, the lack of a guarantee of confidentiality may result in increased distrust and unwillingness of parliamentarians to cooperate with them. It is often the case that voters report to parliamentarians about various irregularities occurring in their electoral districts, and at the same time, fearing the consequences of this, they reserve that they want to remain anonymous. It is therefore to be expected that the number of cases reported by those wishing to remain anonymous will fall, translating into the number of interventions made by parliamentarians, which are, as we know, necessary and often help to solve problems that would not be solved without the intervention of a Member or a Senator. As is well known, both the President and parliamentarians have access to classified information and are therefore obliged not to disclose such information. It is therefore not possible to create a state in which a person who is bound by secrecy on the basis of, for example, the aforementioned Article. The 180 Code of Criminal Procedure is not in practice possible to fulfil this obligation because it can be subject to operational control at any time without proper supervision of that control. In addition to the need to guarantee the possibility of secrecy, the role of the parliamentarians and the President of the Republic of Poland in the process of law-making must not be overlooked, especially when it is taken into account how important, complicated and extensive the process of law-making is. A situation in which persons involved in this process may be subject to any influence beyond the applicable standards should not be allowed. They should therefore be given independence and should be given guarantees which prevent them from being affected. The primary constitutional guarantee of the independence of parliamentarians and the President is an immunity which prevents them from influencing the activities they undertake under their mandate. However, immunity cannot guarantee impunity, which could be the source of many pathologies. Therefore, it would not be acceptable if the state authorities entitled to carry out activities... [[Talking in the O.R.]] Mr. Senator Augustine, thank you so much for your help. Therefore, it would not be acceptable if state authorities authorised to carry out operational and exploratory activities could not, in justified cases, take appropriate action in relation to persons with immunity. However, when giving State authorities the opportunities described, it must be borne in mind that control mechanisms must be set up to ensure that these powers are not abused, all the more so since, in the case of the President and MPs, this creates a potential risk of affecting them. It is therefore necessary for these persons to have a restriction in the form of a review of the first President of the Supreme Court. In order to justify why it would be the first President of the Supreme Court to exercise control rather than the competent courts, it should be noted that, in the case of a parliamentarian and a President, there is a particular case, i.e. members of the legislative authority and a representative of the executive authority. Operational and cognitive activities should be carried out in really exceptional and well-founded cases in relation to these persons. It is therefore justified that all such cases should be recognised by the same entity. Moreover, the position of the first President of the Supreme Court on the one hand involves exceptional authority and on the other requires extensive legal knowledge and more than average professional experience, which guarantees a fair examination of each case. The issue which should not be overlooked in the analysis of the proposed amendments is that of the revised content of the Article. 20c of the Police Act shows that telecommunications data and Internet data must be made available to the police officer indicated in the written request of the Chief of Police, the CBŚ Chief, the Provincial Police Commissioner or the person authorised by them. Such regulation implies that there is no judicial review of the transmission of data prior to the initiation of operational operations. This makes it possible, in fact, to carry out preventive checks even in the absence of any justification for such control. In the case of Members, Senators and President, this means the possibility of free and unfettered access to sensitive data without the need to obtain the court's consent, which is unacceptable in this case. In order to fight crime and prevent it, it cannot be accepted that it is the source of potential pathologies that can reach the legislative authority and the highest representative of the executive authority. Therefore, in order to limit the possibility of abuse in this area, it is necessary to guarantee judicial review in accordance with the proposed text of the amendment. Serious doubts should also be raised by the provisions of the Act adopted by the Sejm, which allows for free, practically unfettered access to the so-called. Internet data. It should be considered whether the measures and control options granted under this law are adequate for the purpose it is intended to pursue. In this assessment, the focus should be on analysing the procedure for access to information and the scope of the parties empowered to do so. Firstly, the law adopted by the Sejm creates a very simplified procedure for access to online information, in which the initiation of operational activities does not require prior verification of the validity of this decision by the court. Given the dynamics of Internet activity, it is understandable that law enforcement authorities should be able to react equally dynamically, but this cannot be tantamount to allowing a completely free and unfettered collection of information on citizens' activity. In cases of extreme irresponsibleness by law enforcement officers, this could lead to a pathological situation where information thus obtained can be used in private cases or become a subject of information trafficking, e.g. in the case of divorce cases. It is therefore necessary to supplement this procedure with judicial supervision before operational action is initiated. It is only necessary to consider a specific way of judicial review, which will allow for an appropriate dynamic response to the operational needs of law enforcement authorities. The second aspect, which should be subject to a deep and far-reaching analysis, is the scope of operators entitled to free access to so-called online data. It is characteristic that in the draft law adopted by the Sejm, the scope of these entities appears to be too wide. As the Constitutional Tribunal has repeatedly pointed out in its case-law, the conduct of operational and exploratory activities constitutes an emergency measure which significantly interferes with the rights and freedoms of citizens, and it is therefore justified to limit the scope of the entities entitled to the narrowest possible of them, i.e. only those entities for which this is actually necessary for the performance of their tasks. A thorough analysis of these two aspects leads to the conclusion that the proposed changes are too far removed from the objective pursued. Both too easy access to online data and too wide a range of those entitled to it do not contribute to achieving the objective of the proposed amendments, namely the implementation of the judgment of the Constitutional Tribunal. The entry into force of the proposed changes, in addition to the possible improvement in the effectiveness of combating and detecting crime, creates a very large area for abuse and the emergence of pathology associated with it. It is therefore unacceptable to leave the law in its present form. It requires changes that will actually promote the fight against crime while guaranteeing respect for citizens' privacy, i.e. the full implementation of the judgment of the Constitutional Tribunal. For similar reasons, it is advisable that access to all data relating to Members, Senators and President of the Republic of Poland should be subject to scrutiny by the first President of the Supreme Court. In view of the reasons put forward for the proposed amendments, there should be no doubt that they are necessary and should be adopted as such in an unchanged form. Thank you, Mr. Marshal, and I'm putting on your hands the proposed amendments.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-28-senat-09-1.u293	Thank you very much, Senator. Now, Senator Augustine.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-28-senat-09-1.u294	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! I wanted to say, Minister, but the Minister isn't here. First of all, I would like to point out, like Senator Florek, that this law is part of a certain cycle or series of laws which, in my deep conviction, lead to the destruction of the foundations of democracy based on the rule of law. That's what happened to the Constitutional Tribunal, that's what happened to the media, that's what happens to the prosecutor's office. We're going to proceed with this bill tomorrow. The same applies to this law today. What is the rule of law? The fact that the authority operates within the limits of the law and is limited by law is that there are independent authorities that control the power to comply with the law. Well, this law, as well as those absolutely violates those principles. What is striking is the fact that it is an absolutely conscious action, undertaken with premeditated intent, done by the method of force of the majority, with total disregard for the vast number of authorities. You know that saying: pride always precedes the fall. Always, there are no exceptions. I hope it's not the fall of the rule of law, it's yours. You keep saying, like a learned argument scheme, you show that something didn't work then, and then you destroy it, for example. You show that the Court has not always functioned well, that the judgments of the Constitutional Tribunal have not always been enforced, and then you hit this Court and destroy it at all. You show that the media wasn't always objective, and then you totally politicize the board over these media, and you take over, you take over. You're showing that maybe you're pointing at us here, the numbers are dropping. There is an excessive interference of services in the life of Poles, after which you introduce rules that actually eliminate all barriers. You're talking about $2 million here? Let's see how long it takes. Certainly no less, there will be even more, many more, as long as it can be controlled. [[We have to write to the PiS...]] Ladies and gentlemen, this pattern is repeated with each of these laws, exactly each one, and it must be said that it is breathtaking. It's just with such great hypocrisy, it's so easy to present this gigantic deception, it's hard to reconcile peacefully, even in the case of this bill. When it came to ACTA, you said: yes, yes, young people are right, they should claim their rights, they should defend the freedom of the Internet. So? Same pattern. Now you're suggesting... [[The microphone can handle anything.]] ...to further increase the possibility of depriving this medium of freedom. The Minister who was here spoke to me really rudely. This can't be left unanswered. I said that in some areas there is absolutely no prior control. That wasn't true. It is the Minister who lies, standing here, a high-ranking public official, saying that I am misreading the GIODO opinion, and it is as follows: in the meantime, the proposed rules do not provide for prior checks, even if data relating directly to the person performing the profession or function referred to in Article are to be obtained. 180 §2 criminal proceedings. Yes, I consulted with better knowledgeable people in the case of so-called. operational activities, there is a certain control, but a horse with a row of who can prove that data acquisition is not an operational action. Please, somebody break it down, try it. There you go, the Minister was talking to me about it, so, well, in the air this time, I'm directing my statement that yes, in the proposed bill, there's a court review in the project. Right? In fact, the review of the district court and other types of court is foreseen, only that he forgot to add that the proposed forms of review are clearly insufficient, that the rules do not impose any obligations on the police or other services other than to report to the courts once every 6 months, etc. Ladies and gentlemen, there really are limits you shouldn't cross. The state apart from the fact that you're completely destroying your credibility... Why are we so sensitive? Why? Because in a moment it will be that we will not believe in any, literally any of your submissions. Destroying credibility isn't just your case, because it's not just about the credibility of the PiS. This is, ladies and gentlemen, a hit on the foundations. In confidence in the state, in trust in Poland. [[Applause]] [[You're calling for a demonstration against the state.]] And we see it... I do not distribute brochures about my own country in the European Parliament, as was done during your stay, Prime Minister Szydło. But I'm very glad you're pointing that out, Senator. Poland's credibility in the international arena is also crumbling. Here as one of the reasons was the fact that here are the great events coming. It is about the NATO Summit, the World Youth Days. Will these people who are coming here really come to the same Poland that applied for these events? Will it be the same Poland for our partners in NATO? [[Don't give me that nonsense.]] Will it be the same Poland for young people who want to believe in the truth and who abhor fraud? Thank you. [[Applause]] [[An indulgence preacher.]] [[That's a compliment.]] [[That's what you need.]] [[Voice from the hall: Mr. Marshal, Mr. Ryszka is exaggerating.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-28-senat-09-1.u295	Thank you very much. Mr. Senator Borowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-28-senat-09-1.u296	Mr. Marshal! High Senate! The matter we are discussing today is undoubtedly extremely delicate, sensitive, important, and also burdened with some omissions from the past. It must be made clear that the Constitutional Tribunal has spoken early enough for the previous government to take appropriate action and to draw up a law to implement these recommendations and provisions of the Court. Unfortunately, that didn't happen. These actions were taken by the Senate And praise him for that. I can always and everywhere say, with my head up, speak about the role of the Senate, because even this case, although it did not end positively, shows that the Senate has its specifics, has an important role to play in the very important matter of the implementation of the judgments of the Constitutional Tribunal. Unfortunately, this law failed to be passed and indeed a new government, regardless of the shortcomings of this law, faced a rather difficult task to prepare this law in a relatively short time. I take these circumstances into account. I also take into account that the rules that have existed so far, as well as the provisions that were included in the Senate project, were not perfect. The current rules have been partially challenged by the Court, so they were not perfect. And the bill we prepared in the Senate did not fully comply with those provisions of the Court. Well, the other thing is that we were hoping that maybe she'd work on it in the Seym, but we knew it was too late for that. And when Mr Wąsik, arguing today, states that the provisions that are in the Act discussed today are similar to those in the Act that the Senate has prepared, I must say that this is a reasonable line of argument. That doesn't mean that when we debate this issue twice, again, and just so to say, in a different atmosphere, it is a reason to give up criticism of these solutions and to try to make certain amendments. All right, February 7th, this bill should come into force. But if it is such an urgent and at the same time such an important act, so important on the one hand for the security of the state, and on the other hand for the freedom and protection of citizens' privacy... which is no less important to make the matter clear. It is not that security is more important than citizens' freedom. Besides, Poland is not a front country, it must be remembered. Today, there are no threats in Poland that occur in many European countries or in the United States. [[We're getting ready for them.]] No, no, I'm saying they don't. So if they don't exist... [[We don't invite Islamists.]] ...the relationship between efforts to ensure security and efforts to ensure the freedom and privacy of citizens must be a little different than in countries where this security threat is greater. Therefore, I believe that some amendments should be accepted, and I would like to address this to my colleagues at the PIS. The Sejm is still able to assemble next week and is able to review these amendments yet, because it is too serious a bill. Many amendments have been tabled, I have tabled mine and I very much agree with those that have been tabled. However, There is no Minister Wąsik who votes in the Seym, so I will argue with him in his absence. This law was to comply with the Court's judgment. Minister Wąsik said that he is performing, and in some cases does not, because the authors disagree with what the Court has said. Firstly, the Court stated that documents and materials which were not useful for the proceedings should be destroyed. This is supposed to be the general rule, but in the case of the ABW, the Intelligence Agency, the Military Counterintelligence Service and the Military Intelligence Service, it is said that they do not have to be destroyed as long as they are relevant for the security of the State or State's defence. Those are the concepts of rubber. I will say this: I understand that in some cases this is really the way materials should be kept, even though the cases have been brought to an end. But then you had to put it in, for example. judicial review, which would mean that in such a case the service goes to court and says: "From the point of view of state security we must keep them, and the court says: "Well, that's it. When this is not the case, it means that all documents can actually be assessed for one reason or another as relevant from the point of view of state security. Thus, in this respect, this judgment has not been enforced, and I do not see any particular reasons why it was done. Secondly, the provisions of the past, which are bad, are not good, apply to unfinished matters. I'm sorry. Why? We have a new law, a new law tells us what to do with materials, how to ask who to ask, etc., and we do old things the old way. I don't understand why such a recipe is here. Third, the control can be extended to 12 months, but in the ABW and SKW it can be extended indefinitely, for the next 12 months, for the next 12 months and for the next 12 months. Well, I'm sorry, but the Court has made it quite clear. Minister Wąsik said here: and, because the point is that these agencies often deal with matters relating to foreigners who have Polish citizenship, but in the end... dual citizenship, etc. Yes, and the Court, so to speak, showed understanding of the matter, described it and said that the law should regulate it. So you have to use the appropriate wording in this bill to make it possible. And without that, it can be applied to anyone. Internal Security Agency is an agency with very broad competences, it is not an agency that only deals with foreigners. So here again, this sentence has not been executed. Fourthly, there is no subsidiarity in the case of the collection of phone records and online data. That's what everyone's been talking about here. Ladies and gentlemen, of course you can say that this is a formality. Getting phone records is actually very common, often it has to be done very quickly, but a moment of reflection... It is possible to write down that it was impossible and impossible to obtain something by other means, it will mean that in case the case is being handled badly, it will also be possible to consider this aspect. And then the court will be able to e.g. Says the officer could have gotten it by other means, and he didn't, he wrote it wrong. However, if this condition of subsidiarity is not recorded, then of course the court does not have to do anything, it simply does not have to. The court cannot say, then, that this had to be done by other means. There's no record of it. The bill doesn't oblige it. And it's not okay. And then there's the last point. This mentioned lack of obligation to inform the person under surveillance. Indeed, the Court has not concluded in this case indications in the operative part, in the explanatory note, pointed out that this would have to be done, that he recommended it... But it wasn't done here, and Minister Wąsik said that the government simply disagreed. I am speaking to the government, because it is the government that has prepared this law, not the Members. And even in its justification, there is an argument that such extensive information of the surveillance person may cause certain operational techniques to be disclosed, and that would be detrimental to the service's work. But no one's punishing the tech. It's just to inform Mr. Kowalski that he was under surveillance. And that's it, period. Why? Yeah, so he can. And that should be regulated here... Such a citizen could then go to court and ask the court to look at his case, whether it was properly conducted and whether all the documents that were collected had been destroyed. So he'd just make sure the case was over. And if he doesn't know anything about such a fact, then of course things can happen. And maybe one day some officer will be punished for it, maybe someday something will come out, but still a man will be harmed. And I have to say that all the cases that I've discussed here were to be dealt with, the relevant records might have been in this bill, but unfortunately they didn't. I understand that some amendments meet these proposals and I appeal once again... I do not know what directives you have on this matter, but let me put it this way: the senators are a serious, important group in every political party and I propose that they put the matter on the table. Of course, not all amendments must be accepted, but at least those fundamental, basic, which are not threatened at all, should be accepted and simply cut off certain discussions and concerns that are actually quite serious. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-28-senat-09-1.u297	Thank you very much, Senator. Senator Ryszka.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-28-senat-09-1.u298	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Thank you very much to Marshal Borowski for this voice of reason and such serious reflection on this bill, because that is what this is all about. It is true that we are in a bit of a hurry to process this very important bill, finally concerning the possibility of operating control by the police and other special forces. Here are these possibilities of eavesdropping, checking correspondence, checking online activity, observing people. These are really very important things. But speaking of this haste, I would like to point out that the reason for the omission, which has already been mentioned here, by the previous coalition of PO-PSL implementing the ruling of the Constitutional Tribunal of 2014, which required the Sejm to adopt new rules. And the Court gave the Sejm time only until 6 February of this year. This question has already been raised, which I would like to develop, why the PO-PSL coalition has not amended these rules for a year and a half, having a majority in the Senate, has failed to comply with the judgment of the Constitutional Tribunal. I can only assume that the matter of this law is so delicate, so sensitive that in all circumstances it would raise not only protests from different backgrounds, it would cause different opinions from important institutions, but at the same time expose the previous coalition, previous rulers, to criticism. Because no regulations, however precise they may be, in such a law they will not secure all the environments, people, institutions so that they do not have any objections to this law. As I said, this amendment should have been adopted a long time ago. However, if what was also said here is not accepted by 6 February, then the services will not be able to use such tools, i.e. those listening devices, correspondence checks, etc. And I don't need to add how important these tools are for example. espionage crimes, terrorist crimes, the fight against organised crime. Recently, the press has written about more than 100 mafias operating in Poland. I don't know if it's just a reporter's duck or if it is. I'm gonna go back to the bill for a second. To begin with, the current opposition accuses the PiS government that it plans to increase the scope of citizens' surveillance in the law. Especially the possibility of Internet surveillance is mentioned here. Do you think you don't need internet control? I'm just gonna mention what I said in my question, that the Paris bombers were on the Internet, and the communicator was games, youth games and children's games, where they gave each other information, how, where and when to hit. As a result, it can be seen how far it is necessary to reach, say, in this operational control of the Internet, sometimes even hurting someone or unnecessarily doing so to carry out this control in a perfect way. Mr. Marshal Borowski mentioned that you don't need to be so deep and wide. Yeah, well... I'm sure there's nothing wrong with the Polish Internet. And those who, like Mr. Senator, are almost inciting, so to speak, young people with these questions, whether the young people who come to the World Youth Day will come to Poland, to Poland, to Poland, which was built by the Civic Platform... will she even want to come if it is Poland in which there is no democracy, there is an attack on the Internet... You're just cynically lying, extremely cynical, and that's the only way I can put it. More specifically, these are the words that can trigger social protests similar to those caused by ACTA. The Act, contrary to the allegations made here, contains provisions on restrictions on the use of operational control. After all, there is a record of a total inspection time which must not exceed 18 months. There is a novel introducing a closed directory of data that services can obtain from telecommunications operators. The data are to be made available to the services only for the purpose of carrying out specific tasks assigned to the service under the Act. There are provisions on the obligation to destroy the data collected. Perhaps they are, so to speak, not as precise as they should be, but if this is the data needed, used in criminal proceedings, then also the data obtained and collected during your governments... After all, without the permission of the court, this cannot be introduced, and the court will have the opportunity to review, which will indicate that this data must be deleted and not that other data should be deleted. Thus, the Act introduces very clear rules for the destruction of materials, including those which may contain professional secrecy. Another allegation concerning the lack of independent control over the activities of the services is also missed, since the courts will always be the authority that supervises such proceedings. It must be surprising that those who are protesting the most today, namely Members and Senators of the Civic Platform, forget that it was their government who was hitting records on the phone records of Poles. According to data from the Office for Electronic Communications, the State during the Civic Platform became increasingly interested in who with whom, how often, where and when it connects on the phone. Senator Jackowski mentioned here that the prosecutions, the police, the services, as well as the courts asked for such data exactly 1 million 856 thousand times in 2011. It was half a million more than in 2010 and 800 thousand more than in 2009, and it was already a record on the European Union scale. Questions were also related to text messages sent. In a word, this is the most important opposition party today, which I consider to be the Civic Platform, not the Modern Platform, although polls say otherwise, it was you who started the surveillance industry in Poland on an unprecedented scale in the European Union. It's the Civic Platform that's screaming about the PiS government being monitoring the power. The absurdity of these charges literally calls for revenge to heaven, as Minister Wąsik said. It is in this law that these matters concerning operational control are limited as far as possible. Senator Jackowski also mentioned how the Civic Platform, or actually the Police in those days, was monitoring, listening to journalists who exposed the tape scandal. In particular, a special police unit was established, which has been monitoring journalists for six months since the outbreak of the incident in June 2014. Journalists writing for Cezary Bielakowski, Piotr Nisztor, Sylvester Latkowski and Michał Majewski were subjected to surveillance. This operation was classified, disguised, carried out outside the knowledge of the courts and the prosecution. It was run by the Bureau of Internal Affairs of the Police Headquarters, a unit whose purpose is to keep the police ranks clean. Surveillance was not recorded in the register, which allowed the court's consent and the prosecution's office to be disregarded. So fair was the State of the Civic Platform, such practices took place in the government of the PO. This is an unimaginable scandal that shows what the true intentions of those who are currently accusing the Law and Justice of attacking civil and democratic freedoms are. Once the current amendment has been adopted, there will certainly be fewer abuses because the service has been required to explain every such event, and specifically to report to the court every six months on how many such actions have been taken and for what purpose. It is the inspection of service work carried out every six months that gives the court a certain perspective on how these services work. Probably the current amendment contains not entirely settled cases. With these amendments, which you outlined here, Marshal Borowski can, of course, be accepted. There are other things like that, I mean. so-called cases. secret access to private apartments to bug, install cameras, verify suspicions concerning, among others. espionage activities. Such activities are very important in operational control. It is in such situations that suspicion may arise that, for example, for lack of time. The court's consent shall be disregarded. But this was also the opportunity given by the previous law to the services. Mr. Marshal, High Izbo, we have very important events in 2016. We have the anniversary of the 1050th anniversary of Poland's baptism and I know that on 15 April the National Assembly in Poznań will be held; we will have NATO summit in Warsaw in June; at the turn of July and August there will be World Youth Days and pilgrimage of Pope Francis; there will also be very important international sports events. And all of this will take place in the current uncertain geopolitical situation. It is not true, Mr. Marshal Borowski, that this does not concern us yet. A million refugees are across the western border and will soon be fleeing from there, because the protests of the Germans against the visitors are already so strong. So where will they run? Denmark has closed the borders, Sweden has also, Norway is going to to do so, and only our border remains open. Therefore, let us not scare Poles by the fact that, because of this bill, it is due to happen. to monitor the internet, to do what is practically impossible. And to some completely unknown amount of operational control. No hysteria, ladies and gentlemen! We don't need social unrest. And that's what you should remember. Let us not invent black scenarios to stifle people and lead them to the street and Petru said he wanted to bring a million people out into the streets. As well as the ridiculous accusations made by CODE activists, with many Members and Senators of the Civic Platform at the head. I will add at the end maybe not so much assurance as my hope that, although there are certainly shortcomings in this law, they will come to light in practice, and then they will be able to be completed. I also know that it's being prepared in the Sejm for an anti-terrorism bill, and in the meantime... [[Voice from the hall: Oh, oh, oh!]] Not on the initiative of Law and Justice. And in the meantime, we will be able to see how the provisions of this law work in practice. Probably there will be a new law on operations sooner or later, because criminals don't fall asleep in ashes, but they are working on new criminal techniques to continue their dark business. And for law and justice, the safety of Poles is paramount. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-28-senat-09-1.u299	Thank you very much, Senator. Mr. Senator Tight.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-28-senat-09-1.u300	Mr. Marshal! High Senate! When I hear such statements as Senator Czesław Ryszka or many other statements by senators, Members, and ministers in whom the Platform is accused of ruling for 8 years, I keep wondering: is it jealousy, or is it some complex about the Civic Platform that tells you to go back to the issue of these years? [[These are charges, not complexes.]] [[This is a concern for Poland.]] And if I were mean, and I wasn't mean. I would say this: you probably won't be able to live eight years in power. But I'm not gonna say it because I'm not mean. [[Isn't that mean?]] Your Senate, the time is that you might try to tone your emotions down a little bit. And I would like to begin my speech with a short joke and end with a literary allegory. The joke's pretty old. It speaks of a man who uses the tram, from another man who whispers in his ear, hears the words of a horned man, a cuckold, a cuckold. And that's what happens for two, three days. After the third day, he tells his wife about it, and the next day, when he takes the tram, he hears the hornhorn, the cuckold, and the whistleblower. What's the obvious point of this joke? Well, the punch line for everyone is this, and I'm sure the senators understand it so much that this man's wife is cheating on him with a man whispering to him. But this point, Dear Senators, is no longer so obvious in the context of the bill that we are debating today. 'Cause maybe this is the department officer who's monitoring this man? In view of the many ambiguities, the indeterminateness of the bill that we are debating today, perhaps this is possible. And the worst part, ladies and gentlemen, is that such a surveillance man may never find out that he's been under surveillance, and he can accuse his wife all his life. It's wrong, isn't it? That she was cheating on him. Because the bill doesn't provide for the surveillance team to be informed that they've been under surveillance. It was a joke story, but having introduced this bill, we can be participants in real life situations where thousands of people will experience their own dramas as a result of surveillance. And they'll never know why these dramas are going on. And one more reflection about today, the day in which we are here. Well, in the morning, a Senate clerk gathered our permission to publish whether we were married or have children. What irony, I ask you, that on the same day, on a rather trivial matter, a Senate official must obtain permission to publish our data, and we are here debating a law under which we collect data and we do not know very much what will happen to this data, and the person on whom this data is collected may never know that it was under surveillance or for what reason it was under surveillance, whether it was properly monitored, and what was happening with the data collected during such surveillance. A summary of these two facts is dissonance, ladies and gentlemen, and it's cosmic. Finally, on the basis of this alogical bunch, a bunch of linguistics, I would like to say briefly, in one sentence, half of the sentence, about this literary allegory. High Senate, if Orwell could write his book in Poland in 2016, he would have a good inspiration for his novel here in the Senate. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-28-senat-09-1.u301	Thank you very much. Mr. Senator Silence. [[Voice from the room: It was a GIODO initiative, Mr. Senator.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-28-senat-09-1.u302	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I consider the matter that we are today to be fundamental to the protection of human rights, and I therefore believe that it needs to be dealt with exceptionally and reached certain standards that have been developed in the case law of the European Court of Human Rights in Strasbourg in the context of the article. 8 The European Convention on Human Rights, which respects human privacy. I therefore believe that the issue is extremely complicated and requires precise determination. And that's what our bill is about, this project that we recognize today. In particular, it intends to enforce the judgment of the Constitutional Tribunal, which I do not know whether you all know this, because probably not everyone had the opportunity to reach that judgment. It consists of 200 pages, including the justification for the A4 format. Thus, this is a serious scientific study, which contains very in-depth considerations in terms of both international law and national law. And I am pleased that in this draft law, what the Court stated was necessary to ensure compliance with the standards required by the Constitution and the European Convention on Human Rights was implemented. I mean, in particular, the obligation to physically destroy materials that are not useful for criminal proceedings, or those that have been obtained in violation of fundamental principles in every civilized country. Namely protection of the secret of confession and protection of attorney-client privilege. So this is a big step forward with regard to the regulation that was earlier. I would like to point out that not such countries It's about a relatively short democracy that we have since we got out of the communist system after 1989. They were very often brought before the European Court of Human Rights as a result of the finding that their regulations did not meet the requirements of the European Convention on Human Rights. Because also countries like France, e.g. in the case of Kruslin, whether Germany or the United Kingdom, were designated as States which violated these standards by establishing in legislation criteria for interference and entities to which this interference is permissible, in a vague or non-protective manner, such as those relating to the secrecy of confession, legal secrecy or the right of a journalist not to disclose the source of information. E.g. in the latter case, this is governed by Article. 15 press laws. After the preliminary remarks, I cannot fail to mention that the drafting of such a law in a very precise and reliable manner requires, of course, a huge amount of working time and input. Ladies and gentlemen, I believe that we should take the task of developing in the future regulation on interference with this fundamental human right, which is the right to privacy, in a single piece of legislation that regulates issues relating to the operation of various services in this area. From the police, through the Internal Security Agency, customs services, etc. Because right now we have this scattered in more than 10 laws, which causes trouble reading the contents of this regulation. Let me not mention that there is very often a variety of regulations here in a completely unjustified way, both as to the time limit for which the interference was possible, whether it is a wiretap or data collection, to apply, and as to the extent to which the circumstances are to be. There is a subsidiarity principle in some laws, i.e. that such measures can only be applied if it is not possible to obtain information to determine the offence otherwise, or if the measures applied are insufficient, i.e. there is an interference as an ultima ratio, as a final measure. And especially where serious crimes are involved. E.g. These crimes are listed in the Police Act. Unfortunately, already where there is regulation With regard to the collection of billing data, there is no indication that there are intentional offences and criminal offences prosecuted publicly, so very often these specific services have the right to use billing checks in the event of prosecution of any criminal offence. Of course, this does not apply to offences. The Minister mentioned that, in the case of offences, it was impossible to apply these measures. And luckily, because then we'd be dealing with a police system to the power. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, I believe that progress has been made through the adoption of this regulation. I, trusting the Minister, who at the joint committee meeting said that the subject of further work would be the introduction of some uniform legislation that would regulate the interference of all these services with the right to privacy in terms of communication between people. Only subject to this condition I believe that I can vote in favour of this law with a clear conscience. I hope that our House, which is a Chamber of reflection and reflection, has already made some proposals in this discussion that should be adopted in future legislative arrangements. And I think that this effort brought by the Senate as a House, which often corrected various kinds of legal solutions, will be appreciated and in the future a comprehensive law will be submitted to us, which we will be able to bend over and in the process, with sufficient time, to produce legislation that we will not have to worry about, that it may possibly be challenged before the European Court of Human Rights. This, as I said, often happens, and I hope it doesn't touch this bill that we're going to adopt today, as I say, under the pressure of time. Because, ladies and gentlemen, the sixth is terminated by a ruling of the Constitutional Tribunal by the existing rules which are found to be contrary to the Constitution, and therefore, this is indeed a great deal of time pressure. Unfortunately, these regulations that we have adopted will, of course, require adjustments in the future, but I think they will be implemented and we will have a law that will meet all standards. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-28-senat-09-1.u303	Thank you very much, Senator. Mr. Senator Bonkowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-28-senat-09-1.u304	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! I'm taking the floor for the first time. I have 10 minutes, but I assure you I can fit in five minutes. And I was summoned by Senator Augustine. When I listened to Senator Augustine, I thought he was speaking to Rejtan. Just a second longer, and... he was so flaming that I thought he'd be like Rejtan laying on the doorstep. To put it this way: for eight years you were in power, you had no democracy for anything, you had a nation, millions of wirets, you withdrew history from schools so that the Polish youth did not feel like Poles, you wanted to make young people a magma in the future Europe. Well, more hypocrisy, more hypocrisy, more cynicism. And even as Mr. Augustine mentioned it as a guess The fact that we were the ones giving out books in the Union to report to Poland has already outdone himself. I believe Senator Silence has already quoted, but I would also like to quote you. Let me quote you briefly, this is Konrad's monologue from Stanisław Wyspiański's Liberation: "Wachoły, it's you! You, who lick alien enemies on the ground, crawl in foreign governments and kiss the invaders' paws, recognizing their rightful kings to you. You rabbles, who have never felt pride, perhaps in the face of poverty and misery, whose misfortune you have cut off with the brazen bellies and the fist of the servant. You butlers and cocksuckers of other people's delusions, who stretch out a hand greedy for money. After money dandruff, torn from this land, whose gold and honey belong to it and must not be plundered. It is you who do not feel Polish and living servitude and slavery that protests. You servants! Tremble, for you will be our servants, and you will be dogs, bound to our chariot, and you will perish. And it will cover your vileness to DON'T REMEMBER! Liberation, Stanisław Wyspiański. And I am talking about this because, after this debate in the European Parliament, you have announced that you will be pushing for a resolution against Poland. I appeal to you: come to your senses, spare your shame in the Senate. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-28-senat-09-1.u305	Thank you very much, Senator. Mr. Senator Pekkis. [[The doctor...]] [[You have your court doctor Senator Klich.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-28-senat-09-1.u306	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! I listened attentively to information about freedom on the Internet and your efforts to maintain this freedom on the Internet. However, I am afraid that freedom on the Internet has no longer existed for several years, and for several years it has been programmed by companies that co-create our reality, limited. If you install Windows 10 software, you agree to upload online hardware configuration of your hardware, tasks, names, e-mails, preferences, lists of browsed pages, lists of used applications and ways of using them, photos. If one of you doesn't realize it, it's just naive not knowing. If someone thinks that in this way full access to your private information, also about bank accounts, passwords... Yes, Microsoft has this data through its latest software. If anyone thinks he's still free, that this is the freedom of the Internet, it's just naivety. A little of this, the latest software, which most of us use every day, allows us to record and analyze the human voice not only when we use it in Skype communicators, but simply on a daily basis. In other words, when we install this software, we agree, which we don't usually read. Its text is very long. - To conduct a listening session. So the claim that the Internet or software is freedom is simply naivety. The effect is that we live today in permanent surveillance, which we agree to. We don't have a choice, because software is an operating system other than Microsoft, it's either a choice of another large company. Apple, or the choice of completely marginal systems, which I do not suspect you of. How many people in the room that use Linux? Do any of you use one of these? One? Do you gentlemen on the left who defend freedom on the Internet use a system other than Microsoft's? So talking about freedom... [[We're not going to reveal it.]] Of course, Mr. Marshal. You have every right to do so, but talking about freedom in such a case is simply a naivety resulting from ignorance. One more thing. Recently, backup is very popular in the so-called cloud. That's a very nice phrase. This action results in you sending a set of data compressed into the world to servers usually located in California. Talking about you trying to protect your accounts, your data, your information, your bank passwords... Today you are simply openly revealing it, possibly unaware of it. If anyone here in this room is talking about free internet and surveillance... This is a misunderstanding. I think there should be some kind of online retreat for parliamentarians. The information we store on our private computers, if these computers are connected to the Internet, is simply information about easy access for all Western services. Ladies and gentlemen, it is no secret that the present Western intelligence service is not a secret, because it is written about it, professional literature, the Internet writes about it, cooperates with companies already at the stage of the design of operating systems. And already at this stage, special gates are created for them, which allow you to extract any information from a computer connected to the Internet. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-28-senat-09-1.u307	Thank you very much, Senator. I'm calling for a recess by 8:00 tomorrow. We've got an announcement to make. The Office of International Affairs and the European Union kindly informs that the meeting of the Constitutional Group of the Polish-Hungarian Parliamentary Group will take place on Friday, 29 January, at 11.00 in room 105, building [[Adjournment at the meeting at 22 minutes 06]]
