ParlaMint-PL_2016-08-04-senat-24-2.u1	I'm reopening the session. Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators... [[Talking in the O.R.]] I'm asking you to stop talking. Ladies and gentlemen, let's begin... [[Talking in the O.R.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Excuse me! Don't talk anymore! On 31 July 2016, Stanisław Kochanowski, senator of the 3rd term of office, member of the Committee on Human Rights and Rule of Law and the Rules of Procedure and Senators' Affairs died. Please rise and celebrate with a minute of silence Senator Stanisław Kochanowski's memory. [[Give him eternal rest, Lord.]] [[Voices from the hall: And let eternal light shine upon him.]] [[May he rest in eternal peace.]] [[Voices from the room: Amen.]] Thank you very much. We begin to consider item 16 of the agenda: the second reading of the draft resolution on the 50th anniversary of the death of General Tadeusz Bora-Komorowski. I would like to warmly welcome the family members of General Tadeusz Bora-Komorowski, especially the son of General Adam Komorowski, present at the meeting. Very cordially, sir, and all the other guests, welcome. [[Applause]] The draft resolution under consideration was introduced by a group of senators and is included in print No 245 and the committee's report In print No 245 S. I would like to ask the rapporteur of the Legislative Commission, Senator Jan Maria Jackowski, to present the committee's report on the draft resolution.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-08-04-senat-24-2.u2	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Dear General Tadeusz Bora-Komorowski's Family! I have the honour to submit a draft resolution to the High House on the 50th anniversary of the death of General Tadeusz Bora-Komorowski as rapporteur of the Legislative Commission and, at the same time, as a representative of the Senators' Group and the applicant. I would like to point out that at the moment we are celebrating the 70th second anniversary of the Warsaw Uprising. The character of the hero of this resolution, General Tadeusz Bora-Komorowski, is inseparably associated with the National Army because he was its chief, and with these dramatic events from 72 years ago. It so happens that in August, 24 August 1966 General Tadeusz Bór-Komorowski died in the United Kingdom and therefore this year we celebrate the round 50th anniversary of his death. I would like to stress that the general, the chief commander of the National Army, the chief commander in 1945 and 1947, the prime minister of the government in exile, was an extraordinary figure. He witnessed all the dramatic events of the 20th century: he participated actively in the process of liberation of Poland and regaining independence, participated in the Polish-Bolshevik war, participated in the war of 1939, participated in the conspiracy of independence, reaching the highest positions. He was also a politician. He was a man of good repute. I'd like to quote one vital piece of information from his biography. Well, just as a whole generation of political expatriates after World War II in Britain, the general and his wife and his sons were in a very difficult material situation. As you know, the British, our allies during the Second World War, were not very nice, I will say visually, treating Poles after the end of the Second World War. Very many war heroes, including General Tadeusz Bór-Komorowski, were also in a difficult material situation. I would like to point out that General Komorowski had a proposal from the United States Government to become an advisor to this government. It would give him the opportunity to regulate the material situation of his family, but the general refused for a very simple reason: what if those who employ me do not listen to my advice? And so he refused. It was a crystal character. I would now like to read the draft resolution adopted unanimously at the meeting of the Legislative Commission. I would also like to stress that in the course of work on the draft resolution to the original version, i.e. the one which the High House knows from print No 245, some minor stylistic changes and two substantive changes have been introduced, so that this resolution has been modified in some way, but since we have been working on it in the spirit of consensus, it has been adopted unanimously. So I will read the draft resolution of the Senate of the Republic of Poland on the 50th anniversary of the death of General Tadeusz Bora-Komorowski. On August 24, 1966, Major General Tadeusz Bór-Komorowski, Chief Commandant of the National Army, Chief Leader of the Polish Armed Forces and Prime Minister of the Government of the Republic of Poland in exile died in Great Britain. This steadfast soldier, commander and politician was born on 1 June 1895 in Chorobrowa in the land family, in the estate of his father's cousin General Tadeusz Rozwadowski. He began his military career in the Austro-Hungarian Army. During World War I he served on Russian and Italian fronts. He was a participant in the Polish-Bolshevik war, he was wounded in combat activities. In the interwar period he served as a training and commanding officer, in 1929 and 1938 he was commander of the 9th Ulanów Małopolska Regiment, and in November 1938 he became commander of the Cavalry Training Centre in Grudziądz. In the interwar period, he participated in equestrian competitions, represented Poland at the Olympic Games in Paris in 1924 and Berlin in 1936. In the 1939 Defensive War, he was the commander of the Cavalry Reserve Centre in Garvolina, and then the deputy commander of the Combined Cavalry Brigade of the Army of Lublin fighting under Mount Calvary and Zamość. He escaped captivity and entered Cracow, where he began his conspiracy activity. On 8 February 1940, he was appointed as Brigadier General. In the summer of 1941, he made his way to Warsaw and became deputy commander of the General Armed Fighting Union of the Home Army. In July 1943, he became commander of the National Army, and one year later he decided to break out the Warsaw Uprising. In Radio Free Europe said years later: "If we had acted passively, Warsaw would not have avoided damage and losses. We had to count on the fact that if the capital became a battlefield and street fighting between Germany and the Soviets, it could be the fate of Stalingrad. On 30 September 1944, he was appointed by President Władysław Raczkiewicz, Chief Leader. It was not until 28 May 1945 that he took over his duties when, after a period of captivity in the oflag to which he came after the fall of the Warsaw Uprising, he reached London and settled permanently in the United Kingdom. He was chief chief until 8 November 1946. In 1947, he served as Prime Minister of the Emigration Government. He died suddenly on August 24, 1966. He was buried in the Gunnersbury cemetery in London. In 1994 his ashes were transferred to Poland and deposited in Military Powązki in Warsaw. He was awarded three times with the Virtuti Militari Order: in 1921 with the Silver Cross, in 1942 with the Golden Cross, and in 1947 with the Commanderial Cross of the Order of the War Virtuti Militari. In 1995 he was posthumously awarded the Order of the White Eagle. On the 50th anniversary of the death of General Tadeusz Bora-Komorowski, the Senate of the Republic of Poland pays tribute to this outstanding Pole, a participant of dramatic events of the 20th century. The Senate of the Republic of Poland also asks the institutions of public life to commemorate the legendary commander of the world's largest underground army during World War II. The resolution is published in the Official Journal of the Republic of Poland. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-08-04-senat-24-2.u3	Thank you very much, Senator. Currently, senators may submit a maximum of one minute's query to the rapporteur of the committee, who is also an authorised representative of the applicants. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? I don't see any volunteers. Thank you. I'm opening a discussion. Please take the floor of Senator Czesław Ryszka.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-08-04-senat-24-2.u4	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Mr. Marshal! High Senate! Dear General's Family! The magnificent biography of General Tadeusz Bora-Komorowski, a steadfast soldier, commander and politician, as shown in the resolution, does not really touch the most important issue: his decision on the outbreak of the Warsaw Uprising. There is only mention of his statements after years in Radio Free Europe: We had to count on the fact that if the capital became a battlefield and street fighting between Germany and the Soviets, it could be the fate of Stalingrad. I will add that General Bór-Komorowski, looking after the uprising at the ruins of the Old Town, said: six hundred years of Polish history were ruined. Isn't that the general's word you need to see? Any note of regret for giving an order at?W? I understand that our resolution directly concerns the general's character, not the events connected with the outbreak of the Warsaw Uprising, but at present I would like to pay my attention to the answers to the question of many Poles: was the decision of General Bora-Komorowski correct, correct? That's a question I'm asking, too. With the words of General Anders in mind, which came from a letter that he wrote to Colonel Hanczyk on August 31, 1944: "The uprising didn't make any sense at all, but it was even a crime. I am personally in favour of the right decision of General Bora-Komorowski, whose main purpose was to take control of the city at the moment when it begins to evacuate German troops. Before the Red Army troops entering, they wanted to demonstrate that there were Polish authorities and troops in the capital. It was feared that the Soviet troops, after the capture of Warsaw, as it was in the Eastern Kresów, would immediately begin repression of the Polish underground, and the power would be transferred to several agents and salesmen. However, with today's awareness, knowing the course of history, we are allowed to ask another kind of question: how far would the Red Army have gone into Europe if it had not been stopped by its Warsaw uprising? What would happen to Europe and Poland if Poles, paying a huge price, did not stop the Red Army offensive on the Vistula line if they did not stand up to defend Latin civilization against Bolshevik, atheistic Russia? And here is the answer to the question of the international rank of the uprising, which has slowed down the Soviet dynamism of Berlin for more than 5 months. Who knows if Stalin would have kept the Teheran agreement with Roosevelt to transfer the Polish part of Germany into a zone of Soviet influence. By the way, it was a disgraceful agreement which confirmed that it accepted the pact of Hitler-Stalin-Ribbentrop-Molotov from 1939 about the Soviets' capture of the eastern part of Poland and the basis of the border on the Bug line. Similarly, under this agreement, the Soviet states of the Baltic States were transferred to Russia: Lithuania, Latvia and Estonia. I am talking about this because it was a disgraceful proof of Roosevelt's betrayal towards Poland, and it was also a disgraceful pact between Hitler and Stalin, because Hitler and Stalin fought each other on all fronts, and over the Vistula, these two genocides entered into a truce, handed themselves hands to destroy Poland. This was confirmed by the Soviet Marshal Vasily Czujkow, the famous commander of Stalingrad, who, in his diaries, defrauded in 1990 after the fall of the Soviet Union, wrote directly: "The war could have ended six months earlier, not in May 1945, but until December 1944, if it had not been for Stalin's decision to hold back the first Belarusian front in August 1944. We could go further west, not to Berlin and the Elbe, but to the Rhine. The fate of the war would have been different. How many millions of lives could be saved, how many soldiers would have died less. And some curiosity. Already after the end of the war in the official speech in the Kremlin in June 1945, just before going to Potsdam, Stalin said directly to his marshals and generals: "This is not Germany, but Poland is our greatest war prize. It follows that Stalin considered that the effective destruction of the National Army and Polish independence forces was worth more than the seizure of Germany even by the Rhine line. When asked why the Warsaw Uprising broke out at all, Gustaw Herling-Grudziński, an excellent Polish writer, answered very well, saying: "It was undoubtedly a great battle. We wanted her, we lived thinking about her in Palestine, in Iraq, in Egypt, training in the desert, listening to news from Poland. Those words don't require comment. And now the question of the chance to rise. If the Russians on the eastern side of the Vistula were to support the uprising if the insurgents had mastered the basic points of the city, which would enable the landing of the Polish parachutes from England, as well as the members of the Polish government from London, if they had received direct help from the Western Allies in arms, if the German panic in July, when the Russians stood on the eastern bank of the Vistula, took a little longer because at that time, They were already fleeing Warsaw... Let me just remind you that a bit earlier, the squadron of 104 U.S. aircraft had dropped off in Soviet Russia and landed at Soviet airports, which means there is a lot of evidence that the uprising could have been successful. It could work if, for example. it exploded a little earlier, July 28th, if it hadn't exploded at 5 p.m., only at dawn, by surprise, first of all it might have worked if Poland hadn't been abandoned by the Allies and the Soviets. Now, back to the question of how far the Red Army would have gone into Europe if it hadn't stopped its Warsaw Uprising, I would say that the Soviets wouldn't have stopped at the Elbe line agreed in Tehran. Stalin learned in Tehran that Roosevelt is a lying president, that he betrayed Poland, that he made a shameful pact with it, passing Poland into Russia's sphere of influence. Certainly Stalin would have gone further west, would have taken over all of Germany, and consequently would have subjugated most of Western Europe. And I believe that in this context the Warsaw Uprising is a continuation of the defence of Europe by Poles, by Poland against the invasions of Byzantine-Asian culture. In other words, the National Army... General Bora-Komorski's decision was the quintessence of the Polish knight's spirit at that time. The National Army was a Polish army emerging from the Christian tradition of the nation, rooted in the indications of the Constitution on 3 May, in the slogans of our national uprisings. Or maybe not just an uprising, because there could be such a hypothesis that the Warsaw Uprising was another battle during certain battles in which Poland saved Europe. I am thinking here of the battle of Legnica in 1241, the battle of Vienna in 1683, the battle of Warsaw, called the miracle of the Vistula, and many other victorious battles at the eastern ends of the Republic of Poland in the 17th century, when we defended Christian Europe, for which we were called by the Holy See before the wall of Christianity. It must be added that the heroism of Poles in the Warsaw Uprising also brought fruit after the end of the war. Poland did not become the 17th republic of the Soviet Union, and during the years of peerel during the dramatic, critical events of 1956 or 1980 the leaders of the Soviet Union did not dare to engage in armed actions against Poland. In this way, when assessing the outbreak of the Warsaw Uprising, it should be regarded as an event of global importance which saved Europe from submission to the Soviet Union, it saved democratic and Christian order in Europe. So although the uprising did not achieve military, military goals, the moral and political side was saved for Poland. General Tadeusz Bora-Komorowski's decision to issue an order at In his last order to the Home Army, General Bór-Komorowski thanked for his heroic attitude, paid homage to the fallen inhabitants of the capital, expressed his admiration and gratitude. In a telegram sent by the President of the Brightest Republic of London to General Bora-Komorowski we read: "In the glare of the heroic city everyone who wants to look must see this great truth: there is no price that we would not be willing to pay for freedom and independence." Thank you for your attention. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-08-04-senat-24-2.u5	Thank you very much. Please take the floor of Senator Jan Zarin.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-08-04-senat-24-2.u6	Mr. Marshal! Dear Senators! Ladies and gentlemen! We pay tribute to General Tadeusz Borow-Komorowski today, and we are certainly right to do so. It was an unusual figure. The biography of the general, given and presented to us by Senator Jan Maria Jackowski, proves how great and outstanding the general was and how honorable the generation belonged, generations of creators, but also elites who created, co-created the Polish Underground State, phenomenon on the scale of the entire Polish history, but also phenomena on the scale of the entire universal history. The Polish Underground State and in it the National Army is a phenomenon which will be for many, many tens and hundreds of years described by historians. And Tadeusz Bór-Komorowski was undoubtedly one of the most important officers who from the beginning formed the structures of the Armed Fighting Union and the Home Army. First he did it as the head, commander of the Kraków ZWZ-AK district. This district of Kraków and its activities in that area are a separate, very beautiful history, history of Poland, also connected with its social empowerment. As indicated, he was a landowner, he was of landowner origin, he was descended from a beautiful family with great patriotic traditions. And just in the Kraków District of the ZWZ-AK thanks to among others. Tadeusz Bora-Komorowski was born this structure of When he became commander of the Home Army after the arrest of General Stefan Grot-Rowecki, he had already had enormous authority and achievements of fighting, functioning in underground Poland. The National Army for His Time In January 1944, as historians calculate, at the moment when the Red Army entered the territory of the Second Republic of Poland, it counted between 380 and 400 thousand soldiers and officers deployed in structures not only, of course, the underground headquarters in Warsaw, but also in district, circuit, and outpost structures. A great structure supported by the authority of the commander. All these facts, which could be long-standing, testifying to the richness of Tadeusz Bora-Komorowski's life, are undoubtedly true. Without a doubt, all these facts mentioned by me and by others, but also those not mentioned, remain somewhere on the margins of this one event today: the commander of the Home Army, Tadeusz Bór-Komorowski, must have emphasized: he had to To decide whether or not to explode the Warsaw Uprising. Today we are undoubtedly both historians I'm here in this role too. As well as the Polish public, in a very broad discussion about this one decision in the life of Tadeusz Bora-Komorowski. Senator Czesław Ryszka also mentioned this. Surely all of us who speak here will be able to reach with our eyes and mind this date on August 1, 1944. We have not achieved any of the political successes of the Warsaw Uprising, we have not gained independence. We lost about 180 thousand people, including 20,000 wonderful Polish youth, a flower of the Polish people After all, most of these losses of the Home Army are young people. The city was ruined, the inhabitants were expelled. How can you judge the commander who gave the order? And yet the discussion continues. This discussion today does not go in the direction, although such opinions are also falling, attempts to clearly define Tadeusz Bora-Komorowski as a traitor. Indeed, just after the fall of the Uprising, on the first anniversary of my great authority, then very young, Wiesław Chrzanowski, in the underground organ of the All-Polish Youth, because he was an activist of the All-Polish Youth under the pseudonym "Radwan" wrote very clearly that the outbreak of the Warsaw Uprising was a national tragedy and the commanders should be accounted for. Sam, as you know, participated in the Warsaw Uprising. General Anders' condemnation voices were even stronger than those quoted here, because emotions from the very beginning, after what happened after the Warsaw Uprising, must have been very big. Although we live in other times today, and today we feel these emotions, we ask why this happened. And of course there's no good answer. Historians undoubtedly agree: how can it be said that this was a good decision? Well, of course, it was a bad decision. Could it have been better? Ha, no. And that is the drama of General Tadeusz Bora-Komorowski. No one else, ladies and gentlemen, could make a decision. Neither the Polish government in exile, with Prime Minister Stanisław Mikołajczyk, nor the chief commander, General Kazimierz Sosnkowski, perhaps because he was skeptical about this possibility. But they're all sorry for being unambiguous. They refused to take any decision. This is Tadeusz Bór-Komorowski, a man with a definition of limited cognitive capabilities, in terms of the contemporary international policy on the allied side, had to make a decision. On his shoulders came the awareness that despite the lack of proper cognitive tools... He knew that either he would be a criminal, because he would stop fighting for independence of Poland, or he would be a criminal, because the Warsaw Uprising would explode. Have you ever had a choice like that in your life? I don't wish that on anyone. And he had to make that choice because he was commander of the Home Army. And just to be clear: from all historical documents that are available today, we know that Tadeusz Bór-Komorowski was a very efficient officer of the Polish Army. He realized that he was making his decision from a military point of view. And he said clearly: the Warsaw Uprising has a chance to last 4 to 5 days; not to me, but to others it is the task to use these 5 days so that we can make our stand so that the world will decide to provide Poland with the help that will give us the chance for independence. He wasn't crazy, he wasn't a man with a romantic passion to push him away. Somewhere on the margin of political awareness or knowledge of military crafts. It was a man fully embedded in reality, who himself was a realist. In my opinion, it is very important to understand the drama that took place in this man's soul. A man who was skeptical about his own decision. Unlike the chief of staff, General Tadeusz Pełczyński, unlike General Leopold Okulicki, who from the position of authority of a man still in London until recently, said: yes, they will help... This is Tadeusz Bór-Komorowski, who wasn't in London, supposed to think he knew better? How would he know better when he conspired in other Warsaw apartments, on the first, second or third floor of Warsaw's tenement houses, under underground conditions? I would like you to understand his drama by paying tribute to Tadeusz Borow-Komorowski today. To make you aware that this man has lived with this drama for the rest of his life. He wasn't crazy. It was not a person who misunderstood the terrible tragedy that met Warsaw and Poland. The tragedy of it being that it was the last moment in which, in human terms, we could regain our independence. Failure is the same sin as other sins, and for politics it is a very, very important sin. Which we should remember and know as we are politicians today. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-08-04-senat-24-2.u7	Thank you very much. Thank you very much, Senator. Senator Alexander Bobko, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-08-04-senat-24-2.u8	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Dear Family! I would like to take the floor to look at today's decision from a different point of view. What has already been said here is a reason for a narrative, a story about tragic Polish history, and I no longer want to enter into it, this drama, this drama of the situation in 1944 and in historical assessments, what would have happened, what would have happened if... This is an exciting, dramatic, tragic discussion. But my question And, as I say, I have some discomfort here, I hope that it will not offend the family of the highly esteemed General Komorowski: whether by paying tribute to General Boro-Komorovsky, which should certainly be our participation today, because he was a man worthy of respect... But the Senate resolution is more than a tribute, at least in my understanding. It is also building a pattern to follow. He's got an educational element. Today in Poland, in Europe, and not only today, this is a continuous process, actually today it can especially in Europe an important process of building identity, referring to authorities, to personal patterns, to values... Therefore, my question is whether the Senate resolution, which is a proper tribute, but at the same time builds a pattern to follow... Should we present such a pattern to the young generation today, to the next generation, as a model to follow? If you'll excuse me, we shouldn't be doing this. We should pay tribute to the general in some silence. However, the Senate's resolution is more than that, it is building a role model, and this dramatic decision to initiate the Warsaw Uprising in my opinion is rather not a role model and on such a pattern we should not build our contemporary Polish patriotism today. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-08-04-senat-24-2.u9	Thank you very much. Senator Kazimierz Wind. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-08-04-senat-24-2.u10	Mr. Marshal! Dear Family! Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! This resolution concerning the great person extended the scope of the discussion to include the Warsaw Uprising and related thoughts. This is obviously a lot of threads. I'm not going to take the overall assessment, but to those words that have already been said here, I'd like to add a few important thoughts, I think. First of all, we need to realise that at the time, at the end of July 1944, there was enormous pressure on soldiers, private soldiers of the Home Army, but also civilians, oppressed in various ways, also the pressure on the hope of what was happening on the east side of the Vistula River. I have to say that I had the opportunity to follow the generally known history of the Arsenal action twice, because it was the decisions of the Home Army Chief, and the young people stood by their arms and wanted to take their greatest friend out of the hands of the Gestapo. It was a drama for them: should they obey the decisions of the authorities, or should they follow the heart and fight? I also learned this on December 13, 1981, when we organized young people in the structures of the underground scouting mainly so that they would not fight on the streets. Of course, that's not enough talk. The second thought that Senator Ryszka was talking about I think the global significance of the uprising is important. This is hardly mentioned at all, and there is no doubt that it was of great importance in this dimension as well. Think three: the blood of the martyrs. We are so convinced that the blood of martyrs is never futile. From the mid - 1970's, August 1 after 5:00 p.m., I stood in Powązki and saw the faces of the people who came there. It was a great sense of strength and commitment resulting from that blood. I have no doubt that this blood of martyrs was also the source of breakages in 1956, 1970, 1976, as well as 1980 and 1989. It was the source of the independence struggle. And I won't agree that this isn't a pattern for today. We need to dive deeper into what the Underground State was. I'm just gonna talk about the Grey Line. It was a program today, tomorrow, the day after tomorrow. There was thinking about what would happen after the war. It was a mature vision of the state and society. All we can see is that they were running with guns, but there was also responsibility in their heads for today, for tomorrow and for the day after tomorrow. And that's the way to look at it. I have no doubt that it is a good example to follow the pattern of selfless service, care for the sovereignty and independence of the state, responsibility to God and history. Praise the Heroes! [[Glory!]] Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-08-04-senat-24-2.u11	Thank you very much, Senator. Senator Jan Rulewski. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-08-04-senat-24-2.u12	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The difference between the sentences that were just spoken from this speaker by the senator and Professor Żarin, can be acknowledged: a very competent historian Senator Bobka points out one thing: that this resolution, located in the context of the anniversary celebrations of the Warsaw Uprising in 1944, was not best prepared by the PiS community. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] [[Hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, ……]] It is true that the great matters, drama and tragedy of the uprising were applauded by the great figure of Bora-Komorowski. But this does not reflect what happened at that time in 1944. I will try, although it is not my duty, but merely the result of feeling, to combine these voices to look at these matters from a different point of view. 1944, ladies and gentlemen. I want to look at these issues from the point of view of Warsaw, about which then Hans Frank said that 3/4 of the problems of the General Government were Warsaw, because if there was no Warsaw, there would be no confusion in Poland, of course in the General Government. And those aren't idle words. Following are the actions of Kutschera, Fischer and others. What are these actions? These are still catchers and public executions announced throughout Warsaw, in all places by the megaphone. It is contrary to any logic: the Nazi hydra works even more efficiently, although it would seem that it should at least slow down. The export of 440 thousand Jews from Hungary is ending. There are still walls in the crematorium in Birkenau and in Birkenau. Only in April did ours break the resistance of the Nazis on the Gustave line at Monte Cassino. The action in Normandy's second front did not get such a rumour, and already in Germany... in Nazi Germany there is talk of a total war. With full consequence, and even with acceleration, the plan of biological destruction of the Polish nation is implemented. Of course, this is accompanied by mass exports, which have been increased due to the construction of fortifications in Prussia, Germany. So there is pressure of the nation, as if biological, to prevent this biological destruction action, and there is, of course, pressure of soldiers, including perhaps Bora-Komorowski, to join this Allied, of course also Soviet, front of the fight, to first, as I said, prevent further extermination of the Polish nation, and secondly, to participate in the beating... because the end was near. I think the pressure on these many factors, the existential factors, has led to a decision which, in effect, And today, when seen, it was a wrong decision, then it turned out to be the only and right thing I would agree with. If that decision hadn't been made This is the case, because there was a state, there were criminal branches that showed far-reaching responsibility; I am also talking about situations that were 40 years later, about solidarity, it cannot be ruled out that another execution under the walls of the Old Town, in Żoliborz, would cause this uprising. Hence my vote today, a proposal combining these differences of positions which are presented here. But let's not hide, they are also presented in other environments The request to acknowledge that above all the Warsaw insurgents, that people like Bór-Komorowski, too, actively involved themselves with the great sacrifice, with the blood tribute to the state in the act of victory, in the act of the Allied victory over the greatest threat of humanity, such as fascism and Nazism. Indeed, every resolution in this regard is the step that this act recognizes, because this act ended in victory. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-08-04-senat-24-2.u13	Thank you very much, Senator. Senator Joseph the Hare. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-08-04-senat-24-2.u14	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! Visitors of the Senate! High Senate! A few words from family memories. The article titled "The Cod Brothers of the Six" was written 4 or 5 years ago. It was about the history of a family of displaced persons from the coast who were assigned to my grandparents' estate. It was a nine - person family. And there were six brothers who left for Warsaw on July 26, 1944, with 2 baskets filled with several guns, bullets, grenades. What was passed on by my grandparents and my parents... This meant one thing: in the country there was already such a powerful wave of desire for liberation as soon as possible, that no one cared about the technique that the armies of that time had already possessed, and that tactical wisdom, wisdom regarding the use of various kinds of troops, simply suggested that all this makes no sense. I heard no one was able to stop it anymore. If they left Lublin on July 26th, it meant that there was a wave throughout the country of those who decided that it was time to fight. And if so, then I must say that whether the commander made the right decision or not is a secondary question. He just had to make that decision, and it wasn't going to work, it wasn't going to work. Therefore, knowing that situation from the stories, I bow before the son of General Bora-Komorowski. These stories, stories told from the point of view of one family, from which six brothers left for the uprising and none came back... Mother later went to Warsaw to look for traces, but unfortunately she found nothing. And that explains, I think, the whole situation. 'Cause today, we can be like, from the point of view of history, such a doctrine, such as that or any other view... They will change over time, but you have to realize that reality, and it was that it had to happen. I once acquired such a book, the Days of Insurrection. This is an album released by PAX in 1957. Today you can say it's some kind of communist publishing house. Well, no, there's hardly any comment here. There is only one very religious poem associated with the uprising, because everything is presented in pictures, i.e. in pictures, beautiful by the way. I had time to show it to a friend who could confirm it. It's also known. It's clear. That the Germans had organized provocations, much earlier. They chased troops to Warsaw... I wouldn't want to use their names here, because recently they have caused some international irritation, but they were troops that were very eager to join the pacification and murders, and they were carried out in a sophisticated way. Well, there are some interesting things about the uprising that maybe even historians don't know about. And that is why, coming from such an assumption, I say that today what remains of us is to bow down to those who knew then that they were going to die for their homeland. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-08-04-senat-24-2.u15	Thank you very much, Senator. Senator Jackowski, right? There you go, Senator Jackowski. [[The voice from the room: You've already said everything.]] [[Voice from the room: It wasn't written.]] [[The voice from the hall: But it was not written.]] He signed up, he signed up.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-08-04-senat-24-2.u16	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Dear Family! Since our discussion is coming to an end, I would like to thank you for all the votes that have been cast during this discussion. Not all the opinions I share, but I would like to warn you about two things in a universal way. And I'm saying this as a historian. The first point is giftism. This is a concept used in historical sciences, which means that today's criteria, today's state of knowledge is shifting to events from the past. At the beginning of our history studies, we are warned not to practice if we were doing biology, not to say: "What would have happened if we had, for example. What would have happened if Sobieski hadn't gone to Vienna, maybe we could have saved our homeland and so on. Various such wordings, of course, exist in the publication and have their lives, while the historian focuses primarily on the assessment of facts, sources and in some sense the reconstruction of the state of knowledge, what might have been known about this at the time of the decision and what was the basis for this decision. Of course, it can be judged critically, it can be disagreed with and so on, but that's interpretations. And I would like to thank Professor Żaryn for the fact that he presented a drama, a drama resulting simply from our history and from the two totalitarianisms that enslaved Poland in the 20th century. And here I think... I don't want to start a discussion. It is very fashionable at the moment, at all, about the uprising. There is a fact: we worship heroes, this time is special. And I think that in our national consciousness the Warsaw Uprising is one of the most important elements that create our collective consciousness. And that is why I do not agree with those voices which question the adoption of a resolution concerning General Tadeusz Bora-Komorowski. There are his streets, there is his school, he is an honorary citizen, he is worshiped in Poland, he is our great hero and witness of dramatic events Dramatic, I agree. It's the 20th century. And that's why I'm pleased that this resolution is going to happen. We'll do it in a minute. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-08-04-senat-24-2.u17	Thank you very much. I inform you that the list of speakers has been exhausted. The discussion is closed. We proceed to the vote on the draft resolution on the 50th anniversary of the death of General Tadeusz Bora-Komorowski. Who among your senators is in favour of the project? Who's against it? Who abstained from voting? Please report the results. 89 senators voted, 85 votes against, 4 abstentions, no one opposed. [[Voting No 2]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate adopted a resolution on the 50th anniversary of the death of General Tadeusz Bora-Komorowski. [[Applause]] I ask Mr. Adam Komorowski, son of the General, to approach the presidential table. I'd like to give you the text of the resolution. You're welcome. [[Applause]] [[The meeting is chaired by Vice-Marshal Maria Koc]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-08-04-senat-24-2.u18	We're coming... [[Talking in the O.R.]] High Izbo, please be quiet. [[Talking in the O.R.]] Mr. and Mrs. Senators, please be quiet. We proceed with the examination of item 19 of the agenda: the report of the Committee on Human Rights, the rule of law and the Petitions of the petitions that were examined in 2015. The text of the report is contained in print No 219. [[Talking in the O.R.]] Ladies and gentlemen, please take your seats. Quiet, please. I ask Senator Michael Sewerynski to present a report to the Committee on Human Rights, the rule of law and the Petitions of the petitions that were examined in 2015. You're welcome, Professor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-08-04-senat-24-2.u19	High Izbo! By fulfilling the annual obligation under Article. 90f of the Rules of Procedure of the Senate, the Committee on Human Rights, Rule of Law and Petitions shall report to the Senate on the petitions examined in 2015. Constitution of the Republic of Poland in the section "Freedom and political rights" in the article. 63 provides for the possibility for citizens to submit petitions, applications and complaints... [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[Quiet, Ladies and Gentlemen, please. Quiet, please.]] This provision states that everyone is entitled to submit petitions, applications and complaints in the public interest, his or her own or another person (...) to public authorities and to organisations and social institutions in connection with their tasks. [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators, I ask you to be quiet, because this chatter in the Chamber is really bothering the Senator of the rapporteur. Please take your seats and your attention.]] The work on petitions in 2015 was carried out by the senators of the Committee on Human Rights, the rule of law and the Petitions of the 8th term and the 9th term of office. In 2015, the Senate Marshal sent 13 petitions to the Committee on Human Rights, Rule of Law and Petitions, including 8 collective, 4 individual and 1 multiple. The Committee on Human Rights worked on these petitions at 16 meetings of 14 in the 8th term and two in the 9th term of office. Following the presentation of the petition, the committee adopted the procedure for the individual examination of each petition, discussions were held within the committee, and information, opinions and positions were requested from the state authorities involved in the issue of the petitions, as well as experts. [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[Ladies and gentlemen, please remain silent for the last time. If someone needs to talk, they can do it outside the pleural room. You're welcome, Senator.]] The meetings of the committee were attended by representatives of ministries, offices, institutions and non-governmental organisations carrying out tasks in the area covered by the petitions. On the basis of the analysis of 22 petitions, the committee prepared 4 draft laws: the Act on the Promotion of Employment and Labour Market Institutions, the Act on Taxation and Local Charges, the Act on Combatants and some people who were victims of war repression and post-war period, the Act on recognition of invalid judgments handed down against those who were repressed for the purpose of the independent existence of the Polish state. In the petitions examined by the petitioning committee, the petitioners called for: exclusion from the definition of income for family benefits of the amount of the write-off of the rent; amendment of the rules for the distribution of income of local government units; amendment of the powers to certify the compliance of copies of documents with the originals in administrative proceedings; elimination from commercial trade of psychoactive substances, so-called. Recipients; amendment of the rules on criteria and how to determine brain death; amendment of the definition of temporary accommodation in the context of the Act on the Protection of the Rights of Tenants; introduction of free medicines for the poorest and chronically ill adults and children; safeguarding the liability of the investor for obligations towards subcontractors in works contracts; amendment of the provisions of family and caring law, in particular with regard to the rights of fathers; change of the social security system so that entrepreneurs who are not employed by one-person entrepreneurs pay contributions to the Social Security Office only after obtaining income. In addition, the authors in 2 petitions called for the adoption of commemorative resolutions on the commemoration of the 630th anniversary of the Union in Krew and on the commemoration of the victims of the Augustow Obława of July 1945. In addition to the petitions I was talking about, the Senate Marshal, the Human Rights Committee, and other Senate cells and the Senate Office's units, there was a lot of correspondence coming in. In total, it was 1 thousand 471 letters, of which 381 were titled as a petition or containing proposals, proposals for amending the law. For each of the letters sent, the persons concerned received a reply. High Izbo, the committee also carried out other activities for petitions in 2015. Since 20 May 2015, an information campaign was launched on: Petition Your Law, addressed to citizens, NGOs and local government. The aim of the campaign was to promote the right to petition and to present the way in which petitions will be dealt with. As part of this campaign, the Human Rights Committee was a co-organizer together with the Institute of Public Affairs and the Ombudsman of the conference "The Act on petitions ', an impetus for civic activity organised in the Senate on 15 September 2015. In addition, in the framework of the Human Rights Day of 12 December 2015 in the Senate, the Human Rights Committee was co-organiser with the Ombudsman of the Panel on the right to petition. In conclusion, I would like to state that the examination of petitions by the Committee on Human Rights, the Rule of Law and Petitions serves the implementation of an important civil right guaranteed by the Constitution. Petitions enable the committee to take initiatives to improve the law in a manner consistent with citizens' demands. That's one thing. Secondly, the number of citizens' petitions in the Senate has increased significantly and we continue to see a growing trend, and the number of intervention letters which are not petitions is still increasing, but are being dealt with by the committee. This can be seen as an expression of citizens' confidence in the Senate and an important way of social communication necessary in the democratic legislative process. Thirdly, the political path of communication between the Senate and its citizens is the subject of a wide range of information activities undertaken by the committee. This purpose is served by conferences and seminars organised by a committee involving national and foreign actors and citizens concerned. Fourthly, committee meetings are open not only to the authorities concerned and to the Petists themselves, but also to representatives of non-governmental organisations, citizens and media representatives. All committee meetings shall be transmitted on the Internet in full. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-08-04-senat-24-2.u20	Thank you very much, Professor. Would any of you senators like to ask the committee rapporteur a question? I don't see any volunteers. Thank you, Professor. I'm opening a discussion. Please take the floor of Senator Jan Rulewski.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-08-04-senat-24-2.u21	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Your marshal routinely asked about those willing to ask questions to the rapporteur of the committee and at the same time to the chairman of the committee, Professor Severinski. This is a routine statement, because there were no questions, because Professor, Mr President, presented the report in such a way that everything is clear. Yes, sir, everything is clear in this report. But there is a need for me to complete it as a co-worker, a member of this committee, to present some reflections. First of all, it should be mentioned that the work on petitions in 2015 was partly carried out under the rule of the new law, the new amended act, not in the experiment this time, but on the basis of a strongly embedded law prepared by the parliamentary cooperation team with NGOs in the active participation of the Senate Marshal of the previous term, as well as our committee, which initiated and tabled many amendments during the work. As you know, this law is actually I'm talking about one thread, of course. First of all, it extended the possibility of petitioning other authorities, so that it was not just, so far, the Senate. In fact, citizens have been given direct, easy and, to say, modern access to any authority and organization that performs government tasks, using the Internet in simplified models of social dialogue, so free from bureaucracy, free of postage stamps, free from coming to meetings. And that's the first reflection, because it's what I promised you... It could be assumed that the number of petitions that will be received by the Sejm, and that this number was spoken by the President, Professor Seweryński, should change in the case of the Senate, given that the petition is also addressed by the Sejm, today a central institution in the parliamentary system of democratic Poland. But it turned out that trust and a previously developed tradition, a routine to say, the efficiency of the commission's operation caused And that's the cloud of this reflection. That these petitions to the Senate are coming in more. True, sometimes they are duplicated with the same petitions addressed to the Sejm, but this also means that the doors for citizens remain wide open in the Senate. The second reflection is that there's never enough democracy. Petitions show that even the best system And I think it's built in Poland. Democracy and this representative, and this parliamentary He still has his empty fields. Petitions, which are directed, and many of them, as the Professor has already stressed, have been adopted, mean that there are still civil spaces of disagreement with, for example. unfair treatment before the justice system, bearing the costs of error of the authorities, of judicial costs, even very small, to the fact that there are still many gaps in pension systems, understatements related to sudden changes, resulting in the loss of the essence acquired or considered to be acquired rights. But there are also petitions to the Senate. It's the third reflection. The concern of citizens for me to say, the view of the state. It was interesting, for example. This initiative to codify national symbols, i.e. emblem, flag or anthem. And that's the petition. Of course, it's just a handful... Because now all the energy of the nation, of the state, of society may be directed, though That's what I'd say, because I tried to check it out. Not very much, towards local governments, authorities, legislators and local authorities of other institutions... It'd be good to... The professor has already announced And that disciplines us very much, although he does it in such a way that you can't see this infamous whip That the conference is about to be held. The point is that, after at least a year of application, and even after a longer period of time, because it is probably now, in these days, the year of application of the new law, to look at the process under the rule of the new law. As part of this third, last reflection, I would like to thank all those who have petitioned, who have helped us, government representatives, NGOs, almost always participating in the decision-making process, and to you, ladies and gentlemen of the senators, who later have been working on these petitions at routine committee meetings. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-08-04-senat-24-2.u22	Thank you very much. Senator Mieczysław Augustyn, please speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-08-04-senat-24-2.u23	Mrs. Marshal! Mr. Senators and gentlemen of the Senators! Today we are discussing the implementation of one of the important civil rights. The Senate wanted to do something concrete. Among these general complaints about the fact that Polish citizens are not sufficiently active, that their social capital in terms of commitment to the common good significantly deviates, according to research, from the indicators achieved in mature Western democracies, we noticed that Poles are most likely to petition the European Parliament from all citizens of the European Union Member States. In Poland, however, the right to petition in the Constitution is not fully possible because there is no law in this area. This is our senate initiative. She's from the Parliamentary Group. Cooperation with non-governmental organisations that demanded such a law. I had the honour of conducting it through both Chambers of Parliament. We have regulated the procedure for examining petitions and obliged all the authorities of the State to create a path for the examination of petitions in both executive and executive bodies. At this point, I would like to thank the President and, through you, all the members of the committee. This is a great effort of the Senate and invaluable not only because we are considering matters of particular people who trust the Senate, that he will carefully consider their problems, but above all because of this example. In fact, if it were not for the work of your committee, it would be very difficult to convince the Sejm that it would be worthwhile to go in this direction, that it would not be useless, that we would not muddle Parliament with an incredible number of cases that would have to be considered. The Sejm has called - As we know. Even a separate petition committee, but I remember that when there was a discussion on the bill here, we also informally committed to two things that I would like to remind you of. One of them was mentioned by Mr President. The point was that we would promote the idea of petitioning so that citizens would know that they had rights. Our working slogan was: "Don't lay down your weapons, make a petition, with a joke drawing. I myself organized such a campaign, including myself in the efforts of the Senate, and I encourage you to do so. It is a good way, a good topic to meet with a number of environments focused on NGOs, but also in schools, especially upper secondary schools. It takes people to know that they have the right and how to do it. But also the second thing we've committed to. I'm looking at the senator here. Also through the continuation of the work of that team on cooperation with non-governmental organisations, where we continue to work together. We have committed that the Senate will be the place to monitor how this law works, whether the hopes it really holds are fulfilled. And yet it includes local governments. It seems to me that perhaps from our team or from the committee, a request should be made to the Supreme Audit Chamber to see if the local authorities have actually determined how to deal with the petition. I'm asking this in my district, and even though I see progress, I can say with all responsibility that there are still fewer local governments in my district that have settled this case than those who haven't. I think that although the law did not provide for any sanctions, we should ensure that the idea of petitioning is promoted. Perhaps it should be in the form of some joint, organized by the team and by the conference committee with the participation of local governments and other bodies, to show that we should not be afraid of petitioning. If, for example, The local government is open to citizens' voices, consults all activities, has the Social Fund, has a citizen's budget, there probably won't be much petitioning there. However, if it is not open to the public's voice, it must expect that they will want to exercise this right to express their views on the public good as they see it. [[Ad vocem.]] I would very much encourage the Marshal and the Senate Bureau, and the parliamentary team that wants to continue working with non-governmental organisations, and the President of the Committee on Human Rights, the Rule of Law and Petitions, to return to this obligation: as we were the leader in the implementation of civil constitutional law, the right to petition, so now we want to be the leader in promoting this form of public involvement in the public good.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-08-04-senat-24-2.u24	Thank you very much, Senator. And Professor Seweryński ad vocem.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-08-04-senat-24-2.u25	Thank you, Mrs. Marshal. I would like to tell the senator that yesterday the Senate Bureau decided to allow the holding of a conference on 29 November after the year of application of the petition law, which will also be invited by local governments and all institutions dealing with these matters. We will be discussing research conducted by the Institute of Public Affairs concerning petitions, and our own experiences. Senators today, November 29th. Thank you. [[And thank you.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-08-04-senat-24-2.u26	Thank you very much, Senator. And Senator Janina Sagatowska.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-08-04-senat-24-2.u27	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! (PL) Mr President, I would like to ask you a few questions. I'm not asking what the laws are, but what the judges are, is Montescius' idea. On the example of today's report on the conduct by Senator Sewerinski of this so important for the Senate, but also for the entire Polish committee we see how important these words are. It's a person of your professor, this great personal culture, this great legal culture, and all those who work in this committee, who also present a certain high level... Yeah, who's behind this, what kind of man drives it like that? I'd like to thank you on your hands, thank you personally on behalf of Senator Chudowska, because that's how we feel... I think I'm an expression of will now. Even though the words "thank you" are right here. Everyone present, thanking you for such a wonderful job. Why? That's what the professor emphasized. I am grateful for the thought that such great work of the committee makes the confidence in the Senate grow really fast. This is all the more important when every now and then, especially before the elections, we hear from different people, in the opinions of different politicians, sometimes appearing like a mist, that the Senate is not needed, that the Senate is needed, etc. Throughout the work of the reborn Senate, such opinions appear after 1989. And only such work, ant, substantive, responsible, positive, organic work we in the Senate can prove that our Chamber, the Chamber of the Higher Parliament, the Senate is very much needed by Poland and Poles, for example because of petitions, their growing role. Professor, I think I'll say thank you again. For me and for everyone, you are a great inspiration, and for us, and in committees, how to work, how to conduct matters, not to stifle, but to build and just by such an evangelical attitude as in time and not in time to do good things. Thank you very much. This is a wonderful report, showing a very wide range of petitions and problems raised by the committee, and they are very vital and important for the lives of citizens, for social, political and economic life, because that's where it all begins. If the citizens are satisfied, the work is different. Organic work at the bottom. This is the only thing that can benefit your country. Thank you very much again. I think we'll be able to hear again about the great achievements of this committee. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-08-04-senat-24-2.u28	Thank you very much, Senator. Please take the floor of Senator Zbigniew Cichonia.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-08-04-senat-24-2.u29	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! In fact, until the last moment, I was wondering whether I should resign, because to a large extent Senator Sagatowska has served me in what I wanted to say, especially to Professor Sewerynski, chairman of the petition committee. But I'm going to add something as a member of this committee that attends the meetings of all our teams when considering individual petitions. I would like to thank Professor Sewerynski for the fact that his iron logic and discipline of conducting these meetings on very often complex matters, on matters on which, because of the reasons for petitioning, are sometimes what to say, very private, personal interests... The Professor always knows how to do it so that my concerns, which I sometimes have before the committee hearing... When I see the number of petitions to be identified and when I imagine how many actors there may be, because representatives of different entities are invited to express their views, including those who are the authors of the petition, it sometimes frightens me that we will be sitting there for hours. And the professor's got a pretty good way of saying that in a relatively short time, things are done. I would also like to thank the group of ladies and legislators who are preparing studies on the existing legal status, i.e. de lege of years, possible requests for a change of legal status, i.e. de lege ferenda, as well as extensive, comparatistic, comparative, tables showing how the problem is resolved in other countries. I have to say, as a lawyer, I get a lot of satisfaction from reading these papers. In general, I have some knowledge about most issues, but I often learn a lot from these very reliable studies myself. So that once again thanks to the professor's hands for such smooth running of this committee and at the hands of the entire team who is preparing these materials for us. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-08-04-senat-24-2.u30	Thank you very much, Senator. I inform you that the list of speakers has been exhausted. The discussion is closed. Would the committee rapporteur, Senator Michał Seweryński, like to take the floor and comment on the senators' speeches in the discussion? Please, Mr. Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-08-04-senat-24-2.u31	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Thank you for your kind compliments. It is our duty to do what is our senate duty. Let me mention from this point of view the work of the Social Communication Office, which assumes the main burden of preparing all petitions in substance. This sometimes requires many weeks of study work, and in many ways this work can be comparable to the work of a great expert office. This is definitely one of those senate cells that deserves a high grade. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-08-04-senat-24-2.u32	Thank you very much, Senator. I join you in all the thanks you have received from this speaker, thank you to the Professor and to the committee you chair. I state that the Senate has read the report of the Committee on Human Rights, Rule of Law and Petitions on petitions that were examined in 2015. Ladies and gentlemen, I now announce a recess until 11 a.m. At 11 a.m., we will resume the proceedings and proceed with the examination of the item on the 20th agenda, and this will be the information of the Minister for Agriculture and Rural Development. Thank you very much. [[Adjournment from 10 minutes 32 to 11 minutes 00]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-08-04-senat-24-2.u33	I'm reopening the session. Senators of the secretary's office, please take your seats at the president's table. We proceed with the examination of the item on the 20th agenda: the Minister of Agriculture and Rural Development's information on the current situation on the basic agricultural markets, the EU Council's arrangements for agriculture and fisheries concerning the situation on the agricultural markets and the planned support measures, the development programme of the main agricultural markets in Poland for the 2016-2020 period. The text of the information is contained in print No 264. Welcome to the meeting of the Minister of Agriculture and Rural Development, Mr Krzysztof Jurgiel. I ask the Minister to speak and present the information.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-08-04-senat-24-2.u34	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Thank you for letting me speak again in the Senate and present the scope of the work carried out by the government and the Ministry of Agriculture under my direction. Let me remind you: in December we talked about the programme of activities of the Ministry for the years 2015-2020, in May there was such an extended debate on the ground. Another important area that we have regulated, which requires some action and programme, which we have sent to the public today, is the issue of agricultural markets. And that is why I asked the Senate bureau, the marshal, to make these three topics, in my opinion the most important, i.e. the current situation on the basic agricultural markets, the agreement of the Council of the European Union for Agriculture and Fisheries concerning the situation on agricultural markets and the planned support measures and the third theme, namely the Main Agricultural Markets Development Programme in Poland for the years 2016 High Izbo! Information on the current situation on the basic agricultural markets, arrangements at European Union level for supporting agricultural markets and work on the development programme of agricultural markets in Poland is, as I said in the introduction, information which should be communicated to Parliament. Now, during the harvest period and peak milk production, is the right time to analyse such important issues for Polish agriculture. We are also following the presentation by the European Commission, after my long procedures, the so-called July agricultural package. I'll discuss it later in my speech. I will start with a brief presentation of the most important information on the current situation in the basic agricultural markets. Let me focus on the milk market at first. Since the creation of our government, we have been struggling with supply-demand imbalances in this market. It is the result of increased milk production and supply of dairy products, both on the domestic market and on the Union market. This is the consequence of the abolition of the milk quota system in conjunction with the weakened demand for dairy products on the markets of developing countries and the Russian embargo on agri-food products, including dairy products, from the European Union. Poland belongs to the countries of the so-called European Union green belt, which have excellent conditions for the development of milk production. Let me remind you that the European Commission itself has encouraged us to do this by providing bright and optimistic forecasts of market developments in the world. As a result, Poland together with several other countries, such as the Netherlands, Germany and Ireland, form the front stage for their future in developing milk production of excellent quality. In the first 5 months of 2016, Polish dairy farmers concentrated 4.7 billion kg of milk, i.e. 6.7% more than in the same period last year. The high rate of milk buying has increased the production of all milk products, in particular milk powder and butter. However, the continuing low prices of milk products cause that even despite the increase in Polish exports of dairy products in the first quarter of 2016 the downward trend in milk prices has worsened. The buying-in price for milk has fallen by nearly 11% since the beginning of this year. , to a level below 103 PLN per 100 kg in May and June 2016. The milk buying-in price is 25% lower than in 2014. Although the price quotations of July this year indicate an improvement in dairy prices, which may be a preliminary signal of the recovery of the situation on the milk market, short-term forecasts suggest that the downward trend in milk prices may persist for at least the next few months. Let us hope that the milk market support package negotiated by me after long and difficult discussions will allow a reversal of this trend as soon as possible. Now let's move on to the meat market. The situation in the beef sector is stable. The average buying-in price for bovine animals is PLN 6.1 per kg, higher by 3.5% compared to last year. We also have very good export results. In the poultrymeat sector, there is another year of increasing supply. Prices of both the buying-in of chickens and the sale of carcasses are at the level of last year. Also in the poultrymeat sector, excellent export results are noted. During the 4 months of 2016, poultry meat exports amounted to 306 thousand t and were 16%. bigger than the year before. The situation in the pigmeat sector has clearly improved in recent months. Unfortunately, the prolonged crisis has affected the decline in pig population, but the current buying-in price for pig live in Poland is PLN 5.36 per kg and is 23% higher compared to the same period last year. The current price is around 5% higher than the price from 2011 to 2015. Growth trends are observed throughout the European Union, mainly due to a reduction in the supply of pigmeat and very good demand on the Chinese market, where exports of pigmeat from the European Union have increased by 106% this year compared to last year. Despite the restrictions resulting from African swine fever in Poland, Polish entrepreneurs also increased their exports of pigmeat. In the period January-April 2016 meat exports increased by 10% compared to the previous year , to a level of 142 000 t. At that time, imports also increased, but the dynamics of its growth were smaller. Now let's move on to plant production. The forecasts from the Institute of Agricultural Economics and Food Economy show that the total cereal harvest in the 2016-2017 season will amount to around 30 million t compared to less than 28 million t in the previous season. High global wheat stocks and good forecasts of this year's harvest in Poland and in the world affect the development of grain prices in the country at a relatively low level. The price of cereals in Poland is affected by a low level of domestic stocks, but the price level of cereals is much higher than the intervention price, so the supply of cereals to intervention is not expected in the near future. Poland has become a significant EU cereal exporter in recent years, effectively competing with third country markets. The competitiveness of Polish cereals is influenced by good quality and affordable price. In the period of January, April 2016 approximately 1.7 million t of grain was exported from the country compared to 2.5 million t in the same period last year. During this period 0.4 million t of grain was imported to the country compared to 0.2 million t a year earlier. According to preliminary estimates, the total area of rape and turnip rape is expected to be reduced by around 19% this year. , up to about 0.8 million ha. The area of rape and winter turnip rape, ploughed and certified for ploughing, was estimated to be about 136 thousand ha, i.e. 16% the area sown. According to the Institute's forecasts, the estimated size of the rape crop in 2016 will amount to 2,3o2,5 million t. As far as the sugar market is concerned, the area of sugar beet sowing in Poland is about 201 000 ha and is 17% bigger than a year ago. The increase in the area of sowing was due to the dream of winter crops in some regions of the country and the greater cultivation of out-of-quota sugar by sugar companies. Plant sowings and risings were carried out in favorable weather conditions. If the yield is average and is about 60 t/ha, the sugar beet harvest can be about 12.1 million t, that's close to 28%. More than a year ago. The high supply of raw material will produce between 1.8 and 1.9 million t of sugar, which will be more than 400 and 500 thousand t above the production quota and 100 000 t above domestic consumption. Sugar beet shall be contracted at a minimum buying-in price of EUR 26 per tonne. The depreciation of the gold means that the minimum buying-in price expressed in national currency may increase to PLN 115 per 1 t, against PLN 110 in 2015. The level of buying-in prices will also depend on sugar prices in the country. In May 2016, the net sugar price was PLN 2.27 per kg, which is close to 38%. more than a year ago. Significantly higher sugar prices compared to last year's prices translate into better financial results for the sugar industry. Now we're going to look at the fruit and vegetables market. In 2015, the fruit harvest amounted to a total of 4.1 million t and was 2% lower than the 2014 harvest. The apple harvest was 3.2 million t. In the 2016 fruit production forecasts, the Institute indicates a possible small increase in the total fruit harvest. Since January 2016, the prices of apples, both consumer and processing, have shown a downward trend. In the middle of this year, the prices of apples were more than half lower than those of mid-2015. The fall in industrial apples prices was largely due to the high supply of less quality fruit. Large supply and lower prices of apple juice on the international market have further contributed to the fall in the price of apples for processing. The lower demand for apples on the domestic market as well as the lower bid prices from the largest foreign customers also resulted in a decrease in the prices of apples for consumption. The area of vegetable cultivation was slightly smaller in 2015 than in the previous year and amounted to 176 000 ha compared to 178 000 in 2014. Last year's drought has had a major impact on the yield and quality of vegetables, which also translates into greater losses during their storage. Total vegetable harvest in 2015 was by more than 13% lower than in 2014 and amounted to around 4.8 million t. I would like to remind you that the situation of producers of fruit and vegetables improves the mechanisms of extraordinary support adopted in connection with the introduction by the Russian Federation of an embargo on imports of certain agricultural products from the European Union. In Poland, under the first three mechanisms, which included operations limiting the supply of fruit and vegetables, carried out from September 2014 to June 2015, aid of PLN 311 million was granted. The total amount of fruit and vegetables which, as a result of the operation, did not reach the domestic market was around 300 000 t. The total amount of support provided under the fourth mechanism will be EUR 137 million. Intensive legislative work is currently underway on the implementation of the fifth mechanism. Mr Marshal, High Izbo, after presenting the situation on the main agricultural markets, I would now like to discuss some initiatives taken by the Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development to improve and stabilise agricultural markets. I will start with the draft law on countering unfair exploitation of the contractual advantage in trade in agricultural and food products, which has already been adopted by the Council of Ministers and has been addressed to Parliament. The food supply chain is a very important element of economies, both national and global, and its importance is not only the economic dimension but above all the social dimension. For the proper functioning of the food supply chain, it is essential to maintain good relations between all its links. The draft law sets out rules against practices consisting in unfair exploitation of the contractual advantage by one of the parties to the contract. It covers suppliers of agricultural or food products as well as buyers of these products, protecting them from the use by one of the parties of unfair use of the contract advantage. The draft law also includes amending the Act on the Agricultural Market Agency, introducing penalties for the acquisition of agricultural products without a written contract. Another point I would like to say is the so-called concept. Polish product. In the Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development, a draft law was drawn up on amending the Act on Commercial Quality of Agricultural and Food Products, in which we propose the introduction of new regulations on voluntary labelling of foodstuffs with information about the Polish product, together with the identification of the design of the mark containing this information. These regulations will give producers the opportunity to indicate in the labelling of foodstuffs the national origin of the food produced in respect of not only the place of production but also the raw materials used. On 19 July, the draft law was adopted by the Council of Ministers for notification to the European Commission and Parliament. We are also working on rules on the labelling of meat from the country of origin. In response to signals about the need to increase consumers' access to information on the origin of food products, legislative proposals are being drawn up in the Ministry on a non-regulatory basis at EU level. They refer to the obligation to provide country of origin information for meat from pigs, poultry, sheep and goats sold without packaging. Let me remind you that the obligation to mark the country of origin of meat sold in packaging already exists. The draft rules are already after the resort arrangements. I would also like to inform you that the Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development has been actively involved in the work on a strategy for responsible development prepared by the Minister for Development. With regard to the market issue, a draft on the launch of the food platform has been notified to it. The implementation of the project will allow for the concentration of supply of domestic agri-food products on the European and global markets, which will allow for the creation of large, homogeneous lots. This will also reduce transaction costs and commercial risks, including the reduction of price risk, based on standardised contracts and products. Further notified projects concern e.g. creation of a Polish agri-food holding company or restoration and support of local agricultural markets. Currently, the Ministry of Development is working on the verification of projects. The project was submitted for public consultation for August September this year. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! In the next part of my speech, I will discuss the Council of the European Union for Agriculture and Fisheries on the situation on the agricultural markets and the planned support measures. Ladies and gentlemen, since 2015 I have been actively seeking additional funding from the EU budget within the European Union. to improve the situation on agricultural markets. As part of the debate in the Council of the European Union for Agriculture and Fisheries, I have repeatedly stressed that specific decisions on the stabilisation of agricultural markets are needed today and should not be translated into a more explicit deadline. For this purpose, I have put forward a number of proposals in the EU for, among other things, the market for milk, pigmeat and fruit and vegetables. On 14 March, at the request of Poland, a discussion was held on the market situation at the meeting of the Agriculture Council. During this meeting, I called for the re-introduction of temporary targeted direct support for milk and pigmeat producers, the increase of intervention prices for butter and milk powder, the mobilisation of export refunds for pigmeat and the increase of de minimis aid. At that time, the European Commission announced extraordinary measures to support farmers in the crisis, including. to mobilise the fifth tranche of temporary support for fruit and vegetables producers, to double the quantitative limits for buying intervention skimmed milk powder and butter, to re-launch private storage aid for pigmeat at the appropriate time for the proper functioning of the market, to allocate additional funds for promotion and information campaigns, to strengthen the role of producer in the supply chain, to establish a monitoring centre for the milk market. The proposals put forward by the Commission in principle were budgetary and legislative neutral, which means that they did not provide for additional support measures from the European Union budget or for amendments to the basic acts. At the time, I argued that no additional appropriations were allocated from the EU budget. there will be insufficient support for sectors in crisis, in particular the milk sector. Time has shown that these predictions have come true. As a result, due to the persistent difficult situation on the milk market, the European Commission presented the so-called 'European Union Council for Agriculture and Fisheries' on 18 July. the July support package of EUR 500 million, which includes, first, a mechanism to reduce milk production. It proposes to allocate EUR 150 million in support of financing the voluntary reduction of milk supply in the European Union. The milk producer will decide to join the mechanism individually by declaring the level of reduction in milk supply which he will undertake to achieve in relation to the reference period. The mechanism will operate at European Union level so that farmers' access to the programme will take place under the same conditions. The support rate is proposed for EUR 14 per 100 kg of milk which will not be delivered for buying in. I would like to point out here that this is not a target restriction, just for a period of three months. There's also a mechanism called: conditional adjustment aid. It covers the amount of EUR 350 million allocated per national envelope. Poland is to get 6.5% this amount, that is EUR 22.67 million. The project envisages the possibility of supplementing the amount of aid granted by the national budget with a maximum of 100% amounts of Union funds And in this direction, I am acting to ensure that these measures are granted. The aid will be paid to milk producers or, depending on the Member State's decision, to farmers in other farming sectors, subject to certain requirements. Aid may be granted to producers who carry out one or more of the following activities. This is a reduction in milk higher than that covered by financial assistance, a small scale of production, the use of extensive production methods, the use of environmentally friendly production methods, the implementation of joint projects, the implementation of quality programmes aimed at promoting quality and added value, training in financial instruments. These two mechanisms are the most important elements of the milk package. In addition, Member States were given the opportunity to make arrangements under voluntary coupled support for the dairy sector in order to ensure the separation of payments from production in 2017. Another element of the package is the extension of the public intervention period for skimmed milk powder until the end of 2017, when the standard intervention period will resume. By December 2016, the ceiling for the buying-out of skimmed milk powder at a fixed price will be maintained at 350 000 tonnes. The application of aid for private storage of skimmed milk powder will also be extended until the end of February 2017. It is also envisaged to extend the possibility of voluntary supply management by recognised producer organisations and their associations and interbranch organisations as well as dairy cooperatives. Moreover, the European Commission has confirmed the update of the support for the withdrawal of products from the market by producer organisations in the fruit and vegetables sector, as well as the earlier payment of advances of 70% for direct payments and 85% for rural development area payments until 16 October 2016 beyond the completion of the administrative control. During the debate on the package, referring to the difficult market situation, I pointed out that the aid measures put forward by the Commission must be simple to implement and quick to apply so that the aid to farmers can reach them as soon as possible. Commission delegated acts will be issued in mid-September 2016 to implement these proposals. Work has begun at expert level on individual solutions. I organized meetings with the milk producers' community. We have developed some opinions that will be translated into programmes that are now in the process of agreements and studies. In conclusion, I would like to say that exceptional support measures in the milk and pigmeat sector amounting to EUR 28.9 million have been introduced as part of existing measures at European Union level to improve the situation on agricultural markets. In addition to funds from the European budget, the current government has allocated an amount from the national budget equal to the EU budget, so that the total financial envelope available to support milk and pig producers amounted to PLN 245.7 million, at 122 million each for milk and pigmeat producers. 91 000 producers in the milk sector and 63 000 producers in the pigmeat sector were supported. In addition, there are private storage aid for butter and skimmed milk powder, which has been implemented continuously since 2014. There is also public intervention for skimmed butter and milk powder, of which Polish entrepreneurs directed more than 11% to intervention warehouses the total quantity of OMP. Now voluntary supply management Under the Commission Regulations, rules have been adopted allowing recognised producer organisations and associations, recognised interbranch organisations, as well as dairy cooperatives to enter into voluntary agreements and decide on the planning of milk production for the period from April to October 2016, when the sector has a seasonal increase in production. A temporary increase in State aid which would allow Member States to provide a maximum amount of EUR 15 000 per holding per year without applying any national ceiling. Fourth extraordinary support mechanism, i.e. temporary exceptional support for producers of certain fruit and vegetables, due to the extension by the authorities of the Russian Federation of the ban on imports of fruit and vegetables from the countries of the European Union. The estimated total amount of support under the fourth mechanism is EUR 137.3 million. And the fifth exceptional support mechanism in the fruit and vegetables sector It is currently being implemented in Polish law. I extend the deadline for submitting payment applications in 2016 to 15 June of that year. The next steps will follow, as I said, from the discussed July agricultural package. Mr Marshal, High Izbo, in the last part of the speech, I would like to discuss an important initiative, which I spoke about at the beginning, which was undertaken at the Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development, namely the development of a programme for the development of the main agricultural markets in Poland. The objective of the programme is to develop a clear concept for market participants of a long-term action to ensure that the identified objectives for the development of the national agri-food sector are met. The development of the programme also aims to systematize and collect information on current initiatives and directions of actions enabling the development of agricultural markets in Poland. The programme focuses on 9 agricultural markets, i.e. markets: cereals, rape, pigmeat, beef, poultry, milk and milk products, sugar, fruit and vegetables and tobacco. The first chapter of the programme analyses individual sectors, including data on their structure, level of production and external trade, thus drawing a picture of the conditions for the development of individual markets. It also includes a sector-specific SWAT analysis. Chapter 2 discusses the main instruments available for EU and national support to agricultural markets. The instruments discussed are available within the framework of the common organisation of the markets in agricultural products, direct payments, the Rural Development Programme 2014-2020 and the elements of national aid. Chapter 3 sets out the objectives and challenges for each sector and proposes measures to be taken to achieve the objectives set. The current situation in the various agricultural sectors varies as regards the dynamics of changes in production levels, trends in foreign trade, the degree of organisation of producers and the overall condition of the sector. Whatever the case, there are challenges and opportunities for development in each sector. The action section is divided into general actions which will affect all agricultural sectors as well as actions specific to selected agricultural markets. For example, in the pork sector, reconstruction of pig population in Poland is one of the main challenges. This is a challenge that requires multi-directional action. The proposals for action in the programme also include those that will facilitate the construction of new facilities with a lower administrative burden, but also those that will improve the consolidation of the sector. When analysing opportunities to support the development of agricultural markets and improve their functioning, it should be borne in mind that the current financial perspective under the common agricultural policy is already underway, the direct payments system and the rural development programme are adopted and opportunities in these areas are very limited. Currently, work on this programme is being finalised. Today it has been posted on the website and I encourage you to join, especially organisations who want to take the development of Polish agriculture seriously and discuss these problems. We're open. Let me remind you that I have set up a Social Dialogue Council in Agriculture, which consists of more than a hundred organisations. We have set up teams, we want to have an authentic dialogue and we want to seek solutions together, which I also appeal to the opposition, which recently during the cucumber season strongly criticizes the resort in the media, but good criticism is also needed. I encourage you to cooperate fairly. We do not criticize our predecessors and want to do what is good, together, so that our farmers can live a decent life and, above all, produce a cost-effective production when it comes to agricultural markets. I thank you for your attention and listening to the information I have presented on the current situation on the basic agricultural markets and the measures taken in these markets. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-08-04-senat-24-2.u35	Thank you, Minister. Would any of your senators like to ask you a question about this information? Mr. Marshal Borusewicz. I've been abandoned by the senators of the secretaries, so please be forgiving. There you go, Mr. Marshal.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-08-04-senat-24-2.u36	I signed up early. Minister, I have two questions for you. The first question concerns the implementation of direct payments from the 2015 campaign. On 4 June this year 12 billion 700 million zlotys were paid, that was 87.82%. Like when we're done... Because this payment should take place by the end of June. How does this work, how much is paid out, and what is the percentage? That's the first question. The second question concerns a situation that will probably take place in about two years, as Brexit and the UK's exit from the European Union mean a loss of between EUR 11 billion and EUR 13 billion per year for the EU budget. That's the net premium that the United Kingdom is making. For Poland, the annual loss amounts to EUR 1 billion 500 million, because so much of the UK's contribution affects Poland. EUR 1 billion 500 million over 2 years, i.e. in 2019 and 2020, that is about PLN 13 billion. As a result, the budget is likely to be reduced. The European Union's budget must be redesigned. Therefore, I have a question for you, Minister. Are you wondering what to do and what steps should be taken to prevent any cuts from affecting direct payments? Because reducing direct payments is the easiest... not as easy as the simplest decision. And that's the second question for the Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-08-04-senat-24-2.u37	Minister, you're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-08-04-senat-24-2.u38	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! As far as the first question is concerned, I would like to assure Marshal Borusewicz that payments have been made in accordance with the EU regulation. Except, let me remind you, we had a lot of trouble with the fact that the payout system wasn't prepared... There's documents and there's NIK control... Only those proceedings for which appeals have been appealed and are pending in the Supreme Administrative Court shall be dealt with. And maybe about 0.01%. these payments remain unpaid, precisely as a result of these proceedings. So that the procedure has been completed, the proposals for 2016. It's so-called. administrative checking and preparing for 70% payout which I mentioned during the previous speech, so as to pay 70% advance payments to farmers for 2016. This will certainly improve the situation with regard to farmers' finances. As far as Brexit is concerned, these commitments still exist at this stage. The United Kingdom's exit from the Union has not been followed. The consultation should be agreed As is the case with the Norwegian Fund or with the Swiss Fund How Britain wants to pay for its share of the single market. So that, you know, these cases are to be resolved. It is not our fault, especially the agricultural department, that the current European Commission, under the leadership of social democracy, has led the people of Great Britain to leave the Union. We also observe actions towards Poland, which make most Poles unhappy with this action by the Commission. But this is politics. Once again, I stress: there will be negotiations, there will be decisions, I am to make these decisions on behalf of the Polish government.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-08-04-senat-24-2.u39	Thank you very much. Mr. Senator Rulewski.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-08-04-senat-24-2.u40	Minister, you have said a lot about the development of agriculture, you have said: more vegetables, more vegetables, beets and other goods, but you have not said how to solve the problem which is this triad or the four basic elements that cause the growth of agriculture, namely water, sun, land and farmer. What about the water? The sun won't get any closer, unfortunately, that's a shame. The Earth can even be imported theoretically, although this... But there's no water, especially in Kujawy. There wasn't a word in your speech about water for agriculture. The current company system doesn't work. Second question: what did you do, Minister, to get what the United Kingdom received in the form of European aid for agriculture to bring this money to Poland? And the third question. They're talking about you, Minister, that you've moved the bill and stopped the land. When will you change your mind about earth trading?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-08-04-senat-24-2.u41	As far as the water system in Poland is concerned, the Minister of the Environment is responsible for this. We're responsible for the meliorations. Of course, in the last eight years there have been very large negligence because minimal resources have been allocated for this purpose. Currently, the law on water law is being completed, under which the Polish Waters Institution will be established, which will deal comprehensively with this problem. I would also like to remind you that Minister Grabiarkczyk has prepared a programme for the destruction of Polish rivers within his ministry. So that these processes have started, I will be responsible, in accordance with this law, for detailed meliorations. I am trying to ensure that the national melioration program, which was developed already nice a few years ago, but was not implemented. So that we definitely want to improve the water balance in Poland, apply these instruments and introduce further. And I believe that in Morawiecki's plan it will also be strongly emphasized. Second thing. You were talking about resources from the United Kingdom, how you could do to get back the money they were taking. Your predecessor, the senator, said it was going to be thinner if the United Kingdom didn't pay, so that there wouldn't be anything to share. I don't know what's gonna happen after the arrangements. I said that the measures that could be affected are measures for market share, as Norway pays the so-called. Norwegian Fund or Switzerland Swiss Fund. If Britain wants to benefit from this market, it will have to make some payments, fees. I do not know what she will be like, the negotiations will be conducted by the Polish government under the direction of Mrs Beata Szydło. [[Third question, Minister.]] Oh, the third one. When it comes to land trading in Poland, I am glad that it has been regulated. It was our program, it was farmers' demands. I don't know if you listened, there were strikes by various organizations in Pomerania two and three years ago, now these environments and farmers say that this bill was very needed. Too bad it's so late, says the majority. We are introducing a second stage when it comes to shaping the agricultural system in Poland. We already have preconceptions for the new law on shaping the agricultural system. Except for the turnover that's regulated... We will decide what forms of support for family farms, in accordance with the Constitutional Act, the State is to introduce, and these elements will be enshrined in the new law, as well as in the Rural Pact.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-08-04-senat-24-2.u42	Thank you very much. Senator Hare.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-08-04-senat-24-2.u43	Mr. Marshal! Minister! I'm gonna start with a little behind-the-scenes case. About 3 months ago I asked here to clarify the issue of the Ukrainian embargo on Polish food. I haven't received an answer so far. If the Minister wanted to move the mechanisms responsible for the response, I would be very grateful. First thing. Wouldn't it be worth it for this overproduction of cereals, and not just for overproduction of agricultural products, to think about the main market, a market that is as absorbable as any other market, because Western markets are rather difficult markets? I am thinking here about improving relations with Russia, which, starting with the old days... Wokulski, reporting on the economic situation in Europe, said that for us, with good political relations, Russia will always be the biggest and best market for agricultural products. I think it would be worth thinking about some improvement in the relationship, because it probably wouldn't take too much to open up this market, which for several years has shown such enormous absorption that our producers, especially those from fruit, were surprised, because practically everything was going, paid at hand, were very pleased. During meetings with farmers, and especially with fruit producers, in the area where I live, this is a very common remark: wouldn't we think again about improving relations with Russia with the aim of, of course, opening up markets for our agricultural products? And the third case. Namely, something that should be looked at very carefully and carefully is our neighbour from the east of Ukraine. When I traveled quite far to Ukraine about a month and a half ago, I was surprised by one thing: I have never seen such beautifully sown fields in those parts, so fantastically growing grain. It grew like in Ukraine It's a note from the old days. And those I've been seeing, among others. Rector of the University of Agriculture in Kamieniec Podolski, said that they mainly put on export of cereals, mainly wheat, to Poland. Looking at these beautiful Ukrainian fields, I think that their price, about which they said they would be happy when they reached it, unfortunately can be a problem for our producers. And here is the issue of keeping very close attention that way, so as not to cause something to disturb our agricultural product market. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-08-04-senat-24-2.u44	Excuse me, Minister. General attention to the senators to limit the questioning time to one minute. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-08-04-senat-24-2.u45	You have raised a few important points, with the fact that when it comes to relations between countries, it is the responsibility of the Foreign Minister and the Prime Minister, I will not refer to these relations. But I would like to inform you that in terms of relations with Russia, within the framework of the economic agreement between Russia and the European Union, Poland is represented by Commissioner Hogan in terms of agriculture, and he is taking action related to accessing Polish agri-food products to the Russian market. We know this market would be important to us, although I wouldn't exaggerate. But according to the announcement, there is a chance that this will be relaxed by the end of the year. But once again, I would like to stress: we cannot negotiate this. At least the relationship with the Russian Minister and Vice Minister for Agriculture... I had a meeting with them when I was in China or Belarus when I signed an agreement with Belarus, and I can say that these relations, when it comes to resorts, are good. But we know who decides: the government decides, Mr Putin decides. And I don't negotiate. As far as Ukraine is concerned, this cooperation exists here. The problem that is currently present is the issue raised by agricultural organisations, i.e. the issue increased above the quota of imports of cereals from Ukraine to Poland. Well, I may not have set up a team in this case, but I've asked everyone responsible for the state of import. Therefore, veterinary, sanitary, plant protection and customs services, and we have established increased controls, including controls in five institutions, which are suspected of... Well, maybe it's not as much a suspicion as we've been told that it could be the grain that's being imported above that quota. The problem that needs to be solved is not the issue of the Polish-Ukrainian border, because reports show that in this case there is no excess import. But the Slovak border, which is the other part of the European Union. As part of the Visegrad Group, I will put this problem on the table so that the services of those countries also increase their controls and that there are similar requirements as those made by the Polish services. Because the information I got from the vet shows, for example, that feed grain is not examined at the border of other countries with Ukraine. So we're gonna regulate these things. However, this is a difficult problem, at this stage the most difficult for us. As for the future, we have quotas at this stage. Will the Union come in... I'm sorry. Will Ukraine enter the European Union? If it comes in, I think it'll all be in the single market by now. Then we'll have to solve this problem somehow, but we don't know when it's gonna be.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-08-04-senat-24-2.u46	Thank you very much. Senator Chróścikowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-08-04-senat-24-2.u47	Minister, you and your representatives often have the opportunity to attend the meetings of our Senate Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development. We solve many topics on an ongoing basis. At the last meeting we spoke, among others. about the cereals market as well as fruits, especially cherries. Hence the question: what action did you take in the case of cherries? This problem is the most burning today, because the price of gold per kilogram of cherries is absurd. Before that it was 2 zlotys, 1.70 zlotys after the drop... We think there's a price conspiracy here, that there are actions that I would even call pathological, to put it mildly. We have information... Shouldn't the services, the CBA, or others be involved in this in order to counter action where collusion really exists? Because it's the UOKiK itself, as I see it, isn't enough. Probably soon your colleagues will bring you written evidence of the operation of companies that are collaborating to destroy Polish producers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-08-04-senat-24-2.u48	As you said, Senator, I have reported this problem to the Office for Competition and Consumer Protection, in accordance with the Act on unfair competition. We are also introducing this mentioned law on contractual advantage, which will, of course, be proceded, and some problems should be solved, because it will be necessary to conclude contracts under strict penalty. But if there's any information you're talking about, if I get the documents, I can refer the case to the authorities that can handle it. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-08-04-senat-24-2.u49	You're gonna ask Senator Kilian another question.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-08-04-senat-24-2.u50	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Minister, Law and Justice, in opposition, strongly criticised the Platform Government and the PSL that it did not lead to the situation where our farmers would receive the same subsidies as farmers from France or Germany. My question is: is the Government of Law and Justice currently discussing this matter with the European Union? And when can we expect our farmers to receive the same amount per hectare as a German or French farmer? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-08-04-senat-24-2.u51	Work is underway by the Minister of Finance and the Minister of Foreign Affairs to review the current financial perspective. This work is due to be completed by the end of the year, and I know that it also addresses the problem of inequality of payments. What the result will be, we'll see. If I have something to say, I will certainly not agree that in the new financial perspective these subsidies will also be uneven. Besides, it could have been done by the previous government, it was possible not to vote in favour of the regulations which constituted the amount of these payments, but it was agreed. It is known that it was the consent of the Polish government and now... Well, the government is always a government, representing Poland, so the Commissioner's answer is this: after all, Poland has given its consent. But we're still raising this subject, treating it as discrimination. I would like to remind you that, in the last term of office in the Sejm, a draft resolution was adopted at our request, which authorised or obliged the government to take action in this regard, pointing to the violation of 3 articles of the Treaty of Lisbon and discrimination on grounds of the producer's place of residence. It wasn't used, and I regret it.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-08-04-senat-24-2.u52	Now, Senator Florek.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-08-04-senat-24-2.u53	Mr. Marshal! Minister! In the Development Programme of the main agricultural markets in Poland for the years 2016 and 2020 there is such a laconic record about the promotion of Polish agricultural products and processing products on the markets of the European Union and on world markets. Can you explain this concept and tell us what this promotion is supposed to be about? Well, because we all care about as much exports as possible, i.e. To keep this high export going, and without promotion, you can't do that. So that I would ask you to explain that concept. What is this promotion supposed to be about?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-08-04-senat-24-2.u54	First of all, Senator, we are amending the Promotion Act, which thanks to our initiative was completed in the last term. This change is to be based on the fact that we will only promote articles that contain Polish products. It will not be that some company will bring agricultural products from other countries, and its products, after processing, will be promoted by us. We will only promote what comes from our pot, that is, what has been sown in Poland. We are therefore improving the position of the farmer in relation to the promotion fund. There is also a promotion program at the end, only that it must be compatible with this extensive program... sorry, intensive promotion, with the program of the Ministry of Economy. And we want... this promotion is to convince that our food is good in terms of quality and taste, and to encourage it to buy representatives of other nations.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-08-04-senat-24-2.u55	Thank you very much, Minister. That was the last question. I don't have any more entries. Senator Kilian? Please. Excuse me, Senator Spokesperson.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-08-04-senat-24-2.u56	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. I, of course, had previously reported a desire to ask a question. I am particularly interested in the pig market because it is a basic agricultural activity in my constituency. The Leszczyński district is known for its very good production. However, farmers are very concerned about the continuing influx of the biological material of piglets from the West, especially from Denmark. And I have a question: is it true that 30-40% The piglets that are on the market today in flocks are piglets from Denmark? Does the government monitor this issue? This is the first problem with this topic. The second concerns the inequality of operators in the case of the so-called. Overlay fattening. Are the Ministry and the government going to do something about it? Or have you already done something? Well, in the case of overlay fattening, the farmer isn't exactly a farmer, he's more of a mercenary, because he's just robbing other people's goods, but at the same time he's in KRUS. And farmers who compete with this type of activity, well, have some doubts. Don't you think the Minister should settle this? And a third question in this area of the pig market. You mentioned here about rebuilding the herd and supporting new facilities. It's already beginning to move in this business, if I may say so. The point is that these additional measures, which will be required when it comes to investing in new facilities, apart from the fact that they will come from EU funds, will come from external capital. Because, as I learned, in quotes, you penetrate... you tell our farmers that you're going to give them the right support, but we don't know exactly what the rules are, and so on. Do we have any surveillance on this? And does the government have a plan to protect farmers from uncertain or questionable capital to support these investments? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-08-04-senat-24-2.u57	Thank you very much. Mr. Senator, the Danish problem is... In the next few years they plan to increase imports... i.e. exports from Denmark to Poland about 5 million pigs. That's why we're preparing, and basically we're preparing. It is already completing the pig reconstruction programme. As I said in my speech, we are planning to increase our population by 30% by 2020. To this, of course, appropriate measures will be carried out in the framework of the RDPs. We need to compete in such a way that there are more piglets in our home, not to inhibit the flow of piglets from Denmark, because we do not have instruments for this. Only our cheaper production can cause it to be displaced. It has led us to have a pig population of only about 10 million, which is why we want to rebuild it. Other activities aim to increase foreign sales to 15%. We open up markets of all kinds... It's a pity there's been another ASF bonfire, explaining why this happened. Because we had almost an open market in China and, as I said, before 100% exports from the European Union were directed to China. I hope that soon this market will open, that there will also be sales from Poland, which will, of course, increase prices. In addition, measures are intended to increase to at least 80% of the share of pig live placed on the market on the basis of contracts for the supply of agricultural products. I said that the law on this, in short, the contractual advantage provides that there will be a need for contracts under penalty. So if there's an inspection that's gonna happen, or if there's an old one... If she finds that the purchase, as far as production is concerned, took place without an explicit contract, then it is expected to be up to 3% on the market... So that these mechanisms, first of all, seal, second of all, will cause that there will be no such combinations. And we want to rebuild through the activities of the RDPs... And that's where we have four actions that are about to be launched, and under these actions we're going to be granting grants, funding for these purposes.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-08-04-senat-24-2.u58	That was the last question. Thank you very much, Minister. I'm opening a discussion. Please take the floor of Senator Lyczak.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-08-04-senat-24-2.u59	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I would like to start by saying that I am very pleased with the turnout in the Chamber, because when there was an agricultural debate in the Sejm, there were so many Members in the Chamber that two hands could be counted on their fingers. This is evidence of outstanding ignorance and disregard by the House for at least 40% of the Polish people. It's different in the Senate, and I'm proud of it. I'll get to the point. I believe that, because Marshal Borusewicz asked about direct payments to the new management of the agency for the fact that the payments were made, for the fact that Polish peasants received these subsidies, only thanks and distinctions are due. As far as the next markets mentioned by the Minister are concerned, the milk market is the most difficult, production is the most difficult. I call her a slave. These producers are the most disadvantaged. I won't talk about the reasons, the Minister mentioned them. I think it is very good that it is and I would like to express my thanks to the Minister and the Ministry, the package of assistance that has so far been in force and which will be in force in the future. I believe that the spark of hope is what the Russians are announcing right now, which is that they will limit the embargo. I believe we're going to do everything we can to get back into those markets that they're going to open up. Another opportunity is also the so-called. Chinese train. I believe that in the near future it will leave Poland full and will be filled mainly with agricultural products, especially dairy products. Another market. I would like to mention the meat market and only stop at the poultry farm, which the Minister said was developing so well. I think that maybe it's developing too well, and that's why in the recent period there have been difficulties in this market, which means that the so-called ones have been introduced. an additional requirement to check that the damage to the feet is not in fact of major importance in production. And I would not question that if it were done similarly in all European countries. In Poland, I'll say the lowest possible conversion rate. It's 40 points, and the same conversion rate for a Dutch producer is 80... Hence the appeal to the Ministry. I know that some actions have already been taken, and the Deputy Minister has taken care of the problem. Producers demand only one thing: that they be treated like their colleagues in other countries of the European Union. As far as the pork market is concerned, it can worry about the state of the head, which is barely half of what was in good times, so you have to do whatever it takes to make the pig head... We used to be an exporter and at the moment Polish healthy pork 40% It covers the needs of the nation. The point is not to allow what happened in the case of sheep production The sheep disappeared from the Polish landscape, out of 6 million left in Poland at the moment maybe 200,000. Another market is the cereal market. I don't understand the GUS predictions about the collection. 30 million tons are expected. I ask: from where? After all, we know that at least half of our country's harvest is exactly half as low. I'm from Kujawy and our crops are just... instead of collecting e.g. 8 t of winter wheat, an average of 4 t. The price is also worrying. For export wheat, i.e. One that meets all export requirements, in Kujawy the farmer receives 640 PLN, and last year I sold it myself after 730 PLN. So it's over 10%. difference. Oh, so-called. I don't even mention the intervention, because when a Polish peasant who keeps up with the production of cereals gets 400 zlotys, it is bankrupt. There is another issue that is very worrying the farmers. Or let me put it another way: farmers believe that imports from Ukraine will not cause what Senator Zając mentioned, because unfortunately they are afraid of prices. I believe that our services will lead all of this so that for this grain, Poland will often be a transit country and will not be unloaded just outside the Polish border. And that's what I'm asking for. Another market is the sugar market. I regret it very much because we used to be an exporter of sugar, and right now we have to import it. But it's not surprising, because five years ago, a ton of beet was received by a farmer on average about 220 PLN, and today he receives, as the Minister mentioned, 115 zł. To conclude, I would like to say that two proposals for new laws, namely the Act on the unfair purchase of agricultural products... Governments change, thieves aren't afraid, and there's still an issue. The problem is that you get goods from a producer that you don't pay for. Let me give you one last example: in Pomerania from producers the company bought... took, stole broilers for 22 million zlotys and farmers arrive... Our Deputy Minister of Justice took care of the matter. For a point of honor, he bets himself he'll help them. And another, one last thing. This is what the Minister mentioned about the labelling of the Polish product. Poles are often deceived. We have an example of Sokolov, for which a number of pigs are Danish pigs. And all you have to do is ask the ladies who work in the Senate who buy the products, and most of them answer: "We buy, Mr. Senator, only Sokolov's products, because this is the healthiest Polish pork. When I said it was Danish poison, it just opened... So, Minister, this is a very good step. So much for me. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-08-04-senat-24-2.u60	Senator Chróścikowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-08-04-senat-24-2.u61	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Thank you very much for your willingness to speak with us in our House. Indeed, it is a great opening that it is the Minister himself who offers us the opportunity to communicate information, dialogue and discussion, which was not entirely possible in previous terms. I appreciate and appreciate this very much, because not only are the work in our Senate Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development very active by the Minister, who often even participates in them himself or by his representatives, Vice-Ministers. [[The minister's a man, too.]] In fact, the problems that my previous speaker, the Senator, mentioned just now, have already been discussed in detail in committee meetings and I would not like to repeat all of this, but I am conveying my words of appreciation and thanks for this activity in the European forum that you are taking. I cooperate with organizations and trade unions, chambers and others, with all those who want the good of the Polish farmer, and I must admit that the cooperation we carry out brings, as you can see, tangible results. Because even our last speeches to Commissioner Hogan in the Polish Parliament, which were not so long ago, because Commissioner Hogan was with us in Parliament and together as Parliamentary and Senate committees we had a dialogue, as well as at other meetings, and Mr Hogan takes all these actions rather hard and is not always yielding, he does not always agree on what we are asking for... But the joint statements of the organization to Hogan or the replies of 29 July to the last letters, the replies of Commissioner Hogan to us, to the union organisations that have been involved, show that the European Commission takes our position, the Polish government seriously, as well as the organisations that support the minister. This is an event that actually, at the moment, can be said to have resulted in this 500 million package, which is 350 million and 150 million for market-related activities, especially the milk market, because the milk market is the most difficult. It gives you a clear effect and co-operation gives you a chance to improve... There's a signal, Minister, because the price of milk has moved. You can already see that it has resulted in the launch of even small resources, because they will be started for a period of time, that is until September next year... Therefore, this process will continue, but these actions which the government has taken, which means that it has added Polish funds to the 29 million euro for pigs, have helped the livestock producers, which should be stressed here. Of course, the Minister of Finance, I see, will not always share with the financial favor, but in this case he has actually granted the funds. I hope that the Minister will also receive funds for the next million euros which are allocated in the package for Poland, that he will add this next amount to the 28 million euros that are allocated, that this will be possible. There is also the possibility that the Minister mentioned, i.e. to consider granting funds not only to milk producers, but also to other operators who have lost their income, because I think it is also necessary to look at it. We lost the pork market. From the committee meetings we have had recently, it appears that in the last year compared to the previous year there are over 1 million 300 thousand pigs lost, that is a huge amount, a loss only in one year. I'm not saying we've lost almost half our production. Today, there is an appeal to farmers to cooperate. If we farmers want to produce only grain, and do not want to raise livestock, we do not want to have animal production, then at this point it is a question, to us farmers, also: if we only want plant production without processing, then who will buy all this from us without processing? It's always been in our tradition that raising income was for animal breeding. If we farmers let go of this market, then the grain will never be able to go abroad because there are no such markets. We need to be aware of this, and we need to be sensitive to our farmers. We can't be sure it's gonna be easy, that we're just gonna have plant production, without animal production. That's never happened. And today, from this tribune, I have an appeal to farmers... We must care about prices, about income, but also about it being too much for cereals. Let's remember that a significant part of cereal production goes to feed, so if we don't process it, we can't have a claim to the Polish government... We cannot have demands, without fulfilling the basic obligation, these cereals should be processed into feed. It's been like this for centuries, and it's still supposed to be like this. The government should take such measures to shape this profitability on the European market. The Russian Embargo has collapsed this market, the ASF is a huge threat to the livestock producers. Hence, the call for bioinsurance programmes to actually work to ensure that the services are very careful and that the threat of ASF does not extend to further areas of Poland, because it would completely eliminate us from the production of the livestock for export. We need a lot of action here. Hence the appeal to the Minister to see to it that we make sure of everything we can. I thank the Minister for the new solutions he proposes in the laws. I hope that in the near future we will be able to talk about the details of the stabilisation fund that my previous speaker was talking about. You call it a project. I've told you many times that we're talking about a guaranteed employee benefit fund that would indicate that those who fall... It would be possible to pay the employees' wages. So far, there's no such thing, although in the previous term... No compensation can be made for the loss of all farmers, but on the basis of income lost by companies that have died, it is possible to... I have repeatedly paid attention to this and I expect it to happen soon that the Minister will take this action with Parliament. Thank you once again, Minister, for addressing the new programming challenges within the European Union. I want to signal that, as part of the international COPA-COGECA meetings... The information provided at the last meeting with Commissioner Hogan and the French representatives is about the French proposal for Brexit, namely that... the idea is to extend this programming by 2 years, which is in force by 2020. I'm thinking about it, because at this point, we wouldn't have gotten a new... As I say, the proposals are not to make changes faster, but to extend this time by 2 years. The program, which was to be finished in 2013... In 2014, you remember the Minister, the actions were identical to those of the previous programming period. At the moment, in the European Union, they want us to propose two years longer... But here he bows, Brexit, here they bow... I'm sure you'll have our support. The previous coalition government had support in the form of a Senate resolution or the resolution of the parliament, had a strong negotiating position expressed by the Polish Parliament. Thank you, Minister. I wish you success and perseverance in what you do. It's not easy for you to take the run, but I think the farmers are supporting you today. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-08-04-senat-24-2.u62	Thank you very much. Senator Romanchuk. [[No, thank you.]] No? Good. The discussion is closed. Would the Minister like to speak again? No. Thank you very much. Thank you, Minister, for providing the Senate with information. I declare a ten-minute recess until 12:25, followed by the vote. [[Adjournment from 12 minutes 14 to 12 minutes 25]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-08-04-senat-24-2.u63	I'm reopening the session. We return to the first item of the agenda... [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[Voice from the hall: Like at the market...]] Ladies and gentlemen, I have already resumed the session. Please take your seats. There's an hour we should start voting on. We return to the examination of the first item of the agenda: the Law on special rules for the settlement of tax on goods and services and the reimbursement of public funds for the implementation of projects financed from the budget of the European Union or from the Member States of the European Free Trade Agreement by local government units. The Committee on Territorial Government and State Administration and the Committee on Budgets and Public Finance have presented a draft resolution in which they propose amendments to the Senate Act No 260 A. First of all, the amendments will be voted on and then the resolution adopted on the adoption of the law in its entirety, as amended by the amendments adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Amendment 1 takes into account in the definition of eligibility of the tax that the catalogue of acts setting out the criteria for receiving Union funds contains implementing acts issued under the laws. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 81 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 3]] The amendment was accepted. Amendment 2 assumes that the definition of a grant agreement should not include partnership agreements within the meaning of the Development Policy Law. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 82 senators voted, 81 were in favour, 1 against. [[Voting No 4]] Amendment 2 was accepted. Amendments 3 and 12 should be voted on together. They shall order the provisions concerning the submission by the local government unit of information on the taking-up of accounts with all organisational units, deleting the arrangements in an unjustified way which differentiates the basis for the submission of such information, depending on the time limit for centralised clearance. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 85 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 5]] The amendments have been accepted. Amendment 4 makes it clear that the last day on which a local authority's business unit benefits from the exemption provided for in the provision is the day preceding the date of the joint settlement of the tax. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 85 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 6]] Amendment 4 was accepted. Amendment 5 deletes normative unnecessary reservation. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 86 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 7]] The amendment was accepted. Amendment 6 assumes that if Union funds were not reimbursed before the date of entry into force of the Act, the local government unit will not be able to deduct the tax in this respect. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 88 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 8]] The amendment was accepted. Amendment 7 harmonises the references under the Act. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 86 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 9]] The amendment was accepted. Amendment 8 eliminates the ambiguity of the provision on the obligations relating to the issuing of invoices and amending invoices. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 88 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 10]] The amendment was accepted. Amendment 9 to the amendment made in the Public Finance Act deletes the outdated reservation. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 88 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 11]] Amendment accepted. Amendment 10 amends the date of entry into force of the Act. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 87 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 12]] The amendment was accepted. Amendment 11 replaces inadequate instruction on criminal liability for false testimony with an instruction on criminal liability for tax fraud. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 90 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 13]] The amendment was accepted. Amendment 13 is editorial. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 90 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 14]] The amendment was accepted. Amendment 14 is editorial. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 90 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 15]] The amendment was accepted. We are voting on the adoption of a resolution on the adoption of the law in its entirety, with amendments resulting from the amendments adopted. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 89 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 16]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the Law on the special rules for the settlement of tax on goods and services and the reimbursement of public funds for the implementation of projects financed from the budget of the European Union or from the Member States of the European Free Trade Agreement by local government units. We would like to return to the second agenda: the Act amending the Personal Income Tax Act and the Corporate Income Tax Act. The meeting of the Committee on Budgets and Public Finance took place at the end of the meeting, which responded to the proposals put forward during the debate and prepared a report on the matter. It is in print No 255 Z. I would ask the rapporteur, Senator Tadeusz Romanczuk, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-08-04-senat-24-2.u64	Mr. Marshal! High Senate! Today in the morning, i.e. At 8.15 p.m., a meeting of the Committee on Budgets and Public Finance took place. The Commission has leaned on the amendments, including the 1st amendment tabled by the opposition. This amendment was not accepted. The remaining 3 amendments were accepted by the committee. I therefore request that the bill supported by the Committee on Budgets and Public Finance be passed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-08-04-senat-24-2.u65	Thank you very much, Senator. Do the Senators of the applicant or the other Senator rapporteur still want to speak? In the course of the discussion, you submitted your conclusions to Senator Kazimierz Klein, Senator Robert Dowhan, Senator Tomasz Grodzki, Senator Leszek Czarnobaj, Senator Marek Borowski and Senator Wiesław Kilian. [[Thank you very much.]] I can't see, I can't hear. We'll proceed with the vote. First of all, the amendments will be voted on and then the resolution adopted on the adoption of the law in its entirety, as amended by the amendments adopted. Amendment 1 assumes that, in line with the solutions proposed in the Corporate Income Tax Act, the reduced 15% tax rate will be applied to taxable persons engaged in business activities as natural persons. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 90 senators voted, 33 were in favour, 57 against. [[Voting No 17]] The amendment was rejected. Amendment 2 regarding the introduction in the Corporate Income Tax Act 2 sets out the reference in the provisions defining foreign controlled companies contained in the Personal Income Tax Act. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 90 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 18]] Amendment 2 was accepted. Amendment 3 in connection with the introduction in the Corporate Income Tax Act 2 sets out the reference in the provisions defining foreign controlled companies contained in the Corporate Income Tax Act. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 89 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 19]] The amendment was accepted. Amendment 4 deletes unnecessary clarification and thus harmonises substantive provisions with transitional provisions of the Act. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 88 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 20]] We are voting on the adoption of a resolution on the adoption of the law in its entirety, with amendments resulting from the amendments adopted. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 90 senators voted, 87 were in favour, no one opposed, three abstentions. [[Voting No 21]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the Act amending the Act on Income Tax on Individuals and the Act on Corporate Income Tax. We return to the examination of the third item of the agenda: the Act on amending the Act on tourist services and the Act on compulsory insurance, Insurance Fund and the Polish Office of Communication Insurances. The Committee on National Economy and Innovation and the Committee on Budget and Public Finance have presented a draft resolution in which they request the adoption of this law without amendment. We proceed to the vote on the draft resolution submitted by the committees. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 90 senators voted, 88 were in favour, two abstentions. [[Voting No 22]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the Act amending the Act on tourist services and the Act on compulsory insurance, Insurance Fund and the Polish Office of Communication Insurances. We return to the examination of the fourth item of the agenda: the Act amending the Act on Professional and Social Rehabilitation and the Employment of Persons with Disabilities and some other laws. The Committee on Family, Senior and Social Policy presented a draft resolution in which it requested the adoption of this law without amendment. It is in print No 249 A. We proceed to the vote on the draft resolution submitted by the committee. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 87 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 23]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the Act amending the Act on Professional and Social Rehabilitation and employment of persons with disabilities and certain other laws. We return to the examination of the fifth item of the agenda: the law on amending the law on supporting family and foster care, the Social Assistance Act and the Act on amending the law on local government and some other laws. The session was interrupted by a meeting of the Committee on Local Government and State Administration and the Committee on Family, Senior and Social Policy, which responded to the proposals put forward during the debate and presented a joint report on the matter. It is available in print No 256 Z. I would ask the rapporteur, Senator Antoni Szymanski, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-08-04-senat-24-2.u66	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The joint committees after the meeting today propose that amendments 1, 4, 6 and 7 be adopted. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-08-04-senat-24-2.u67	Thank you very much. Do the Senator, Mr Richard Majer, or the other Senators of the rapporteur want to speak yet? Senator Arkadiusz Grabowski, Senator Piotr Florek? I don't hear any calls. We'll proceed with the vote. First of all, the amendments will be voted on and then the resolution adopted on the adoption of the law in its entirety, as amended by the amendments adopted. Amendments 1, 4, 7 should be voted on together. The adoption of these amendments excludes voting on Amendments 2, 3 and 5. Amendments 1, 4 and 7 aim to create the possibility for care institutions to operate with the consent of the voivodship on a single land property and extend the prohibition to combine care facilities with specialised support centres for victims of violence in the family. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 90 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 24]] Amendment 2... [[Voice from the O.R.: Six.]] Yes. Amendment 6 limits the addressee of the provision to social assistance agencies providing 24-hour services and extends the catalogue of entities with which they are not allowed to connect to specialist support centres for victims of domestic violence. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 88 senators voted, 87 were in favour, one abstention. [[Voting No 25]] We are voting on the adoption of a resolution on the adoption of the law in its entirety, with amendments resulting from the amendments adopted. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 90 senators voted, 63 were in favour, 2 against, 25 abstentions. [[Voting No 26]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the law amending the law on supporting family and foster care, the Social Assistance Act and the Act on amending the law on local government and some other laws. We are returning to the examination of item seven of the agenda: the Act amending the Act on Nuclear Law. The Committee on the Environment presented a draft resolution in which it requested the adoption of this law without any amendments to Senatski print No 228 A. We proceed to the vote on the draft resolution submitted by the committee. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. The votes were 91 senators, 62 votes against, 27 against and 2 abstentions. [[Voting No 27]] In the light of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the Act amending the Act on Nuclear Law. We return to the examination of item 8 of the agenda: the Act on Access to and Sharing the Benefits of Genetic Resources. The Committee on the Environment and the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development have presented a draft resolution in which they apply for the adoption of this law without amendments Senator's printing No 248 A. We proceed to the vote on the draft resolution submitted by the committees. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 92 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 28]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the Act on Access to Genetic Resources and the sharing of benefits from their use. We return to the examination of item 9 of the agenda: the Act amending the Act on the National School of Public Administration. The Committee on Territorial Government and State Administration presented a draft resolution in which it requested the adoption of this law without any amendments to Senate printing No 225 A. We proceed to the vote on the draft resolution submitted by the committee. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 92 senators voted, 62 votes against, 28 against and 2 abstentions. [[Voting No 29]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the Act amending the Act on the National School of Public Administration. We are returning to the examination of item 10 of the agenda: the Act amending the Public Collective Transport Act. The Committee on Territorial Government and State Administration and the Committee on Infrastructure have presented a draft resolution in which they request the adoption of this law without any amendments to Print No 251 A. We proceed to the vote on the draft resolution submitted by the committees. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 92 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 30]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the Act amending the Act on Public Collective Transport. We are returning to the examination of item 11 of the agenda: the Act amending the Law on specific rules for the preparation and implementation of investments in the field of public use airports. The Committee on Territorial Government and State Administration and the Committee on Infrastructure have presented a draft resolution in which they request an amendment to the Law No 250 A. In the first place, a vote will be taken on the amendment submitted and then a resolution on the adoption of the law in its entirety, as amended by the amendment adopted. We proceed with the vote on the amendment presented by the Committee on Local Government and State Administration and the Committee on Infrastructure, which is of a technical legislative nature; it avoids contradictions between the provisions of the Act. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 92 senators voted, 91 for, 1 against. [[Voting No 31]] The amendment was accepted. We proceed to the vote on the adoption of a resolution on the adoption of the law in its entirety with the amendment resulting from the amendment adopted. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 90 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 32]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the Law amending the Law on specific rules for the preparation and implementation of investments in the field of public use airports. We are returning to the examination of item 12 of the agenda: the Act amending the Law on Aviation Law. A meeting of the Committee on Infrastructure took place at the end of the meeting, which responded to the proposals put forward during the debate and prepared a report on the subject. It is available in print No 259 Z. I would ask the rapporteur, Senator Wiesław Dobkowski, to submit a report to the committee. [[Don't mess with me, villager.]] [[It's only fair for me to be back in time...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-08-04-senat-24-2.u68	Mr. Marshal! High Senate! The Infrastructure Commission today, on 4 August, at 8.20 p.m., had its meeting at which it considered the Law amending the Law on Aviation Law. It was called because Senator Flork had tabled an amendment. The Commission, by 5:3 votes, accepted the proposal to adopt the law without amendment and asks the High House to adopt the law without amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-08-04-senat-24-2.u69	Thank you very much, Senator. Does Senator Piotr Florek still want to speak? [[Yes.]] There you go, Mr. Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-08-04-senat-24-2.u70	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The amendment of the Act states that the Chairman of the State Air Accident Investigation Commission must have at least 3 years of experience in the safety investigation and that the Deputy Chairman At least 2 years of experience in safety investigation. For the other members of the committee there is no such requirement. [[No criterion.]] In Article 2, paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: Article 17 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 12 It is noted that a member of the committee may become a member of a person who is a Polish citizen and enjoys full public rights, has full legal capacity, has not been punished for a criminal offence committed intentionally, has a diploma in higher education, higher education, which is also a bachelor's degree, because there is no second degree here. Ladies and gentlemen, the amendment concerns the addition of point 5 as follows: It has at least two years of experience in the field of safety investigation. So that's the same requirement as the one for the deputy president. [[Of course.]] Mr. Minister... At the committee meeting, it was mentioned that Article. 14 states that the committee consists of specialists in the field of... and here it is mentioned in the scope of what. However, experience in safety investigations and being a specialist, and that's a very broad concept, is quite different. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to ask the support of this amendment so that all the members of a very important committee for accident investigation have experience. [[There isn't any!]] And I'm just gonna say, if it's like this. on the State Committee on Marine Accident Investigation State, which I would like to point out This is a requirement of 15 years and 10 years in her case. Here, in the case of a member of the committee, there is no requirement at all. Thank you. [[Applause]] [[That's the point.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-08-04-senat-24-2.u71	Thank you very much, Senator. We'll proceed with the vote. In the first place, a vote will be taken on the proposal to adopt the law without amendments, and then, if this proposal is rejected, on the amendment tabled. We are voting on the proposal of the Committee on Infrastructure, supported by the committee, for the adoption of a law without amendment. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 92 senators voted, 62 for, 27 against, 3 abstentions. [[Voting No 33]] In the light of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the Law amending the Law on Aviation Law. We return to the examination of item 13 of the agenda: the law amending the Law on the provision of health care financed by public funds and certain other laws. The meeting of the Committee on Health and the Committee on Territorial Self-Government and State Administration took place at the time of the debate, which responded to the conclusions put forward during the debate and prepared a joint report on the matter. It is available in print No 250 Z. I would like to ask Senator Bogusława Orzechowska to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-08-04-senat-24-2.u72	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The joint committees, the Health Commission and the Committee on Local Government and State Administration discussed the proposals for amendments tabled during the debate on the Law amending the Law on the provision of public-funded healthcare and certain other laws. After hearing the opinion of the Ministry and justifying the proposals made by Senator Grodzki, the committees voted on the position to ask the Senate to adopt the law without amendments. There were 13 votes against. Six. So I'm filing for a bill without amendment.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-08-04-senat-24-2.u73	Thank you very much, Senator. Does Senator Senator Thomas Grodzki still want to speak? You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-08-04-senat-24-2.u74	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! Minister! The principle of nothing about us without us, in the matter in which we distribute big money, whether EU or public, should apply. The amendment is not intended to give preference to hospital owners, whether to marshals or old men. And let me remind you that the marshals have almost 440 hospitals, which is a huge potential in the system. In order to improve the process of rationalising the spending of public money, we want the owners of units of every level, from the minister, through the marshals, through the elders... This amendment is intended to make this process more efficient, so as to avoid potential conflict situations when the decisions of the voivodeship are not agreed with the owners of the units at the stage of the preparation of decisions. We are maintaining this amendment. Thank you very much. [[Yes, sir.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-08-04-senat-24-2.u75	Thank you very much, Senator. We'll proceed with the vote. First, a vote will be taken on the proposal to adopt the law without amendments and then, if this proposal is rejected, on the amendments tabled. We proceed to the vote on the committee's proposal, supported by the joint committees, for the adoption of a law without amendment. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 93 Senators voted, 62 votes against, 30 against and 1 abstention. [[Voting No 34]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the Law amending the Law on the provision of health care financed by public funds and certain other laws. We return to the examination of item 14 of the agenda: the Law amending the Civil Procedure Code, the Law on the Notariat and the Law amending the Civil Code, the Law amending the Civil Procedure Code and some other laws. The Committee on Human Rights, Rule of Laws and Petitions and the Legislative Commission have presented a draft resolution in which they request the adoption of this law without amendment of the "Print No 258 A." We proceed to the vote on the draft resolution submitted by the committees. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 91 Senators voted, 89 for, 2 against, and no one abstained. [[Voting No 35]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the Law amending the Civil Procedure Code, the Law on the Notariat and the Law amending the Civil Code, the Law on the Civil Procedure Code and some other laws. We return to the discussion of item 15 of the agenda: the law amending the law on copyright and related rights. A meeting of the Committee on Culture and Media took place at the end of the session, which responded to the proposals put forward during the debate and prepared a report on the matter. It is available in print No 247 Z. I would ask the rapporteur, Senator Jerzy Fedorovich, to submit a report to the committee. [[It's only for a short time! Short!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-08-04-senat-24-2.u76	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. [[You're welcome.]] Thank you. High Izbo! There was a committee meeting on Senator Martynowski's motion to adopt the bill without amendment. This conclusion was not received by the majority. We have therefore voted on the proposal for an amendment to the law. This conclusion was obtained by a majority. The committee therefore recommends that the law be adopted without amendment. I have to add one thing, because not all of us... [[How about no corrections?]] [[Joy in the Chamber]] [[Applause]] [[A Czech mistake!]] [[This is actually our friend...]] [[Explain it! Explain it! Can you explain that?]] [[We're voting, then.]] Excuse me, Mr. Marshal. I don't know, I don't know what's going on... [[Joy in the Chamber]] [[Applause]] [[Mr. Marshal, the platform is falling apart!]] [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[But I understand, Senator, that everyone else understands, they know what's going on.]] [[Joy in the Chamber]] [[Finish it, finish it!]] [[There you go, sir. Let's have the senator say it again.]] Ladies and gentlemen... [[But okay, we know all this...]] [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[Shh!]] Yeah, but it happened because there was a situation that was never in the Senate's history... [[How wasn't it?]] [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[Uh, they were, they were... there were a lot of situations.]] So there was a motion to adopt the bill without any amendments, and he's gone... [[Yes.]] ...because he was voted out. There was a motion to amend the bill. He's gone too. [[You said he passed.]] [[Voices from the room: Uh-huh.]] [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[He's gone.]] But you guys don't understand me, and I'm saying... that's why the Senate in my mind doesn't grow up to what I'm saying. [[Joy in the Chamber]] [[Applause]] [[And we want you to explain it.]] But to... [[Talking in the O.R.]] Look out! Look out! I'm so sorry. [[What was the committee's conclusion?]] The seriousness of this House is forcing me... [[Seriously.]] ...for this. Even though Senator Rooster asked me to briefly... [[Joy in the Chamber]] Mr. Marshal... [[I'm sorry, I just...]] [[Mr. Senator, I'm asking for your conclusion...]] But I didn't... [[...because we want to vote. There you go.]] I'm sorry, but I'm really serious. [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[Seriously.]] The problem of this law is that there is a single word, the transmission, which in the context of the draft law, art. Ten, it doesn't fit completely. We made a request to the Prime Minister. Who has agreed with us To ask the European Commission for a possible wording... on whether we can formulate it differently. And that was the problem that lasted for 10 years of preparation for this bill. Thank you for your attention. [[Thank you very much...]] And for laughing... Well, I'm sorry, because it's not my fault. [[Talking in the O.R.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-08-04-senat-24-2.u77	Thank you very much, Senator. Thank you. And please calm down. Does Senator Marek Martynowski still want to speak? [[No.]] Thank you very much. We therefore proceed to the vote. In the first place, a vote will be taken on the proposal to adopt the law without amendments, and then, if this proposal is rejected, on the amendment tabled. We proceed with the vote on Senator Marek Martynowski's motion to adopt the bill without amendment. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? We'll have the results in a moment. Oh, now, please. 91 senators voted, 66 were in favour, 4 against, 21 abstentions. [[Voting No 36]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the law amending the law on copyright and related rights. We are returning to the discussion of item 17 of the agenda: the second reading of the draft resolution on amending the resolution on the establishment of the Polonia Consultative Council. I would like to remind you that yesterday a report on the draft resolution was presented and a discussion was held. We proceed to the third reading. I would like to inform you that the third reading only includes voting. I would remind you that the committees request the Senate to adopt a single draft resolution in print No 262 S. We proceed to the vote on the draft resolution submitted by the committees. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 87 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 37]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the subject of the establishment of the Polonia Consultative Council. [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[Voice from the room: Has it been read correctly?]] Yes... In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution amending the resolution on the establishment of the Polonia Consultative Council. [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[In my statement, I wish you all a pleasant holiday.]] [[The meeting is chaired by Vice-Marshal Maria Koc]] [[Talking in the O.R.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-08-04-senat-24-2.u78	Mr. and Mrs. Senators! Gentlemen of the Senators! Quiet, please. Mr President, please be quiet, we are in session. We're going to make statements. Senator Dorota Czudowska will make her first statement. [[Talking in the O.R.]] Ladies and gentlemen, please be quiet. Senator, come in.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-08-04-senat-24-2.u79	Mrs. Marshal! High Senate! My statement is addressed to the Prime Minister of the Republic of Poland Beata Szydło. Dear Prime Minister, We are still in the atmosphere of the momentous and joyful World Youth Days, hundreds of thousands of young people from all over the world came to Poland. In the World Youth Day there were also many Polish young people. Although the culminating celebrations took place in Krakow and in the Beach, before that pilgrims were in dioceses, were hosted in Polish families, visited our country. Everywhere there are words of appreciation and gratitude for the excellent organization of this unique event for our homeland. Pilgrims were cared for by many services responsible for safety, health and living conditions of participants of the World Youth Days. Every effort has been made to ensure that nothing interferes with prayer and spontaneous, full of dancing and singing the atmosphere of meetings and artistic events that we all enjoyed on these exceptional days. Senators of the Republic of Poland join the due thanks. Many of us were also pilgrims. We are proud of the Polish government, of the perfect preparation and security of meeting places in dioceses and meetings with the Holy Father Francis. We thank all those who with devotion, smile and unusual kindness performed their duties towards the pilgrims. We send special thanks to the Polish Police. The cops were present at all times and places. Dear Prime Minister, we ask that all services involved in the organization and protection of the World Youth Days in Poland give our highest expressions of appreciation and cordial thanks. And here are the senators' signatures. If anyone else hasn't made it in time, sign your name. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-08-04-senat-24-2.u80	Thank you very much, Senator, for this important and necessary statement. I'm glad we could sign it. You're welcome, Mr. Marshal Borusewicz will now make a statement. I don't see... Senator Antoni Szymanski. Please, Mr. Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-08-04-senat-24-2.u81	Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! I would like to address my statement to the Minister of Health of Konstanty Radziwiłł on behalf of Senators Rafał Ślusarz, Artur Warzocha, Jerzy Czerwiński and his own. If there are people who would like to join this statement, you're welcome. Dear Minister, We would like to draw attention to the serious social problem of drinking alcohol by pregnant women and its effects on the development of the foetus. The fact that the problem is becoming more serious is confirmed by the results of national research carried out in the Pomeranian Voivodeship in 2005 and in Gdańsk in 2014. They show that a large proportion of pregnant women drink alcohol, doctors and midwives rarely inform women of the effects of drinking during pregnancy, social awareness of the effects of alcohol on the foetus is low. In a study of Gdansk, one in three women surveyed revealed that she was drinking alcohol during pregnancy. This percentage is likely to be even higher because as many as two thirds of the respondents were faced with a situation in which a pregnant woman was drinking alcohol. The vast majority of women drink small amounts of alcohol, but during pregnancy every amount of alcohol is dangerous to the foetus. Studies show that even small amounts of alcohol can damage different organs of the child during the prenatal period, especially the brain. Recently, studies have been conducted in various countries to determine how many children are born with alcohol problems. In Poland, such studies were carried out by the National Agency for the Solution of Alcohol Problems. 409 children were involved. U 1.7% of these were found to be FASD, in 2.1% A disturbance in the development of the central nervous system with unknown aetiology, without confirmed exposure to alcohol during the prenatal period. The results obtained illustrate only the lower limit for the dissemination of FASD. The actual distribution may be higher because women often hide the fact that they drink alcohol during pregnancy. If you accept this - Probably low. The result, it turns out that children with FASD are born more than children with Down syndrome. At medical universities, the subject of FASD issues is addressed to a small extent. This is probably the main cause of the fact that midwives and gynecologists rarely inform pregnant women of the need to maintain total alcoholic abstinence. According to the Gdansk research, only 17% women surveyed received this information from the midwife. Pediatric doctors and physicians treating children rarely diagnose these disorders because they are not trained in this area. If the FASD is not diagnosed early enough, preferably before the age of six, and does not help the child, secondary symptoms develop in him: emotional disorders, behavioral disorders, depression. Often such children get into conflict with the law, become addicted to alcohol and other addictive drugs, do not finish school, are threatened by social exclusion. Taking into account the data presented, we ask the Minister to prepare and start, preferably in cooperation with a wide industry, abstinence or pro-family NGOs, to carry out a nationwide campaign aimed at broad social education, concerning the impact of alcohol on the child developing in the womb, and to prepare medical staff for the diagnosis, therapy and rehabilitation of people from FASD. This campaign should include: preventive measures, information not only on pregnant women but also on the effects of pregnant women, articles in the press, television and radio broadcasts, brochures, leaflets, posters, introduction of FASD in medical programmes and postgraduate training, training of doctors, psychologists, physiotherapists and speechpeds in the diagnosis and treatment of alcohol-related disorders, as well as preparation of a treatment offer for pregnant women addicted to alcohol. When preparing a nationwide campaign, you can take advantage of Canadian experiences. Preventive measures have been carried out in this country for more than 40 years and interdisciplinary assistance has been organised for people from FASD and their families. In Pomorskie Voivodship, a social campaign has been conducted since 2014. The campaign is dedicated to the website www.stop-fas. en. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-08-04-senat-24-2.u82	Thank you, Senator. I'll ask Senator Jerzy Czerwinski to make a statement.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-08-04-senat-24-2.u83	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! My statement is addressed to 2 bodies obliged by the Act of 7 September 2007 on the disclosure in the books of perpetual property rights of the State Treasury and local government units, i.e. to the Minister of Home Affairs and Administration and to the main surveyor of the country. Dear Ministers, I would like to take stock of the implementation of the provisions of the Act, in particular following its amendment of 28 June 2012. The purpose of the original law, as well as the new tasks introduced by the amendment, was to maximise the number of public sector properties disclosed in the collection of perpetual books. The number of such properties was to be a measure determining the degree of achievement of the said objective. I therefore ask you to answer the following questions. What is the degree of achievement of this objective in your assessment? Has the inventory of public-sector real estate been successfully completed? In particular: what is the completeness of the lists referred to in Article. 1 paragraph 1 completed in accordance with Article. 1a 1, 3 and 5 laws? Averaging data at the level of voivodships, please. Please provide a summary statement of the real estate referred to in Article. 1 paragraph 4, completed in accordance with Article. 1a 6th Bill. Averaging data at the level of voivodships, please. What is the degree of implementation by seniors, organisational units and local self-government units of the obligations imposed on them in Article. 2, 2a, 3 and 3a of the bill? To what extent has the disclosure in the books of perpetual property rights of the State Treasury or local government units ordered by the law been implemented? I also ask for data averaged at the level of voivodships. I'm also asking you to deliver the last one, i.e. of the end of the second quarter of 2015, the information referred to in Article. Article 4a (4) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013 is replaced by the following: 4 the law and the general list referred to in Article. Article 4a (4) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013 is replaced by the following: 5. In relation to the assessment of the implementation of the provisions of the Act and the degree of achievement of its objectives, please specify whether it needs to be amended further, e.g. redeployment of time limits, tightening of rigors, increasing expenditure limits, introducing real sanctions for failure to comply with the obligations imposed by the law, extending the operation of the provisions set out in Article. 6. Are the administrative and judicial proceedings still underway? Please specify their number and a brief description of the property that will be recovered by persons left in Poland, including their legal successors, who were resettled to Germany after the war, as well as the so-called. late displaced persons, from the 1970s and 1980s, or persons of Jewish nationality, including their legal successors who left Poland as a result of World War II or March 1968 events? This includes proceedings for the reimbursement of property or compensation for it, which are based, inter alia, on the basis of which it is based. non-compliance of records in perpetual books with the actual state of those properties Or the absence of these eternal books. With respect, Jerzy Czerwiński, Senator of the Republic of Poland.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-08-04-senat-24-2.u84	Thank you very much. [[Second statement...]] Mr. Senator, time's up. All statements must fit in 5 minutes. [[Good.]] So that I accept it, and the next one at the next meeting. Thank you very much. I'd like to make a statement to Marshal Bogdan Borusewicz.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-08-04-senat-24-2.u85	My statement is addressed to Prime Minister Beata Szydło, who is responsible for the functioning of the entire government, who is also responsible for the fact that the suspended local border traffic with the Kaliningrad circuit has not been restored. Such an agreement has been in place since 2012. It was suspended during the NATO Summit and the World Youth Days. And to my surprise, and to the surprise of many people in the small border area, yesterday we learned that this agreement is not suspended. This agreement brings serious economic benefits for border regions. In 2015 1 million 318 thousand people arrived from Kaliningrad, left in Polish shops, restaurants, museums 286 million PLN. That's the respect of the CSO. Russian propaganda, which has a very strong and comprehensive effect on Russian citizens, says that Poles refer to the Russians as hostile, that this hostility is even inscribed in our genetic code. Meanwhile, the Russians, who come from Kaliningrad, meet with openness, there was no excess against the Russians who came, they see that Kremlin propaganda is false, it is lying. In this situation, it is completely incomprehensible to me why the Polish Government has decided It was the decision of the Minister of Home Affairs to move away from this, to eliminate the small border traffic with Kaliningrad, because unfortunately it is clear to me that this decision means the elimination of this movement. The non-suspension of this movement after the end of World Youth Days, saying that the Minister of Home Affairs stated that he had not suspended this movement for security reasons... I ask the question: how many incidents in Poland have the residents of Kaliningrad caused? How many incidents have there been? How many criminal incidents were there in violation of the criminal code? How many incidents have there been in violation of the road code? How many incidents have there been of breaches of local border traffic rules, i.e. cases of departures outside the area covered by small border traffic? I ask, I ask these questions and I ask for concrete answers, because I know that in 2013, in 2014, also in 2015, these incidents could be counted on the fingers of both hands. That's where I'll finish my statement. Unfortunately, I think that's the kind of decision not only is it not in line with the Polish reason for the state, but it is also not in line with what seemed very important for our citizens, on this side of the border, on the Polish side, for Polish citizens, it is not in line with their economic interests.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-08-04-senat-24-2.u86	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. The list of speakers has been exhausted. I would like to inform you that the minutes of the twenty-fourth Senate meeting of the Republic of Poland IX term will be made available to the senators within 30 days of the Senate meeting at the Senate Office, room 255. The fourth sitting of the Senate of the Republic of Poland of the IXth term of office is closed. [[The Vice Marshal strikes three times with a marshal's cane]] [[Meeting adjourned at 13 minutes 16]]
